---
date: '2023-12-22'
published_time: 2023-12-22 07:51:47-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/12/22/fact-sheet-biden-administration-expands-u-s-sanctions-authorities-to-target-financial-facilitators-of-russias-war-machine/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden Administration Expands U.S. Sanctions Authorities to Target\
  \ Financial Facilitators of Russia\u2019s War\_Machine"
---
 
Today, President Biden intends to sign a new Executive Order (E.O.) that
strengthens U.S. sanctions authorities against financial facilitators of
Russia’s war machine.  The E.O. will make clear to foreign financial
institutions that they risk losing access to the U.S. financial system
if they facilitate significant transactions relating to Russia’s
military industrial base.  The E.O. will also provide authority to
broaden U.S. import bans on certain Russian goods.   
  
In response to Russia’s unprovoked war on Ukraine, the Biden
Administration has worked actively with our allies and partners around
the world to hold Russia accountable for its brutal and unjust war and
to undercut Russia’s efforts to ramp up its military capacity.  The
United States has imposed sanctions and export control measures against
thousands of entities and
individuals, [including](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy1978) on
multinational procurement networks that Russia uses to acquire key
defense-related and goods from abroad.  To counter evasion of these
steps and degrade Putin’s war machine, the Biden Administration has
coordinated with partners to target companies in third countries and has
dispatched teams globally to engage directly with foreign governments,
companies, and financial institutions to share information and highlight
sanctions risks.  The United States has been clear: those who are
supplying goods or processing transactions that materially support
Russia’s military industrial base are complicit in Russia’s brutal
violation of Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity.   
  
With this E.O., the United States is taking action consistent with the
G7 Leaders’ statement of [December 6,
2023](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/12/06/g7-leaders-statement-6/),
which warned that we will work to further curtail Russia’s efforts to
use the international financial system to facilitate expansion of its
military industrial base.  
  
**<u>Targeting financial institutions that support Russia’s military
industrial base</u>**  
  
As Russia creates cutouts and front companies to circumvent our
restrictions and uses both witting and unwitting financial
intermediaries, the new E.O. provides additional tools to root out
Russia’s procurement networks.  This E.O. will amend Executive Order
14024 to expand U.S. authority to sanction:

-   Financial institutions determined to have conducted or facilitated
    any significant transaction for or on behalf of companies or
    individuals the United States has sanctioned for operating in
    sectors of the Russian economy that support its military industrial
    base; and  
     
-   Financial institutions determined to have conducted or facilitated
    any significant transaction, or provided any service, involving
    Russia’s military industrial base, including the sale, supply, or
    transfer to Russia of certain critical items. 

The Department of the Treasury will issue a determination that includes
a list of critical items.  A financial institution sanctioned under one
of these criteria will face either full blocking sanctions or the loss
of, or strict conditions on, their U.S. correspondent accounts.  
  
**<u>Diamonds imports</u>**  
  
To curtail Russia’s revenue from other sectors, the E.O. will also make
it more difficult for specific Russian goods to enter the United States
after being modified in a third country.  In the coming months, the
United States and our partners intend to introduce import restrictions
on certain diamonds mined, processed, or produced in Russia, building on
an existing U.S. ban on the importation of Russian-origin diamonds. 
Today’s E.O. amends Executive Order 14068 to provide the authority to
ban, following a determination from appropriate U.S. departments and
agencies, the importation of certain products mined, extracted,
produced, or manufactured wholly or in part in Russia, even if these
products are then transformed in a third country.   
  
**<u>Seafood imports</u>**  
  
Similarly, the amendment to E.O. 14068 will provide the authority to
ban, following a determination from appropriate U.S. departments and
agencies, the importation of certain products harvested in Russian
waters or by Russia-flagged vessels, even if these products are then
transformed in a third country.  The Department of the Treasury intends
to issue a determination identifying specific types of seafood that will
be subject to this prohibition.

\###
