---
date: '2023-12-14'
modified_time: 2023-12-14 15:03:37-05:00
published_time: 2023-12-14 15:30:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/12/14/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-10-year-partnership-with-tribes-and-states-to-restore-wild-salmon-expand-clean-energy-production-increase-resilience-and-provide-energy-stability-i/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces 10-Year Partnership\
  \ with Tribes and States to Restore Wild Salmon, Expand Clean Energy Production,\
  \ Increase Resilience, and Provide Energy Stability in the Columbia River\_Basin"
---
 
The Biden-Harris Administration today announced a historic agreement to
work in partnership with Tribes and States from the Pacific Northwest to
restore wild salmon populations, expand Tribally sponsored clean energy
production, and provide stability for communities that depend on the
Columbia River System for agriculture, energy, recreation, and
transportation.

The Biden-Harris Administration has made an unprecedented commitment to
honor the United States’ obligations to Tribal Nations and protect and
restore America’s natural wonders for future generations, while also
recognizing the important benefits that the Columbia River System
provides to communities and businesses throughout the region. Building
on two years of regional engagement, in September President
Biden [directed Federal
agencies](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/09/27/fact-sheet-president-biden-takes-action-to-restore-healthy-and-abundant-wild-salmon-and-steelhead-in-the-columbia-river-basin/)
to prioritize the restoration of healthy and abundant salmon, steelhead,
and other native fish populations in the Columbia River Basin. Today’s
agreement, when combined with other funding that the Administration is
anticipated to deliver to the region, will bring more than $1 billion in
new Federal investments to wild fish restoration in the Columbia River
Basin over the next decade and facilitate the build-out of at least one
to three gigawatts of Tribally sponsored clean energy production.  

Under President Biden’s leadership, the Federal government is charting a
new path forward, in partnership with States and Tribal Nations in the
region, for the restoration of wild salmon and other native fish in the
Columbia River Basin while safeguarding and strengthening sustainable
energy and water resources. The agreement enables an unprecedented
10-year break from decades-long litigation against the Federal
government’s operation of dams in the Pacific Northwest.

As part of the agreement, the Biden-Harris Administration is committing
to:

-   **New Funding for Fish and Wildlife:** The Bonneville Power
    Administration, a federal power marketing administration under the
    Department of Energy, will invest $300 million over 10 years to
    restore native fish and their habitats throughout the Columbia River
    Basin, with added measures to increase the autonomy of States and
    Tribes to use these funds. Of this $300 million, $100 million would
    be provided to the four Lower River Treaty Tribes, Washington, and
    Oregon to use for fish restoration projects, and $200 million would
    be provided for hatchery modernization, upgrades, and maintenance.
    The funding is supplemented by additional investments from the
    Department of the Interior, the Department of Transportation, the
    U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
    Administration, and the Environmental Protection Agency.  
-   **Tribally Sponsored Clean Energy:** The Department of Energy is
    committing to support the development of at least one to three
    gigawatts of Tribally sponsored clean energy projects to build
    energy infrastructure that, if Congress authorizes breach of the
    Lower Snake River Dams, could help to replace the power generated by
    those dams. These resources provide the region options should
    Congress choose to consider dam breach while still meeting clean
    energy, energy reliability, and other resilience imperatives. The
    Administration, however, is not making a judgment on whether to
    breach the dams, nor does it have the authority to do so; that
    authority resides with Congress.  
-   **Increased Flexibility:** The Administration is committing to
    adjustments to the operations of the Federal hydrosystem to deliver
    a net-benefit for some fish, while maintaining grid reliability and
    upholding health and safety requirements. These adjustments will
    also increase flexibility to deliver power during the summer when it
    is most needed. Importantly, the agreement provides 10 years of
    predictable operations for the region.  
-   **Studies of Dam Services:** The Administration will undertake or
    help fund studies of how the transportation, irrigation, and
    recreation services provided by the four Lower Snake River dams
    could be replaced, to help inform Congress should it consider
    authorizing dam breach in the future.

Wild salmon, steelhead, and other native fish populations in the
Columbia River Basin are essential to the culture, economy, religion,
and way of life of Tribal Nations and Indigenous peoples. Due to the
Federal government’s construction and operation of Federal dams, private
dam building, population growth, and other factors, wild populations of
many salmon and steelhead species are severely depleted, substantially
harming the Tribes that rely on them. Climate change is further
imperiling these fish populations through warming water temperatures,
altered stream flows, and other stressors. Since the Federal dams were
constructed, 13 salmon and steelhead species have been listed as
threatened or endangered, and none have recovered.

This announcement builds on [a historic
agreement](https://doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-tribes-reach-historic-agreement-supporting-efforts-restore)
the Biden-Harris Administration announced earlier this year to support
Tribally led efforts to bring back salmon populations in the Upper
Columbia River Basin. The Upper Columbia agreement between the United
States, the Confederated Tribes of the Colville Reservation, the Coeur
d’Alene Tribe, and the Spokane Tribe of Indians includes $200 million
over 20 years from the Bonneville Power Administration.

\###
