---
date: '2023-12-15'
modified_time: 2023-12-16 09:28:31-05:00
published_time: 2023-12-15 14:25:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/12/15/readout-of-white-house-roundtable-on-innovation-in-maternal-health/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of White\_House Roundtable on Innovation in Maternal\_Health"
---
 
Today, Domestic Policy Advisor to the Vice President Kristine Lucius and
Domestic Policy Council Director Neera Tanden convened private sector
leaders at the White House to discuss innovations that will improve
maternal health and birth outcomes for pregnant women, postpartum women,
and their infants. This roundtable – with representatives from health
services start-ups, health insurance plans, digital health technology,
investors, and Fortune 100 companies – builds on Vice President Harris’s
continued leadership on improving the health and wellbeing of women and
families, and advancing the White House
[Blueprint](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/06/Maternal-Health-Blueprint.pdf)
for Addressing the Maternal Health Crisis that she announced last year.

During the conversation, convened by the Office of the Vice President,
Biden-Harris Administration officials emphasized the importance of
investing in women’s health and addressing the maternal mortality crisis
that disproportionately impacts women of color and women who live in
rural areas. The roundtable participants highlighted the contributions
of the private sector, including increasing access to doula and
midwifery services as well as culturally competent care. Participants
also discussed the importance of public-private partnerships in
advancing equity and improving access to high-quality health care and
social supports, and preventing maternal morbidity and mortality.

As part of today’s convening, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
(CMS) Administrator Chiquita Brooks-LaSure announced a new [Transforming
Maternal Health (TMaH)
Model](https://www.cms.gov/priorities/innovation/innovation-models/transforming-maternal-health-tmah-model)
that furthers the goals of the White House
[Blueprint](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/06/Maternal-Health-Blueprint.pdf).
This 10-year payment and care-delivery model will support participating
state Medicaid agencies in developing and implementing a whole-person
approach to pregnancy, childbirth, and postpartum care for women who
have Medicaid and Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) coverage.
The TMaH Model will also help improve health outcomes – including fewer
instances of low-risk cesarean sections and severe maternal morbidity –
and increase access to additional maternal care providers, such as
midwives, birth centers, and doula services.

Senior officials from the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS)
announced a new maternal health collaborative, led by Secretary Xavier
Becerra. By building on programs and commitments across the Department,
this initiative will focus on maternal morbidity and mortality in the
post-partum period with a data-driven quality improvement approach. HHS
will partner with states seeking to utilize data and organizational
change to reduce the 50% of deaths that occur in the postpartum
period. As part of the collaborative, HHS will provide states with the
opportunity to work closely with a core team of quality improvement and
clinical experts. This initiative is being coordinated with the National
Governors Association as part of their *Improving Maternal and Child
Health in Rural America: State and Territory Policy Learning
Collaborative.*

Senior officials from HHS also announced a Notice of Funding Opportunity
for the [State Maternal Health Innovation
Program](https://mchb.hrsa.gov/programs-impact/programs/state-mhi) to
reduce severe maternal morbidity and maternal mortality. The grants will
help to improve access to care that is comprehensive, high-quality,
appropriate, and continuous through innovative strategies to improve
outcomes for populations disproportionately impacted by maternal
mortality and severe maternal morbidity.

Vice President Harris has
[led](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/04/13/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-in-a-meeting-on-maternal-health/)
on
[improving](https://www.c-span.org/video/?510792-1/vice-president-harris-roundtable-black-maternal-health)
outcomes for women and families throughout her career. While serving in
the U.S. Senate, she introduced several landmark bills targeted at
addressing racial disparities in maternal mortality. This includes the
Maternal CARE Act and the Black Maternal Health Momnibus Act. She has
built on this work since being sworn in as Vice President. Two years
ago, she called on states to expand Medicaid’s postpartum coverage from
two months to 12. To date, 42 states have done so, benefiting women
throughout the country. Last year, the Vice President
[announced](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/06/Maternal-Health-Blueprint.pdf)
a whole-of-government strategy to address the maternal health crisis.
She has also traveled the nation and
[used](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wXrLtzsedf4) her
[platform](https://twitter.com/VP/status/1648349204043931648) to raise
[awareness](https://www.bravotv.com/the-daily-dish/kamala-harris-dr-jackie-discuss-maternal-health-crisis)
of this crisis and
[forge](https://spectrumnews1.com/ca/la-west/politics/2023/05/20/vp-kamala-harris-tours-baby2baby-to-address-maternal-health-crisis)
public-private partnerships to address it. An
[interview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TQ_6rM-Mv4M) about maternal
health between Vice President Harris and Dr. Jackie Walters will
[air](https://www.bravotv.com/the-daily-dish/kamala-harris-dr-jackie-discuss-maternal-health-crisis)
on Bravo’s *Married to Medicine* this Sunday night.

\# \# \#
