---
date: '2023-12-19'
modified_time: 2023-12-19 17:50:16-05:00
published_time: 2023-12-19 12:31:23-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/12/19/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-american-climate-corps-listening-sessions-new-actions-to-mobilize-the-next-generation-of-clean-energy-conservation-and-resilience-workers/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces American Climate Corps\
  \ Listening Sessions, New Actions to Mobilize the Next Generation of Clean Energy,\
  \ Conservation, and Resilience\_Workers"
---
 
*To register for virtual listening sessions and learn more about this
groundbreaking initiative, visit:*
[*www.whitehouse.gov/climatecorps*](http://www.whitehouse.gov/climatecorps)  
   
*$2 billion program from President Biden’s Investing in America agenda
includes option to create career pathways that advance environmental
justice through American Climate Corps*

In September, President Biden [announced the launch of the American
Climate
Corps](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/09/20/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-launches-american-climate-corps-to-train-young-people-in-clean-energy-conservation-and-climate-resilience-skills-create-good-paying-jobs-and-tackle-the-clima/),
a groundbreaking, workforce training and service initiative that will
prepare tens of thousands of young people for good-paying jobs in the
clean economy. In the time since, nearly 50,000 Americans have expressed
interest in joining the American Climate Corps. In launching this new
initiative, President Biden fulfilled a key promise to mobilize a new,
diverse generation of Americans – putting them to work conserving and
restoring our lands and waters, bolstering community resilience,
deploying clean energy, implementing energy efficient technologies,
advancing environmental justice, and more.  
  
As the Biden-Harris Administration works toward establishing the first
cohort of American Climate Corps members by summer 2024, the
Administration is today announcing a series of key steps to further
advance the initiative, including the launch of virtual listening
sessions. The administration is also announcing a new partnership across
seven Federal agencies to guide implementation and new information on
how communities can leverage historic funding from President Biden’s
Investing in America agenda to increase pathways for young people into
environmental justice careers via the American Climate Corps.  
  
While Republicans in Congress continue to deny the very existence of
climate change, the Biden-Harris Administration will continue to deliver
on the most ambitious climate agenda in history, including by ensuring
that young people in every corner of the country gain the skills
necessary to access good-paying jobs that will help tackle the climate
crisis.  
  
**<u>Launching Virtual Listening Sessions</u>**  
  
Beginning in January, senior Biden-Harris Administration officials
will convene a series of virtual listening sessions to hear directly
from prospective American Climate Corps applicants and implementing
partners, including conservation and service corps partners, labor
unions, educational institutions, employer partners, and state, local,
territorial and Tribal governments about their priorities for the
American Climate Corps. Each listening session will last roughly 90
minutes and will provide participants with the opportunity to engage
directly with Administration officials who are overseeing the
initiative, as the Administration works to establish the first cohort of
American Climate Corps members by next summer.   
  
More information about the virtual listening sessions can be found
[here](http://www.whitehouse.gov/climatecorps).   
  
**<u>Creating Career Pathways that Advance Environmental Justice</u>**  
  
In addition, EPA is leveraging historic funding from President Biden’s
Investing in America agenda to increase pathways for young people into
environmental justice careers through the American Climate Corps. EPA’s
$2 billion [Environmental and Climate Justice Community Change Grant
Program](https://www.epa.gov/inflation-reduction-act/inflation-reduction-act-community-change-grants-program)
announced in November includes an option for community-based
organizations to propose their own Climate Corps program for youth in
disadvantaged communities to pursue careers in greenhouse gas and air
pollution reduction, along with other strategies to take climate action,
reduce pollution, and increase community resilience. This is just one
example of how the President’s Investing in America agenda is furthering
the goals of the American Climate Corps.  
  
**<u>Establishing a New Federal Partnership Across Seven
Agencies</u>**  
  
Today, seven federal agencies – the Departments of Commerce, the
Interior, Agriculture, Labor and Energy, the Environmental Protection
Agency, and AmeriCorps – are entering into a formal [Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU)](https://www.americorps.gov/ACCMOU) that will serve
as a blueprint for the multiagency initiative. The MOU defines the core
principles of the American Climate Corps – from compensating members to
ensure the initiative is accessible to all, to expanding workforce
pathways in and led by disadvantaged communities that are marginalized,
underserved, and overburdened by pollution, to serving all of America’s
communities by improving climate resilience, public health, energy
security, and by creating economic opportunity in our urban, rural,
suburban, and wilderness remote areas.  
  
Additionally, the MOU establishes an Executive Committee – comprised of
the Assistant to the President and National Climate Advisor, CEO of
AmeriCorps, Secretary of Commerce, Secretary of the Interior, Secretary
of Agriculture, Secretary of Labor, Secretary of Energy, and
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency – to provide
leadership across the federal government for the American Climate Corps,
as well as a Working Group to carry out and implement the initiative.  
  
The Administration expects to formally launch the recruitment portal for
prospective applicants in spring 2024, positioning the initiative to
establish the first cohort of American Climate Corps members next
summer. 

\###
