---
date: '2023-12-15'
published_time: 2023-12-15 18:21:25-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/12/15/joint-statement-of-the-quad-senior-cyber-group/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Joint Statement of the Quad Senior Cyber\_Group"
---
 
Based on the discussion of Quad Senior Cyber Group 3rd In-person Meeting
of Principles which was held in Tokyo the on December 5 and 6, the head
of delegation of each country issued the following Joint Press Release
of the Quad Senior Group on December 14.

We — Deputy Secretary Cyber and Infrastructure Security Hamish Hansford
of Australia’s Department of Home Affairs, National Cyber Security
Coordinator Lt General MU Nair of India, Deputy National Security
Advisor and Assistant Chief Cabinet Secretary Keiichi Ichikawa of Japan,
and Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security
Advisor for Cyber and Emerging Technology Anne Neuberger of the United
States of America – met in Tokyo, Japan for the third in-person Quad
Senior Cyber Group (QSCG) Principal Meeting, hosted by Deputy National
Security Advisor and Assistant Chief Cabinet Secretary Keiichi Ichikawa.

Together, we reaffirm our steadfast commitment to an Indo-Pacific that
is resilient and equipped to detect and deter cyber attacks. Quad
countries are among the world’s leaders in advancing digital technology,
connectivity, and resilience and are undertaking efforts to provide
capacity building in the Indo-Pacific region to strengthen the ability
to defend their government networks and critical infrastructure from
cyber disruptions.

We reaffirmed the application of international law to cyberspace and
expressed serious concern about cyber attacks in the region on critical
infrastructure.

During the meeting, we welcomed progress on Quad cyber initiatives. We
reaffirmed our support for the Quad Cybersecurity Partnership: Joint
Principles, including through work done in Secure Software,
Cybersecurity of Critical Infrastructure, Supply Chain resilience and
security, Cyber awareness through the Quad Cyber Challenge events to
encourage participants across the Indo-Pacific for enhancing their cyber
security and cyber awareness. We also welcomed the idea of sharing cyber
resources through capacity building projects, to improve the security of
infrastructure in the Indo-Pacific. We also shared the recognition that
a safe and secure cyberspace contributes to a healthy and secure
society, and that international cooperation is key to this.

Based on the shared recognition that cyber attacks have been increasing
in frequency and sophistication, we discussed the importance of enhanced
cooperation on securing the resilience of Information Technology (IT)
and Operational Technology (OT) systems in critical infrastructure ;
ensuring mutual recognition of Quad nations’ labeling schemes for
cybersecurity of Internet of Things (IoT) products; and the use of
critical and emerging technologies such as artificial intelligence and
machine learning. We also reaffirmed the need for reliable, secure and
resilient supply chains for critical sectors.

We discussed our fields of cooperation necessary to realize secure and
resilient cyberspace in the region including digital infrastructure and
connectivity such as undersea cables, telecommunications networks, and
cloud services. We will continue to work together with Indo-Pacific
countries to deliver practical outcomes that will support capacity
building in the region through the QSCG.

We reaffirm our commitment to leveraging Quad partners’ respective
strengths and resources to progressing Quad cyber initiatives to promote
a more secure cyber space and deliver Quad Leaders’ vision for a free
and open Indo-Pacific that is inclusive and resilient, with a focus on
the next Quad Leaders’ Meeting.

\###
