---
date: '2023-12-11'
published_time: 2023-12-11 14:47:26-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/12/11/fact-sheet-the-united-states-response-to-ugandas-anti-homosexuality-act-and-persistent-human-rights-abuses/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: The United\_States Response to Uganda\u2019s Anti-Homosexuality\
  \ Act and Persistent Human Rights\_Abuses"
---
 
As President Biden said, the enactment of Uganda’s Anti-Homosexuality
Act (AHA) is a tragic violation of universal human rights—one that is
not worthy of the Ugandan people, and one that jeopardizes the prospects
of critical economic growth for the entire country. On the
75<sup>th</sup> anniversary of the UN General Assembly’s adoption of the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the United States joins people
around the world in reiterating its call for the immediate repeal of the
AHA and for the Ugandan government to respect the universal human rights
of all people in Uganda. No one should have to live in constant fear for
their life or being subjected to violence and discrimination.    
  
The enforcement of the AHA is part of an ongoing trend of democratic
erosion in Uganda, where individual Ugandans and civil society
organizations face increasingly restricted civic and political space.
There have been increased reports of evictions, vigilante attacks, and
police harassment, abuse, and detainment of individuals who are or are
perceived to be LGBTQI+, including reports of the Ugandan police
subjecting individuals to forced anal examinations – an abusive,
degrading practice that serves no investigative or public health
purpose.  
  
The United States, however, remains committed to the Ugandan people. 
For more than 60 years, we have helped millions of Ugandans live
healthier, more productive lives.  And we will continue to do so.  The
United States urges Ugandan authorities to prioritize the health,
prosperity, and security of all Ugandans by tackling the scourge of
systemic corruption, investing in healthcare and education, upholding
constitutionally enshrined rights, and promoting just and accountable
governance rather than channeling energy into oppressive laws and
practices.  
  
As directed by President Biden, the United States has undertaken a
review of the implications of the AHA on all aspects of U.S. engagement
with the Government of Uganda and is taking actions to raise awareness
of the threats posed by democratic backsliding in Uganda, promote
accountability for human rights abuses, and curtail direct assistance to
the government. While the United States continues to assess the
implications of the AHA and persistent human rights abuses, our actions
to date include:

-   **Restricting entry to the United States** – On December 4,
    Secretary of State
    Blinken [announced](https://www.state.gov/taking-steps-to-impose-visa-restrictions-for-undermining-democracy-and-for-repression-in-uganda/) the
    expansion of the visa restriction policy under section 212(a)(3)(C)
    of the Immigration and Nationality Act related to Uganda to include
    current or former Ugandan officials or others who are believed to be
    responsible for, or complicit in, undermining the democratic process
    in Uganda or for policies or actions aimed at repressing members of
    marginalized or vulnerable populations. These groups include, but
    are not limited to, environmental activists, human rights defenders,
    journalists, LGBTQI+ persons, and civil society organizers.  
     
-   **Sanctions **– On December 8, the Department of the Treasury’s
    Office of Foreign Assets
    Control [designated](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy1972) Johnson
    Byabashaija for being a foreign person who is or has been a leader
    or official of an entity, including any government entity, that has
    engaged in, or whose members have engaged in, serious human rights
    abuse relating to the leader’s or official’s tenure pursuant to
    Executive Order 13818, which builds upon and implements the Global
    Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act and targets perpetrators
    of serious human rights abuse and corruption around the world.
    Byabashaija has served as the Commissioner General of the Uganda
    Prisons Service (UPS) since 2005. During that period, members of the
    UPS have engaged in torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading
    treatment or punishment against prisoners held within UPS
    facilities.    
     
-   **Ending eligibility for the African Growth and Opportunity Act** –
    The U.S. Trade
    Representative [informed](https://ustr.gov/about-us/policy-offices/press-office/press-releases/2023/october/statement-ambassador-katherine-tai-african-growth-and-opportunity-act-eligibility-review#:~:text=WASHINGTON%20%E2%80%93%20President%20Biden%20decided%20to,%E2%80%93%20effective%20January%201%2C%202024.) the
    Government of Uganda that they will lose eligibility for the African
    Growth and Opportunity Act benefits on January 1, 2024 due to gross
    violations of internationally recognized human rights unless they
    publicly release an action plan for addressing human rights concerns
    and repeal the AHA.  
     
-   **Reducing support to the Government of Uganda** – We are curtailing
    direct government-to-government funding to programs implemented with
    Uganda. This includes new restrictions and redirections of impacted
    assistance, including through the Department of Defense and the
    President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR). The Department
    of Defense is pausing approximately $15 million for all biological
    threat reductions activities with the Ugandan Ministries of Health,
    Agriculture, and Tourism, and will continue to review U.S.
    government-funded security assistance and military cooperation
    activities. The U.S. Government also will redirect more than $5
    million through PEPFAR from the Government of Uganda to
    non-governmental implementing partners due to concerns over how the
    AHA impacts the Government of Uganda’s ability to deliver services
    in a non-discriminatory manner. These actions are not intended to
    negatively impact HIV/AIDS service delivery to key populations.  
     
-   **Issuing business advisory **– The Departments of State, Commerce,
    Labor, and Health and Human Services and the U.S. Agency for
    International Development (USAID) released a [business
    advisory](https://www.state.gov/uganda-business-advisory/) on
    October 23, 2023 to highlight heightened risks for U.S. businesses,
    individuals, and other persons, including health service providers,
    members of academic institutions, and investors conducting or
    contemplating conducting business in Uganda.  
     
-   **Issuing travel advisory** – The Department of State [released a
    travel
    advisory](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories/uganda-travel-advisory.html) on
    June 12 and [updated its travel
    guidance](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/international-travel/International-Travel-Country-Information-Pages/Uganda.html) to
    U.S. citizens to highlight the risk that LGBTQI+ persons, those
    perceived to be LGBTQI+, and those who advocate for the human rights
    of LGBTQI+ persons could be prosecuted and subjected to imprisonment
    if they travel to Uganda.  
     
-   **Advocating for implementation of social safeguards in World Bank
    lending** – The United States has supported World Bank actions to
    require additional measures to promote equal access to the benefits
    of Bank-supported projects in Uganda and protections for vulnerable
    groups including the LGBTQI+ community, in line with the World Bank
    Environmental and Social Framework.  This includes a pause in new
    public financing for Uganda while additional measures are negotiated
    and implemented, and the efficacy of the additional measures is
    tested.   

The Government of Uganda bears responsibility for the passage and
enactment of the AHA, and the impact that the law is having on Ugandans’
access to health care, investment, tourism revenue, and other
opportunities. We are also concerned about persistent human rights
abuses, including torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading
treatment or punishment, deteriorating media freedom, and crackdowns on
civic and political space.  The United States, however, is committed to
and will continue to provide assistance that directly supports Ugandan
people and communities. In particular:

-   **Continuing humanitarian and development assistance programs** –
    The U.S. Government is continuing its significant humanitarian and
    development assistance that directly supports the most vulnerable
    communities without discrimination. This includes funding for the
    refugee response through international organizations and
    non-governmental organizations as well as the majority of PEPFAR to
    ensure Ugandans who rely on the program’s life-saving services will
    continue to receive them and that civil society organizations
    providing these services can continue to deliver. This assistance
    supports HIV prevention and treatment services, community health
    systems, testing and laboratory support, essential medicines, and
    health workers.  
     
-   **Mobilizing private sector capital for sustainable development** –
    The U.S. Government, through its various agencies, will continue to
    seek to mobilize and increase private capital to support businesses,
    including those owned or led by women entrepreneurs and other
    underserved groups, in a manner consistent with international
    standards of non-discrimination and as long as project risks posed
    by the AHA can be adequately addressed on a case-by-case basis.   
     
-   **Providing support to victims of AHA** – Through various rapid
    response emergency mechanisms, the Department of State and USAID
    have increased emergency assistance to LGBTQI+ Ugandan human rights
    defenders and organizations whose safety and security are at risk.
    Emergency response may include assistance for those who are victims
    of violence, evicted from their homes, or who need help accessing
    medical care. It also includes support for legal representation if
    individuals are unjustly arrested.

The United States remains committed to serving all people of Uganda
without discrimination. We will continue to monitor U.S. program
implementation and assistance to ensure that there is zero tolerance for
any form of discrimination or harmful activities, including the horrific
practice of forced anal examinations, and will take immediate and
appropriate action as needed. We will continue to closely monitor the
human rights situation in Uganda, raise concerns at every level with the
Ugandan Government, and take additional steps to promote respect for
human rights and accountability.
