---
date: '2023-12-06'
published_time: 2023-12-06 13:58:21-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/12/06/g7-leaders-statement-6/
tags: statements-releases
title: "G7 Leaders\u2019 Statement"
---
 
   We, the Leaders of the Group of Seven (G7), met virtually on December
6, 2023, to address global challenges and shape a course for a better
future. We reaffirm our commitment made at the G7 Summit in Hiroshima,
which is a city that suffered an atomic bombing and now has become a
symbol of peace. We were joined by Ukraine’s President Volodymyr
Zelenskyy. We remain committed to upholding the rule of law, which
protects all nations, especially the vulnerable, as well as global
security and human dignity in all parts of the world. We are more united
than ever in the pursuit of international peace, prosperity and
sustainable development, and have strengthened our engagement with
international partners beyond the G7. We thank the Japanese Presidency
for their leadership across this year.  
  
**Ukraine**  
  
     For 650 days, the Ukrainian people have bravely resisted Russia’s
illegal aggression. We salute their courage and their resilience, and
express our full sympathy and condolences for those suffering. We pay
tribute to the sacrifices made by Ukraine to preserve its freedom and
the values we share. Our steadfast commitment to supporting Ukraine’s
fight for its independence, sovereignty, and territorial integrity will
never waver. We are taking additional steps today to support Ukrainians
in their pursuit of a comprehensive, just and lasting peace that will
uphold all the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United
Nations (UN), including respect for territorial integrity and
sovereignty.     
  
     We are determined to support an independent, democratic Ukraine
within its internationally recognized borders. We continue to support
Ukraine in further developing President Zelenskyy’s Peace Formula. As
stated in the Joint Declaration of Support for Ukraine on July 12, 2023,
we are formalizing our enduring support to Ukraine through specific,
bilateral, long-term security commitments and arrangements.     
  
     Our commitment remains to restrict exports of all items critical to
Russia’s military and industrial base, including those used on the
battlefield and we call on third parties to take equivalent action. We
repeat our call for third parties to immediately cease providing
material support to Russia’s aggression, or face severe cost. We will
work to further curtail Russia’s use of the international financial
system to further its war in Ukraine, including Russia’s efforts to use
the international financial system to facilitate its expansion of its
military industrial base. We will update our measures. We will step up
our efforts against evasion and circumvention of our sanctions and
export controls measures. We continue to take actions against third
country actors who materially support Russia’s war including by imposing
additional measures on entities where appropriate in third countries. We
are targeting Russian military procurement networks and those who help
Russia acquire machine tools, equipment and key inputs.     
  
     We are limiting Russia’s ability to fund its illegal war by taking
steps to limit Russia’s energy revenue and its future extractive
capabilities. We have dramatically reduced our reliance on Russian
energy and commodities. We are determined to accelerate work on this
path so that Russia is no longer able to weaponize energy against us. We
commit to tightening compliance and enforcement of the price cap policy
on Russian oil, including by imposing sanctions on those engaged in
deceptive practices and by updating our compliance rules and regulations
as necessary. We will also continue efforts to curtail Russia’s revenue
from other relevant sectors. We will also continue efforts to reduce
Russia’s revenue from metals. We will introduce import restrictions on
non-industrial diamonds, mined, processed, or produced in Russia, by
January 1, 2024, followed by further phased restrictions on the import
of Russian diamonds processed in third countries targeting March 1,
2024. To further the effectiveness of these measures, those G7 members
who are major importers of rough diamonds will establish a robust
traceability-based verification and certification mechanism for rough
diamonds within the G7 by September 1, 2024, and we will continue to
consult with partners, including producing and manufacturing countries
on its design and implementation.  
  
     We will continue consultations among G7 members and with other
partners including producing countries as well as manufacturing
countries for comprehensive controls for diamonds produced and processed
in third countries on measures for traceability.   
  
     As Russia seeks to use winter as a weapon against the Ukrainian
people, we are increasing our efforts to provide humanitarian aid and
critical energy assistance. We strongly condemn Russian attacks against
critical and civil infrastructure across Ukraine. We are supporting
Ukraine’s recovery and reconstruction, including through the
Multi-agency Donor Coordination Platform for Ukraine, and working to
encourage further involvement of our private sector. We look forward to
successful completion of the upcoming review of the International
Monetary Fund (IMF) program for Ukraine and support Ukraine’s continued
reform agenda including the efforts for its European path. Decisive
progress is needed to direct extraordinary revenues held by private
entities stemming directly from Russia’s immobilized sovereign assets to
support Ukraine, consistent with applicable contractual obligations and
in accordance with applicable laws. We reaffirm that consistent with our
respective legal systems, Russia’s sovereign assets in our jurisdictions
will remain immobilized until Russia pays for the damage it caused to
Ukraine.  
  
     It is not right for Russia to decide if or when it will pay for the
damage it has caused in Ukraine. Russia’s obligations under
international law are clear: Russia must both end its illegal war of
aggression and pay for the damage it has caused, which according to the
World Bank to date, already exceeds $400 billion dollars. In light of
the urgency of disrupting Russia’s attempts to destroy the Ukrainian
economy and failure to abide by its international law obligations, we
will explore all possible avenues to aid Ukraine in obtaining
compensation from Russia, consistent with our respective legal systems
and international law. We direct our relevant ministers to continue
working on this issue towards our next meeting.  
  
     We reiterate our commitment to holding those responsible to account
consistent with international law, including by supporting the efforts
of international mechanisms, such as the International Criminal Court
(ICC) and the International Centre for the Prosecution of the Crime of
Aggression against Ukraine (ICPA) at Eurojust and welcome ongoing
discussions in the Core Group exploring the establishment of a tribunal
for the prosecution of the crime of aggression against Ukraine.     
  
     Russia’s irresponsible nuclear rhetoric, its posture of strategic
intimidation and its undermining of arms control regimes are
unacceptable. Threats by Russia of nuclear weapon use, let alone any use
of nuclear weapons by Russia, in the context of its war of aggression
against Ukraine are inadmissible. We deeply regret Russia’s decision to
withdraw its ratification of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty.
We strongly support the International Atomic Energy Agency’s (IAEA)
continued presence and call for unfettered access to all of Ukraine’s
nuclear sites.     
  
     We deplore Russia’s systematic targeting of Ukrainian Black Sea
ports, grain and grain infrastructure. We support all efforts, including
those of the UN, to facilitate exports of Ukraine’s grain and other
agricultural products. We welcome the success of Ukraine’s maritime
corridor and the EU’s Solidarity Lanes. The increasing levels of global
food and nutrition insecurity are exacerbated by Russia’s aggression
against Ukraine.     
  
**Middle East **  
  
     We unequivocally condemn the horrific terror attacks across Israel
by Hamas and others that began on October 7, 2023. We emphasize Israel’s
right to defend itself and its people against Hamas, in accordance with
international law, as it seeks to prevent a recurrence of these
traumatic events, which included murder, hostage-taking, sexual
violence, and attacks on children. Hamas offers nothing but suffering to
the Palestinian people, and it is an obstacle to a better future for
them and for the region. We will continue to coordinate our efforts to
isolate Hamas and ensure it cannot threaten Israel.  
  
     While welcoming the recent pause that allowed the release of
hostages and vital humanitarian aid into Gaza, achieved by the
leadership of the United States, Qatar, Egypt, and other countries in
the region, we deeply regret that Hamas refused to release all of the
female hostages and military operations have resumed. Hamas has shown
that it still poses a security threat to Israel, as demonstrated by its
continued rocket fire since October 7 and its public statements
asserting that it will continue to attack Israel in the future. We urge
the immediate release of all remaining hostages without preconditions.
At the same time, more urgent action is needed to address the
deteriorating humanitarian crisis in Gaza and minimize civilian
casualties. We support and encourage further humanitarian pauses to
enable this.  
  
     We are also deeply concerned with the devastating impact on the
Palestinian civilian population in Gaza. More effective action must also
be taken to prevent the displacement of additional people and protect
civilian infrastructure. Every effort must be made to ensure unhindered
and continued humanitarian assistance for civilians, including food,
water, medical care, fuel, and shelter, and access for humanitarian
workers. The population is increasingly vulnerable, and with winter
approaching, we must continue to increase the flow of humanitarian aid
to Gaza to meet fully the needs on the ground, including by opening
additional crossings. We underscore the importance of conducting
deconfliction, protecting civilians and compliance with international
law, in particular international humanitarian law. Since October 7,
2023, we have announced more than $600 million for assistance to the
Palestinian people, including through United Nations Relief and Works
Agency for Palestine Refugees (UNRWA) and other UN agencies as well as
other humanitarian actors. We call on the international community to
fully fund the UN’s flash appeal and are contributing to that effort.  
  
     We condemn the rise in extremist settler violence committed against
Palestinians, which undermines security and stability in the West Bank,
and threatens prospects for a lasting peace. Those who have committed
crimes must be held to account. Regional actors must cease
de-stabilizing activities: in particular, we call on Iran to refrain
from providing support for Hamas, Hezbollah, the Houthis, and other
non-state actors, and to use its influence with those groups to
de-escalate regional tensions. We, along with partners in the region,
are working intensively to prevent the conflict from escalating further
and spreading more widely. Emphasizing the global importance of maritime
security, we call on all parties not to threaten or interfere with
lawful exercise of navigation rights and freedoms by all vessels, and
condemn the four attacks on December 3 against three separate commercial
vessels, connected to fourteen separate nations, operating in
international waters in the southern Red Sea. We especially call on the
Houthis to immediately cease attacks on civilians and threats to
international shipping lanes and commercial vessels. There are reasons
to believe that attacks by the Houthis are enabled by Iran. We express
our deep concern with the rise of hateful speech and acts across the
world since the beginning of the conflict, and categorically reject
antisemitism and Islamophobia in any form.  
  
     Israelis and Palestinians have an equal right to live in safety,
dignity, and peace. We are committed to working closely with partners to
assist in building the conditions for sustainable long-term solutions
for Gaza. We also need to see a return to a broader peace process. We
remain committed to a Palestinian state as part of a two-state solution
that enables both Israelis and Palestinians to live in a just, lasting,
and secure peace.  
  
**Indo-Pacific and the Region**  
  
We remain determined that Iran must never develop a nuclear weapon and
reiterate that Iran must cease its unabated escalation of its nuclear
program, which has no credible civilian justification and brings it
dangerously close to actual weapon-related activities. We call on Iran
to fulfill its legal obligations and political commitments regarding
nuclear non-proliferation with prompt action, including the full and
unconditional cooperation with the IAEA.  
  
     Together with regional partners, including the Association of
Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) and its Member States, South Asian
countries as well as the Pacific Island countries, we will continue our
endeavors towards a free and open Indo-Pacific, which is inclusive,
prosperous, secure, and based on the rule of law, and that protects
shared principles.    
   
     Reconfirming the G7 Hiroshima Leaders’ Communique, we stand
together as G7 partners on the following elements, which underpin our
respective relations with China:

-   We stand prepared to build constructive and stable relations with
    China, recognizing the importance of engaging candidly with and
    expressing our concerns directly to China. We act in our national
    interest. It is necessary to cooperate with China, given its role in
    the international community and the size of its economy, on global
    challenges as well as areas of common interest.  
     
-   We call on China to engage with us, including in international fora,
    on areas such as the climate and biodiversity crisis and the
    conservation of natural resources in the framework of the Paris and
    Kunming-Montreal Agreements, addressing vulnerable countries’ debt
    sustainability and financing needs, global health and macroeconomic
    stability.  
     
-   Our policy approaches are not designed to harm China nor do we seek
    to thwart China’s economic progress and development. A growing China
    that plays by international rules would be of global interest. We
    are not decoupling or turning inwards. At the same time, we
    recognize that economic resilience requires de-risking and
    diversifying. We will take steps, individually and collectively, to
    invest in our own economic vibrancy. We will reduce excessive
    dependencies in our critical supply chains.  
     
-   With a view to enabling sustainable economic relations with China,
    and strengthening the international trading system, we will push for
    a level playing field for our workers and companies. We will seek to
    address the challenges posed by China’s non-market policies and
    practices, which distort the global economy. We will counter malign
    practices, such as illegitimate technology transfer or data
    disclosure. We will foster resilience to economic coercion. We also
    recognize the necessity of protecting certain advanced technologies
    that could be used to threaten our national security without unduly
    limiting trade and investment.  
     
-   We remain seriously concerned about the situation in the East and
    South China Seas. We strongly oppose any unilateral attempts to
    change the status quo by force or coercion.  
     
-   We reaffirm the importance of peace and stability across the Taiwan
    Strait as indispensable to security and prosperity in the
    international community. There is no change in the basic positions
    of the G7 members on Taiwan, including stated one China policies. We
    call for a peaceful resolution of cross-Strait issues.  
     
-   We will keep voicing our concerns about the human rights situation
    in China, including in Tibet and Xinjiang where forced labor is of
    major concern to us. We call on China to honor its commitments under
    the Sino-British Joint Declaration and the Basic Law, which enshrine
    rights, freedoms and a high degree of autonomy for Hong Kong.  
     
-   We call on China to act in accordance with its obligations under the
    Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations and the Vienna Convention
    on Consular relations, and not to conduct interference activities
    aimed at undermining the security and safety of our communities, the
    integrity of our democratic institutions and our economic
    prosperity.  
     
-   We call on China to press Russia to stop its military aggression,
    and immediately, completely and unconditionally withdraw its troops
    from Ukraine. We encourage China to support a comprehensive, just
    and lasting peace based on territorial integrity and the principles
    and purposes of the UN Charter, including through its direct
    dialogue with Ukraine.

     There is no legal basis for China’s expansive maritime claims in
the South China Sea, and we oppose China’s militarization activities in
the region. We emphasize the universal and unified character of the UN
Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) and reaffirm UNCLOS’s
important role in setting out the legal framework that governs all
activities in the oceans and the seas. We reiterate that the award
rendered by the Arbitral Tribunal on July 12, 2016, is a significant
milestone, which is legally binding upon the parties to those
proceedings, and a useful basis for peacefully resolving disputes
between the parties.  
  
     We reiterate our call for the complete, verifiable, and
irreversible dismantlement of all North Korea’s weapons of mass
destruction and ballistic missiles. We urge all UN Member States to
fully implement all relevant UN Security Council resolutions (UNSCRs).
We strongly condemn continued ballistic missile launches, the recent
launch using ballistic missile technology conducted on November 21, 2023
and arms transfers from North Korea to Russia, which directly violate
relevant UNSCRs. We urge North Korea to respect human rights, facilitate
access for international humanitarian organizations, and resolve the
abductions issue immediately.     
  
     We welcome Japan’s safe, transparent, and science-based process,
including the continued monitoring of the situation, to responsibly
manage the discharge of Advanced Liquid Processing System treated water
from the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station into the sea in
proactively coordinating with scientists and partners, particularly
across the Indo-Pacific region, as well as with the IAEA. We also
welcome the IAEA’s comprehensive report of July 4, 2023 as well as its
continued monitoring. We acknowledge the importance of the IAEA’s onsite
presence during the process.  
  
     We support Indonesia initiating the accession process to become a
full member of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and
Development (OECD) as well as further progress on ongoing accession
processes more broadly.     
  
**Supporting Developing Economies and Strengthening International
Financial Institutions**  
  
     We reiterate our steadfast commitment to the achievement of the
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Sustainable Development
Goals (SDGs). We remain committed to partnering with developing
countries, particularly low-income countries, in dealing with multiple
and complex challenges, and in mobilizing finance for development from
all sources. We reaffirm our commitment to mobilizing up to $600 billion
by 2027 through the G7 Partnership for Global Infrastructure and
Investment (PGII) by scaling up public and private financing and
investments through tailored country approaches and by developing key
economic corridors.     
  
     We are working to deliver better, bigger, and more effective
multilateral development banks (MDBs) by enhancing operating models,
improving responsiveness and accessibility, and substantially increasing
financing capacity to maximize development impact as well as by making
MDBs work better as a system. We urge MDBs to continue their steadfast
efforts to further implement the G20 Capital Adequacy Framework (CAF)
recommendations. We urge the WBG to continue to implement operational
and financial reforms. We will deliver on the G20 Leaders’ commitment to
collectively mobilizing more lending headroom and concessional finance
to boost the World Bank’s capacity to support low and middle-income
countries that need help in addressing global challenges, with a clear
framework for the allocation of scarce concessional resources, and to
provide strong support for the poorest countries. The G7 has already
announced planned contributions that will unlock more than $35 billion
and will step up efforts to deliver substantial contributions to this
end. We are committed to collectively securing an ambitious
International Development Association (IDA) 21 replenishment next year.
We will work together over the next year to encourage and support the
MDBs in strengthening their efforts to mobilize private capital and
domestic resources.  
  
     At the IMF, we support the work to ensure the Poverty Reduction and
Growth Trust (PRGT) is on a sustainable footing to meet the growing
needs of low-income countries. We welcome the approval by the IMF
Executive Board on a proposal to the Board of Governors to conclude the
16th General Review of Quotas of the IMF with a quota increase by
December 15, 2023. We welcome the achievement of the $100 billion
Special Drawing Rights (SDR) channeling target and will further explore
viable options for enabling the voluntary channeling of SDRs through
MDBs while respecting national legal frameworks and the need to preserve
the reserve asset character and status of SDRs.  
    
     We will work together and with partners to deliver further progress
on this global agenda, including through the IMF, MDB boards and the
G20, as well as the discussions following the Paris Pact for People and
the Planet and the G20 Compact with Africa Conference in Berlin.  
  
     We will continue to provide developing countries support for
strengthening their tax capacity to build sustainable tax revenue
sources to help deliver the SDGs. We also emphasize the role this
support can play in implementation of the OECD/G20 Inclusive Framework
on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Two-Pillar Solution.      
  
     We reiterate the urgency of addressing debt vulnerabilities in low-
and middle-income countries. This includes finalizing outstanding
country cases, making future debt treatment more transparent and timely,
and improving our toolkits to put countries tackling reforms on more
sustainable footing before they fall into crisis. We welcome the
finalization of Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) on the debt treatment
for Zambia and call for swift agreement on debt treatment for Ghana and
Ethiopia. Following the recent agreement between Sri Lanka and its
official creditors, we look forward to the swift resolution of the debt
treatment of Sri Lanka. We welcome joint efforts by all stakeholders,
including private creditors, to continue working towards enhancing debt
transparency. We recognize the role that climate resilient debt clauses
(CRDC) can play in enhancing the safety net for borrowers facing the
impact of climate change.     
**Climate Change, Energy and Environment**  
  
     We remain steadfast in our commitment to the Paris Agreement,
keeping a limit of 1.5°C global temperature rise within reach through
scaled up action in this critical decade. We welcome the first global
stocktake (GST), and will pursue ambitious outcomes at the ongoing 28th
Session of the Conference of the Parties to the UN Framework Convention
on Climate Change (UNFCCC-COP 28) in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates
(UAE), and extend our full support to the UAE Presidency. We welcome the
swift adoption of the decision on operationalization of the new funding
arrangements.  
  
     While acknowledging various pathways according to each country’s
energy situation, industrial and social structures and geographical
conditions, we reiterate that these should lead to our common goal of
net zero by 2050 at the latest in order to keep a limit of 1.5 °C within
reach. We will contribute towards and support a global tripling of
renewable energy capacity and a doubling of annual energy efficiency
improvements by 2030 taking into consideration national circumstances,
with currently 123 countries supporting those targets at COP 28. We will
do this hand in hand with accelerating the phase out of unabated fossil
fuels so as to achieve our climate ambition. We commit to prioritizing
concrete and timely steps towards the goal of accelerating the phase out
of domestic unabated coal power generation, and to ending the
construction of new unabated coal fired power generation. Those G7
countries that opt to use nuclear energy recognize its potential to
provide affordable low carbon energy that can reduce dependence on
fossil fuels, to address climate crisis, and to ensure global energy
security as the source of baseload energy and grid flexibility, and
support a global aspirational goal of tripling nuclear energy capacity
from 2020 by 2050 that was endorsed by a coalition of 23 countries in
the margins of the COP28, recognizing the different domestic
circumstances of each country.  
  
     We continue our implementation of our commitments to the developed
country Parties’ goal of jointly mobilizing $100 billion annually in
climate finance by 2020 through to 2025, and welcome that the goal looks
likely to have been met as of 2022 as stated in the Report by the OECD
Secretary-General. We underscore the need to enhance international
cooperation and coordination within the G7 and beyond. In this regard,
recalling our determination to support developing countries’ just energy
transitions, we welcome progress achieved on Just Energy Transition
Partnerships (JETPs) with partner countries and will continue our
efforts for its implementation.     
  
     We reiterate our commitment to the swift and full implementation of
the Kunming Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework and to achievement of
each of its goals and targets. We are committed to ending plastic
pollution, with the ambition to reduce additional plastic pollution to
zero by 2040 including through an international legally binding
instrument.     
  
**Economic Resilience and Economic Security**  
  
     Recalling the G7 Statement on Economic Resilience and Economic
Security and recognizing that the weaponization of economic
vulnerabilities is becoming a growing concern for G7 members and other
countries, we are determined to continue making progress to enhance our
strategic coordination on these issues, including through the G7’s
Coordination Platform on Economic Coercion. We will increase our
collective assessment, preparedness, deterrence, and response to
economic coercion, and further promote cooperation with partners beyond
the G7. We will also coordinate, as appropriate, to support targeted
states, economies and entities as a demonstration of solidarity and
resolve to uphold the rule of law.     
  
     We have strengthened channels of communication to address supply
disruptions and shared insights and best practices, including from
respective scenario-based stress testing. We will further step up our
collaboration based on the *principles on resilient and reliable supply
chains*, including for critical minerals, semiconductors and batteries,
which are now supported by a broader number of partners beyond the G7.
We encourage all countries to support them. We welcome the successful
launch of the “Partnership for RISE (Resilient and Inclusive
Supply-chain Enhancement)” and continue to support its implementation
with speed and quality.  
    
     We affirm our shared responsibility and determination to coordinate
on preventing the cutting-edge technologies we develop from being used
to further military capabilities that threaten international peace and
security. To this end, we will share, as appropriate, information and
experiences to further develop common understanding of such risks and
the policy tools needed to address them, and take further actions where
necessary, including those related to export and investment,
corresponding to the circumstances of each country. We will further
strengthen multilateral efforts to cooperate in the field of export
controls to ensure gaps in our dual use technology protection ecosystem
cannot be exploited. We have a common interest in preventing the narrow
set of technological advances that are assessed to be core to enhancing
the military and intelligence capabilities of actors who may use these
capabilities to undermine international peace and security, from being
fueled by our companies’ capital, expertise, and knowledge. We recognize
that appropriate measures designed to address risks from outbound
investment could be important to complement existing tools of targeted
controls on exports and inbound investments, which work together to
protect our sensitive technologies from being used in ways that threaten
international peace and security.  
  
     We will increase our efforts to implement risk-based policies and
measures to promote research security and research integrity.  
  
     We reiterate our commitment to working and coordinating on economic
resilience and economic security through the G7 framework to make
year-on-year progress in a holistic manner.     
   
**Trade**  
  
     We underscore the need to pursue WTO reform to improve all its
functions through an inclusive member driven process, and remain
committed to conducting discussions with a view to having a fully and
well-functioning dispute settlement system accessible to all members by
2024. We will continue to work towards concrete and ambitious outcomes
at the upcoming 13<sup>th</sup> WTO Ministerial Conference.     
  
**Food Security**  
  
     We welcome progress on coordinated actions of the G7 with a wide
range of stakeholders to strengthen global food security and nutrition.
We recognize the continuing urgency and renew our commitment to working
together with partners beyond the G7 to build resilient and sustainable
agriculture and food systems and to progressively realize the right to
adequate food and nutrition for all, in particular by ensuring open and
fair agricultural trade, promoting resilient food supply chains and
improving agricultural productivity in a sustainable manner. We also
stress the need to improve availability, affordability and accessibility
and promote efficient and responsible use of fertilizers, including
through local fertilizer production.     
   
     We renew our commitment to developing and strengthening the global
health architecture (GHA) for future health emergencies, achieving more
resilient, equitable, and sustainable universal health coverage (UHC),
and promoting health innovations.  
    
     We reaffirm our commitment to enhancing governance, international
norms and regulations including through the negotiations on the future
international agreement on pandemic prevention, preparedness, and
response (PPR) (WHO CA+). We also commit to financing for PPR, including
through the Pandemic Fund, enhanced manufacturing capacity globally, and
the exploration of a rapid response financing framework.     
  
     We also continue to call for further domestic resource
mobilization, as well as efficient use of existing resources, and
private financing, including through “Impact Investment Initiative (the
Triple I) for Global Health.”     
Building on the G7 Hiroshima Vision for Equitable Access to medical
countermeasures (MCMs), we welcome the collaborative progress made on
the MCM Delivery Partnership for equitable access (MCDP) and also commit
to explore further means to coordinate and mobilize surge financing for
production, procurement, and delivery of MCMs, including development
financing solutions.  
     
     We will further promote comprehensive sexual and reproductive
health and rights (SRHR).     
  
**Digital**  
  
     We renew our commitment to advancing international discussions on
inclusive artificial intelligence (AI) governance and interoperability
between AI governance frameworks, while we recognize that approaches and
policy instruments to achieve the common vision and goal of trustworthy
AI may vary across G7 members, to achieve our common vision and goal of
safe, secure, and trustworthy AI, in line with our shared democratic
values. We endorse the outcomes of the G7 Digital and Tech Ministers’
Meeting on December 1, 2023, notably the Hiroshima AI Process
Comprehensive Policy Framework and the Work Plan to advance Hiroshima AI
Process. We welcome the Hiroshima AI Process Comprehensive Policy
Framework. It represents the first successful international framework
that includes guiding principles and the code of conduct to address the
impact of advanced AI systems on our societies and economies. We call on
AI actors to support the Hiroshima Process International Guiding
Principles and the Hiroshima Process International Code of Conduct. The
achievement of the Hiroshima AI Process under Japan’s G7 Presidency
shows that we can act quickly to lead the way in responsible innovation
and in the governance of emerging technologies. We look forward to
further advancing the Hiroshima AI Process in accordance with the work
plan developed by relevant Ministers.     
  
     We welcome the UK hosted AI Safety Summit and look forward to the
next international AI meetings to be hosted by the Republic of Korea and
France. We reaffirm the importance of our close cooperation with the
OECD and the Global Partnership on Artificial Intelligence (GPAI). 　  
  
     We commit to working together for further advancing the Data Free
Flow with Trust (DFFT), and welcome the concrete progress made in
establishing the Institutional Arrangement for Partnership in
cooperation with the OECD.     
  
**Conclusion**  
  
     As we look to the 2024 Italian G7 Presidency, and in our support to
the Brazilian G20 Presidency, we will strive towards a peaceful and
prosperous world, building on the outcomes achieved in Hiroshima.  
  
     Under the Italian Presidency, we will continue our support to
Ukraine and will address other crises. We will promote mutually
beneficial partnerships with developing and emerging countries,
particularly in Africa. We will address key issues, such as economic
security and resilience, sustainable development, food and energy
security, gender equality, AI, irregular migration, and human
trafficking.   

\###
