---
date: '2023-12-16'
published_time: 2023-12-16 09:11:08-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/12/16/joint-press-statement-on-nuclear-consultative-group-meeting/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Joint Press Statement on Nuclear Consultative Group\_Meeting"
---
 
The second U.S.-Republic of Korea (ROK) Nuclear Consultative Group
(NCG) convened in Washington D.C. on December 15, 2023. Established to
implement President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. and President Yoon Suk
Yeol’s *Washington Declaration*, the NCG is an enduring bilateral
consultative body to strengthen the U.S.-ROK Alliance and enhance
extended deterrence on the Korean Peninsula and in the region. 

The meeting was convened by Mr. Maher Bitar, Coordinator for
Intelligence and Defense Policy at the U.S. National Security Council
(NSC), and Dr. Kim Tae-hyo, Principal Deputy National Security Advisor
of the ROK. Discussions were led by Dr. Vipin Narang, Principal Deputy
Assistant Secretary of Defense for Space Policy, and Dr. Heo Tae-keun,
Deputy Minister for National Defense Policy of the ROK. ROK and U.S.
officials from the NSC, and relevant defense, foreign affairs,
intelligence, and military agencies also took part in the meeting.

The United States reaffirmed its unwavering commitment to provide
extended deterrence to the ROK, backed by the full range of U.S.
capabilities including nuclear. Any nuclear attack by North Korea
against the United States or its allies is unacceptable and will result
in the end of the Kim regime, and the U.S. side reiterated that any
nuclear attack by the DPRK against the ROK will be met with a swift,
overwhelming, and decisive response.

During this NCG meeting, the first hosted in the United States, both
sides acknowledged that U.S. and ROK nuclear deterrence cooperation has
deepened as progress has been achieved since the first NCG meeting in
July through frequent meetings of the NCG working Group (WG) on NCG
workstreams, including on guidelines; security and information sharing
protocols; nuclear consultation processes in crises and contingencies;
nuclear and strategic planning; U.S.-ROK conventional and nuclear
integration (CNI); strategic communications; exercises, simulations,
training, and investment activities; and risk reduction practices. NCG
Principals also commended the holding of an Extended Nuclear Deterrence
Immersion Course this November, which was provided for officials from
across the ROK interagency, and the substantive interagency cooperation
being practiced through the NCG.

NCG Principals reviewed the enhanced visibility of strategic assets to
bolster extended deterrence, including the ballistic missile submarine
the *USS KENTUCKY* port visit to Busan in July, B-52 strategic bomber
flyover and landing on the Korean Peninsula in October, and joint
observation of an ICBM test launch in November, as well as discussing
future plans to demonstrate a strengthening of deterrence.

NCG Principals approved the proposed work plan and prospective key
events for the first half of 2024, underscored their commitment to
securing substantive progress in an expedited manner, and will report
relevant progress on the NCG workstreams and other efforts to their
respective commanders-in-chief.

The third principal-level NCG will be convened in Korea next summer. 
