---
date: '2023-12-08'
published_time: 2023-12-08 22:15:45-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/12/08/joint-fact-sheet-launching-the-u-s-rok-next-generation-critical-and-emerging-technologies-dialogue/
tags: statements-releases
title: "JOINT FACT SHEET: Launching the U.S.-ROK Next Generation Critical and Emerging\
  \ Technologies\_Dialogue"
---
 
Today, U.S. National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan and the Republic of
Korea (ROK) National Security Advisor Cho Tae-yong chaired the inaugural
U.S.-ROK Next Generation Critical and Emerging Technologies (CET)
Dialogue in Seoul.  The launch of the Next Generation CET Dialogue
fulfills a commitment that President Biden and President Yoon made
during the April 2023 State Visit to upgrade bilateral technology
cooperation as the two countries take monumental strides to modernize
the U.S.-ROK alliance, now in its 70<sup>th</sup> year.   
  
National Security Advisors Sullivan and Cho underscored their intent to
anchor the initiative in strategic technologies that will be of greatest
consequence to bolstering economic prosperity; enhancing resilience
against supply chain disruptions; and securing competitive advantages
for our two nations and like-minded partners.  At the outset, the Next
Generation CET Dialogue will drive cooperation across six main strategic
technology areas, including semiconductor supply chains and technology;
biotechnology; batteries and clean energy technology; quantum science
and technology; digital connectivity; and artificial intelligence.  The
National Security Advisors also highlighted the crucial importance of
aligning and adapting our technology protection toolkits, including the
recently announced Disruptive Technology Protection Network and
investment screening mechanisms, as an important effort to prevent the
leakage of sensitive and dual-use technologies.  
  
In addition to the National Security Advisors, the Next Generation CET
Dialogue featured high-level representation from the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs, the Ministry of Science and Information and Communication
Technologies, the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Energy, the Ministry
of Health and Welfare, and the Ministry of Education on the ROK side. 
They were joined by senior officials from the Department of State, the
Department of Energy, the National Science Foundation, the White House
Office of Pandemic Preparedness and Response Policy, and the White House
Office of Science and Technology Policy.  The two sides committed to
carrying forward the Next Generation CET Dialogue as an
outcomes-oriented, whole-of-government endeavor across the innovation
value chain to advance high-level CET policy priorities.    
  
During the inaugural CET Dialogue, the United States and the ROK
welcomed enhanced cooperation between our governments, industry, and
academia across the following domains:  
  
**Semiconductor Supply Chains and Technology:**

-   Upgrade cooperation between the National Science Foundation (NSF)
    and the Ministry of Science and ICT and key industry partners,
    including through granting teams of U.S. and Korean researchers
    preferential access to advanced technology nodes to support expanded
    joint research and development (R&D) opportunities.  
     
-   Lay the groundwork for deeper collaboration between our respective
    public and private semiconductor research and development
    organizations, including exchanging best practices and outlining
    shared R&D priorities through the U.S. Department of Commerce and
    ROK Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Energy-led Supply Chain and
    Commercial Dialogue, within which the United States and the ROK
    intend to launch a forum for discussions to connect interested
    public and private research institutions, including the
    to-be-established U.S. National Semiconductor Technology Center and
    the Korean Advanced Semiconductor Technology Center.    
     

**Biotechnology and Biomanufacturing: **

-   Launch new collaboration on bioeconomy R&D between the ROK Ministry
    of Science and ICT and NSF in 2024, with the intention of supporting
    research collaborations with an anticipated value of no less than US
    $10 million.  
     
-   Implement the MOU between the Lawrence Berkley National Lab and
    Korea Research Institute of Bioscience and Biotechnology on
    bio-foundry, signed this April, including through pursuing personnel
    exchanges, expanded information sharing, and reciprocal
    demonstrations of capabilities and technologies to support our
    respective test beds.    
     
-   Expand collaboration between the National Institutes of Health and
    the Ministry of Health and Welfare, with a focus on exploring MD-PhD
    talent exchange programs; enhancing biomedical research cooperation;
    and discussing opportunities for cooperation between research
    hospitals, particularly on cell and gene therapies, treatments for
    rare diseases, and diagnostic devices.  
     
-   Strengthen coordination between the U.S. Advanced Research Projects
    Agency for Health (ARPA-H) and the Korean Ministry of Health and
    Welfare and the Korea Health Industry Development Institute to
    catalyze health innovation R&D.    
     
-   Launch a track 1.5 channel in 2024 focused on accelerating bilateral
    R&D initiatives; identifying active pharmaceuticals, starting
    materials, and other inputs that can be diversified and
    “friend-shored;” and building resilience in global biopharmaceutical
    supply chains.  
     
-   Enhance collaboration between the U.S. National Institute of Allergy
    and Infection Disease and the ROK National Institute of Infection
    Diseases on biomedical research cooperation related to infectious
    diseases and immunology in areas of shared interest.  
     
-   Enhance cooperation on Cancer Moonshot Initiative 2.0 including
    implementing the MOU between the Korean National Cancer Center and
    the U.S. National Cancer Institute and discuss possible further
    collaboration between the United States and the ROK.

**Batteries and Clean Energy Technology:**

-   Expand R&D between U.S. National Labs and counterpart Korean
    research institutes, and explore research and talent exchanges
    focused on next-generation secondary batteries—particularly related
    to lithium metal batteries, all-solid-state batteries, sodium-ion
    batteries, and other key clean energy technologies.  
     
-   Deepen joint research on utility-scale energy storage, including
    through the partnership between the Pacific Northwest National
    Laboratory and the Research Institute of Industrial Science and
    Technology on intermediate temperature sodium metal halide
    development.  
     
-   Advance a new MOU to build cooperation between Sandia National
    Laboratories and the Korea Electrical Safety Corporation to
    collaborate on joint research projects in the field of Battery
    Energy Storage System safety technologies, including the development
    of a battery safety database and international standards.  
     
-   Enhance collaboration in next-generation battery technology R&D,
    building upon the recent conclusion of an MOU between the Korea
    Planning Evaluation Institute of Industrial Technology and the
    Industry and University Cooperative Research Center for Efficient
    Vehicles and Sustainable Transportation Systems.

**Quantum:**

-   Advance new scientific and technical collaboration under the
    Cooperation Agreement between the U.S. National Institute of
    Standards and Technology and the Korea Research Institute of
    Standards and Science to promote research in support of
    next-generation superconducting quantum computing.    
     
-   Enhance government and industry cooperation in multilateral fora,
    including through collaboration between the Quantum Economic
    Development Consortium and the Korea Quantum Industry Association.  
     
-   Initiate research discussions and explore opportunities for new
    university collaboration on joint research activities, joint
    conferences, workforce development programs, exchanges of
    information, and faculty and scholar visits.

**Artificial Intelligence and Standards:**

-   Deepen collaboration on international governance frameworks for AI
    through promoting mutually reinforcing international initiatives –
    including the United States’ announcement of the Political
    Declaration on the Responsible Military Use of AI and Autonomy and
    the G7 Code of Conduct and the ROK’s hosting of the Mini Virtual
    Summit on AI, the Global AI Forum, and the Responsible Artificial
    Intelligence in the Military Domain Summit (REAIM) – and welcoming
    progress in our respective domestic policy processes on AI
    governance.  The ROK also noted its contributions to promoting
    international discussions on AI norms, including through its Digital
    Bill of Rights.    
     
-   Launch a new bilateral AI Working Group, with a focus on cooperating
    in efforts to develop international standards, advancing joint
    research, and fostering interoperability in AI policies to ensure
    safe, secure, and trustworthy AI.  
     
-   Conclude an MOU on technology standards between the National
    Institute of Standards and Technology and the Korean Agency for
    Technology and Standards.  
     

**Digital Connectivity and Information Communication Technologies
(ICT):**

-   Deepen cooperation on cloud technology and reliability, including
    through launching expert discussions on innovative
    cybersecurity approaches and expanding R&D, exchanges, and mutual
    investment to support resilient and energy-efficient cloud
    infrastructure and service.  
     
-   Promote secure and resilient ICT infrastructure in the United
    States, the ROK, and third countries through jointly identifying and
    supporting financing options for Open RAN testbeds, pilot projects,
    capacity-building programs, and operational deployments in Southeast
    Asia and other priority regions, and explore collaboration on
    international standardization in areas such as 5G and 6G.  
     
-   Advance a common approach to the trusted free flow of data,
    including through supporting the expansion of the Global
    Cross-Border Privacy Rules (CBPR) Forum and promoting cooperation on
    data protection and privacy in third countries.

**Partnership with Like-Minded Nations**

-   Hold National Security Council and National Security Office-led
    consultations with like-minded partners on critical and emerging
    technologies including through launching an informal trilateral
    technology dialogue with India in the first quarter of 2024.

The United States and the ROK recognize that the combined talent of our
nations and our rich people-to-people ties form the bedrock of
cooperation and commit to redouble efforts to promote STEM exchanges and
workforce and student mobility programs.  Through the Next Generation
CET Dialogue, we intend to double down on our work together, at the
leading edge of innovation, to propel our ambitious technology
partnership into the future and deliver a more prosperous, secure, and
stable future for our two people and for the Indo-Pacific region. 
