---
date: '2023-12-14'
modified_time: 2023-12-13 21:37:13-05:00
published_time: 2023-12-14 05:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/12/14/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-dozens-of-pharma-companies-raised-prices-faster-than-inflation-triggering-medicare-rebates/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces Dozens of Pharma Companies\
  \ Raised Prices Faster than Inflation, Triggering Medicare\_Rebates"
---
 
* President Biden’s Inflation Reduction Act cracks down on Big Pharma
price gouging, saving some seniors thousands of dollars per dose of
medication*

Today, President Biden will visit the National Institutes of Health
Clinical Center in Washington, D.C. to announce that dozens of
pharmaceutical companies will be required to pay rebates to Medicare for
outrageous price hikes on prescription drugs that over 750,000 seniors
take per year. For the last quarter of 2023, 48 Medicare Part B drugs
raised their prices faster than inflation, and some drug companies
raised prices of certain medications faster than inflation for every
quarter over the last year. President Biden’s Inflation Reduction Act
cracks down on this exorbitant price gouging, requiring these companies
to pay rebates back to Medicare, saving seniors who take these drugs
between $1 and $2,786 per dose on their medication.

President Biden vowed to lower prescription drug costs for seniors and
families – and he is delivering on that promise. His Inflation Reduction
Act finally allows Medicare to directly negotiate lower prescription
drug prices, capped the cost of insulin for Medicare beneficiaries at
$35, made recommended adult vaccines free, requires drug companies to
pay rebates if they raise prices faster than the rate of inflation, and
locked in savings of $800 per year on health insurance for nearly 15
million Americans. While Republicans in Congress fight tooth and nail to
repeal the Inflation Reduction Act and put money back in the pockets of
Big Pharma, President Biden won’t back down from the fight to lower
costs for hardworking Americans and make sure every family has access to
affordable health care.

Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is announcing the following:

-   **The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) announced a new
    list of 48 Medicare Part B drugs that raised their prices faster
    than inflation, and may be subject to inflation rebates in the first
    quarter of 2024 as a result of the Inflation Reduction Act.**
    President Biden’s prescription drug law cracks down on price gouging
    from Big Pharma, requiring companies to pay back Medicare if they
    raise prices on seniors at a higher rate than inflation. Starting in
    January, some Medicare beneficiaries who take these 48 prescription
    drugs – including drugs used to treat cancer and fight infections –
    will have lower coinsurance than what they would have paid
    otherwise, and their out-of-pocket costs may decrease by $1 to as
    much as $2,786 per average dose.

**Over the last four quarters, 64 drugs in total had prices that
increased faster than inflation and may be subject to inflation rebates
because of the Inflation Reduction Act.** Some drugs, such as Signifor,
used to treat an endocrine disorder, raised prices faster than inflation
every quarter since the Inflation Reduction Act’s inflation rebate
provision went into effect. Some Medicare beneficiaries who take
Signifor could save $311 per monthly dose starting January because of
the law.

**The Administration is focused on making sure medications developed
with taxpayer funds are available to Americans at reasonable prices.**
On average, Americans pay 2 to 3 times more than consumers in other
developed countries for prescription drugs. Last week, the
Administration announced a proposal to put drug companies on notice if
products developed using federal funds are not made available to the
public on reasonable terms, including based on price. The proposal would
promote the federal government’s ability to license a patent — such as
those used to create life-saving drugs — to a competitor with the goal
of increasing competition and bringing costs down for families.

Building off last week’s announcement, today HHS announced that the
Administration for Strategic Preparedness and Response (ASPR) is making
fair pricing a standard part of contract negotiations for medical
products developed or purchased as part of its commitment to obtain best
value for the US taxpayer. In September 2023, ASPR finalized a Project
NextGen contract agreement for a potentially life-saving COVID-19
treatment being developed by Regeneron stating if the product is
commercialized, its list price in the United States will be equal to or
less than its retail price in comparable global markets. Since then,
ASPR has also included similar language in recent agreements with
CastleVax, Codagenix and Gritstone Bio, developers of the first three
vaccines selected for development within Project NextGen. These clauses
will be in effect if and when a company’s candidate vaccine is selected
to move into ASPR-supported Phase 2b trials to evaluate clinical safety
and efficacy.  These actions are the result of a successful and
collaborative approach by ASPR and its industry partners and show HHS’s
commitment to keep Americans from paying unfair prices for the care they
need.

-   The report shows that total Medicare spending on the 10 drugs more
    than doubled from 2018 to 2022 – a rate that was 3 times faster than
    all Part D drugs over the same period.The report also shows that 7
    of the 10 drugs selected received direct at least one form of
    federal support towards their drug development or utilized a
    federal-funded invention for their development.

After decades and hundreds of billions of dollars spent by Big Pharma to
block Medicare from directly negotiating lower prescription drug prices
for people with Medicare, President Biden’s Inflation Reduction Act
finally got it done. In total in 2022, Medicare Part D beneficiaries
paid $3.4 billion in out of pocket costs for the 10 drugs selected for
negotiation, and some paid over $6,000 per year for just one of the
drugs on the list. Negotiated prices will go into effect for seniors in
2026.

Today’s announcements build off the actions the Administration has
already taken to lower prescription drug costs for millions of seniors
and families because of President Biden’s Inflation Reduction Act. In
2023 alone:

-   The Inflation Reduction Act saved nearly **15 million Americans an
    average of $800 in 2023** because of health insurance savings the
    law locked in.

<!-- -->

-   The Inflation Reduction Act capped the cost of insulin at $35 per
    covered insulin product for Medicare beneficiaries, savingan
    estimated **1.5 million seniors on Medicare $500 on average in
    2023** on insulin costs. 

<!-- -->

-   The Inflation Reduction Actmade recommended vaccines – like the
    shingles vaccine – free for the **50.5 million seniors with Medicare
    Part D, and made recommended, approved adult vaccines free for all
    adults in the Children’s Health Insurance Program, and nearly all
    full-benefit adults enrolled in traditional Medicaid.** Seniors on
    Medicare who received a Part D vaccine saved an average of $70 on
    vaccines in 2023.

<!-- -->

-   The Inflation Reduction Act **saved many seniors on Medicare as much
    as $618 per average dose on 47 prescription drugs in 2023** because
    of the law’s provision requiring drug companies to pay rebates on
    certain drugs if they raise prices for those drugs faster than the
    rate of inflation. Starting in 2024, some seniors who take 48
    prescription drugs could see savings of as much as $2,786 per
    average dose because those 48 drugs raised their prices faster than
    inflation in the last quarter of 2023.

In the coming months and years, the Inflation Reduction Act will
continue to deliver cost-savings to millions of Americans, including:

-   In 2024, Part D enrollees will no longer pay 5% co-insurance when
    they reach the catastrophic phase of their benefit – meaning that
    some beneficiaries’ prescription drug costs will be capped at about
    $3,500 next year.

<!-- -->

-   When the $2,000 out-of-pocket cap on prescription drugs applies in
    2025, nearly 19 million seniors and other beneficiaries are
    projected to save $400 per year on prescription drugs. 1.9 million
    enrollees with the highest drug costs will save an average of $2,500
    per year because of this provision of the Inflation Reduction Act.

<!-- -->

-   Millions of seniors could save money when negotiated prices of the
    first group of drugs selected for the Inflation Reduction Act’s
    Medicare Price Negotiation program are scheduled to go into effect
    in 2026. In 2022, seniors spent $3.4 billion in out-of-pocket costs
    on the first ten drugs selected for negotiation – used to treat
    common conditions like diabetes, Crohn’s disease, arthritis, blood
    clots and more. A
    [report](https://www.mathematica.org/publications/the-effect-of-medicares-drug-price-negotiation-program-on-out-of-pocket-spending)
    released last week shows that had the Medicare price negotiation
    program been in effect in 2021, Part D out of pocket costs would
    have declined 23% for people taking the ten costliest drugs at the
    time. 
