---
date: '2023-12-28'
modified_time: 2023-12-28 17:57:55-05:00
published_time: 2023-12-28 14:18:41-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/12/28/mexico-u-s-joint-communique-mexico-and-the-united-states-reaffirm-their-shared-commitments-on-an-orderly-humane-and-regular-migration/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Mexico-U.S. Joint Communique: Mexico and the United\_States Reaffirm Their\
  \ Shared Commitments on an Orderly, Humane and Regular\_Migration"
---
 
President of Mexico Andrés Manuel López Obrador received yesterday in
Mexico City a delegation of senior officials from the United States led
by Secretary of State Antony Blinken, Secretary of Homeland Security
Alejandro Mayorkas, and White House Homeland Security Advisor Elizabeth
Sherwood-Randall. President López Obrador thanked President Joe Biden
for sending the U.S. delegation to Mexico following the two leaders’
telephone conversation last week focused on migration management.

The two countries reaffirmed their existing commitments on fostering an
orderly, humane, and regular migration. This includes reinforcing our
partnership to address the root causes of migration, such as poverty,
inequality, and violence, and for the two countries’ initiative for
Cubans, Haitians, Nicaraguans and Venezuelans. Ongoing cooperation also
includes enhanced efforts to disrupt human smuggling, trafficking, and
criminal networks, and continuing the work to promote legal instead of
irregular migration pathways. Also, both delegations agreed on the
importance of maintaining and facilitating the vital bilateral trade at
our shared border.

President López Obrador highlighted the commitment of President Biden to
pursue regular, orderly, and secure migration. He stressed the need to
continue the diplomatic and political engagement with all countries in
the region, as well as investing in ambitious development programs
throughout the entire hemisphere of the Americas. Both delegations
underlined the efforts that the Biden administration is pursuing through
development assistance and humanitarian aid, as well as advancing new
private investments in the region.

The delegations also discussed the benefit of regularizing the situation
of long-term undocumented Hispanic migrants and DACA recipients, who are
a vital part of the U.S. economy and society.

The two delegations agreed to meet again in Washington in January 2024
to continue to advance our strong partnership on migration management.

President López Obrador was accompanied by Alicia Bárcena Ibarra,
Secretary of Foreign Affairs; Luisa María Alcalde Luján, Secretary of
the Interior; Gen. Luis Cresencio Sandoval, Secretary of Defense; Alm.
José Rafael Ojeda, Secretary of the Navy; Rosa Icela Rodríguez,
Secretary of Security and Citizen Protection; Esteban
Moctezuma Barragán, Mexican Ambassador to the United States; Arturo
Félix Medina, Undersecretary of Human Rights, Population and Migration,
SEGOB; Roberto Velasco Álvarez, Head of the Unit for North America; and
Armando López Cárdenas, Advisor to the Commissioner, INM; and
Alejandro Celorio, Legal Counselor, SRE.

On behalf of President Biden, the United States was represented by
Antony Blinken, Secretary of State; Alejandro Mayorkas, Secretary of
Homeland Security; Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall, White House Homeland
Security Advisor; Ken Salazar, United States Ambassador to Mexico; and
Katie Tobin, Deputy Assistant to the President and NSC Coordinator for
the Los Angeles Declaration.

\###
