---
date: '2023-12-01'
published_time: 2023-12-01 11:16:39-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/12/01/fact-sheet-marking-the-two-year-anniversary-of-the-report-on-the-impact-of-climate-change-on-migration/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Marking the Two-Year Anniversary of the Report on the Impact of\
  \ Climate Change on\_Migration"
---
 
Two years ago, the Biden-Harris Administration released the [Report on
the Impact of Climate Change on
Migration](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/Report-on-the-Impact-of-Climate-Change-on-Migration.pdf).  
  
Today, the Administration is providing an update on actions taken under
President Biden’s Executive Order 14013 *Rebuilding and Enhancing
Programs to Resettle Refugees and Planning for the Impact of Climate
Change on Migration* and efforts to address the effects of climate
change on displacement and migration.  
  
Research estimates more than 216 million people could migrate within
their countries as a result of climate change by 2050. Migration can be
a necessary mechanism for survival for communities and families facing
severe risk to personal safety, property damage, or loss of livelihood
and is often the only option to meaningfully reduce that risk.
 Particular attention must be paid to the needs of communities that
receive migrants displaced as a result of climate events, including
access to housing, work, and education.  
  
Under President Biden’s leadership, the United States Federal government
is working to implement a number of initiatives to improve the ability
of vulnerable communities both at home and abroad to adapt to and manage
the increasing impacts of the global climate crisis that contribute to
displacement: 

-   The President’s Emergency Plan for Adaptation and Resilience
    ([PREPARE](https://www.whitehouse.gov.mcas.ms/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/Helping-the-World-Prepare.pdf)),
    launched by President Biden in November 2021 with a commitment to
    work with Congress to fund international climate adaptation at $3
    billion annually by 2024, has an [Action
    Plan](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/09/PREPARE-Action-Plan.pdf?utm_medium=email&utm_source=govdelivery#:~:text=In%20November%202021%2C%20President%20Biden,the%20impacts%20of%20climate%20change.) that
    builds off and bolsters existing international efforts to advance
    climate resilience, including ways to address key drivers of
    migration by enabling communities to support themselves where they
    are, respond to displacement, support those who choose to move as a
    risk management strategy, and assist trapped populations.  
     
-   The U.S. Agency for International Development’s April 2022 [Climate
    Strategy](https://www.usaid.gov/policy/climate-strategy) highlights
    the importance of limiting displacement and supporting safer and
    more productive migration. This includes the need to anticipate,
    prepare for, and respond to climate-related migration and scale
    support to migrants and their communities.  
     
-   Lack of access to and availability of water accounted for ten
    percent of the increase in global migration between 1970 and 2000.
    The June 2022 White House [Action Plan on Global Water
    Security](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/06/water-action-plan_final_formatted.pdf) lays
    out a whole-of-government approach to improve global resilience,
    elevate data-driven methods, use resources more efficiently, and
    work collaboratively across communities and sectors to address
    global water security, which can be a key driver of displacement and
    migration due to impacts on health, food security, and
    livelihoods.  
     
-   The Department of State released a [new
    approach](https://www.state.gov/the-department-of-states-bureau-of-population-refugees-and-migration-announces-new-approach-to-address-the-impacts-of-climate-change-on-migration-and-displacement/) in
    June 2023 to address the impacts of the climate crisis on migration
    and displacement, including four objectives: 1) strengthen and
    expand the protection of refugees and migrants in situations of
    vulnerability affected by climate change; 2) enhance existing
    climate action by partnering with key humanitarian partners, through
    regular dialogue with international, governmental, and
    non-governmental organizations, and through engagement with members
    of affected populations; 3) expand U.S. multilateral diplomacy and
    leadership to address the impacts of climate change on migration and
    displacement in international fora; and 4) strengthen coordination
    between agencies to advance policy solutions for refugees and
    migrants affected by climate change.

Additionally, the White House report called for U.S. leadership to
elevate the impact of climate change on migration and displacement in
multilateral spaces and educate leaders on the urgency of climate risk
to populations. The Department of State has advanced dialogue on the
issue in various fora over the last two years, including hosting events
during the International Dialogue on Migration, Inter-Governmental
Consultations on Migration, Asylum, and Refugees, the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development, UN General Assembly High-Level
Week, the Cities Summit of the Americas, the Regional Conference on
Migration, and the Africa Climate Summit.

These efforts have generated engagement and momentum among key
stakeholders – government, international organizations, impacted
communities, multilateral development banks and international finance
institutions, civil society, think tanks, the private sector, and others
– around action at the intersection of climate change and human
mobility. The State Department and USAID will continue working with
these stakeholders to inform, develop, and coordinate actions in the
years to come.

**To address migration and displacement due to climate change, the
United States has developed a three-pronged approach of 1) improving
access to information by U.S. federal agencies, partner countries, and
local communities, 2) increasing investment in adaptation and resilience
programs, and 3) facilitating protection of individuals at home and
abroad.**  
  
**Increasing access to information by U.S. federal agencies, partner
countries, and local communities on climate change**  
  
Information about climate change impacts, early warning systems, and
adaptation options saves lives and empowers governments and communities
to take timely and appropriate actions to increase climate resilience
and address climate-related mobility. The U.S. Government advances
observations, models, and forecasts that enable monitoring and early
warnings for floods, droughts, cyclones, and extreme temperatures, as
well as food insecurity, conflict, and humanitarian needs, including
through the following programs:

-   The **United States Agency for International Development
    (USAID)** established the Famine Early Warning Systems Network (FEWS
    NET) in collaboration with the **United States Geological
    Survey **(**USGS**), **National Aeronautics and Space Administration
    (NASA)**, **National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
    (NOAA)**, and the** United States Department of Agriculture
    (USDA)** in 1985 in response to devastating famines in East and West
    Africa to fulfill a critical need for better and earlier warning of
    potential food security crises.  Over the past two years, FEWS NET
    has increased its investments and partnerships in the climate
    security domain to better understand interactions between the
    changing climate, food and water security, fragility, and conflict.
    Improved understanding and forecasting of these dynamics provide
    increased insight into migration drivers and patterns, creating
    opportunities to anticipate, prepare for, and respond to the needs
    of migrating people.  
     
-   **The National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) and the U.S.
    Civil Applications Committee **lead the Thermal Working Group (TWG),
    a coordinating body for advancing and enabling delivery of data,
    information, and products to civil first responders. Since 2021, the
    TWG has supported wildland fire detection. Increasing average
    temperatures and related climate change are correlated with observed
    increases in the occurrence and area burned by fires and the
    duration of wildfire seasons, increasing the risks associated with
    disaster-induced displacement. Through continued efforts to improve
    system processes, the TWG National Guard FireGuard teams have
    detected and delivered information on more fires (over 2,800 fires
    total), more quickly, and with greater confidence, enabling earlier
    and faster local emergency response.  
     
-   The **USGS** provides science to better understand drivers of
    migration, such as sea-level rise in the Pacific Islands.  USGS
    personnel facilitate the delivery of geospatial data during disaster
    events, such as the 2022 volcanic eruption in Tonga and 2023
    flooding in South Africa, in support of the International Charter:
    Space and Major Disasters, a United Nations-brokered agreement to
    provide disaster-related geospatial data and imagery to first
    responders. Through the USGS-chaired, interagency Civil Applications
    Committee and National Civil Applications Center, commercial imagery
    and sensor data are provided to first responders to proactively
    prepare and respond to these disasters, mitigating the impacts on
    critical infrastructure and livelihoods.   
     
-   The **U.S. Global Change Research Program** is co-leading an
    initiative launched in 2021 on *Enhancing Capacity for Climate Risk
    Assessment and Catalyzing Partnerships to Inform Decisions in Latin
    America and the
    Caribbean* ([LACI](https://www.globalchange.gov/highlights/laci)).
    The goal of the LACI partnership is to help countries in the region
    develop capacity to produce national climate assessments that
    support decision-making and help communities mitigate and adapt to
    climate change. In June 2023, LACI pilot programs were announced for
    El Salvador, Amazonia, and Jamaica. This effort directly responds to
    Executive Order 14008, *Tackling the Climate Crisis at Home and
    Abroad*, as well as PREPARE.  
     
-   **USAID** provides life- and livelihood-saving early warning systems
    and climate information services that help communities,
    pastoralists, farmers, and local governments better prepare for and
    adapt to frequent and extreme climate events. USAID partners with
    leading science organizations to ensure partner governments, civil
    society, and other stakeholders have context-specific, accurate, and
    actionable climate information.  USAID also invests in capacity
    building and provides resources for governments and communities to
    respond and adapt to climate risks. For example, the flagship
    USAID-NASA
    partnership, [SERVIR](https://servirglobal.net/)[,](https://servirglobal.net/) harnesses
    the power of satellite data to strengthen climate resilience, food
    and water security, forest and carbon management, and air quality.
     SERVIR has co-developed over 65 services used around the world to
    increase early warning lead times for floods, droughts, and
    high-impact weather events.  
     
-   In 2022,** USAID** made an initial investment of $67 million in
    partnership with **NOAA**, the World Meteorological Organization,
    and the UN Office of Disaster Risk Reduction to advance early
    warning capacity of national authorities.  Through these
    investments, Flash Flood Guidance System coverage expanded from 74
    countries to an additional 20 countries.  In addition, USAID will
    expand the early warning of river and urban flooding droughts, and
    heatwaves as needed, focusing on small Island Developing States,
    Africa, and Least Developed Countries.  Increasing local capacity
    for early warning supports governments and communities to better
    prepare for, plan for, and reduce impact of disaster displacement.  
     
-   As announced at the [Cities Summit of the
    Americas](https://www.usaid.gov/news-information/press-releases/apr-28-2023-usaid-provides-1-million-support-migrants-vulnerable-climate-change-cities) in
    April 2023, more than $1 million in support for **USAID’s **Roadmaps
    for Urban Adaptation in Latin America and the Caribbean will provide
    key information to support urban adaptation and climate resilience,
    with a focus on those most vulnerable to climate impacts, including
    migrants and displaced people.  
     
-   **USAID**’s Climate Change, Food Security, and Migration research in
    Honduras advances understanding of how climate change relates to
    migration in the country.  The research has for instance, revealed a
    statistically significant relationship between food insecurity and
    migration; showed that municipal drought has a long-term and
    cumulative impact on the U.S. border apprehension rate; and
    demonstrated that coffee prices, which are increasingly affected by
    climate change, drive migration most where coffee is more important
    to the local economy.  USAID uses this research to help farmers in
    areas of high migration like Honduras cope with climate impacts.
    Supporting water-conservating agricultural methods reduces
    production risks related to drought and enables farming households
    across Central America to improve soil moisture and fertility,
    increasing yields by as much as 50 percent.  
     
-   With almost $3 million in funding starting in October
    2021, **USAID** has been supporting the Academic Alliance for
    Anticipatory Action, an innovative partnership between a U.S.
    university and six universities in Africa and Asia to build the
    evidence base on why acting ahead of hazards and risks saves lives.
    Research topics range from assessing the impact of social protection
    systems on different demographic groups in response to effects of
    drought in Namibia, to studying the lead time required for different
    nutrition and health interventions in Eastern Uganda, to examining
    the use of a flood forecasting system which indicates possible
    flooding in the Philippines.

**Increasing investment in adaptation and resilience programs**

Climate variability and change are increasingly contributing to human
migration and displacement. Weather-related disasters currently displace
around 30 million people annually, even under current warming
projections, additional people will be displaced or unable to escape
climate impacts. Adaptation and resilience actions can help respond to
the key drivers of migration, support those who choose to move as a
risk-management strategy, and assist populations trapped by climate
impacts. U.S. Government adaptation and resilience initiatives support
and scale actions to build the climate resilience of people, places,
ecosystems, and livelihoods, including through the following programs:

-   A $135 million investment through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law
    and Inflation Reduction Act charged the **Department of Interior
    (DOI), the Federal Emergency Management Administration (FEMA), and
    the Denali Commission** to support 11 severely impacted Tribes to
    advance relocation, managed retreat, and adaptation planning. To
    date, efforts have focused on outreach to the 11 Tribes, providing
    technical assistance to build Tribal capacity to adapt, and
    establishing PL-638 Tribal accounts for initial fund distribution to
    facilitate the hiring of Tribal relocation coordinators.   
     
-   A $40 million investment from the **Department of
    Agriculture** funded community-driven relocation projects in 15
    Alaskan Tribal communities, with $7 million for seven Emergency
    Watershed Protection projects in Alaska to relocate homes threatened
    by erosion, stabilize eroding riverbanks, and restore channel
    capacity to mitigate flooding.  
     
-   **USAID’s** Climate Strategy sets the ambitious goal of improving
    the climate resilience of 500 million people by 2030. USAID partners
    with more than 45 countries to strengthen the resilience of people
    and communities to address climate impacts across multiple sectors,
    including issues that are linked to migration and displacement.
    USAID supports programming to address climate-related migration
    including:  
    -   In FY21, USAID’s Development Innovation Ventures (DIV)
        supported [Planning for Productive
        Migration](https://divportal.usaid.gov/s/project/a0gt0000001CN5mAAG/planning-for-productive-migration-in-niger)[<u> in
        Niger</u>](https://divportal.usaid.gov/s/project/a0gt0000001CN5mAAG/planning-for-productive-migration-in-niger) with
        a $200,000 pilot evaluation that provided comprehensive job
        search support and facilitated safe, productive, regional
        migration as a livelihood strategy for people facing climate
        change and other challenges within the Economic Community of
        West African States (ECOWAS).
    -   In FY22, USAID Burkina Faso’s YouthConnect activity, which
        improves the resilience and economic empowerment of vulnerable
        youth, expanded by $4 million to support an influx of persons
        displaced by climate and conflict;
    -   In FY22, the $15 million USAID Asia Resilient Cities activity
        addressed cross-cutting urban development challenges in
        secondary cities in Asia, with a focus on migrants and informal
        settlement dwellers, by promoting sustainable urban growth;
        supporting resilient, low-carbon urban infrastructure; and
        integrating climate change and environmentally conscious urban
        development approaches;
    -   In 2023, USAID partnered with the University of Arizona and
        universities in Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean, and the
        Pacific to develop locally led solutions to climate-related
        disasters by supporting youth and young professionals through an
        initial grant of $6 million. The program addresses local
        climate-related challenges in partnership with communities,
        local governments, NGOs, and the private sector to enable
        climate adaptation; and
    -   USAID contributed approximately $1 million in FY22 to the U.N.
        International Organization for Migration (IOM) for solar water
        pumping schemes in emergency settings. The
        USAID-funded [<u>Solar
        Hub</u>](https://thesolarhub.org/) provides technical support
        and training to ensure solar water pumping schemes reach
        vulnerable populations experiencing climate-related shocks and
        stressors. Solar water pumps played a critical role during the
        2022-2023 Horn of Africa drought, where reduced displacement
        related to water scarcity by providing safe and cost-effective
        water access.  
         
-   The **Department of State’s Bureau of Population, Refugees, and
    Migration** contributed $5 million in FY22 to the UN Migration
    Multi-Partner Trust fund.  This funding supports labor mobility and
    climate resilience in the Pacific, facilitates safe and regular
    migration in the Eastern Africa; enhances climate resilience for
    migrant and vulnerable households in coastal India; and strengthens
    capacities in the Brazilian Amazon to face the challenges of
    migration, climate change, and health.  This funding addressed needs
    and gaps in: 1) data and knowledge, 2) national and regional policy
    frameworks, 3) disaster displacement preparedness, and 4) regular
    migration pathways.

**Protecting people at home and abroad from climate change**

Climate change has disproportionate impacts on vulnerable groups,
including marginalized communities and people already displaced.
Climate-induced displacement creates additional vulnerabilities, which
the United States aims to mitigate through programs to address the needs
of those displaced by climate change, inclusion of displaced persons in
climate action plans and programs, and support community-driven
relocation plans, such as the following:

-   **Department of State**’s Bureau of Population, Refugees, and
    Migration’s contributions to the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR),
    International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), the International
    Organization of Migration (IOM), and other humanitarian agencies
    support climate adaptation and mitigation for refugees, internally
    displaced persons, conflict victims, migrants, stateless persons,
    and their host communities in climate-vulnerable countries.  For
    example, with Department of State support:  
    -   UNHCR helps Rohingya refugees in southern Bangladesh mitigate
        the effects of monsoon storms, flooding, and landslides;
    -   IOM conducted capacity-building efforts in Central America to
        assist national and local authorities in better understanding
        the impact of climate change on migration flows, and their
        implications in terms of human rights, protection, and
        development;
    -   IOM supports government authorities in Angola, Djibouti, Libya,
        Mozambique, Tanzania, Zambia, and other countries in including
        migrants in their disaster preparedness and response plans;
    -   IOM prevents and mitigates human trafficking in Kenya brought on
        by vulnerabilities and displacement exacerbated by climate
        change. IOM is raising awareness of risks and employing a
        variety of livelihood support models to build economic
        resilience in communities facing economic insecurity due to
        climate change; and
    -   At the August 2023 Africa Climate Summit in Nairobi, Kenya, U.S.
        Special Presidential Envoy for Climate John Kerry announced the
        Department of State’s contribution of $4 million to the IOM to
        enhance data collection on climate change and human mobility,
        and to support migrants, refugees, and host communities impacted
        by climate events in Kenya.  
         
-   **USAID** delivers assistance to the most vulnerable communities and
    addresses migration and displacement linked to climate change
    impacts. This assistance comes prior to, during, and after a
    humanitarian crisis. USAID responds on average to 75 crises in
    nearly 70 countries each year. USAID also works to address the
    long-term needs of displaced persons, including those impacted by
    climate change. For example, in FY22, USAID/Somalia invested $11
    million in Building Durable Solutions to Displacement to support the
    resilience of long-term internally displaced people (IDPs) affected
    by climate- and conflict-related disasters. By facilitating access
    to land titles, formal rental agreements, and improved livelihood
    prospects, USAID is forging avenues for these families to integrate
    productively and safely into urban economies, transforming their
    displacement into opportunities for development.      
     
-   In August 2023, the **Department of State **supported a technical
    conference that resulted in the continent-wide expansion of the
    Kampala Declaration on Migration, Environment, and Climate Change,
    in partnership with IOM and the United Nations Framework Convention
    on Climate Change’s (UNFCCC) Regional Collaboration Center for East
    and Southern Africa.  The Declaration is a potential example for
    other regional blocs to collaborate on the challenges posed by the
    intersection of climate change and migration.  
     
-   The **Department of State**’s Office to Monitor and Combat
    Trafficking in Persons is supporting programs to conduct research on
    and address human trafficking in climate-induced migration,
    including:  
    -   IOM, with Columbia University, is conducting research on human
        trafficking in cross-border migration linked to climate change
        and its impact on livelihoods and food security in places
        including Angola, Namibia, South Africa, Zimbabwe, Lesotho, and
        South Africa;    
    -   In Bangladesh, a program aims to integrate anti-trafficking
        policies into existing government plans to address climate
        change, while building the capacity of vulnerable communities.
        The program is also conducting research to better understand the
        link between climate change and human trafficking.
    -   Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health has incorporated
        research on the climate change-human trafficking nexus within
        the brick-kiln industry in Pakistan as a result of the 2022
        “super flooding,” which displaced hundreds of thousands of the
        country’s most vulnerable workers.  The findings were used to
        refine the interventions on human trafficking in the brick-kiln
        industry.  
         
-   The **Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) U.S. Citizenship and
    Immigration Services (USCIS)**, in furtherance of Section 6 of
    Executive Order 14013, updated its combined asylum officer and
    refugee officer training materials in July 2023 to provide guidance
    on the intersection of climate change and asylum and refugee claims
    under existing law.  USCIS basic training for all new asylum
    officers and refugee officers includes specific training and
    activities related to the intersection of climate change and
    protection claims.  
     
-   **DHS, through USCIS**, issued new, first-of-its-kind guidance in
    August 2023 to assist stateless noncitizens in the United States who
    wish to obtain immigration benefits or have submitted other requests
    to USCIS. Stateless individuals are those who are not legally
    considered a citizen of any country, and therefore may be denied
    legal identity, and struggle to access education, healthcare,
    marriage, and job opportunities. Individuals can be born stateless
    or become stateless because of discrimination, war and conflict, or
    changing borders and laws, including due to the potential impacts of
    climate change.   
     
-   **DHS** has also used its authority to designate certain countries
    for Temporary Protected Status (TPS), issuing 12 new designations
    and redesignations under the Biden-Harris Administration. There are
    16 TPS designations in place currently. TPS can be issued to
    protected noncitizens in the United States when their home countries
    are facing armed conflict, environmental disaster, or other
    extraordinary and temporary conditions.  
     
-   The **Department of Housing and Urban Development** released
    a [Climate Resilience Implementation Guide for Community Driven
    Relocation](https://www.hudexchange.info/resource/6789/climate-resilience-implementation-guide-community-driven-relocation/) in
    March 2023, which provides a step-by-step guide for communities
    seeking to implement a community-driven relocation program.
