---
date: '2023-03-06'
published_time: 2023-03-06 21:16:38-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/06/joint-statement-on-the-meeting-of-the-u-s-israel-strategic-consultative-group-3/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Joint Statement on the Meeting of the U.S.-Israel Strategic Consultative\_\
  Group"
---
 
Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs Jake Sullivan
hosted Israeli National Security Advisor Tzachi Hanegbi, Minister of
Strategic Affairs Ron Dermer, and a senior Israeli interagency
delegation at the White House on March 6 for a meeting of the
U.S.-Israel Strategic Consultative Group.  They were joined by senior
representatives from their respective foreign policy, defense, and
intelligence agencies.  The officials reviewed with significant concern
advances in Iran’s nuclear program, and affirmed their mutual objective
of further enhancing the longstanding security partnership between
Israel and the United States.  In this regard, officials pledged to
enhance coordination on measures to prevent Iran from acquiring a
nuclear weapon and to further deter Iran’s hostile regional activities.
 They also reviewed recent joint military exercises between the U.S
military and the Israel Defense Forces, and welcomed the visit to Israel
later this week by Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin.  Finally, the
officials reviewed efforts to further deepen Israel’s security and
political integration into the Middle East region through the Abraham
Accords, the Negev Forum, and other formats such as I2U2.   Mr. Sullivan
reemphasized President Biden’s unshakeable commitment to Israel’s
security as expressed in the Jerusalem U.S.-Israel Strategic Partnership
Joint Declaration signed during the President’s visit to Israel in July
2022.

\###
