---
date: '2023-03-08'
modified_time: 2023-03-09 15:23:06-05:00
published_time: 2023-03-08 14:02:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/08/fact-sheet-biden-%e2%81%a0harris-administration-advances-cleaner-industrial-sector-to-boost-american-manufacturing-and-cut-emissions/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Advances Cleaner Industrial\
  \ Sector to Boost American Manufacturing and Cut\_Emissions"
---
 
Today, the Biden-Harris Administration announced new actions to grow
American competitiveness, expand manufacturing jobs, and reduce
greenhouse gas emissions from the industrial sector, which includes
production of steel, aluminum, chemicals, and concrete, and currently
contributes [nearly
one-quarter](https://www.epa.gov/ghgemissions/sources-greenhouse-gas-emissions)
of U.S. emissions. These actions will boost the already historic
comeback for American factories, with over 800,000 manufacturing jobs
created since President Biden took office. Further strengthening our
industrial base will revitalize local economies, lower costs for
consumers, provide more pathways to the middle class through good-paying
union jobs, and boost American competitiveness in global markets. 

The industrial sector is critical to ensuring that America leads in
building a clean energy economy and tackling the climate crisis. We can
harness cleaner steel, aluminum, and concrete to build electric
vehicles, wind turbines, solar farms, and sustainable transportation
infrastructure with an even smaller environmental footprint. Now we have
tools to make those cleaner materials, and as we electrify our economy,
an increasingly cleaner grid will help slash emissions from the
industrial sector. Today’s actions underscore the Administration’s
comprehensive approach to building a clean industrial sector, from
spurring investments to lower emissions in the supply of materials, to
new procurement commitments that send demand signals in the marketplace
for clean products.  
  
**$6 Billion to Reduce Industrial Emissions and Create Healthier
Communities**  
Today, the U.S. Department of Energy [is
announcing](https://www.energy.gov/articles/biden-harris-administration-announces-6-billion-drastically-reduce-industrial-emissions)
the largest investment in industrial decarbonization in American
history: approximately $6 billion in funding to accelerate
decarbonization projects and provide American industry a
once-in-a-generation “first mover” advantage in the emerging global
clean energy economy. Funded by President Biden’s Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law and Inflation Reduction Act, DOE’s [Industrial
Demonstrations
Program](https://www.energy.gov/oced/industrial-demonstrations-program)
will focus on energy intensive industries where decarbonization
technologies have the greatest impact, such as iron and steel, aluminum,
cement and concrete, chemicals, and pulp and paper. Widespread
demonstration and deployment of decarbonization projects within these
industries is key to achieving the President’s goal of a net-zero carbon
economy by 2050 and will help strengthen and secure America’s global
leadership in manufacturing for decades to come.  
  
**Driving Demand for Clean Industrial Products**  
Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is launching the Federal-State
Buy Clean Partnership with commitments from 12 leading states:
California, Colorado, Hawaii, Illinois, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts,
Michigan, New Jersey, New York, Oregon, and Washington. These states
have committed to prioritize efforts that support the procurement of
lower-carbon infrastructure materials in state-funded projects, and to
collaborate with the federal government and one another to send a
harmonized demand signal to the marketplace. Alongside this
announcement, the U.S. Climate Alliance announced the availability of
policy, technical, and analytical assistance to help participating
members advance their state-level Buy Clean efforts.  
  
The Federal Government is the largest direct purchaser in the world and
a major infrastructure funder. Last year, the Biden-Harris
Administration launched the [Federal Buy Clean
Initiative](https://www.sustainability.gov/buyclean/) to leverage the
$630 billion of annual purchasing power by the Federal Government to
prioritize the use of American-made, low-carbon construction materials
in Federal projects. In addition, through the First Movers Coalition,
the Department of State and U.S. Special Presidential Envoy for Climate
have secured nearly 100 private sector commitments, representing $12
billion, to commit to purchase innovative zero-carbon materials. Buy
Clean is advancing America’s industrial capacity to supply the goods and
materials of the future while growing good-paying jobs for American
workers.  
  
**Convening Public and Private Sector Leaders at The White House**  
On Friday, March 3<sup>rd</sup>, the White House and Department of
Energy convened Administration leaders, industrial executives, and
national labor leaders at the White House for a roundtable discussion on
how to grow American competitiveness, expand manufacturing jobs, and
decarbonize the industrial sector. The executives in the meeting
represented over 125,000 jobs and nearly 30% of emissions in the
industrial sector. Participants discussed how the President’s historic
legislative accomplishments including the Inflation Reduction Act and
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law have transformed the landscape for
industrial decarbonization, catalyzing accelerated private sector
efforts to strengthen American industry and drive economic development
in our communities.  

**Building on Progress**  
The [Federal Buy Clean
Initiative](https://www.sustainability.gov/buyclean/index.html) is a
part of President Biden’s economic plan—including the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, Inflation Reduction Act, and CHIPS and Science
Act—which has driven more than $300 billion in private sector
investments into the industries of the future, including clean energy,
electric vehicles, semiconductors, and advanced batteries. As these
industries scale up, it is critical to source clean materials across
supply chains. Today’s announcements build on progress made over the
first two years of his Administration to reduce emissions from both the
demand and supply side of the industrial sector:

-   **Boosting Incentives for Clean Manufacturing** – The Inflation
    Reduction Act offers a $10 billion investment in the [Qualifying
    Advanced Energy Project
    Credit](https://www.irs.gov/newsroom/irs-and-treasury-provide-guidance-on-the-qualifying-advanced-energy-project-credit)
    (48C) program. Last month, the Department of Treasury and IRS, in
    partnership with DOE, announced the intent to release approximately
    $4 billion in a first round of tax credits for projects that expand
    U.S. supply chains for clean energy technologies and critical
    materials, and for projects that reduce greenhouse gas emissions at
    industrial facilities. Approximately $1.6 billion of this allocation
    will be set aside for projects in coal communities. DOE’s [Advanced
    Energy Manufacturing and Recycling Grant
    Program](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Flnks.gd%2Fl%2FeyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiJ9.eyJidWxsZXRpbl9saW5rX2lkIjoxMDcsInVyaSI6ImJwMjpjbGljayIsImJ1bGxldGluX2lkIjoiMjAyMzAyMTQuNzE1NTMyNDEiLCJ1cmwiOiJodHRwczovL3d3dy5lbmVyZ3kuZ292L2JpbC9hZHZhbmNlZC1lbmVyZ3ktbWFudWZhY3R1cmluZy1hbmQtcmVjeWNsaW5nLWdyYW50cyJ9.Jr6knjn3-N9hk4FByGzOmCFzyF6zAg-JI1XNlx3rjv4%2Fs%2F2892566131%2Fbr%2F154501086686-l&data=05%7C01%7Ckelly.visconti%40hq.doe.gov%7C134bcc8e26ba42d2e40908db0eca3508%7C6b183ecc4b554ed5b3f87f64be1c4138%7C0%7C0%7C638120033870476469%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=gQGDXie7g9UVdheZ%2B5wV5G1K3darmD7j8TpLStkvomg%3D&reserved=0)
    [opened for
    applications](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Flnks.gd%2Fl%2FeyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiJ9.eyJidWxsZXRpbl9saW5rX2lkIjoxMDgsInVyaSI6ImJwMjpjbGljayIsImJ1bGxldGluX2lkIjoiMjAyMzAyMTQuNzE1NTMyNDEiLCJ1cmwiOiJodHRwczovL29jZWQtZXhjaGFuZ2UuZW5lcmd5Lmdvdi9EZWZhdWx0LmFzcHgjRm9hSWRlMzk5MzJmZS05NTVlLTQ1MGItODU4ZC01MzcyNzAxZDQ4NmUifQ.5elH1DeMtwDLiuKG2vpm3MsC-VZtOcB5Y_Wplo7Q4kc%2Fs%2F2892566131%2Fbr%2F154501086686-l&data=05%7C01%7Ckelly.visconti%40hq.doe.gov%7C134bcc8e26ba42d2e40908db0eca3508%7C6b183ecc4b554ed5b3f87f64be1c4138%7C0%7C0%7C638120033870476469%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=d88ksFpgePNnEb98IbqB%2Fs%2BRbyznOim8FTVXAnweQzk%3D&reserved=0)
    last month, with $350 million available for small- and medium-sized
    manufacturers to produce or recycle advanced energy property —
    property used to support clean energy supply chains — in energy
    communities.

<!-- -->

-   **Supercharging Industrial Decarbonization Innovation** – DOE
    recently [announced its intent to issue an approximately $156
    million funding opportunity
    announcement](https://www.energy.gov/eere/amo/iedo-fy23-multi-topic-foa-notice-intent)
    that will advance high impact applied research, development, and
    demonstration projects to reduce greenhouse gas emissions across the
    U.S. industrial sector.

<!-- -->

-   **Unlocking the Potential of Clean Hydrogen** – DOE is currently
    accepting full applications for its $8 billion [Regional Clean
    Hydrogen
    Hubs](https://www.energy.gov/oced/regional-clean-hydrogen-hubs)
    program to develop innovative networks of hydrogen supply and
    end-uses. Initial applications proposed a total of $157 billion in
    private investment alongside federal funds, and laid out how the
    projects would create good-paying, long-term jobs and support
    environmental justice across every region of America. In support of
    this vision, DOE [announced its
    intent](https://eere-exchange.energy.gov/Default.aspx#FoaId042a9662-453a-4646-be93-52f450e51ca0)
    to issue $750 million to dramatically reduce the cost of clean
    hydrogen electrolyzers. These initiatives are already showing
    payoffs: [private sector
    commitments](https://www.weforum.org/first-movers-coalition/members)
    from the First Movers Coalition represent 1 million metric tons per
    year of clean hydrogen demand, and recently announced projects
    amount to [2.2 million metric tons per
    year](https://energyfuturesinitiative.org/reports/the-u-s-hydrogen-demand-action-plan-2/)
    of planned clean hydrogen production in the United States.

<!-- -->

-   Through the [**Buy Clean Task
    Force**](https://www.sustainability.gov/buyclean/index.html#abouttaskforce),
    Federal agencies are advancing clean procurement and driving demand
    for low carbon products. The **General Services Administration
    (GSA)**, **Department of Transportation’s Federal Highway
    Administration ,** and the **Environmental Protection Agency** are
    collaborating and incorporating stakeholder feedback to establish
    criteria for the procurement of [low
    carbon](https://www.epa.gov/inflation-reduction-act/inflation-reduction-act-programs-fight-climate-change-reducing-embodied)
    steel, concrete, asphalt, and flat glass for Inflation Reduction
    Act-funded projects. **GSA** announced a contract for low-embodied
    carbon concrete at the [Otay Mesa Land Port of
    Entry](https://www.gsa.gov/about-us/regions/welcome-to-the-pacific-rim-region-9/region-9-newsroom/pacific-rim-press-releases/gsa-awards-contract-for-lowembodied-carbon-concrete-at-otay-mesa-port-of-entry-under-bidenharris-administrations-bipartisan-infrastructure-law-12072022)
    in California. To date, GSA has completed [seven Bipartisan
    Infrastructure Law-funded paving
    projects](https://www.gsa.gov/about-us/newsroom/news-releases/gsa-administrator-highlights-progress-on-lowcarbon-construction-material-procurement-in-ohio-09152022) using
    its new environmentally preferable asphalt standard.

<!-- -->

-   The **Department of Defense** with support from the **Army Corps of
    Engineers** has selected pilot projects to integrate sustainable
    materials, including low embodied carbon products, in new
    construction and renovations, including a barracks at Joint Base
    Lewis-McChord, WA, a 91,000 square foot Consolidated Communications
    Center at Patrick Space Force Base, FL, and a Navy Child Development
    Center at N.S.A. Hampton Roads, VA.

<!-- -->

-   **Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)** is preparing to
    implement its IRA authority on the use of low-carbon materials in
    its Public Assistance Program, Hazard Mitigation Grant Program, and
    Building Resilient Infrastructure and Communities Grant Program for
    presidentially declared disasters.

<!-- -->

-   **Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)** is funding
    low-emission building materials through $1 billion in IRA funding
    for its Green and Resilient Retrofit Program, which supports
    multifamily assisted housing programs in low and moderate income and
    historically marginalized communities.  

\###
