---
date: '2023-03-10'
published_time: 2023-03-10 16:01:15-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/10/joint-statement-by-president-biden-and-president-von-der-leyen-2/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Joint Statement by President\_Biden and President von der\_Leyen"
---
 
The United States and the European Union share the most comprehensive
and dynamic economic relationship in the world. Our partnership is based
on shared values and principles, including the responsibility to protect
our planet for future generations and defend our workers. Today, the
United States and the European Union are taking new steps to deepen our
economic relationship as we build the clean energy economies of the
future and address shared economic and national security challenges.   
  
**Building the Clean Economies of the Future**

The United States and European Union are committed to addressing the
climate crisis, accelerating the global clean energy economy, and
building resilient, secure, and diversified clean energy supply chains.
Both parties recognize that these objectives are at the heart of the
U.S. Inflation Reduction Act and the EU Green Deal Industrial Plan. By
building and strengthening our own clean energy industrial bases and
investing in the industries of the future, the United States and the
European Union will create good-paying jobs and spark virtuous cycles of
innovation that drive down costs for clean energy technologies in the
global market, making those technologies more affordable and advancing a
global just energy transition that will leave no community behind. 

The EU-U.S. Task Force on the Inflation Reduction Act has productively
deepened our partnership on these common goals, and has taken practical
steps forward on identified challenges to align our approaches on
strengthening and securing supply chains, manufacturing, and innovation
on both sides of the Atlantic.

We will deepen our cooperation on diversifying critical mineral and
battery supply chains, recognizing the substantial opportunities on both
sides of the Atlantic to build out these supply chains in a strong,
secure, and resilient manner. To that end, we intend to immediately
begin negotiations on a targeted critical minerals agreement for the
purpose of enabling relevant critical minerals extracted or processed in
the European Union to count toward requirements for clean vehicles in
the Section 30D clean vehicle tax credit of the Inflation Reduction Act.
This kind of agreement would further our shared goals of boosting our
mineral production and processing and expanding access to sources of
critical minerals that are sustainable, trusted, and free of labor
abuses. Cooperation is also necessary to reduce unwanted strategic
dependencies in these supply chains, and to ensure that they are
diversified and developed with trusted partners. 

We further recognize the need to make bold investments to build clean
energy economies and industrial bases, including in electric vehicle
batteries and clean hydrogen. Today, the United States and the European
Commission announced the launch of the Clean Energy Incentives Dialogue
to coordinate our respective incentive programs so that they are
mutually reinforcing. Both sides will take steps to avoid any
disruptions in transatlantic trade and investment flows that could arise
from their respective incentives. We are working against zero-sum
competition so that our incentives maximize clean energy deployment and
jobs—and do not lead to windfalls for private interests. The Clean
Energy Incentives Dialogue will become a part of the EU-U.S. Trade and
Technology Council where it will also facilitate information-sharing on
non-market policies and practices of third parties—such as those
employed by the People’s Republic of China (PRC)—to serve as the basis
for joint or parallel action and coordinated advocacy on these issues in
multilateral or other fora.  

We are committed to achieving an ambitious outcome in the Global
Arrangement on Sustainable Steel and Aluminum negotiations by October
2023. The arrangement will ensure the long-term viability of our
industries, encourage low-carbon intensity steel and aluminum production
and trade, and restore market-oriented conditions globally and
bilaterally. Together, we will incentivize emission reductions in these
carbon-intensive sectors and level the playing field for our workers.
The arrangement will be open to all partners demonstrating commitment to
countering non-market excess capacity and reducing carbon-intensity in
these sectors.

We are working together to support countries around the world as they
develop their economies to deliver inclusive and resilient growth, while
fostering sustainable pathways to net zero emissions as well as boosting
the security of global supply chains. Through the G7 Partnership for
Global Infrastructure and Investment, we are identifying opportunities
to generate significantly more public and private financing for quality
climate and energy security investments in developing countries. We are
also advancing an ambitious agenda to evolve the multilateral
development banks, starting with the World Bank, to better respond to
global challenges like climate change, while also enhancing their work
on poverty alleviation and meeting the Sustainable Development Goals. 

Recognizing our shared history as well as our joint visions for the
future, we believe that people to people exchanges strengthen the
transatlantic partnership, especially for younger generations. We will
discuss how to deepen our cooperation.

**Standing Together to End Russia’s War Against Ukraine**

The United States and the European Union have taken a strong and united
stand against Russia’s illegal, unjustifiable, and unprovoked war
against Ukraine. We, along with a broad coalition of partners, have
imposed swift and sweeping sanctions that are reducing Russia’s revenue
to fund its war and its military-industrial base. Putin thought that he
would divide us, and yet we are more united than ever. We stand together
in our unwavering support for Ukraine for as long as it takes. 

One year ago, the United States and the European Commission launched a
new partnership to rapidly reduce Europe’s dependence on Russian fossil
fuels and accelerate Europe’s green transition. This partnership has
exceeded our goals, delivering more than double the U.S. liquefied
natural gas supplies to Europe than our baseline pledge. We note the
significant European efforts to diversify their energy supplies and
accelerate the energy transition, which have helped limit the impact of
the global energy crisis in Europe. We will continue to work together to
advance energy security and sustainability in Europe by diversifying
sources, lowering energy consumption, and reducing Europe’s dependence
on fossil fuels. We will also continue our close coordination to support
Ukraine’s energy security through its further integration into Europe’s
energy markets. We will continue our cooperation for stable and balanced
global markets and security of supply and step up the clean energy
transition globally, including by efforts to reduce methane emissions in
the energy sector.

We have also taken unprecedented, coordinated, and effective sanctions
and other economic measures together to further degrade Russia’s
capacity to wage its illegal war and its military-industrial system. We
are deepening our joint work to aggressively enforce our sanctions and
export control measures and also to end and deter circumvention and
backfill, including by expanded authorities to close down Russia’s
access to all inputs that can support its war machine. As part of this,
we are taking new steps together to target additional third-country
actors across the globe to disrupt support for Russia’s war from any
corner of the world where it is identified. We are working in lockstep
to limit Russian revenue even further while ensuring continued energy
supplies to emerging market and developing countries via the G7+ price
cap for seaborne Russian-origin crude oil and petroleum products. We
will continue to work together to strengthen our economic restrictions
to ensure that the costs to Russia of its illegal war continue to grow.

The United States and European Union are working to ensure that Ukraine
has the security, economic, and humanitarian support it needs for as
long as it takes. We have worked together to supply the Ukrainian Armed
Forces with the military equipment and training it needs to defend
itself from Russian aggression. We, together with Ukraine, are
co-chairing the Multi-agency Donor Coordination Platform, and, in line
with its European path, are helping advance Ukraine’s reform agenda,
laying the foundation for sustainable growth and reconstruction, and
ensuring assistance is delivered in a coherent, transparent, and
accountable manner. We remain committed to providing and mobilizing
international support including from the private sector for Ukraine’s
economic and financial stability. We support the International Monetary
Fund delivering an ambitious program by end March 2023 to provide
necessary budget support to Ukraine throughout and beyond 2023.

**Strengthening Economic Security and National Security**

The United States and the European Union are working to reinforce,
through transatlantic cooperation, our essential security interests and
the resilience of our economies. We affirm that our cooperation to
strengthen our economic security and national security should be rooted
in maintaining the rules-based system. We will continue our work through
the U.S.-EU Trade and Technology Council and the G7 and strengthen our
bilateral coordination by tasking our Sherpas to formulate key
recommendations on economic security by the summer.

We will continue work to strengthen our economic security, responding to
concrete threats we have identified. The United States and the European
Union share concerns about the challenges posed by, among other issues,
economic coercion, the weaponization of economic dependencies, and
non-market policies and practices. We will continue our work through the
U.S.-EU Trade and Technology Council and the G7 to strengthen
coordination with each other and other likeminded partners to diversify
our supply chains, and to increase our collective preparedness,
resilience, and deterrence to non-market policies and practices and to
economic coercion.

We are increasing our cooperation to prevent the leakage of sensitive
emerging technologies, as well as other dual-use items, to destinations
of concern that operate civil-military fusion strategies. Our respective
existing controls related to exports, inbound investment, and research
cooperation are essential tools and need to be upgraded to correspond to
a changing geostrategic environment. We have a common interest in
preventing our companies’ capital, expertise, and knowledge from fueling
technological advances that will enhance the military and intelligence
capabilities of our strategic rivals, including through outbound
investment. As we develop and upgrade our toolkit, we will coordinate
efforts across the Atlantic to avoid the backfilling of any controlled
exports and investments and will continue to share lessons and seek to
align our approaches where feasible to maximize the effectiveness of our
efforts.

\###
