---
date: '2023-03-27'
modified_time: 2023-03-27 02:51:42-04:00
published_time: 2023-03-27 02:51:41-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/27/fact-sheet-vice-president-harris-announces-initiatives-to-strengthen-u-s-partnership-with-ghana-and-promote-regional-security/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Vice President Harris Announces Initiatives to Strengthen U.S.\
  \ Partnership with Ghana and Promote Regional\_Security"
---
 
The United States and Ghana enjoy a strong bilateral relationship based
on deep historical, cultural, and economic ties, as well as shared
democratic values. The United States and Ghana partner closely to solve
common challenges, in West Africa and globally, and the United States is
committed to strengthening that partnership.  
  
The Vice President’s travel to Ghana reaffirms our relationship and
collaboration on a range of issues, including: supporting conflict
prevention and stabilization in Coastal West Africa; promoting inclusive
economic growth, innovation, and regional integration; investing in
women and youth; elevating engagement with the African Diaspora;
addressing shared health challenges; and partnering to build climate
resilience and steward our shared Atlantic Ocean. In support of the
breadth and depth of our bilateral engagement, the Administration
intends to provide $139 million in bilateral assistance for Ghana in
Fiscal Year 2024.  
  
As part of her visit to Accra, the Vice President is announcing the
following U.S. plans, working with Congress as appropriate. She will
also highlight additional resources requested in the FY 2024 President’s
Budget.  
  
**<u>Regional Efforts to Prevent Conflict and Promote Stability</u>**  
  
On March 24, 2023, President Biden transmitted to Congress the 10-year
plan for implementing the U.S. Strategy to Prevent Conflict and Promote
Stability with the Coastal West African countries of Benin, Côte
d’Ivoire, Ghana, Guinea, and Togo. Today, the Vice President announced
that the Biden-Harris Administration intends to invest more than $100
million to support conflict prevention and stabilization efforts in
Coastal West Africa, including at least $86 million in funding over
three years specifically dedicated to implementation of the new 10-year
plan. The plan is intended to address regional threats of violent
extremism and instability in Coastal West Africa and enable the U.S.
Government to work with Congress to marshal additional assistance to
support efforts in the region over the coming years.  
  
The United States supports the holistic approach being taken by Ghana,
Benin, Côte d’Ivoire, Guinea, and Togo to address threats of violent
extremism and instability, combining security, development, and
peacebuilding. In support of these efforts, the U.S. Agency for
International Development (USAID) and the Department of State have begun
implementing new programs to help strengthen economic development and
increase governance and resilience in at-risk communities, including in
northern Ghana. For example, USAID’s Africa Trade and Investment
program, which the Vice President launched during the U.S.-Africa
Leaders Summit Diaspora Forum, is working to increase regional trade and
provide access to finance to entrepreneurs. The United States is also
collaborating with international partners to bolster joint investments
in border governance to build unity of effort between local populations
and security actors. The Department of Defense complements these
programs with civil-military engagements and robust capacity building
and training for partner forces.  
  
**<u>Support for Ghana’s Economic Recovery and Debt Restructuring</u>**

-   **<u>Department of Treasury Technical Adviso</u>**r: The U.S.
    Department of the Treasury’s Office of Technical Assistance (OTA)
    will deploy a full-time resident advisor in 2023, to Accra to assist
    the Ministry of Finance in developing and executing medium- to long
    term reforms needed to improve debt sustainability and support a
    competitive, dynamic government debt market. The project will
    complement and build on the Government of Ghana’s debt restructuring
    efforts. This project is part of OTA’s ongoing engagement to
    strengthen public financial management and financial sector
    oversight across sub-Saharan Africa. For 2023, OTA will execute 25
    projects in 15 African countries. This includes eight new projects
    in Cameroon, Ghana, Kenya, Madagascar, Namibia, Tanzania, The
    Gambia, and Zambia in revenue policy and administration; budget and
    financial accountability; government debt issuance and
    infrastructure financing; banking and financial services; and
    economic crimes.

<!-- -->

-   **<u>USAID Finance Fellows</u>**: To further support Ghana’s debt
    management, USAID is funding fellowships for a team of ten
    specialists to work within the Ministry of Finance, providing surge
    support for a two-year period. The Fellows are all young, qualified
    Ghanaians and recent university graduates.

**<u>Strengthening Economic Development, Regional Integration, and
Women’s Economic Empowerment</u>**

-   **<u>AfCFTA Small Business Development Center:</u>** The Department
    of State is working with Congress to provide support for women and
    youth entrepreneurs from multiple African countries by creating a
    Small Business Development Center at the African Continental Free
    Trade Area (AfCFTA) Secretariat, which is headquartered in Accra.
    The AfCFTA forms the world’s largest free trade area by connecting
    almost 1.3 billion people across 54 African countries into a single
    market for goods and services. The center aims to build the capacity
    of woman- and youth-owned small and medium enterprises by providing
    the training and skills necessary to grow their businesses, export,
    and become stronger players in the African and global economy.

<!-- -->

-   **<u>Support for Women and Youth Within the AfCFTA:</u>** In
    December 2022, U.S. Trade Representative Katherine Tai signed a
    Memorandum of Understanding on cooperation for trade and investment
    with the AfCFTA Secretariat. The Office of the Trade Representative
    will work with the AfCFTA Secretariat and a range of African and
    U.S. stakeholders to support the negotiations and implementation of
    this trade arrangement. As part of this support, the USAID-funded
    Commercial Law Development is providing a series of workshops and
    trainings on the AfCFTA Protocol on Women and Youth under a $950,000
    program.

<!-- -->

-   **<u>Action to Empower Workers and Combat Abusive Labor
    Practices:</u>** The U.S. Department of Labor has increased funding
    for its programming to combat child labor, forced labor, and
    trafficking in Ghana with new investments of over $2 million and
    continued support and engagement with the Government of Ghana
    through the Child Labor in Cocoa Coordinating Group.

**<u>Addressing Shared Health Challenges</u>**

-   **<u>Global Health Security:</u>** As part of the overall U.S.
    Government global health security efforts and in support of the
    National Biodefense Strategy target to directly support 50 countries
    to improve their health security capacities, the U.S. Government,
    through USAID and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
    (CDC), plans to provide approximately $20 million over the next
    three years (Fiscal Years 2022-2024 funds), pending the availability
    of appropriations and final funding allocations, to strengthen
    Ghana’s ability to prevent, detect and respond to infectious disease
    outbreaks. The President’s FY 2024 Budget includes an additional $9
    million in USAID funding for this purpose, requested to be provided
    during this timeframe. Funding will support communities to identify
    and mitigate risks for the spread of infectious diseases between
    animals and humans; improve community surveillance systems to
    quickly identify and respond to emerging health threats; and
    strengthen laboratory capacity to safely and accurately detect
    prioritized infectious diseases.

<!-- -->

-   **<u>Malaria Investments through PMI:</u>** The U.S. President’s
    Malaria Initiative (PMI) plans to invest $27 million over the next
    year in partnership with the Government of Ghana to deploy
    lifesaving interventions proven to fight malaria, including bed
    nets, fast acting malaria medicines, rapid diagnostic tests, and
    preventative treatments in pregnancy. These funds will also support
    stronger, more resilient health systems by training health workers,
    strengthening supply chains, and improving data monitoring.

**<u>Advancing Creative Economies</u>**

-   **<u>OneBeat Ghana Exchange Program.</u>** OneBeat, the Department
    of State’s international musical exchange program that uses the
    power of music as a gateway to engage youth and rejuvenate local
    economies, will launch in Ghana in November. OneBeat Ghana will
    bring together 10 leading musicians between the ages of 19 and 35
    from the United States and Ghana for an intensive residency. The
    program will help artists pursue business strategies that support
    the creative economy and enhance their networks. The launch in Ghana
    will be the first OneBeat Abroad dedicated to scaling social
    entrepreneurship projects through creative collaboration.

  
**<u>Pursuing Innovative Solutions for Climate Resilience, Adaptation,
and Clean Energy</u>**

-   **<u>YALI Climate Tech Innovators and Leaders Program</u>**: USAID
    plans to launch the Young African Leaders Initiative (YALI) Climate
    Tech Innovators and Leaders Program, which will bring together young
    leaders and entrepreneurs committed to solving emerging challenges
    related to climate change, global warming, resilience, and
    sustainability. This pilot program intends to convene a cohort of 50
    young leaders and entrepreneurs from across the continent at the
    YALI Regional Leadership Center in Accra.

<!-- -->

-   **<u>The Blue Carbon Inventory Project:</u>** Over the coming year,
    the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) will
    provide technical assistance and capacity building support for Ghana
    to incorporate coastal wetlands in their national greenhouse gas
    inventory and enhance the management of these ecosystems for
    multiple benefits, including mitigation, adaptation, and ecosystem
    services.

<!-- -->

-   **<u>Weather and Climate Forecasting:</u>** As part of the
    President’s Emergency Plan for Adaptation and Resilience (PREPARE),
    and in response to the UN Secretary General’s call for Early Warning
    for All by 2027, NOAA is working to expand access to multi-hazard
    early-warning systems across Africa, including for heat wave
    forecasting and climate-informed health early warning. To carry out
    this work, NOAA will build on longstanding relationships with
    national and regional weather services in Africa. NOAA scientists
    and emergency preparedness experts will work with African partners
    to communicate heat and health early warnings and support
    communities, leaders, businesses, and people in applying weather and
    climate information to reduce impacts and save lives. A 2023
    workshop hosted in Ghana will assess needs and requirements for
    further climate training of meteorologists in Africa, identify gaps
    for improving climate predictions, and discuss strategies for future
    climate training.

<!-- -->

-   **<u>Pan-African Nuclear Energy Training Program:</u>** The
    Department of Energy is partnering with Ghana to establish a Clean
    Energy Training Center and will sponsor the Pan-African Nuclear
    Energy Training Program. The Ghana Clean Energy Training Center will
    offer a series of live online nuclear education and training courses
    made available to all African countries free of cost. The
    educational series is being offered in support of African countries
    considering nuclear energy as they work to advance economic
    development, energy security, and decarbonization.

<!-- -->

-   **<u>Equality Ambassadors Program:</u>** The Department of
    Energy-led Equality Ambassadors Program is seeking distinguished
    individuals from Ghana, Tanzania, and Zambia in the clean energy
    field who can act as advocates for gender equality and take actions
    to attract, retain, and inspire the next generation of women leaders
    in the clean energy sector. The Ambassadors Program, which is part
    of the multilateral Clean Energy Ministerial’s Equality in Energy
    Transitions Initiative, recognizes distinguished individuals in the
    clean energy field who can advocate for gender equality and inspire
    future women leaders in the clean energy sector. The Department of
    Energy is reviewing a number of nominees from Ghana and Tanzania
    for 2023. These nominees would be the first Equality Ambassadors
    representing Africa.

<!-- -->

-   **<u>Clean Energy Technology Integration and Investment in
    Ghana:</u>** The Department of Energy’s National Renewable Energy
    Laboratory (NREL) will provide technical power systems assistance
    and capacity building to Ghana’s publicly owned power generation
    company, the Volta River Authority, to support large scale adoption
    of hybrid photovoltaic-wind systems. This support will include
    technical and advisory services to improve bankability of Ghana’s
    forthcoming competitive Independent Power Producer process. NREL
    will also provide technical assistance to Ghana’s transmission
    company and system operator, Ghana Grid Company (GRIDCo), to perform
    advanced modeling for variable solar and wind resources.

<!-- -->

-   **<u>Clean Cooking for Air Quality:</u>** The U.S. Environmental
    Protection Agency (EPA) and partner organizations are working with
    the Government of Ghana to expand energy access and reduce emissions
    from cooking that impact indoor and ambient air quality, climate,
    forests, health, and livelihoods. Research and testing of cookstoves
    and fuels are foundational to this work, and EPA’s support of the
    Ghana Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) lab is
    essential to the clean energy transition toward the sustained use of
    clean stoves and fuels.

\###
