---
date: '2023-03-29'
modified_time: 2023-03-29 15:00:23-04:00
published_time: 2023-03-29 16:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/29/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-boards-and-commissions-22/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to Boards and\_Commissions"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint the
following individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Amy Cappellazzo, Member, Cultural Property Advisory Committee
-   Susan Schoenfeld Harrington, Member, Cultural Property Advisory
    Committee
-   Thomas R. Lamont, Member, Cultural Property Advisory Committee
-   Duane A. Bedell, Member, National Advisory Council on Indian
    Education
-   Jolene Bowman, Member, National Advisory Council on Indian Education
-   Donna Brown, Member, National Advisory Council on Indian Education
-   Lucyann Harjo, Member, National Advisory Council on Indian Education
-   Sedelta Oosahwee, Member, National Advisory Council on Indian
    Education
-   Ellen R. Stofan, Member, President’s Committee on the National Medal
    of Science

**<u>Cultural Property Advisory Committee</u>**

The Cultural Property Advisory Committee reviews requests for import
restrictions submitted to the United States by foreign governments,
considers proposals to extend existing agreements and emergency actions,
carries out ongoing review of current import restrictions, and provides
reports of its findings and recommendations to the Department of State.

The Convention on Cultural Property Implementation Act established the
11-member presidentially-appointed Committee to ensure that the U.S.
government receives advice from diverse public interests in cultural
property matters. The Committee includes two members who represent the
interests of museums; three members who are expert in archaeology,
anthropology, ethnology, or related fields; three members who are expert
in the international sale of cultural property; and three members who
represent the interest of the general public. The Cultural Heritage
Center serves as the secretariat for Committee and convenes and
facilitates the Committee’s quarterly meetings.

**Amy Cappellazzo, Member, Cultural Property Advisory Committee**

Amy Cappellazzo is a Founder and Principal of Art Intelligence Global.
Cappellazzo has spent nearly three-decades operating at the highest
level of the fine art market. Most recently, she was Chairman of the
Fine Art Division of Sotheby’s. She joined Sotheby’s when her advisory
firm, Art Agency Partners, was acquired by the auction house in 2016.
The firm filled a significant need in the art market for a
client-oriented combination of industry knowledge, financial
sophistication, and discretion. Cappellazzo previously served as a
market leader in the field of contemporary art at Christie’s, where she
rose to the post of Chairman of Post-War & Contemporary Development over
thirteen years. Cappellazzo began her career as an art advisor and
curator and was a key figure in the establishment of Art Basel in Miami
Beach. She holds a B.A. in Fine Arts from New York University, and an
M.S. from the School of Architecture at Pratt Institute in City
Planning, focusing on the role of Public Art in shaping cities. She
hails from Buffalo, NY.

**Susan Schoenfeld Harrington, Member, Cultural Property Advisory
Committee**

Susan Schoenfeld Harrington brings a wide range of experience and
perspective to the Department of State’s Cultural Property Advisory
Committee due to her diverse and multinational career in consulting,
media, law, politics and the arts. Born in Manhattan, she is a graduate
of Columbia Law School, Wellesley College, and Hunter College High
School. Additionally, she is a recipient of a Harry S. Truman
Scholarship and a Fulbright Fellowship, which took her to Hong Kong.
Schoenfeld Harrington currently runs a business advisory group in
London, with clients that include the Schoenfeld Group at Brown Harris
Stevens and Brand Positioning Doctors. Previously the CEO of a media
consultancy in Asia, Schoenfeld Harrington worked with international
groups including Viacom, Discovery and Microsoft, advising on market
entry, programming strategies, etc. Previously, she practiced law in New
York, focusing on M&A in the media industry. She is a contributing
author to the book ‘Telecommunications in Asia.’

Schoenfeld Harrington has been involved in U.S. Democratic politics for
many years, most recently as a Deputy Finance Chair of the DNC. She has
been a top ex-pat fundraiser for Democratic Presidential, as well as the
Senate and House Committees. She is also a keen supporter of Run for
Something, VoteVets, and Onward Together. Schoenfeld Harrington serves
on various boards, including the American Friends of the Musee d’Orsay,
Hampstead Theatre, Project Rousseau, and as the Secretary of the Chatham
House Foundation’s U.S. Board. She served on the Board of the China Art
Foundation and is a long-standing supporter of the Clinton Global
Initiative.

**Thomas R. Lamont, Member, Cultural Property Advisory Committee**

Long time Springfield, Illinois attorney, Thomas R. Lamont, formerly
served as Assistant Secretary of the Army for Manpower and Reserve
Affairs. Subsequently, he received a presidential appointment to the
National Commission on the Future of the Army. Lamont also served as a
commissioner on the American Battle Monuments Commission. Prior to his
federal service, he served as a member and chairman of the University of
Illinois Board of Trustees. A graduate of Illinois State University and
the University of Illinois College of Law, Lamont currently is the
President of Lamont Consulting Services, LLC and resides in Springfield,
IL. He is married to wife, Bridget and has one son, Michael.

**<u>National Advisory Council on Indian Education</u>**

The Department of Education’s National Advisory Council on Indian
Education (NACIE) serves as an advisory council for the Secretary of
Education and the White House Initiative on Advancing Educational
Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity for Native Americans and
Strengthening Tribal Colleges and Universities (TCUs). NACIE includes
Native American and Alaska Native education leaders from a wide range of
Native nations, including members who can provide specific expertise on
issues concerning TCUs, higher education systems and other Native
American-serving institutions, P-12 and early childhood education,
special education, and career and technical education. Additionally,
NACIE advises the Secretaries of Education and Interior and the White
House Initiative. NACIE sends an annual report to Congress with
recommendations on relevant programs and activities to expand
educational equity, opportunities, and improvements for educational
outcomes for all Native American students.

**Duane A. Bedell, Member, National Advisory Council on Indian
Education**

Duane Bedell is a Bay Mills Indian Community tribal member who resides
in Gnoozhekaaning (the place of the pike), Bay Mills Indian Community,
located in Eastern Upper Michigan. Bedell has worked in tribal
communities for more than 20 years in various roles. He served as an
Information Technology Director for the Intertribal Council of Michigan,
an adjunct faculty member for Bay Mills Community College, and a
full-time faculty and computer information systems department chair.
Bedell also served as Bay Mills Indian Community’s Tribal Manager for
two years before being named by BMCC’s Board of Regents as Bay Mills
Community College’s President and CEO in 2020. In addition to serving
tribal communities in various capacities, he has provided 23 years of
service to tribal colleges and education in general.

Bedell attended Haskell Indian Jr. College and moved to Michigan to
complete his studies at Bay Mills Community College. He graduated with
an Associate of Applied Science degree in Computer Information Systems.
While working full-time and raising a family, Bedell continued attending
college. After several years, Bedell earned a Bachelor’s degree in
Information Technology and Security from Baker College. Bedell graduated
with a Master of Art in Education Technology from the University of
Michigan-Flint. In 2018, Bedell completed an Education Specialist degree
from the University of Michigan-Flint. In 2020, Bedell earned the status
of doctoral candidate in Education Administration. He is currently
writing his dissertation.

**Jolene Bowman, Member, National Advisory Council on Indian Education**

Dr. Jolene Bowman’s strong allegiance for equity in Native education is
what drives her compassion to work collaboratively at removing barriers
and improving the education experience. Her grandparents, mother, and
aunts unknowingly served as change agents by supporting active thoughts,
ideas, and dreams, which in turn motivated her passion to serve others
in the capacity of cultivating academic and career mindsets for a
sustainable future from Pre-K through Higher Education. As our ancestors
taught us so that we would teach the future, Bowman is committed to
service in leadership that encompasses respecting elders and veterans.
As such, employing this guidance to build self-awareness within our
youth so they can be the future we want to see in the world. She is a
citizen of Stockbridge-Munsee Community with over 30 years of tribal
work experience including being the Director of Education and Career
Services for the past sixteen years. In addition, she is currently
serving a second term on the National Indian Education Association
(NIEA) Board of Directors while also serving on the Wisconsin Indian
Education Association as an alternate for the Central Region, the
Wisconsin Tribal Education Directors Association, and Governors
appointment as a Public Member of the Wisconsin Women’s Council. In
March of 2020, Bowman was featured by Madison 365 as one of Wisconsin’s
38 Most Influential Native Americans in a five-part series. Her former
leadership positions include 2018 NIEA President and the 2015-2017 and
2019-2020 Stockbridge-Munsee Vice President. Bowman believes that as a
collective voice we can build, support, and believe in the dreams of
others to encourage success for a better world.

**Donna Brown, Member, National Advisory Council on Indian Education**

Dr. Donna Brown (Turtle Mountain Band of Chippewa) is currently the
President of Turtle Mountain Community College (TMCC), a tribal land
grant college located on the Turtle Mountain Indian reservation in
Belcourt, North Dakota. In her role as President, she oversees all
financial, operational, and development work for TMCC. Her professional
life has been devoted to education, specifically assisting American
Indian students to succeed in college. She has held various faculty and
administrative roles, including Graduate Faculty in the Department of
Counseling, Student Affairs, and Education, Affirmative Action Officer,
and Chief Diversity Officer. She has served on committees such as the
Board of Directors for the YWCA, Native Nations Task Force, Executive
Campus Diversity Officers, and the University of North Dakota
President’s Advisory Council on Women.

Brown has been a peer reviewer for the national Higher Learning
Commission, which accredits post-secondary institutions, for over twenty
years and has been on the Institutional Actions Council with the
Commission for eight years. In these capacities, she regularly makes
site visits to colleges and universities across the country to assess
institutional effectiveness. Brown has an Associate’s degree from
Sitting Bull College, a Bachelor’s degree from the University of North
Dakota (UND), a Master’s degree in counseling from UND, and a Doctorate
degree in education from UND.

**Lucyann Harjo, Member, National Advisory Council on Indian Education**

Lucyann Harjo is a citizen of the Navajo Nation. She is married to
Lincoln Harjo (Muscogee and Seminole) and they have four children, Dinah
(34), Zechariah (32), Joseph (28), and Noah (23). Harjo is the
Coordinator of Indian Education, Administrator of the Title VI, and
Johnson-O’Malley Programs for Norman Public Schools. Both programs serve
over 2,300 American Indian students in Pre-K to 12th grades from 78
tribal nations. She is an At-Large Representative for the Oklahoma
Council for Indian Education (OCIE) and represents OCIE on the Oklahoma
Advisory Council on Indian Education, a state-appointed Council advising
the State Superintendent’s Office at the Oklahoma State Department of
Education. Harjo has an Associate of Arts degree from Haskell Indian
Junior College, a Bachelor of Science in Education degree, and a Masters
of Legal Studies degree from the University of Oklahoma.

**Sedelta Oosahwee, Member, National Advisory Council on Indian
Education**

Sedelta Oosahwee (Mandan, Hidatsa, Arikara Nation) is currently a Senior
Program/Policy Analyst/Specialist with the National Education
Association where she manages the American Indian/Alaska Native desk. In
this role, she manages national partnerships, assists with outreach, and
advises on policy. Previously, she served in the Obama-Biden
Administration as a Senior Advisor and Acting Deputy Director for the
Office of Tribal Relations in the Office of the Secretary at the U.S.
Department of Agriculture. Before that, she was the Associate Director
of the White House Initiative on American Indian and Alaska Native
Education. Prior to shifting her career focus to the national level,
Oosahwee served as a Special Projects Officer at the Cherokee Nation and
as Coordinator for Student Programs in the Center for Tribal Studies at
Northeastern State University in Tahlequah, Oklahoma.

Oosahwee works closely with a number of higher education organizations
and has assisted with grants and scholarships that are focused
specifically on serving Indigenous students. She is currently serving on
the Board of Directors for the National Indian Education Association and
Speak Out: The Institute for Democratic Education and Culture. She has
also served on the Technical Review Panel for the National Indian
Education Study since 2018. In 2014, she was named one of the National
Center for American Indian Economic Development’s 40 under 40. Oosahwee
earned her undergraduate degree in Public Affairs and Administration and
a Masters of Education in Higher Education Administration from the
University of Oklahoma.

**<u>President’s Committee on the National Medal of Science</u>**

The President’s Committee on the National Medal of Science evaluates
nominees for the National Medal of Science, a Presidential Award to
recognize individuals for their outstanding contributions to knowledge
in the physical, biological, mathematical, engineering, social, and
behavioral sciences. Since its establishment, the National Medal of
Science has been awarded to 506 distinguished scientists and engineers
whose careers spanned decades of research and development.

**Ellen R. Stofan, Member, President’s Committee on the National Medal
of Science**

Ellen Stofan is the Under Secretary for Science and Research at the
Smithsonian Institution, where she oversees the Smithsonian’s science
museums and research centers, including the National Zoo. She served as
the John and Adrienne Mars Director of the Smithsonian’s National Air
and Space Museum from 2018-2021 and was the former Chief Scientist of
NASA from 2013-2016. From 2000-2013, Stofan was Vice President of
Proxemy Research, and from 1992-2000, she held a number of senior
scientist positions at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory including Chief
Scientist of the New Millennium Program, Experiment Scientist for the
Shuttle Imaging Radar-C project, and Deputy Project Scientist for the
Magellan mission to Venus. Her research focuses on the geology of Venus,
Mars, Saturn’s moon Titan, and Earth. She has published extensively, and
received many awards and honors including the Presidential Early Career
Award for Scientists and Engineers and NASA’s Distinguished Service
Medal. She is a trustee of the National Geographic Society, and a Fellow
of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the
Geological Society of America, and the Explorers Club. Stofan has a PhD
and MSc from Brown University and a Bachelor of Science degree from the
College of William and Mary.

\###
