---
date: '2023-03-24'
modified_time: 2023-03-24 10:36:51-04:00
published_time: 2023-03-24 10:45:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/24/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-boards-and-commissions-21/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to Boards and\_Commissions"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint
members of the President’s Council on Sports, Fitness, & Nutrition. The
President’s Council on Sports, Fitness, & Nutrition is a federal
advisory committee that aims to promote healthy, accessible eating and
physical activity for all Americans, regardless of background or
ability. President Biden issued Executive Order 14048, renewing the
President’s Council on Sports, Fitness, & Nutrition, which allows for
continued promotion of the National Youth Sports Strategy and provides
for the work of the Council to include a focus on expanding national
awareness of the importance of mental health as it pertains to physical
fitness and nutrition.

In 2022, President Biden appointed José Andrés and Elena Delle Donne to
serve as Co-Chairs of the President’s Council on Sports, Fitness, &
Nutrition.

President Biden announced his intent to appoint the following
individuals to serve as members of the Council:

-   Maribel Campos Rivera
-   Tamika Catchings
-   Ayesha Curry
-   Stephen Curry
-   Jon Feinman
-   Tina Flournoy
-   Jose Garces
-   J. Nadine Gracia
-   Meg Ham
-   Kahina Haynes
-   Ryan Howard
-   Martin E. Ingelsby
-   Barbie Izquierdo
-   Ben Jacobs
-   Chloe Kim
-   Chaunte Lowe
-   Viviana Martinez-Bianchi
-   Elana Meyers Taylor
-   Dariush Mozaffarian
-   Kim Ng
-   Allison O’Toole
-   Oluwaferanmi Oyedeji Okanlami
-   Laura Ricketts
-   Stefany Shaheen
-   Billy Shore
-   Michael Solomonov
-   Melissa Stockwell

**Maribel Campos Rivera**

Dr. Maribel Campos Rivera is a Physician scientist, Board-Certified in
Pediatrics, Neonatal and Perinatal Medicine and Obesity Medicine, with
degrees in Health Care Administration and Clinical Research. She is a
Robert Wood Johnson Interdisciplinary Research Leaders Alumni with over
20 years of experience implementing diverse research designs. As
Professor of the University of Puerto Rico Medical Sciences Campus she
has mentored trainees at different stages of training and backgrounds,
providing them the opportunity to meet their community and be better
equipped to address the social determinants of health. Her research work
focuses on the effects of fetal and early childhood exposures on health
across the lifespan. Her trajectory includes community action projects
fostering a culture of health through system alignment, science
education, and interdisciplinary care. Her team specializes in
collaborating with community-based and professional organizations
towards the development and implementation of evidence-based solutions
that are place-based and community informed. Her role within the Voices
for Healthy Kids community supported by the American Heart Association
is just one example of their contributions towards health equity. She is
the founder and Director of the Center for Community Outreach for Health
Across the Lifespan and member of the Board of Directors of the Puerto
Rico College of Physicians and Surgeons as President of the Research and
Technological Development Institute. Her commitment to improve the rate
of adoption of healthy lifestyles fueled her transition from NICU
Medical Director to Founder of Emerge, a public benefit corporation
dedicated to family-based holistic healthcare.

**Tamika Catchings**

One of the most decorated athletes of all time, Tamika Catchings has
left an indelible mark at every level of the game. Catchings is a
four-time Olympic gold medalist, ten-time WNBA All-Star, five-time
Defensive Player of the Year, and a WNBA Champion. She helped lead the
Indiana Fever to a league-record 12 consecutive playoff appearances and
was 2011 league MVP and 2012 Finals MVP, leading the Fever to their
first WNBA Championship. Catchings retired as the leading rebounder in
WNBA history and second in all-time scoring.

In 2004, she launched the Catch the Stars Foundation, which empowers
youth by providing goal setting programs that promote fitness, literacy,
and youth development. In addition to the Foundation, Catchings operates
the cozy Tea’s Me Café on the north side of downtown Indianapolis, and
continues her engagement with basketball, serving as an ESPN/SEC Network
Analyst. Catchings is the author of an autobiographical story, *Catch A
Star: Shining through Adversity to Become a Champion*, sharing her story
of overcoming hearing loss, separation from family, high expectations,
and the pain of debilitating physical injuries. Catchings was routinely
acknowledged for her sportsmanship and has received numerous accolades
for her dedicated efforts on behalf of varied social causes, including
the ESPN Sports Humanitarian of the Year, the WNBA’s Dawn Staley
Community Leadership Award, the WNBA’s Kim Perrot Sportsmanship Award,
and the Pathfinder Award by the Indiana Sports Corporation, honoring
those who improve the lives of America’s youth.

**Ayesha Curry**

Ayesha Curry is a renowned restauranteur, chef, two-time *New York
Times* bestselling author, producer, host, entrepreneur, and was
featured on the prestigious *Forbes* “30 Under 30” list. Her accessible
approach to cooking has made her one of the most sought-after experts in
food and lifestyle. Ayesha is the Founder and CEO of Sweet July, her
burgeoning lifestyle brand with a focus to uplift an inclusive and
eclectic array of creators through the products sold and stories shared.
In 2019 Ayesha launched *Sweet July,* a quarterly lifestyle magazine
that covers a range of topics such as wellness, fashion, fitness,
beauty, entrepreneurism, and food. Following the launch of the magazine,
Ayesha opened a brick-and-mortar Sweet July storefront and café in
Oakland, California and its accompanying website, featuring
thoughtfully-created products alongside other carefully selected items
from Black-owned and female-founded companies. In 2020, Ayesha launched
Sweet July Productions, which focuses on creating content centered
around food, family, faith, and female empowerment. Most recently,
Ayesha served as Host and Executive Producer of HBO Max’s “About Last
Night.” In 2022, Ayesha announced Sweet July Books in partnership with
Zando. Sweet July Books will acquire fiction and nonfiction work, with a
focus on diverse authors and women’s stories. Ayesha, along with her
husband Stephen, is the co-founder of Eat. Learn. Play., an organization
dedicated to unleashing the potential of every child and making a
positive impact for generations to come.

**Stephen Curry**

Stephen Curry’s on and off court legacy is underscored by transformation
and innovation. Widely regarded as the greatest shooter in NBA history,
Stephen is point guard for the Golden State Warriors where his 14-year
career is marked by many firsts. He was the first person to be named
Most Valuable Player by unanimous vote in NBA history, the first player
to hit 100 3-pointers in the NBA Finals, one of a select few to win MVP
awards two years in a row, remains the all-time leading scorer in Golden
State Warriors history, and recently surpassed former record-holder Ray
Allen for most 3-pointers made in NBA history. He holds nine NBA
All-Star selections and four NBA Championships. An emerging figure in
the Bay Area, the athlete’s endeavors tout a number of innovative and
progressive consumer, entertainment, and non-profit entities. He is the
CEO of SC30 Inc. (SC30), a purpose-driven company that focuses on the
athlete’s off-court endeavors spanning brand partnerships, media,
investments, and philanthropy. In 2020, he launched Curry Brand, a
purpose-driven legacy brand powered by Under Armour, with a mission to
open doors for underrepresented youth and increase access for sports
across the country. In 2019, Stephen and Ayesha Curry launched Eat.
Learn. Play. Foundation, an organization dedicated to unlocking the
amazing potential of every child by fighting to end childhood hunger,
ensuring students have access to a quality education, and providing safe
places for all children to play and be active. Stephen co-founded
Unanimous Media in 2018, with a goal to elevate diverse voices and shine
a light on compelling narratives focused on family, sports, and
faith-based content for all platforms. Additionally, he founded
UNDERRATED, an inspiring lifestyle brand committed to providing equity,
access, and opportunity to underrepresented communities.

**Jon Feinman**

Jon Feinman founded InnerCity Weightlifting (ICW) in 2010, building upon
his experience in AmeriCorps and as a personal trainer. As CEO, he is
focused on aligning the vision, strategy, culture, and growth of ICW to
flip power dynamics, bridge social capital, and amplify the voice and
agency of people at ICW. Over his 13 years at ICW, the company evolved
from a weight training program, to a workforce development track, to a
social justice organization. What started as a gym is now a community
where people belong, together. Where people are valued as equals, and
people with lived experience are listened to as the experts. It is a
person-centric organization, where goals are determined by and driven by
each individual. Rather than doing something “for” someone, ICW partners
with and alongside each person to assist in empowering personal success.

Feinman received his MBA from Babson College in 2010 where he launched
ICW. For his work, Feinman has received awards from the Boston Celtics,
Year Up, Good Sports, Bostinno, and Babson College. In 2014 he was named
one of the Ten Outstanding Young Leaders by the Greater Boston Chamber
of Commerce, and in 2015 received the Ernst and Young New England
Entrepreneur of the Year for Social Entrepreneurship. ICW has been
featured on ESPN, CBS, NESN, and in the *Boston Globe, Wall Street
Journal, Fast Company,* and NPR.

**Tina Flournoy**

Tina Flournoy was born and raised in Savannah, Georgia. She and her
family – grandmother, mother, father, and four brothers – were all true
sports fans. For Flournoy, it is a passion that has endured throughout a
career in government, labor, and politics. She has experienced firsthand
the power sports has to bring people and communities together and to
help young people become confident, healthy, and focused. Flournoy
served as Chief of Staff to Vice President Kamala Harris. Prior to
joining the Vice President’s staff, she served as Chief of Staff to
former President Bill Clinton. In that role she worked with the 42nd
President to manage all of his activities with the Clinton Presidential
Center in Little Rock, the Clinton Foundation, his multiple television,
digital, and written engagements and all other business, political, and
personal interests. Throughout this period, President Clinton’s office
worked with numerous strategic partners in the U.S. and around the globe
to develop and implement projects to create economic opportunity,
improve public health, and inspire lasting civic engagement.

Previously, Flournoy oversaw public policy and political strategy for
the American Federation of Teachers (AFT) in the office of the
international union’s President. Specifically, she was responsible for
political mobilization, government relations, human rights, and
community development. She was also the liaison to elected officials,
civic organizations, nonprofits, businesses, and advocacy groups for
AFT. Flournoy clerked for The Honorable Julia Cooper Mack of the
District of Columbia Court of Appeals. Additionally, she served as Chief
Counsel in both the White House Office of Presidential Personnel and in
the 1992 Presidential Transition Office. She was Counsel for the
Democratic National Committee and General Counsel for the 1992
Democratic National Convention. She received her Juris Doctorate from
Georgetown University School of Law and her Bachelor of Arts from
Georgetown University.

**Jose Garces**

Iron Chef, father, husband, James Beard Award-winner, entrepreneur, and
food innovator, Chef Jose Garces is known as a leading culinary
authority of Spanish and Latin-American food. From the Spanish tapas at
Amada, his first restaurant, to the rotating tasting menus at Volvér at
the Kimmel Cultural Campus, Garces continually pushes the boundaries of
culinary excellence. While he maintains his successful career owning and
operating full-service restaurants, Garces is also looking toward the
future, with an increased focus on bringing restaurant-quality
experiences to the homes and businesses of culinary enthusiasts in new
and interesting ways. From enhanced home delivery options and virtual
online cooking demos, to live online cooking classes, Garces is excited
to connect with both fans of his work on television, as well as the home
cook who’d like to experience “chef life” in their own kitchen.

As a child of immigrants and a leader in the diverse and inclusive
hospitality industry, the wellbeing of his community in Philadelphia has
always been dear to Garces’ heart. To help provide ongoing and
actionable assistance to the immigrant community, Garces co-founded The
Garces Foundation in 2011. The Garces Foundation provides services,
including community health days, English language skills classes that
target the restaurant industry, and most recently, an increased focus on
procuring and providing food supplies to the food insecure. Garces is
the author of two cookbooks, *Latin Evolutio*n and *The Latin Road
Home*.

**J. Nadine Gracia**

Dr. J. Nadine Gracia is the President and CEO of Trust for America’s
Health, a nonprofit, nonpartisan public health policy, research, and
advocacy organization that promotes optimal health for every person and
community and makes the prevention of illness and injury a national
priority. She is a national health equity leader with extensive
leadership in federal government, the nonprofit sector, academia, and
professional associations. Gracia served in the Obama-Biden
Administration as the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Minority Health and
Director of the Office of Minority Health at the U.S. Department of
Health and Human Services (HHS). In that capacity, she directed
departmental policies and programs to end health disparities, advance
health equity, and provided executive leadership on administration
priorities including the Affordable Care Act and My Brother’s Keeper.
Previously, she served as Chief Medical Officer in the HHS Office of the
Assistant Secretary for Health, where her portfolio included adolescent
health, emergency preparedness, environmental health and climate change,
global health, and the White House Council on Women and Girls. Prior to
that role, she was appointed as a White House Fellow at HHS and worked
in the Office of the First Lady on the development of the Let’s Move!
initiative to solve childhood obesity. Passionate about service and
leadership development, she is active in many professional and civic
organizations.

**Meg Ham**

As President of Food Lion, Meg Ham leads 82,000 associates who are
dedicated to providing fresh, healthy, and affordable food to
approximately ten million customers each week across ten Southeastern
and Mid-Atlantic states. During her more than 30-year tenure at Ahold
Delhaize USA, parent company of Food Lion, Ham has served in executive
leadership roles in both retail operations and merchandising functions
at Food Lion and its sister banner, Hannaford, and at the helm of Bottom
Dollar Food, the company’s former discount banner. Ham has built her
career as a food retailer, focused on the value of service to customers
and associates. Being part of the community a company serves is a
driving force for Ham. Since 2014, Food Lion Feeds, the company’s
hunger-relief platform, has donated more than one billion meals to
food-insecure neighbors across Food Lion’s ten-state operating
footprint.

Ham has been recognized locally and nationally for her contributions to
Food Lion and the grocery industry. She was named a 2022 Most Admired
CEO by the *Charlotte Business Journal* and received the 2015 Top Women
in Grocery Trailblazer Award. She holds a B.S. in Business Management
and Marketing from Cornell University, where she also served as the
captain of the swimming and diving team.

**Kahina Haynes**

Kahina Haynes, Executive Director of The Dance Institute of Washington
since 2016, is a passionate arts activist and the visionary architect
behind one of Washington, D.C.’s leading models for advancing equity in
community health, development, and achievement outcomes. Utilizing an
innovative and holistic systems approach, The Dance Institute of
Washington uses it platforms to educate, create, and advance practices
to address longstanding disparities in the dance industry. Following the
untimely passing of the Institute’s Founder Fabian Barnes, Haynes led a
strategic revitalization of the organization which saw a breadth of new
radical program designs, the award of a groundbreaking federal funding
appropriation of $1 million from the U.S. Congress, and a multi-year
facilities renovation to outfit the flagship site to expand on its
44,000 family reach.  
  
Prior to her Executive Director role, Haynes worked in organizational
development and process evaluation and strategy for a number of
philanthropies and multi-laterals including the United Nations (Bureau
for Development Policy at UNDP), the Annie E. Casey Foundation, the U.S.
Department of Health & Human Services, SafeKids Worldwide, the World
Bank Group, and the U.S. Department of State. Haynes was recently
recognized by the National Black Voices for Black Justice Fund as a 2022
awardee for work in addressing structural and systemic racism, and is
also the recipient of the David Bradt Non-profit Leadership Award
(2021). She holds a B.A. from Princeton University with a Minor in
African American Studies and a concentration in Dance, as well as an MSC
from Oxford University in Evidence-based Social Intervention.

**Ryan Howard**

Ryan Howard was born November 19, 1979 in St. Louis, Missouri. He is a
former Major League Baseball player who spent most of his career as a
first baseman for the Philadelphia Phillies. Howard made history in
Major League Baseball when he became the fastest player to reach 100 and
200 homeruns. Known for his power, and a 58 home run season, Howard is a
member of the 50 home run club. To top off numerous baseball accolades,
Howard helped bring the 2008 World Series Championship to Philadelphia.

Throughout his baseball career and currently, Howard dedicates his time
off the field to numerous philanthropic endeavors. Since retiring from
Major League Baseball, Howard has become an entrepreneur. He spent time
with ESPN as an analyst for Baseball Tonight and co-authored six
children’s books, published by Scholastic. Howard enjoys spending time
with his wife and four kids. In the past few years, Howard has found his
way back to the baseball field, as a coach to his daughter’s softball
team. In his spare time, Howard enjoys playing golf.

**Martin E. Ingelsby**

Martin E. Ingelsby is currently the head basketball coach at the
University of Delaware and just finished his seventh season leading the
Blue Hens. His tenure in Newark is highlighted by Delaware winning the
2022 CAA Men’s Basketball Tournament and advancing to the NCAA
Tournament for the first time in eight years. He is a graduate of the
University of Notre Dame and was a captain and three-year starter on the
Men’s Basketball team from 1997-2001. After graduation, he spent 13
years on Mike Brey’s coaching staff at Notre Dame helping the Irish to
eight NCAA Tournament appearances and back-to-back Elite 8’s in 2015 and
2016. Ingelsby and his wife Colleen have four children, Will, Kate,
Jack, and Ben, and reside in Wilmington, Delaware.

**Barbie Izquierdo**

Barbie Izquierdo is the Director of Advocacy, Neighbors Engagement at
Feeding America, and founder of Community Driven Consulting LLC. For
more than a decade, Izquierdo has dedicated her life to fighting the
exploitation of people with lived experience who have been affected by
public policy. She has served as a global, bilingual spokesperson,
speaking at the White House under the Obama-Biden administration on
behalf of Witnesses to Hunger and has been featured in outlets like the
Associated Press, CNN, the *Washington Post*, BBC World News, and
*People Magazine*, as well as in conferences, podcasts, and more. As an
Afro-Latina born and raised in North Philadelphia, Izquierdo felt the
impacts of food insecurity and other social justice issues firsthand and
is now an advocate, organizer, and consultant providing technical
support regarding the engagement and inclusion of people with lived
experience. In 2022, she was awarded the 2022 Citizen Award by Global
Citizen, which celebrates remarkable changemakers who are taking
exceptional actions to end extreme poverty now. Izquierdo understands
the power of storytelling and has used her lived experience and advocacy
journey as a catalyst for policy change. She was featured in the
call-to-action documentary “A Place at the Table,” highlighting the
implications U.S. hunger has on the economic, social, and cultural
wellbeing of the country and the solutions required to solve it once and
for all. Izquierdo’s mission is to help bring dignity and equity into
the frameworks used by non-profit organizations and government entities.

**Ben Jacobs**

Ben Jacobs, a tribal member of the Osage Nation of northeast Oklahoma,
is co-founder of Tocabe: An American Indian Eatery and Tocabe Indigenous
Marketplace based in Denver, Colorado. Tocabe restaurant first opened
its doors in December 2008, adding a second location in 2015 and food
truck in 2016. In 2021, with his business partner, Jacobs helped launch
Tocabe Indigenous Marketplace. Tocabe’s marketplace is an online
resource helping further advance the Native food system and develop a
Native specific supply chain. The marketplace is designed as a
multifaceted concept supporting both the Native and Indigenous food
system while maintaining economic growth for underrepresented and
economically disadvantaged communities.

For over a decade on a national level, Jacobs has worked with the U.S.
Department of Agriculture and Food Distribution Program on Indian
Reservations (FDPIR). While advocating for feeding Native peoples, his
work with FDPIR has included traveling to tribal communities supporting
how best to incorporate local and traditional ingredients in
collaboration with commodity ingredients to support better individual
health and nutrition. Within Colorado, Jacobs is in his second term as a
member of the Minority Business Office Advisory Council appointed by
Governor Jared Polis (D-CO). He is also a board member of the Rocky
Mountain Indian Chamber of Commerce.

**Chloe Kim**

The 2022 Winter Olympics cemented Chloe Kim as the female face of both
snowboarding and action sports when she became the first female in
history to win back-to-back Olympic Gold Medals in halfpipe
snowboarding. After being accepted to Princeton University, Kim took the
2019-20 season off from competing to focus on her education. Returning
in January 2021 after a 20-month hiatus from snowboarding competition,
Kim continued her dominance of the sport, winning all four women’s
superpipe events in the 2020-21 season including her sixth X Games gold
medal and her second World Championship.

Kim has had just as much success off the mountain as she’s had on it.
She has been featured on *Forbes* 30 under 30 list, *TIME*’s 100 list,
and *TIME*’s 30 Most Influential Teens list (three years in a row), as
well as the cover of *Time Magazine, Shape Magazine, Sports Illustrated,
Sports Illustrated Kids,* and *ESPN Magazine*. She also had an
appearance in a Maroon 5 video and the Charlie’s Angels reboot.
Additionally, Kim has taken home five ESPY Awards, was honored with the
“Daring to Disrupt” award at the 2022 Glamour Women of the Year Awards,
has received three Nickelodeon Kids Choice Sports Awards and two Laureus
World Sports Awards, and has been recognized for her positive impact in
the Asian American community. Kim, whose parents emigrated from Korea,
now lives in Los Angeles.

**Chaunte Lowe**

Chaunte Lowe is an Olympic high jumper who competed in four Olympic
Games, making her fourth team as a mother of three. The 12-time U.S.
National Champion has earned permanent places in three separate Halls of
Fame. Lowe touched the nation’s heart when she trained for her fifth
Olympic Games while undergoing chemotherapy and a double mastectomy to
advocate for breast cancer awareness. Her accolades include winning an
Olympic bronze medal in the 2008 Olympic Games and three medals at the
World Championship of gold, silver, and bronze. Now retired after
dedicating over 20 years to professional sports, Lowe commits her time
to inspiring audiences through professional speaking, serving as a
spokesperson for several organizations committed to doing good in the
community, and advocating health and wellness in the fight against
breast cancer. She is an accomplished motivational speaker and
children’s book author, engaging audiences worldwide with her dynamic
storytelling on resilience, leadership, teamwork, overcoming obstacles,
and sharing her journey as an Olympian and breast cancer thriver.

**Viviana Martinez-Bianchi**

Viviana Martinez-Bianchi, MD, FAAFP is a family doctor, associate
professor, and Director for Health Equity at Duke University’s
Department of Family Medicine and Community Health. She is co-founder
and Co-Director of LATIN-19, the Latinx Advocacy Team and
Interdisciplinary Network for COVID-19, a multi-sector group addressing
Hispanic health during the COVID-19 pandemic and beyond. At the state
level, Governor Roy Cooper (D-NC) appointed her in July 2020 to the
Andrea Harris Social, Economic, Environmental, and Health Equity Task
Force, and she served as a Latinx Health advisor for the North Carolina
Department of Health and Human Services during the pandemic response.
Nationally, she chaired the Health Equity Team for Family Medicine for
America’s Health. Internationally, Martinez-Bianchi was an Executive
Member-at-Large of the World Organization of Family Doctors and its
liaison to the World Health Organization from 2016 to 2021.
Martinez-Bianchi has been the recipient of many awards, including the
2021 Marian Bishop Leadership Award by the Society of Teachers of Family
Medicine Foundation, North Carolina’s 2021 Family Physician of the Year
by the North Carolina Academy of Family Physicians, and the 2022
Foundation for Health Leadership and Innovation Community Achievement
award.

Martinez-Bianchi sees patients at the Duke Family Medicine Center in
Durham, North Carolina, and newborn health rounds at Duke Regional
Hospital. Her work includes the full spectrum of ambulatory family
medicine with an emphasis on prevention, chronic disease management,
women’s health, prenatal care, addressing social determinants of health,
and promoting an understanding of health equity.

**Elana Meyers Taylor**

Elana Meyers Taylor is the most decorated Black athlete in Winter
Olympic history, winning five Olympic medals in four Olympic Games for
Team USA in the sport of bobsled. She graduated from the George
Washington University with a Bachelor’s in exercise science and a
Master’s in sports management, where she was a five-time team captain
and MVP for the softball team. Additionally, she was an Academic
All-American and then went on to earn an MBA in finance from the Keller
Graduate School. In 2019, Meyers Taylor served as president of the
Women’s Sports Foundation. She currently serves on the Board of
Directors for the U.S. Olympic and Paralympic Committee, the Board of
Trustees for the Women’s Sports Foundation, and the Georgia Council for
Developmental Disabilities. She is married to Nic Taylor and mother to
Nico (3 years) and Noah (3 months).

**Dariush Mozaffarian**

Dr. Dariush Mozaffarian is a cardiologist, Jean Mayer Professor at the
Friedman School of Nutrition Science and Policy at Tufts University,
Professor of Medicine at Tufts School of Medicine, and an attending
physician at Tufts Medical Center. His work aims to create the science
and translation for a food system that is nutritious, equitable, and
sustainable. Mozaffarian has authored more than 500 scientific
publications on dietary priorities for obesity, diabetes, and
cardiovascular diseases, and on evidence-based policy approaches and
innovations to reduce diet-related diseases and improve health equity in
the U.S. and globally. Some of his areas of interest include healthy
diet patterns, nutritional biomarkers, Food is Medicine interventions in
healthcare, nutrition innovation and entrepreneurship, and food policy.
He is one of the top cited researchers in medicine globally, he has
served in numerous advisory roles, and his work has been featured in an
array of media outlets. Mozaffarian received his B.S. in biological
sciences from Stanford University, M.D. from Columbia University, and
Doctorate in Public Health from Harvard University, and additional
clinical training in internal medicine at Stanford University and in
cardiology at the University of Washington. He is married, has three
children, and actively trains as a Fourth Degree Black Belt in
Taekwondo.

**Kim Ng**

Kim Ng is the highest-ranking woman in baseball operations among the 30
MLB teams and was the first woman hired to the General Manager position
by any of the professional men’s sports teams in the North American
Major Leagues. Ng owns nearly 35 years in Major League Baseball,
including a combined 21 years of previous experience in the front
offices for the Chicago White Sox, New York Yankees, and Los Angeles
Dodgers. She has been an integral part of eight postseason appearances,
including six League Championship series and three World Championships
with the Yankees.

Ng graduated from the University of Chicago, where she played softball
and earned a degree in Public Policy. She has appeared on *Forbes’* list
of the Most Influential Minorities in Sports, *Forbes’* list of the Most
Influential Women in Sports, *Adweek’s* Most Powerful Women in Sports,
included as one of *InStyle Magazine’s* Badass 50 Women, and included
among the *South Florida Business Journal’s* Power Leaders. She also
serves on the Anti-Defamation League’s Sports Leadership Council. In
2021, she was recognized as the Best Hire in Sports by the *Sports
Business Journal*, the Trailblazer of the Year by Baseball America, a
Game Changer by the Asia Society, and received the Billie Jean King
Leadership Award from the Women’s Sports Foundation as well as the Lou
Gehrig Sports Award from the ALS Association of Greater New York. Ng
also took part in the 2021 Presidential Inauguration as part of the
Celebrating America event.

**Allison O’Toole**

Allison O’Toole is the proud CEO of Second Harvest Heartland, a regional
food bank that’s changing the way hunger is addressed in America.
Located in the heart of the Twin Cities, Second Harvest Heartland serves
59 counties in Minnesota and Western Wisconsin through partnerships with
1,500 food shelf and program partners. Committed to ending racial and
geographic inequities in who is hungry, Second Harvest Heartland has
introduced freshly prepared, culturally connected meals and farm
partnerships to feed more people. Last year, Second Harvest Heartland
distributed 113 million meals to 813,000 people.

O’Toole’s current role is the culmination of three decades working at
the intersection of health and community service to help organizations,
programs, and people thrive. She is credited with overhauling
Minnesota’s insurance exchange program as part of the Affordable Care
Act, where she oversaw a rebuild of the organization’s operations,
customer service, and outreach programs, resulting in three years of
record-breaking enrollment. O’Toole also served as a leader at United
States of Care and a Minneapolis-based public affairs firm, and as State
Director for Senator Amy Klobuchar (D-MN). Early in her career, O’Toole
dedicated a decade to criminal justice as a prosecutor in the Twin
Cities. O’Toole received her Bachelor of Arts in Political Science and
Art History from Franklin and Marshall College in Lancaster,
Pennsylvania, her Juris Doctor from Mitchell Hamline School of Law in
St. Paul, Minnesota, and an honorary Doctor of Humane Letters from
Franklin and Marshall College. She serves on the board of directors at
UCare and the board of trustees at Breck School. O’Toole loves art,
local food, and Prince.

**Oluwaferanmi Oyedeji Okanlami**

Dr. Oluwaferanmi Okanlami (aka “Dr. O”) is an Assistant Professor of
Family Medicine, Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation, and Urology at
Michigan Medicine, an Adjunct Assistant Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery
at UCLA, and the Director of Student Accessibility and Accommodation
Services at the University of Michigan, where he oversees Services for
Students with Disabilities, two Testing Accommodation Centers, and the
Adaptive Sports & Fitness Program. As a former academic All-American
student-athlete at Stanford, he is no stranger to the importance of
sports, fitness, and nutrition. However, after experiencing a spinal
cord injury during his orthopaedic surgery residency at Yale, he began
to see life “from the other side of the stethoscope,” realizing how
inaccessible our world is for individuals living with disabilities. He
now navigates the world as a proud wheelchair user and has a catch
phrase – “Disabusing Disability” – hoping to demonstrate that DISability
doesn’t mean INability. He is invited to speak regularly about topics
related to diversity, equity, accessibility, and inclusion, including,
but not limited to, creating a health system that is accessible to and
inclusive of both patients and providers with disabilities, and
providing reasonable and appropriate accommodations for students with
disabilities in higher education. He is passionate about adaptive sports
and fitness, striving to provide equitable access to physical fitness
and inclusive recreational and competitive sports for all.

**Laura Ricketts**

Laura Ricketts is an entrepreneur, community advocate, and co-owner of
the Chicago Cubs Major League Baseball Club. She is on the Cubs Board of
Directors and is Chair of the Board of Chicago Cubs Charities, where she
leads the organization’s philanthropy, sports-based youth development,
and academic programming. She is the first openly LGBTQ woman to co-own
an MLB franchise. Ricketts is also Co-Founder and Director of Beyond
Barriers, an innovative career fitness platform designed to transform
professional women into future-ready leaders and help companies unlock
potential at scale by improving performance, increasing retention and
diversity, and promoting engagement. Prior to her work with the Chicago
Cubs and Beyond Barriers, Ricketts co-founded Ecotravel LLC, a digital
ecotourism hub dedicated to educating travelers and promoting global
ecotourism. She also practiced corporate and securities law at the
Chicago law firm Schiff Hardin LLP.

Ricketts’ advocacy work is largely focused on increasing the
empowerment, engagement, and representation of the queer and
intersectional women’s communities. She is Co-Founder and Board Chair of
LPAC and serves on the Obama Foundation Inclusion Council as well as the
Board of Advisors for Opportunity Education. She is a past member of the
Board of Trustees for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing
Arts, and has served on the Board of Directors of EMILY’s List, Lambda
Legal, and Housing Opportunities for Women. Ricketts earned a B.A. in
Philosophy from the University of Chicago and a J.D. from the University
of Michigan Law School.

**Stefany Shaheen**

Stefany Shaheen is an advocate, entrepreneur, and business leader. She
co-founded and is currently President of Good Measures. Harnessing the
power of food as medicine, the company was awarded a suite of patents by
the U.S Patent Office and Shaheen is a named inventor. She was inspired
to launch Good Measures following her eldest daughter’s diagnosis with
Type 1 diabetes and has dedicated herself to making life better for
people living with chronic conditions. Shaheen authored a *New York
Times* bestseller, *Elle & Coach*, about this experience, which also led
her to serve on the Board of Trustees for Joslin Diabetes Center, the
world’s preeminent diabetes research, clinical care, and education
organization. Shaheen served on the Portsmouth, New Hampshire City
Council and is currently Chair of the Police Commission. Governor John
Lynch (D-NH) appointed her to serve, and she became Chair of the State’s
Commission on the Status of Women. A graduate of MIT’s Sloan School of
Management and Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government, Shaheen was also
a Division I Scholarship Athlete. Shaheen and her husband live in
Portsmouth, New Hampshire where they raised four children, and she had
the distinct pleasure of coaching one as part of the Portsmouth High
School Girls Varsity Volleyball Team.

**Billy Shore**

Billy Shore is the founder and executive chair of Share Our Strength,
which through campaigns like No Kid Hungry and Cooking Matters, has
reduced childhood hunger across the United States. Before founding Share
Our Strength, Shore served on the senatorial and presidential campaign
staffs for former Senator Gary Hart (D-CO) and as Chief of Staff to
former Senator Robert Kerrey (D-NE). In 2014, congressional leaders
appointed him to the National Commission on Hunger, a group tasked with
finding innovative ways to end hunger and improve nutrition in America.
In addition to his work with Share Our Strength, Shore is a leading
voice in the national conversation on hunger and poverty. He is the
author of four books focused on social change, including *The Cathedral
Within* and *The Light of Conscience*. He also hosts Add Passion and
Stir, a podcast that brings together high-profile chefs and
change-makers to talk about the central role food plays in social
justice. A native of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Shore earned a Bachelor
of Arts at the University of Pennsylvania and his law degree from George
Washington University in Washington, DC. *U.S. News and World Report*
named him one of America’s Best Leaders.

**Michael Solomonov**

Mike Solomonov is a beloved champion of Israel’s extraordinarily diverse
culinary landscape, and the chef widely recognized for bringing Israeli
cuisine to diners across the U.S. and around the world. He is co-owner
of CookNSolo Restaurants with hospitality entrepreneur Steve Cook, and
Chef of the trailblazing restaurant Zahav which has put the rich melting
pot of Israeli cuisine at the forefront of dining in America today.
Solomonov is the co-author of three cookbooks, and the recipient of the
following James Beard awards: 2011 “Best Chef, Mid-Atlantic”, 2016 “Best
International Cookbook” and “Book of the Year” for his and Steve Cook’s
best-selling *Zahav: A World of Israeli Cooking*, and the 2017
“Outstanding Chef.” In May of 2019, Zahav was awarded “Outstanding
Restaurant” by the James Beard Foundation, making Zahav the first
Israeli-American restaurant to be awarded this great honor. In addition
to his work at Zahav, Solomonov co-owns Philadelphia’s Federal Donuts,
Dizengoff, Abe Fisher, Goldie, K’Far, Merkaz, and Laser Wolf as well as
Lilah, an event venue bringing together 15 years of culinary and
hospitality wizardry. In 2022, CookNSolo expanded to Brooklyn with much
acclaim, bringing grill house sensation Laser Wolf, as well as Israeli
bakery and café K’Far, to The Hoxton hotel in Williamsburg. Outside of
the restaurants, you can often find Mike with Steve at Pho 75 in South
Philly, working out the kinks in their Israeli village.

**Melissa Stockwell**

Melissa Stockwell was the first female American Soldier to lose a limb
in Operation Iraqi Freedom. Her vehicle was hit by a roadside bomb on
April 13, 2004, resulting in the loss of her left leg, above the knee.
She was honored with a Purple Heart and a Bronze Star for her service.
Four years later she represented the USA again, this time as a member of
the U.S. Paralympic Swim Team where she was the first Iraq War veteran
to qualify for the Paralympic Games. She would return to the Paralympic
Games twice more, in 2016 and 2020, this time in triathlon. She has
remained one of the world’s most elite Para-triathletes, winning three
World Championship titles and the 2016 Paralympic Bronze Medalist. She
is both a World Record-holding marathon runner and an Ironman.

Away from the field of play, in 2011 she co-founded the non-profit
organization Dare2tri Paratriathlon club, which serves youth and adults
with physical disabilities along with injured service members. Dare2tri
provides adaptive equipment, training, coaching, and support in
triathlon. In 2019, Stockwell and her husband, Brian Tolsma, opened the
doors to Tolsma Stockwell Prosthetics, providing state of the art,
custom-made orthotics and prosthetics to the amputee community,
including some of the top adaptive athletes in the world. Stockwell is
one of the most critically acclaimed inspirational speakers in the
country, and the author of *The Power of Choice*. Stockwell is the proud
mother of Dallas (2014) and Mille (2017) and lives with her family near
the U.S. Olympic & Paralympic Training Center in Colorado Springs,
Colorado.

\###
