---
date: '2023-03-20'
modified_time: 2023-03-20 08:57:04-04:00
published_time: 2023-03-20 09:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/20/five-alarm-fire-the-house-freedom-caucus-extreme-budget-proposal-endangers-public-safety/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FIVE-ALARM FIRE: The House Freedom Caucus\u2019 Extreme Budget Proposal Endangers\
  \ Public\_Safety"
---
 
The extreme MAGA Republican House Freedom Caucus has made their
priorities clear: imposing [devastating
cuts](https://twitter.com/freedomcaucus/status/1634205313623572480) to
public safety and increasing costs for working- and middle-class
families, all to protect and extend tax breaks skewed to the wealthy and
big corporations. In fact, their tax cuts would be [so
expensive](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/15/fact-sheet-the-congressional-republican-agenda-to-increase-the-debt-by-over-3-trillion/) that
their deep and harmful cuts **would not reduce the deficit**.  
  
That’s in sharp contrast with the President’s Budget, which invests in
America, lowers costs for families, protects and strengthens Medicare
and Social Security, and reduces the deficit by $3 trillion over 10
years, while ensuring no one making less than $400,000 per year pays a
penny more in new taxes.  
  
Combined with other commitments extreme MAGA House Republicans have
already made, **the extreme Freedom Caucus proposal will be a disaster
for families in at least five key ways**: endangering public safety,
raising costs for families, shipping manufacturing jobs overseas and
undermining American workers, weakening national security, and hurting
seniors.  
  
Last week, the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office
(CBO) [confirmed](https://www.cbo.gov/system/files/2023-03/58984-spendings.pdf) that
Congressional Republicans’ budget math doesn’t add up. CBO found that—in
order to meet Congressional Republicans’ [stated
commitment](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2023-02-15/republicans-balanced-budget-aim-clashes-with-fiscal-realities#xj4y7vzkg) to
balancing the budget in 10 years without raising taxes on the wealthy or
corporations, and without cutting Social Security, Medicare, defense,
and some veterans’ benefits—Congressional Republicans would need
to *eliminate everything in the rest of the Federal budget*.  
  
**<u>The extreme MAGA Republican House Freedom Caucus proposal will be a
five-alarm fire for families—including by endangering public
safety.</u>** While the President’s Budget proposes smart investments to
improve public safety, strengthen border security, and improve the
safety of our transportation networks, extreme MAGA Republicans are
pushing draconian cuts to these critical national priorities that would
endanger Americans’ safety.   
  
**<u>Their proposals will:</u>**

-   **Make Our Border Less Secure** The extreme MAGA Republican House
    Freedom Caucus proposal would eliminate funding for more than 2,000
    Customs and Border Protection agents and officers and severely
    undermine our ability to secure the border and combat drug
    trafficking—allowing an additional 150,000 pounds of cocaine, nearly
    900 pounds of fentanyl, nearly 2,000 pounds of heroin, and more than
    17,000 pounds of methamphetamine into our country.  
     
-   **Defund the Police and Make Communities Less Safe.** The extreme
    MAGA Republican House Freedom Caucus proposal would eliminate
    funding for 11,000 FBI personnel, including agents who investigate
    crimes and keep guns out of the hands of felons and domestic
    abusers. Their plan would cut Federal support to 60 local law
    enforcement agencies, eliminating 400 local law enforcement
    positions, slash law enforcement, crime prevention and justice
    grants to local and state governments by an average of $30,000 per
    locality and $1 million per state. The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,
    Firearms and Explosives (ATF) would have to implement a hiring
    freeze that would mean 190 agents, 130 Industry Operations
    Investigators, and 180 technical and support staff would be lost to
    attrition—and ATF’s entire workforce of over 5,000 personnel would
    have to take 36 furlough days, further undermining their operations.
    ATF agents are often some of the first federal law enforcement on
    the scene of a mass shooting to help local law enforcement identify
    at-large shooters.  
     
-   **Scale Back Rail Safety Inspections.** At a time when train
    derailments are wreaking havoc on community safety, the extreme MAGA
    Republican House Freedom Caucus proposal would lead to 11,000 fewer
    rail safety inspection days next year alone, and 30,000 fewer miles
    of track inspected annually—enough track to cross the United States
    nearly 10 times. Since the Norfolk Southern train derailment,
    bipartisan Senators have called for *more* rail inspections,
    not *fewer*.  
     
-   **Jeopardize Air Safety and Increase Airport Security Wait
    Times.** The extreme MAGA Republican House Freedom Caucus proposal
    would shut down services at 125 Air Traffic Control Towers across
    the country—undermining safety at one third of all U.S. airports—and
    increase wait times at TSA security check points by an average of 30
    minutes.

\###
