---
date: '2023-03-09'
published_time: 2023-03-09 12:19:59-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/09/fact-sheet-the-presidents-budget-cuts-wasteful-spending-on-big-pharma-big-oil-and-other-special-interests-cracks-down-on-systemic-fraud-and-makes-programs-more-cost-effective/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: The President\u2019s Budget Cuts Wasteful Spending on Big Pharma,\
  \ Big Oil, and Other Special Interests, Cracks Down on Systemic Fraud, and Makes\
  \ Programs More Cost\_Effective"
---
 
The President’s FY 2024 Budget lays out President Biden’s plan to invest
in America, lower costs for families, protect and strengthen Social
Security and Medicare, and reduce the deficit.

Alongside major reforms to the individual and corporate tax codes to
ensure that the wealthy and big corporations pay their fair share, the
Budget cuts wasteful spending on Big Pharma, Big Oil, and other special
interests, cracks down on systemic fraud and identity theft, and makes
programs more efficient and cost-effective—saving taxpayers hundreds of
billions of dollars.

Congressional Republicans have so far rejected this approach to reducing
the debt, just as they have rejected reducing the debt by asking the
wealthy and big corporations to pay their fair share in taxes. In fact,
Republicans have [run
ads](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/senate/rick-scott-releases-attack-ad-biden-claims-cut-medicare)
opposing the reforms President Biden signed that will cut federal
Medicare spending and lower prescription drug costs for seniors.
Meanwhile, Republican members of Congress continue to propose cuts to
Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, the Affordable Care Act, and other
programs critical to seniors and middle-class and working families.

President Biden will always reject cuts that take away people’s health
care; raise costs for seniors, middle-class families, and students;
increase poverty; or reverse our economic progress. But—as his Budget
shows—he stands ready to work with members of both parties to cut
wasteful spending on special interests and crack down on systemic
fraud. 

<u>**Cutting Wasteful Spending on Big Pharma**</u>

Building on the prescription drug reforms in the Inflation Reduction Act
(IRA), the Budget will:

-   **Expand Medicare’s Ability to Negotiate Drug Prices.** The IRA
    finally gave Medicare the power to negotiate with drug companies on
    the high prices they charge for prescription drugs, and the Budget
    builds on that progress. The Budget cuts Federal spending by $160
    billion: increasing the number of drugs Medicare can select for
    negotiation and bringing more drugs into the negotiation process
    sooner. (All estimates are for savings over 10 years.) These reforms
    will not only cut costs for the Federal government; they will also
    save billions of dollars for seniors.

<!-- -->

-   **Expand the IRA’s Requirement that Drug Companies Pay Rebates When
    They Increase Prices Faster than Inflation.** Thanks to the IRA,
    drug manufacturers must now pay rebates to Medicare if their price
    increases for certain drugs exceed inflation. The Budget builds on
    the IRA by requiring rebates for commercial drug sales, as well as
    sales to Medicare. That will save the federal government $40
    billion, further curb prescription drug price inflation, and reduce
    health insurance premiums for people with private health insurance
    coverage. 

<!-- -->

-   **Strengthen the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program.** While drug
    manufacturers are already required to pay rebates to Medicaid, the
    Budget will give the Department of Health and Human Services the
    authority to negotiate additional, supplemental Medicaid drug
    rebates on behalf of states in order to pool and increase purchasing
    power. In addition, the Budget will extend existing Medicaid drug
    rebate requirements to states that operate their Children’s Health
    Insurance Programs separately from Medicaid. These actions will
    reduce federal spending by almost $8 billion, help lower
    prescription drug spending, and ensure that both states and the
    federal government are prudent purchasers of prescription drugs.

**<u>Cutting Other Wasteful Spending on Special Interests</u>**

The Budget proposes to eliminate wasteful corporate subsidies, whether
these are delivered through federal programs or through the tax code:

-   **Eliminate Tax Subsidies for Oil and Gas.** The President is
    committed to ending tens of billions of dollars of federal tax
    subsidies for oil and gas companies. Even as they benefit from
    billions of dollars in special tax breaks, oil companies have failed
    to invest in production. In 2022, they realized record profits and
    cut their investment as a share of operating cash flows to the
    lowest levels in decade, while undertaking record stock buybacks
    that benefited executives and wealthy shareholders. The Budget saves
    $31 billion by eliminating special tax treatment for oil and gas
    company investments, as well as other fossil fuel tax preferences. 

<!-- -->

-   **Lower Medicaid Spending by Addressing Excessive Payments to
    Medicaid Managed Care Organizations.** The Budget will lower
    Medicaid costs by over $20 billion by requiring that insurance
    companies that are charging Medicaid far more than they actually
    spend on patient care pay back some of the excess. Currently, only
    about half of states require private insurance companies that
    provide Medicaid coverage to pay money back when they realize
    outsize profits. ** **Without this requirement, insurance companies
    are keeping  [millions of
    dollars](https://oig.hhs.gov/oei/reports/OEI-03-20-00230.pdf) each
    year in excessive payments. The Budget would apply this requirement
    nationwide, consistent with similar requirements in Medicare
    Advantage and Affordable Care Act plans. With it, insurance
    companies will no longer be able to charge for unnecessary
    administrative expenses or sacrifice quality care to increase their
    profit margins, and if they charge too much, they will have to pay
    it back to the Medicaid program rather than keeping the profits and,
    in some cases, making larger payments to shareholders.

<!-- -->

-   **Eliminate Tax Subsidies for Real Estate.** The Budget saves $19
    billion by closing the “like-kind exchange” loophole, a special tax
    subsidy for real estate. This loophole lets real estate investors –
    but not investors in any other asset – put off paying tax on profits
    from deals indefinitely as long as they keep investing in real
    estate. This amounts to an indefinite interest free loan from the
    government. Real estate is the only asset that gets this sweetheart
    deal.

**<u>Cracking Down on Bad Actors, Systemic Fraud, and Identity
Theft</u>**

The Biden Administration and the oversight community have already made
substantial efforts over the last two years to punish and prevent
Pandemic fraud – including restoring anti-fraud guardrails, restoring
the use of checking Do Not Pay and Tax Transcripts, committing $2
billion of American Rescue Funds to helping states modernize and prevent
Unemployment fraud, furthering identity theft prevention, and setting up
at the Department of Justice an Interagency Pandemic Fraud Task Force
and a Chief Prosecutor with three new Strike Forces.

Building on that progress, the Budget includes significant new proposals
to crack down on systemic fraud and identity theft, hold bad actors
accountable, and cut or recoup spending stolen by the most sophisticated
criminals. Each dollar spent on enforcement and oversight saves well
over $10 for the taxpayer and often dramatically more. The Budget will: 

-   **Pursue, Investigate, and Punish Systemic Fraudsters.** Past
    underinvestment in basic government technology and the crush of
    demand during the pandemic, combined with ill-considered decisions
    to take down basic fraud controls at the onset of the pandemic led
    to a historic degree of outright fraud and identity theft of
    emergency benefits. The Budget will empower law enforcement,
    investigators, and watchdogs to pursue, investigate, punish, and
    recover money from those who were engaged in the most major or
    sophisticated frauds — from well-off individuals who took hundreds
    of thousands, if not millions, from taxpayers to sophisticated
    criminal syndicates engaging in systemic identity theft. This
    includes extending the statute of limitations for serious instances
    of fraud, increasing funding to triple the number of COVID-19 Fraud
    Strike Forces, providing historic funding to Inspectors General in
    agencies hit the hardest by Pandemic fraud who are savings billions
    already with funds provided by the Administration, and expanding
    analytic tools to audit and investigate possible fraud.
    Investigators and watchdogs have already recovered or prevented
    billions of dollars from being stolen.  
-   **Invest in Fraud Prevention and Stopping Identity Theft.** The
    pandemic exposed significant vulnerabilities in our government
    benefits systems, especially in regard to preventing systemic
    identity theft as a means to steal benefits designed for Americans
    coping with the health and economic impacts of the pandemic. The
    Budget proposes significant resources to support stronger
    preventative steps to prevent identity theft in public benefits,
    including funding to establish a permanent antifraud data and
    analytics capability analogous to the Pandemic Response
    Accountability Committee’s (PRAC) Pandemic Analytics Center of
    Excellence, expanding Treasury’s Do Not Pay Service and increasing
    checking of tax transcripts, and significant investments in
    Inspectors General to ensure lessons learned are applied going
    forward.

<!-- -->

-   **Combat Identity Theft and Other Unemployment Insurance (UI)
    Fraud.** The Biden Administration changed the previous
    Administration’s policy in order to allow the oversight community
    quick access to all state information necessary to stop billions in
    rampant multi-state Unemployment Insurance Fraud in the unemployment
    systems run by 53 states and territories. The Administration also
    enacted $2 billion in the American Rescue Plan to help all 50 states
    and the territories modernize and prevent future fraud and identity
    theft. In addition to the many billions of dollars such investments
    and new policies will save taxpayers over the long-run, the Budget
    will include new proposals for modernizing, protecting, and
    strengthening the UI program that will lead to $2 billion in
    budgetary savings. These provisions will tackle fraud, support more
    robust identity verification for UI applicants, help states develop
    and test fraud-prevention tools and strategies, and increase
    investigations of fraud rings targeting the UI program. For example,
    these reforms would require States to use the National Directory of
    New Hires and prisoner datasets to check UI claims and allow states
    to use 5 percent of recovered fraudulent overpayments for improper
    payment prevention and recovery. These proposals are designed to
    provide states with new tools and resources to combat UI fraud and
    reduce and recoup fraudulent and other improper payments and
    contrast with congressional Republican proposals that could actually
    impede and distract from efforts to address systemic fraud.

<!-- -->

-   **Update Civil Monetary Penalties for Labor Law Violations.** The
    Budget will increase monetary penalties for bad actors who fire or
    retaliate against workers for exercising their right to organize and
    collectively bargain, steal wages from workers, violate child labor
    laws, force workers to work in unsafe conditions, or otherwise
    flagrantly violate our Nation’s labor laws. That will deter
    employers from violating workers’ rights, leveling the playing field
    for responsible employers, and ensure those who do violate their
    rights are held accountable, while also increasing federal
    government collections by approximately $2.5 billion.

**<u>Cutting Wasteful Spending Through the Tax Code</u>**

The Budget cuts wasteful spending through the tax code and ends tax
loopholes that provide billions of dollars in unwarranted subsidies to
high-income people with the ability to exploit them.

-   **Preventing Wealthy Investment Fund Managers from Avoiding Tax on
    Their Earnings.** The carried interest loophole allows wealthy
    investment managers to pay a 20 percent rate on the pay they receive
    for managing fund assets, instead of the 37 percent rate that
    comparable wage earners pay. This loophole has allowed some
    investment fund managers to pay lower taxes than many American
    workers. The Budget would finally close this loophole, saving $6
    billion.

<!-- -->

-   **Ending Loopholes that Let Billionaires Exploit Middle-Class
    Retirement Savings Incentives.** Tax breaks for retirement savings
    are supposed to help middle-class workers put a little aside for the
    future. But some billionaires have used a loophole in the law to
    accumulate tens of millions of dollars in tax-favored retirement
    accounts – far in excess of what’s needed for retirement security –
    and never taking distributions from those accounts. The Budget
    limits the amount taxpayers with incomes over $400,000 can hold in
    tax-favored retirement accounts, along with other safeguards to
    prevent abuse of these accounts by some of the nation’s wealthiest
    individuals. These reforms will save $23 billion.

<!-- -->

-   **Eliminate Tax Subsidies for Cryptocurrency Transactions.** The
    Budget saves $24 billion by eliminating a special tax subsidy for
    crypto currency and certain other transactions. Right now, crypto
    investors aren’t subject to the same rules of the road that
    investors in stocks or other securities have to follow, allowing
    them to report excessive losses. For example, a crypto investor –
    unlike an investor in stocks or bonds – can sell a cryptocurrency at
    a loss, take a substantial tax loss to reduce their tax burden, and
    then buy back that same cryptocurrency the very next day. The Budget
    eliminates this tax subsidy for crypto currencies by modernizing the
    tax code’s anti-abuse rules to apply to crypto assets just like they
    apply to stocks and other securities.

**<u>Saving Taxpayer Dollars by Making Programs More Cost
Effective</u>**

The Budget also proposes reforms to save taxpayer dollars by making
programs more efficient and effective at a lower cost to the American
people.

-   **Bipartisan Reforms that Eliminate Unnecessary Spending on Prison
    Facilities.** The Budget proposes to cancel nearly $1 billion in
    unused Bureau of Prisons (BOP) construction funding that is no
    longer needed to expand prison capacity. Over the past decade, the
    Federal prison population has declined by almost 30 percent, and the
    bipartisan First Step Act (2018), along with Administration
    initiatives, have and will reduce prison populations further in the
    coming years, eliminating the need for additional prison capacity.

<!-- -->

-   **Lower Medicaid Spending by Expanding Access to Prevention and
    Treatment Options for HIV/AIDs and Hepatitis C.** The Budget will
    lower Medicaid costs by $10 billion by improving access to HIV
    prevention and care programs, including access to pre-exposure
    prophylaxis (also known as PrEP), among Medicaid beneficiaries.
    Ensuring access to curative Hep C treatments and to PrEP and other
    prevention strategies to reduce HIV infections not only improves
    health outcomes and quality of life for beneficiaries but also saves
    Medicaid [thousands of dollars per
    patient](https://www.cdc.gov/hiv/programresources/guidance/costeffectiveness/index.html)
    by eliminating the need for years of costly care associated with
    on-going treatment. The Budget will also create a subscription model
    for drugs to treat Hepatitis C, which by 2032 will reduce Medicaid
    spending by hundreds of millions of dollars each year.

<!-- -->

-   **Extending Spectrum Auctions.** The Budget proposes to extend
    authority for the Federal Communications Commission to auction radio
    spectrum, which is an important national resource needed for a wide
    variety of uses including high-speed Internet, satellite
    communications, radio broadcasting, national security, and public
    safety. Managing diverse and sometimes competing demands requires
    planning and coordination.  Ensuring the government can make
    efficient use of this valuable and finite resource will generate
    over $50 billion in savings.

\###
