---
date: '2023-03-24'
modified_time: 2023-03-24 12:48:18-04:00
published_time: 2023-03-24 12:48:17-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/24/background-press-call-previewing-the-vice-presidents-trip-to-ghana-tanzania-and-zambia/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Background Press Call Previewing the Vice President\u2019s Trip to Ghana,\
  \ Tanzania, and\_Zambia"
---
 
*Via teleconference*

7:05 P.M. EDT  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hey, thanks, \[operator\].  And hi,
everyone.  Thanks for joining us this evening.   
  
To set the ground rules, tonight’s call is on background, attributed to
“senior administration officials.”  And the contents are embargoed until
Friday, March 24th, at 5 o’clock a.m. Eastern.  Again, that’s 5:00
o’clock a.m. Eastern.  I know some of the invites had a different time,
but this is embargoed until 5:00 a.m.  By joining this call, you are
agreeing to the ground rules.  
  
The speakers today, you have myself, from the Office of the Vice
President, you have \[senior administration official\], and you also
have \[senior administration official\] on the line, hereinafter all
referred to as “senior administration officials.”  
  
We’ll give some comments at the top, and then we will open it up for
some Q&A.  
  
So I will kick us off by just saying, as you know, the Vice President is
traveling to Ghana, Tanzania, and Zambia.  This is a follow-up to the
U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit in December 2022, in an effort to make good
on President Biden’s commitment that we are, quote, “all in” with
Africa.   
  
Her visit is the fifth major trip from a senior administration official
since the summit, and it comes on the heels of travel by Secretary
Yellen, Ambassador Thomas-Greenfield, the First Lady, and Secretary
Blinken, most recently.  
  
The Vice President is visiting these three countries where the
governments are investing in their democracies specifically at a time
where we know there is a global democratic recession.  The United States
views Africa as critical to addressing global challenges, and we view
her visit as another opportunity to consult and engage with partners on
our shared objectives.  
  
As many of you know, the Vice President previously met with all three of
the leaders in these countries in Washington, and she looks forward to
deepening the U.S. partnership and her relationship with each of these
leaders on this trip.  
  
I will — can give you a brief overview of her schedule.  
  
She is departing Washington on Saturday evening and arrives in Ghana on
Sunday afternoon.  
  
On Monday, the Vice President will have a bilateral meeting with
President Akufo-Addo of Ghana.  She will also visit a local recording
studio in Accra and meet with young people in the creative industry.  
  
On Tuesday, the Vice President will deliver a major speech to an
audience of young people.  She will then visit the Cape Coast slave
castle, which will include a tour and a set of remarks there.  She will,
at the Cape Coast Castle, speak about the brutality of slavery and the
African Diaspora.  
  
On Wednesday, in Accra, the Vice President will meet with women
entrepreneurs and discuss the economic empowerment of women.  We
anticipate she will announce, at this setting, a continent- — a series
of continent-wide public and private sector investments to help close
the digital gender divide and to empower women economically more
broadly.   
  
Then, on Wednesday afternoon, she will depart Accra for Dar es Salaam.  
  
On Thursday, in Tanzania, the Vice President will meet with President
Samia.  She will participate in a wreath-laying ceremony to commemorate
the 1998 bombing of the U.S. Embassy there.  And she will then meet with
entrepreneurs at a tech incubator and co-working space in Dar.  
  
On Friday, the Vice President will depart Tanzania for Lusaka, Zambia. 
She — once there, she will meet with President Hichilema.  
  
And on Saturday, still in Lusaka, the Vice President will focus her day
on climate adaptation and resilience and food security.  We anticipate,
again, she will have a number of continent-wide public and private
sector investments to announce and will engage with those involved in
these efforts in climate resilience and food security on the ground.  
  
Lastly, in Lusaka, on Saturday, April 1st, the Vice President will
convene business and philanthropic leaders, from both the continent and
from the United States, to discuss digital and financial inclusion on
the continent.  They will discuss how to best partner together and build
on the work of her trip and all the private sector announcements that
she announced on the trip.  
  
And she will depart Lusaka on Saturday evening and return to Washington
on Sunday morning.  
  
So, just more broadly, in terms of how the Vice President is approaching
the trip, I would point you to her remarks that she gave in December
2022 at the U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit Diaspora Forum.  
  
In those remarks, she made clear that, one, she believes African
innovations and ideas will shape the future of the world.  And two, she
made clear that we are committed to invest in the ingenuity and
creativity that is so prevalent across the continent in order to unlock
economic growth and opportunities.  
  
So you can expect a lot of this trip to Africa will build on this theme,
and this will remain a focus of hers.  
  
Again, she remains very much focused on the future of Africa, and it’s a
future-looking trip, in recognition that the median age of the continent
is 19, and by 2050, one in four people on the planet will be on the
African continent.  
  
So again, that will be driving force for this trip.  And as part of
that, she is looking forward to engaging with young creatives, tech
entrepreneurs, as I mentioned, and other young people throughout the
visit to highlight the dynamism on the continent and how African
innovations have and will continue to benefit the entire world.  
  
Another element of the trip that we should mention is, you know, too
often all the cutting-edge technology and innovative solutions that are
proliferating across the continent — they are overlooked by too many
outside the continent, and we believe her trip can help change that
dynamic.   
  
Overall, we are working to change how government, the private sector,
civil society, and the American people think about Africa and its place
in our world.  And as part of this, we want to dismantle long-held and
often outdated notions of what it means to live, work, and invest in
Africa.   
  
As part of this work, the Vice President has been working and will
continue to work with the private sector to spur investments that build
upon and complement our own government efforts on the continent.  And we
anticipate that private sector collaboration will be a major component
of her trip.   
  
As you have heard her said before, she is a big believer in the power of
public-private partnerships around the world, and throughout her
engagements she will be making the case that to unlock growth and
opportunity on the continent, we all need to come together and
collaborate.  Again, all of this with a focus on the economic
empowerment of women, climate resilience, and the digital economy.  
  
And then, before I pass off to my colleague, I will just say a note
about people-to-people ties, because we know that when the Vice
President travels overseas, there is a tremendous energy and excitement
in foreign countries, particularly from young people, and we anticipate
that excitement and that energy will be apparent throughout Africa
throughout her trip.  
  
She always makes a point on trips like this to get outside of government
buildings and engage directly with people, whether it’s entrepreneurs,
students, and activists, and she will do that here.  
  
You can’t overstate the significance of this visit to our
people-to-people ties, which, as you’ve heard us say, are a source of
strength and competitive advantage to the United States.  And as you
know, our administration has committed to elevate our engagement with
the African Diaspora as part of our broader Africa policy, including, as
you may recall, the Vice President announced in December the creation of
the President’s Advisory Council on African Diaspora Engagement.  
  
And lastly, on people-to-people ties, as many of you know, when the Vice
President was a young girl, she traveled to Zambia.  Her maternal
grandfather — which is her Indian grandfather — was a civil servant in
India who worked for several years in the Zambian government on refugee
resettlement issues shortly after Zambia gained its independence in the
‘60s.  So the Vice President is very much looking forward to returning
to Lusaka, which is a part of her family’s story and a source of pride. 
And we will have more to say on this as we get closer to that portion of
our trip.  
  
So, with that, I will now hand it off to my colleague to speak a little
bit more about some of the foreign policy of this visit.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, \[senior administration
official\].  And thanks, everyone, for joining.  
  
I will just add a little bit about the foreign policy and geopolitical
aspects of the trip, starting with our partnership with Africans.  
  
This trip is an early opportunity, following the U.S.-Africa Leaders
Summit, which was just a couple of months ago, to put into practice at
the highest level of the Biden-Harris administration the type of
partnership that we talked about, that the Vice President and the
President talked about at the summit, which is one in which we are
guided not by what we can do for Africa but by what we can do with
Africa, which is really a theme of this administration’s Africa
policy.  
  
And by this, what we mean is that it’s a partnership, it’s not a one-way
street, it’s not about imposing solutions, and it’s not just about
foreign aid or humanitarian assistance.  It’s about mutual investment
and mutual economic growth and creative partnerships and deep
people-to-people connections between the American people and the people
on the African continent.   
  
It’s about give-and-take and learning from each other and frank
dialogue.  And that is, frankly, how we approach our partnerships around
the world in this administration, and our partnerships on the continent
of Africa are no different.  
  
On the bilateral meetings that the Vice President will hold in the three
capitals, they’ll be wide-ranging discussions, but I think you can
expect at a minimum that she will discuss regional security,
strengthening business ties, debt relief and restructuring and long-term
economic growth, democracy and good governance, support for
international rules and norms, the impacts of Russia’s invasion of
Ukraine, and our concerns with China’s engagement on the continent.  
  
In each country, she will have a series of deliverables to strengthen
our partnerships on a very wide range of issues, from commercial
engagement to public health, gender equity, democracy, and more.  
  
I mentioned geopolitical issues, and there are high geopolitical stakes
involved in our relationships with Africa.  
  
As we have said, our administration recognizes the strategic importance
of African nations in global affairs.  They are major players on issues
that matter greatly to the United States and the American people: food
security, the climate crisis, resilient supply chains.   
  
And African partners are also invaluable partners at the U.N. and on
major geopolitical issues of our time.  I think that’s increasingly the
case, which is one reason we’re so invested in these partnerships.  So
it’s a trip not just about regional issues, of which there are many, but
about global issues.   
  
On the question of China, the U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit made clear that
our relationship with Africa cannot and should not and will not be
defined by competition with China.  The Vice President’s trip will
illustrate that we have an affirmative agenda in Africa.  She’s looking
forward to advancing that affirmative agenda in all of the areas that
we’ve already spoken about on this call.  We’re not asking our partners
in Africa to choose.  We want to expand African options, not limit
them.   
  
Obviously, we can’t ignore the current geopolitical moment.  It’s no
secret that we are engaged in competition with China.  And we’ve said
very clearly we intend to outcompete China in the long term.  We’ve made
clear we have real concerns about some of China’s behavior in Africa and
around the world.   
  
But a true partnership with Africa means that we talk about and consult
on elements of China’s engage- — on the elements of China’s engagement
that concern us, including in the technological, economic, military, and
global governance domains.  We discuss these types of issues with our
partners all around the world.  And in the Vice President’s meetings in
Africa will be no different.   
  
A word about Russia as well.  Most of you, I’m sure, heard the Vice
President make very clear at the Munich Security Conference that the
international community cannot overlook the impact of Russia’s brutal
war in Ukraine on African countries.   
  
Russia’s war is not only hurting the people of Ukraine and Europe, but
it’s hurting Africans and others around the world by generating rising
food and commodity prices that are actually having a disproportional
impact on African countries.  And we anticipate that our shared efforts
with Africa to address the impact of Putin’s war will be another major
topic of discussion throughout the Vice President’s meetings.   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Okay.  With that, I think we can open
it up for a few questions.  To our moderator, can you please give the
instructions?  
  
Q    Thank you so much for doing this.  Regarding growth and
opportunity, which you mentioned a few times, number one, is the Vice
President going to be announcing any deliverables with regards to the
African Growth and Opportunities Act?  Is she going to be announcing any
infrastructure initiatives under the — I don’t — the project for growth
initiative — whatever it was that was announced at the G7 — or anything
of that ilk?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks for the question.  You know, as
always, we don’t want to get too far ahead of specific deliverable
announcements, but you can be sure that growth and opportunity will be a
focus of the trip.  I think you were referring to PGII, the Partnership
for Global Investment and Infrastructure.   
  
Obviously, you know, we’ve made very clear how important investment in
infrastructure is in Africa and, you know, said at the summit that
following up on that initiative will be another major focus.   
  
As for specific deliverables announcements, we’ll just have to ask you
to wait for the trip.  But that broad category is certainly at the core
of what the Vice President is going to do.  
  
Q    Hi all.  Two questions for you.  First, is the Vice President at
all going to kind of repeat and amplify something that Treasury
Secretary Janet Yellen brought up in Zambia, basically calling on China
to restructure Zambia’s debt?  Obviously, as you guys are focused really
on the growth potential and entrepreneurship and all that, and the
economy of these African countries.   
  
And then secondly, I wonder if you can expand in any way on the
significance of the Vice President going to Cape Coast Castle and
talking about the diaspora and all that.  Obviously, the last time the
continent saw a Black principal from the U.S. was when President Obama
went.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, Jasmine, thanks for both of
those.  I will offer some thoughts, and \[senior administration
official\] may well want to weigh in.   
  
First of all, thanks for mentioning Secretary Yellen’s trip.  And I’ll
remind the group that she’s one of, you know, I think, five Cabinet
members — as well as the First Lady and soon the Vice President — to go
to Africa.  And for some, that is a sign of our deep commitment to the
continent and to these partnerships.   
  
And obviously, more than others, because she’s Treasury Secretary —
Secretary Yellen — focused on this debt issue, which we all know is a
burden on a number of African countries.  And that’s certainly the case
in Zambia, where the Secretary talked about it.  And it’s also the case,
as Secretary Yellen underscored, that China has a major role to play. 
And so that is a core part of how we’re approaching the issue.   
  
Dealing with debt restructuring is necessary to advance the economic
growth we want to see on the continent, and China has a major
responsibility play — to play in that.  It’s a multilateral issue, but
as Secretary Yellen underscored, China has a particular role to play.   
  
So, I — I think you can expect the Vice President to have discussions
about that particular piece of it not just in Zambia, but in her
meetings in other African countries as well.  
  
On the visit to Cape Coast Castle: As my colleague mentioned, that is an
issue that is going to be, I think, very meaningful to this Vice
President.  It’s meaningful to many millions of Americans and others
around the world.   
  
The Vice President will obviously have more to say on that
personally.   
  
You mentioned the diaspora.  You’ll recall — again, as my colleague
mentioned — she spoke to the Diaspora Forum at the Africa Leaders
Summit.  And one of the Africa Leaders Summit deliverables was the
creation of a diaspora advisory council because — the first time ever —
because this administration understands the role of the diaspora, the
interests in the diaspora in the continent and, I’m sure, you know,
they’re — in no way or place more than on the issue of Cape Coast Castle
and the slavery issue.   
  
So, absolutely, it’s going to be a meaningful visit to the Vice
President herself and to the diaspora.   
  
But I’ll pause there to see if \[senior administration official\] has
anything to add on either of those issues.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  Thanks, \[senior administration
official\].  And hi, everyone.  I’ll just echo some points about the
debt issue.   
  
For many countries on the continent right now, they are in pretty
significant debt distress, and the combined food and fuel prices have
really suppressed growth.  So particularly in Zambia, as well as in
Ghana, the issue of debt will be a focus of the discussion.   
  
In the case of Zambia, as \[senior administration official\] said and as
Secretary Yellen said, China holds a third — $6 billion — of Zambia’s
overall external debt of $17 billion.  And so finalizing the debt
treatment really does hinge on Beijing’s participation.   
  
So in those meetings, we expect that the Vice President will consult
with President Hichilema and his team about what are the best ways in
which the international community, all creditors can come to the table
to address Zambia’s significant debt challenges.   
  
And similarly, that will be a conversation in Ghana, which is also in
debt distress.  It has a different makeup of creditors.  The majority of
that is actually held by private creditors, but there are significant
bilateral creditors, including China.  And so, again, the Vice President
will engage with President Akufo-Addo and his team to see what we can
all do together to support the G20 common framework and work towards
debt relief or debt restructuring — whatever is the right approach to
address the significant draining and drag on these economies.  
  
Q    Hi there.  Thanks so much for doing this.  I just had two
questions.  One, could you — you talked a little bit about the security
issues that the Vice President would be addressing.  Can you just sort
of, from a high-level perspective, give some sense for what the sort of
overall concern is, the — sort of the — describe the problem that she’ll
be addressing?  I realize you can’t get ahead of the announcement.   
  
And then I separately have a China question.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  Again, I can start on security,
and \[senior administration official\] may want to add.   
  
The three countries that the Vice President is visiting are among the
more stable and secure countries on the continent.  They’re important
partners of the United States, but they are affected by and threatened
by security challenges across the continent, notably in terms of the
first stop in Ghana, and the Sahel and the significant extremist
terrorist challenges that we’ve seen there, but also challenges in
internal security and the numerous coups that have taken place, some of
which have led to interventions by the Russian-backed Wagner mercenary
group.   
  
So even if the partners that the Vice President is visiting herself are,
again, relatively stable and secure countries, they are affected by
trends that are going on across the continent.  And one of the things
the Vice President will do is both engage with the leaders there about
how to deal with those challenges mutually, but also, you know, lend
strong American support to preserving the security of those countries
themselves.   
  
But again, let me give \[senior administration official\] a chance to
weigh in on this issue as well.   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, \[senior administration
official\].  That’s — that’s exactly right.  In Ghana, there is growing
concern about the spread of ISIS and al Qaeda’s Sahel network, known as
JNIM — J-N-I-M, that operate in countries like Burkina Faso, Niger, and
Mali.   
  
The insecurity in Burkina Faso is particularly important and concerning
to Ghana, where JNIM largely controls, you know, 40 percent of Burkina
and has the ability to operate in probably 60 percent.  And so, the
Ghanaians are particularly concerned about this threat coming down
across their border.  Other coastal countries have already seen some
small attacks on their border — Cote d’Ivoire and Benin.   
  
So that’s one of the big challenges.  There’s been a number of regional
efforts to address this — the challenge.  And I suspect that the Vice
President will discuss this in Accra.   
  
In Tanzania, it’s a different challenge.  It is ISIS’s southern and
central African elements, particularly the ISIS-Mozambique group that
operates in northern Mozambique, and it has done cross-border attacks
into Tanzania.   
  
As \[senior administration official\] said, both of these countries,
Tanzania and Ghana, are contributing to regional security.  Ghana is one
of the most — the largest peacekeeping contributors and is engaged in
Mali, as well as has its own effort known as the Accra Initiative. 
Tanzania is part of a Southern African Development Community deployment
to Mozambique known as SAMIM — S-A-M-I-M.   
  
So this is an opportunity to talk about the threats that they face, but
the ways in which we are all working together to protect these
individual countries.   
  
And I will say that while Zambia doesn’t face a security threat, it is
also a longstanding peacekeeping contributor.  
  
Q    Thank you.  I appreciate that.  That’s very helpful.   
  
And then, just and China — this is a little bit of a wonky question. 
But when the United States government and the Biden administration looks
at Chinese investment on the continent and the sort of gap between U.S.
and Chinese investment, can you give us a sense for, like, what metrics
you’re looking at?  Like, is it — is it state investment?  Is it company
investment?  Like, what is the sort of kind of gap that is trying to be
closed here?  
  
I know you’re looking at, you know, billions of dollars that come from
the Chinese government, or get — I’m just trying to get a sense for,
like, what metrics you’re kind of looking at.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  \[Senior administration official\], do
you want me to give a first crack at that?   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure, go ahead.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So I think, for us, we’re looking at a
metric less about dollars and about investments that are quality, that
benefit Africans, that don’t undercut their sovereignty, that respect
environmental — environmental issues and labor practices.  So it’s much
more specific investment by investment and working with our African
partners so that they are clear about what they want from investment,
not just from the Chinese but from the United States and other
partners.   
  
Right now, there’s a clear demand for infrastructure investment.  The
continent has the lowest road and rail density in the world.  So that’s
part of our PGII program, is to see what we can be doing in
infrastructure where we are not as present as the Chinese or other
players, as well as looking at supply chains, critical minerals, and
energy.  So those are places that we are putting a greater emphasis
on.   
  
But I don’t think we have — we don’t have a metric that we judge against
what China is doing.  We look at projects individually to see what they
mean and how they contribute to African prosperity and evaluate any of
the risks they may pose to us or to our African partners.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, the only thing I’d add on that is
it’s just not really the way we’re thinking about it, about a — you
know, a gap with China or how much they are investing compared to what
we’re investing.  We’re investing because it’s in our interest.  We
think it’s in Africa’s interest to see growth and development on the
continent.   
  
It’s not even so much the volume of China’s investment, but we do have
concerns about the lack of transparency and openness and opaque business
dealings and the debt situation that emerges in some cases.  
  
But as I said in the opening remarks, our investment in Africa is more a
positive and affirmative agenda of generating growth that benefits
Africans and Americans alike.   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Okay.  I think we’re ready to go to our
next question.  
  
Q    Thanks so much for doing this.  You touched on this a bit before
about the Vice President’s history of traveling to Zambia as a young
girl.  I was wondering if you might be able to provide more details on
how she planned to talk about it.  Is there a centerpiece event that she
plans to address it at?  
  
And then, I was also wondering if she plans to speak about the
significance of her being the first Black Vice President and of Jamaican
origin while she’s there.  Thank you so much.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, so as I said, I think you can
expect her to talk about these issues throughout and in particular in
Zambia.  I think we’ll have more information to share about that.  And
she will have much more to say about this herself throughout the trip
and in Zambia.   
  
But what we said at the top is sort of what, you know, just a preview of
her family’s history there, but we’ll have more to share as we get
closer.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  All right, I think we’re ready for our
next question.  
  
Q    Hey, thanks so much for taking my question here.  I’ve got two for
you.  I’m curious how — it’s very clear that the message from the VP
during this trip is going to be one that focuses on sort of the
opportunities that these nations have to offer and kind of taking a
positive light.  I’m wondering how she balances that with President
Biden’s commitment — signing a memorandum in the first hundred days of
office — to call out, address foreign governments that advance
anti-LGBTQ laws and restrict human rights.   
  
You know, I understand she’s not going to Uganda, but we do have that
decision that was recently passed.  And then also in Zambia, there were
four local NGO workers who were arrested recently on allegations that
they promoted homosexuality during a recent march that was supposed to
be against gender-based violence.  You know, this is 1 of 33 nations on
the continent that has some sort of anti-gay laws as well.   
  
So I’m wondering how you strike that balance, sort of highlighting what
the country has to offer and courting these nations, while also calling
out these human rights violations.   
  
The second question would be kind of connected to that, is: During her
speech at — during the speech at the Cape Coast Castle as well, it was
mentioned that President Obama also gave a speech there.  When he did,
he called out — he said authoritarianism and corruption was holding the
continent back.  And it wasn’t appreciated by some African leaders as
well.   
  
Will she contrast, will she — or, excuse me, will she pivot from that
message and only focus on the positive things that the nation — that the
continent has to offer?  Thanks.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Just one clarification — thanks, Zolan
— before I turn it over to my colleague.  I think you’re referring to
remarks that President Obama gave in Accra, not the slave — Cape Coast
slave castle.  But — just one point of clarification.  But I think my
colleague will speak more to it.  
  
But, yes, she will speak about the importance of good governance and
democracy throughout her trip.   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.  And, Zolan, thanks for the
question.   
  
First of all, you’re right, she is very much focused on opportunities in
Africa and a positive message and the great things we can do in
partnership with African countries.  And you’re going to really see that
as the theme of the trip, given Africa’s role in the world and what we
think can be done with Africans, for the sake of Africans in the United
States and the rest of the world.   
  
But that doesn’t mean that she would shy away from discussing difficult
issues.  And you know her track record on the LGBTQ issue.  She spent
her whole career fighting for rights of overlooked and marginalized
people, including LGBTQ people.   
  
And, you know, the United States — as you said, the Biden-Harris
administration is very clear about the right for all people to live free
of harm and discrimination and to realize their full potential and to
fully participate in society.  And the Vice President has been clear
about that throughout her engagements in the United States and elsewhere
in the world, and it won’t be any different when she is in Africa.   
  
We have said, you know, including in recent days — expressed the
concerns we have about certain developments that we’ve seen on the
African continent, whether it’s laws or practices that are anti-LGBTQ. 
And that’s not consistent with what this administration stands for.   
  
So I don’t think that is a choice between taking a firm stand on that
set of really important issues and the big positive opportunity that the
Vice President sees in Africa and she’s going to emphasize on this
trip.   
  
And on the second thing, you know, without getting into Obama’s speech —
just talking about what the Vice President will do — absolutely,
democracy will be part of her message because it’s what we believe and
what she believes.   
  
And, you know, we’ve seen a lot of progress on the democracy front in
Africa, but we’ve also seen big setbacks.  And it’s definitely the
conviction of this administration.  And I can remind you that, you know,
we’re co-hosting the second Summit for Democracy next week, and Zambia
is the African co-host for that summit.  And we’re having that summit
because the President and the Vice President firmly believe that
democracy and good governance is in the interests of people all around
the world.   
  
So that is another topic that you can absolutely expect the Vice
President to underscore while she’s in Africa.  But the last thing I’ll
say about it is that that’s not, you know, lecturing the Africans.  From
everything we see in polling and talking to Africans, it’s what Africans
want themselves.  And so this is a common agenda.  And she’s going to
talk about three democrat- — talk with three democratic leaders in
Africa about the importance of that agenda and what we can do together
to advance it in our mutual interest.   
  
\[Senior administration official\], I’ll give you a chance if there’s
anything you want to add on either of those issues.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  No, I think you covered it well. 
Thanks, \[senior administration official\].  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I think we’re ready for our next
question.  
  
Q    Oh, yes, thank you so much for doing this.  I really appreciate
it.  I have a couple of questions.  The first one is a clarifying
question.  Thanks for mentioning the second democracy summit.  So, just
to clarify, will she be in Zambia on the 29- — on the 29th and 30th to
coincide with Zambia hosting the second democracy summit?  If you could
clarify that.   
  
And then I heard you say that you would like to change the sort of
perception of Africa, how it’s projected to the world.  Is there a
strategy in changing verbiage?  Or I want to understand how will you
plan to achieve that.  Yes, she will be there, and it’s a great thing
that she is going there.  But I’d like to understand your thinking
behind how you think you will be able to actually realize that change in
perception about what Africa does, how to li- — you know, how life and
everything else is in Africa.  
  
I take your point on China.  But as well, we can’t ignore that Russia
itself is going to be having a summit in a few months.  Could you maybe
touch on that, if at all?  Thank you so much.   
  
Oh, my — my other thing was to ask: Might you be sending out a list of
the delegation, like who is going to be accompanying the Vice
President?  I’d be very interested to know who is going to be in that
delegation.  Thank you.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hi.  Yeah, just on the last question,
the delegation, we will be sending regular updates of who is in her
meetings through pool notes, per usual.  So we will be sharing that as
we go.   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  On your other questions.  On the first
one on the democracy summit, Secretary Cardona will be representing —
leading the U.S. delegation to Zambia, who’s co-hosting.  And the Vice
President will arrive the next day.   
  
On the issue of changing perceptions — and I apologize, some of that — I
didn’t hear all of your question.  I think I understood the question
about are we changing the way we talk about it.  I think you’ll just see
that this will be a very future-oriented trip, focusing on innovation
and technology and meeting with entrepreneurs.   
  
And the visits themselves will be an opportunity to highlight a lot of
positive and impressive and effective things that Africans are doing. 
And so, that — you know, it’s not a question of what language we use,
really.  It’s just a question of drawing attention to and highlighting
some — some developments in Africa that might not be consistent with
expectations or old-fashioned beliefs.  So I think it’s showing rather
than talking about those perceptions.   
  
And then finally, I’m not sure exactly what you meant about Russia.  I
mean, I was clear about the Vice President will be clear in denouncing
Russia’s brutal invasion of Ukraine and its violation of principles that
we believe Africans have an interest in and believe in rules and norms
of sovereignty and territorial integrity, which I think are very
important to African countries and which have been blatantly violated by
Russia in Ukraine.   
  
And this is something — you know, we’ve heard from a lot of African
countries, many of whom have voted repeatedly at the United Nations to
condemn Russia’s violations of these core principles.  So — and I also
mentioned, you know, Russia’s support of Wagner mercenaries, who are
playing a very negative role in — in some capitals across Africa.   
  
So the subject of Russia will come up.  And we think, you know, to the
extent it comes to a choice, the United States has a lot more to offer
than Russia’s negative agenda on the continent.   
  
\[Senior administration official\], again, anything you want to add,
please go ahead.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, I just want to underscore some of
your points about Russia.   
  
African countries have condemned — many have condemned Russia’s war of
aggression in Ukraine and recognize it as a violation of the U.N.
Charter.  They also understand that the war has created grave economic
hardship for many Africans, exacerbating current conditions on the
ground by rising food — food and fuel prices.  And as \[senior
administration official\] mentioned, that Russia — Russia-backed
mercenaries are operating in places like the Central African Republic
and Mali.   
  
We understand that many African countries have a historical relationship
with the USSR, which supported their liberation movements.  And
countries have current relationships with Russia.  But we believe that
it’s important to have a conversation to identify shared points of
agreement, particularly on how to have a just end to this war and how to
address the negative consequences and to stand up for shared principles
as many of our African partners have done in the U.N. and in other
bodies.  And this is something that will almost certainly be raised in
different bilateral meetings.  So, thank you.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Okay, I think we have time for one more
question.  
  
Q    Hello?   
  
OPERATOR:  Kemi, please go ahead.  
  
Q    Yes, can you hear me?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes.   
  
Q    Oh, okay.  Thank you.  I’m sorry.  I wanted to follow up.  Some of
the questions that I have have already been answered.  So, I wanted to
follow up.  I was wondering, regarding the investment aspect of the —
the business aspects of (inaudible).  If you can talk about what the
Vice President will focus on and if she’s bringing any American
companies along.  And if you can tell us some of the names of the
companies that will go along with her.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks.  You know, I already
underscored that investment will be a major focus of the trip.  You
know, it’s what Africans want.  And we think there are a lot of
opportunities in different sectors to invest in.  
  
There will be business representatives who play a role in and join the
Vice President, but there’s nothing we can share with you in advance. 
But she will be meeting with private sector representatives.  As I think
we said in the opening, one of the things she’s focused on in her work
all around the world, from Central America to East Asia to Southeast
Asia and Europe, is partnership with the private sector.  And that’s
definitely going to play a role in her work on the continent of Africa. 
But we don’t have any specific company names to share with you in
advance.   
  
Q    Okay —  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Okay, with that, that’s all the time we
have this evening.  Sorry.  But we will — you know how to reach us if
you want to follow up with any additional questions.   
  
Thanks for joining us.  Again, this call is on background, attributed to
“senior administration officials.”  And it is embargoed until 5:00 a.m.
Eastern Time on Friday, March 24.  
  
And with that, thank you all very much.  
  
                                         END                 7:49 P.M.
EDT
