---
date: '2023-03-15'
published_time: 2023-03-15 16:04:40-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/15/what-they-are-saying-biden-harris-administration-proposes-first-ever-national-standards-to-combat-pfas-in-drinking-water/
tags: statements-releases
title: "WHAT THEY ARE SAYING: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Proposes First-Ever\
  \ National Standards to Combat PFAS in Drinking\_Water"
---
 
Yesterday the Biden-Harris Administration
[announced](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/biden-harris-administration-proposes-first-ever-national-standard-protect-communities)
new action to protect communities from per- and polyfluoroalkyl
substances (PFAS) pollution. The first-ever national standard to address
PFAS contamination in drinking water delivers on President Biden’s
commitment to protecting public health and advancing environmental
justice. And it [builds on two years of
action](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/14/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-new-action-to-protect-communities-from-pfas-pollution/)
to ensure every community has access to clean drinking water, free of
chemicals and pollutants that harm the health and wellbeing of children,
families, and communities.  
  
EPA anticipates the first-ever PFAS drinking water standard would
prevent thousands of deaths and reduce tens of thousands of serious
PFAS-attributable illnesses.  
  
This morning, Americans in
[Michigan](https://www.fox17online.com/news/local-news/this-is-a-watershed-moment-pfas-impacted-group-applauds-proposed-national-drinking-water-standard),
[Colorado](https://cdn.freedomforum.org/dfp/pdf15/CO_TG.pdf), [North
Carolina](https://www.wbtv.com/2023/03/14/epa-announces-new-regulations-forever-chemicals-drinking-water/),
and elsewhere saw local coverage – including front page stories in more
than three dozen local papers – of EPA’s new standard for “forever
chemicals,” which clean water advocates are calling [“a huge win for
public
health.”](https://www.cnn.com/2023/03/14/health/epa-pfas-standards-wellness/index.html)  
  
*Leaders from across the country praised the announcement. Here’s what
they’re saying:*  
  
***Clean Water Advocates***  
  
**Mark Ruffalo, Climate Advocate and Actor**: “After decades of delay,
President Biden’s EPA has delivered a drinking water standard for PFOA
and PFOS which, when finalized, will be the toughest in the nation. By
proposing to regulate four other PFAS as a mixture, the Biden EPA is
also putting our communities ahead of the polluters. President Biden and
his team pledged to make PFAS a priority and he has delivered. No
Administration has done more to address the urgent threat posed by these
toxic forever chemicals than the Biden Administration. My message to
polluters is simple: after poisoning your workers and neighbors for
decades, it is time to make our public health, not your profits, our top
priority. My message to communities devastated by PFAS pollution is
equally simple: help is finally on the way.”
\[[Statement](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/biden-harris-administration-proposes-first-ever-national-standard-protect-communities),
3/14/23\]  
  
**Madeleine Foote, Deputy Legislative Director, League of Conservation
Voters:** “These first-ever national drinking water standards are a huge
win for communities all across the country whose health has been
jeopardized by toxic ‘forever chemicals.’ We commend the Biden-Harris
administration for following the science that continues to link PFAS to
health problems including certain cancers, thyroid disease, neurological
development issues, weakened immune systems, and more. Chemical
companies have known and hidden the risks that PFAS pose to our health
and environment for decades, and we must ensure that the costs of these
critical safeguards fall on them, not consumers, and that they are held
accountable for the damage they have done. We urge the administration to
quickly finalize these important drinking water protections and continue
taking other actions, like imposing limits on additional PFAS, to
protect our health from these dangerous chemicals.”
\[[Statement](https://www.lcv.org/article/lcv-commends-epa-on-first-ever-proposed-national-drinking-water-standards-for-pfas/),
3/14/23\]  
  
**Dr. Anna Reade, Senior Scientist, Natural Resources Defense Council:**
“Regulating these six highly toxic PFAS chemicals in drinking water is a
historic start to protecting our families and communities. In addition
to setting strict standards for two legacy toxic forever chemicals, EPA
is proposing an innovative first step toward addressing PFAS as a class
in drinking water. We cannot safeguard public health until we get off
this toxic treadmill of regulating one PFAS at a time when thousands of
other PFAS remain unregulated. PFAS chemicals can be highly toxic at
extremely low levels and exposure has been linked to a long list of
health effects, including cancer, immune suppression, and developmental
harms. Our most vulnerable community members, especially children and
pregnant people, are especially at risk from PFAS chemicals.”
\[Statement, 3/14/23\]  
  
**Jonathan Kalmuss-Katz, Attorney, Earthjustice**: “For the millions of
people with PFAS in their tap water, strong national drinking water
standards cannot come soon enough. Today’s proposal is a necessary and
long overdue step towards addressing the nation’s PFAS crisis, but what
comes next is equally important. EPA must resist efforts to weaken this
proposal, move quickly to finalize health-protective limits on these six
chemicals, and address the remaining PFAS that continue to poison
drinking water supplies and harm communities across the country.”
\[[Statement](https://earthjustice.org/press/2023/epa-proposes-first-drinking-water-standards-for-toxic-pfas),
3/14/23\]  
  
**Emily Donovan, Co-Founder, Clean Cape Fear**: “Everyone deserves
access to health-protective drinking water. It is a basic human right.
We applaud the Biden EPA for having the courage to do what multiple
administrations could not. Today is a good step towards tackling our
nation’s massive PFAS public health crisis by including commercially
relevant PFAS like GenX. We now need every office within the EPA and all
other federal agencies to use a whole of government approach to address
PFAS as a class, stop all exposures at their source, make responsible
parties pay for the clean-up, and give overexposed communities access to
health monitoring.”
\[[Statement](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/biden-harris-administration-proposes-first-ever-national-standard-protect-communities),
3/14/23\]  
  
**Laurene Allen, Co-founder, Merrimack Citizens for Clean Water:** “The
EPA delivered what no previous administration has done by taking an
immense first step in addressing our nation’s PFAS contamination in
drinking water crisis. By regulating these toxic chemicals on a federal
level, the EPA has ensured that a community’s exposure and health risks
will no longer be ignored and no longer differ by state.”
\[[Statement](https://earthjustice.org/press/2023/epa-proposes-first-drinking-water-standards-for-toxic-pfas),
3/14/23\]  
  
**Linda Robles, Founder, Environmental Justice Task Force:** “We are
overwhelmed with joy at EPA’s new proposed PFAS drinking water
standards. EPA is proposing to regulate six PFAS chemicals in our
drinking water, including PFOA and PFOS, and will consider cumulative
risk impacts of multiple mixtures of the toxic chemicals. People in our
south-side Tucson community drink, bathe and cook with water
contaminated by PFAS because we can’t afford to leave our homes and
relocate at the drop of a dime. The harm caused to our health by PFAS
contamination in our drinking water transcends generations.”
\[Statement, 3/14/23\]  
  
**Sarah Woodbury, Director of Advocacy, Defend Our Health:** “We applaud
the EPA for taking action to set strong standards for PFAS in drinking
water to stem this direct threat to public health. We have seen the
serious impacts of PFAS drinking water contamination here in Maine. It’s
tragic that some Mainers were exposed for years to unsafe levels of
these so-called ‘forever chemicals’ in drinking water. If approved, the
EPA’s new drinking water standards will protect the health of thousands
of Mainers across the state. Maine has been a leader on the issue of
PFAS contamination and our current interim MCL’s are some of the lowest
in the country.”
\[[Statement](https://defendourhealth.org/news/defend-our-health-praises-epas-new-pfas-drinking-water-standard-urges-state-to-take-action/),
3/14/23\]  
  
**Anthony Spaniola, Co-Chair, Great Lakes PFAS Action Network:** “The
EPA’s proposed drinking water standards are an important milestone in
the fight to protect public health and will save lives in impacted
communities on the front lines of the PFAS crisis. This is an A+
decision by the Biden Administration for front line communities. We urge
that the proposed drinking water standards be adopted and implemented
with all deliberate speed.” \[Statement, 3/14/23\]  
  
**Cheryl Cail, Idle No More South Carolina:** “Today the EPA has
demonstrated that it will take the necessary steps to address the harms
PFAS has caused to human health and our environment. We know this will
be a long and arduous road ahead, as there have been many decades of
environmental injustice for those who have not been heard. The shift to
hear from all voices has had an incredible impact, and we will continue
to support the Environmental Justice work of the EPA as we advocate for
clean water for all and a healthier planet.” \[Statement, 3/14/23\]  
  
**Joanne Stanton and Hope Grosse, Co-founders, Buxmont Coalition for
Safer Water:** “We at Buxmont Coalition for Safer Water have been
working for PFAS federal drinking water regulations for nearly a decade
now. We have seen the devastating impacts these toxic chemicals have had
on the health of children in our community. We are grateful for the
strong action the EPA has taken to protect the health of America’s
unborn babies; pre-polluted with these toxic chemicals before they ever
take their first breathe. This is long awaited good news! We are so
thankful that the EPA has taken such strong action to protect our
nations drinking water from these toxic chemicals. This drinking water
standard will save lives, preventing cancer and other PFAS related
diseases that have plagued our local community for decades. It also
sends a strong message to polluters that there is no SAFE level for
these toxic chemicals. This is a historic day!” \[Statement, 3/14/23\]  
  
**Loreen Hackett, PFOA Project New York:** “Having been dealing with
PFAS since our water was found severely contaminated in 2014, and with
all of our advocacy since, regulations at these lower levels certainly
have been a long time coming and are most gratifying. We are pleased to
have an EPA who listened, gave affected communities a seat at the table,
which we’d never had before, and followed through in the necessity to
protect the health of all families from these harmful chemicals.”
\[Statement, 3/14/23\]  
  
**Scott Faber, Senior Vice President for Government Affairs,
Environmental Working Group:** “Today’s announcement by the EPA is
historic progress. More than 200 million Americans could have PFAS in
their tap water. Americans have been drinking contaminated water for
decades. This proposal is a critical step toward getting these toxic
poisons out of our water.”
\[[Statement](https://www.ewg.org/news-insights/news-release/2023/03/epa-proposes-bold-new-limits-tackling-forever-chemicals-drinking?auHash=x3ER0NsLX3RFq-bM33RJFDuuAKgKshBogz0aAWAiu5M),
3/14/23\]  
  
**Andrea Amico, Co-Founder, Testing for Pease:** “EPA’s strong new
limits for these six PFAS chemicals will prevent serious illnesses and
save lives. EPA must keep its momentum. Almost 9 years ago, I learned my
family was drinking highly contaminated water with PFAS. It devastated
me and I knew more needed to be done to prevent others from being
exposed to PFAS. The MCLs announcement from the EPA today is life
changing and life saving and I’m deeply grateful for this bold and much
needed action.” \[Statement, 3/14/23\]  
  
**Matt Casale, U.S. PIRG Education Fund’s Environment Campaigns
Director:** “Pervasive PFAS should be a thing of the past and this EPA
proposal puts us on the right path. Too many Americans are exposed every
day to these ubiquitous chemicals that lurk around our house and in our
pipes. Saying ‘nevermore’ to ‘forever chemicals’ in our drinking water
is the right thing to do. These new standards are a realistic way to
start that process.”
\[[Statement](https://environmentamerica.org/center/media-center/statement-epa-acts-to-protect-drinking-water-from-pfas/),
3/14/23\]  
  
**Arthur Bowman III, Policy Director, Center for Environmental Health:**
“With drinking water standards, we can finally begin to ‘turn off the
tap’ of these toxic forever chemicals. This is a victory for the Black
and Indigenous and other community-based organizations that pressured
EPA to do something about decades of PFAS contamination.”
\[[Statement](https://ceh.org/latest/press-releases/epa-announces-first-ever-national-standard-to-protect-communities-from-pfas-in-drinking-water/),
3/14/23\]  
  
**Dr. Elizabeth Southerland, Former EPA Director of Science and
Technology:** “This proposed rule is an historic milestone under the
1996 Safe Drinking Water Act for two reasons. First, when finalized,
these will be the first new standards since EPA updated the arsenic
standard in 2001. Second, EPA is proposing to regulate four PFAS
chemicals that co-occur in drinking water as a mixture, avoiding the
need for individual drinking water standards for each chemical. The
mixture approach requires treatment when one or more of these chemicals
at a drinking water facility alone or in combination pose a health risk.
This is a critically needed approach for PFAS forever chemicals that
include more than 12,000 individual compounds. EPA is also proposing
that PFOA and PFOS must each be at or below analytical detection levels.
This is the most stringent standard EPA can impose and is based on the
best available science and the detection limit of EPA’s analytical
method. The public health benefits of these protective drinking water
standards dwarf the costs of achieving them, and the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law offsets those costs with billions of dollars for
small or disadvantaged communities to address PFAS.”
\[[Statement](https://www.environmentalprotectionnetwork.org/former-senior-epa-water-expert-responds-to-epas-proposed-national-drinking-water-standards-for-pfas/),
3/14/23\]  
   
***Elected Officials***  
  
**Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer:** “I’ve long pushed for national
standards to limit toxic PFAS in drinking water, and I secured $10B in
our infrastructure law for PFAS clean-up. The Biden @EPA’s proposed PFAS
standard is a great step forward. I won’t stop fighting to keep
Americans’ drinking water safe from PFAS.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenSchumer/status/1635673722018308096?s=20),
3/14/23\]  
  
**Delaware Senator Tom Carper, Chairman, U.S. Senate Committee on
Environment and Public Works**: “For years, the presence of toxic
forever chemicals in our drinking water has threatened the health and
well-being of far too many communities across our nation. Thanks to
President Biden’s leadership, EPA is taking a significant step forward
in addressing PFAS contamination with today’s announcement. I’m beyond
proud of Administrator Regan and the leadership at EPA for proposing a
science-based, national drinking water standard that prioritizes public
health. Additionally, I look forward to working with the Biden
administration on moving this standard through the regulatory process
without delay.”
\[[Statement](https://www.epw.senate.gov/public/index.cfm/press-releases-democratic?ID=915FE6D5-14FB-41E4-AB7C-AD423C6EFF83),
3/14/23\]  
  
**West Virginia Senator Shelley Moore Capito, Ranking Member, U.S.
Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works**: “After years of
urging three consecutive administrations of different parties to do so,
I’m pleased a safe drinking water standard has finally been issued for
PFOA and PFOS. I’m looking forward to hearing from those who will be
impacted by this announcement, including local water systems and
ratepayers across the country, on how we can provide assistance for
implementation. No one should have to wonder if their water is safe to
drink, and it’s critical that we get this important regulation right.”
\[[Statement](https://www.capito.senate.gov/news/press-releases/ranking-member-capito-statement-on-epa-setting-a-safe-drinking-water-standard-for-pfas),
3/14/23\]  
  
**New Hampshire Senator Jeanne Shaheen**: “I applaud Administrator Regan
and President Biden for taking this bold step forward that will help
ensure our water is safe for New Hampshire families and that parents
have the peace of mind they deserve when they turn on the tap. This has
long been a top concern for me and is why as a lead negotiator of the
water provisions in the bipartisan infrastructure bill, I fought to
include a historic level of funding – $10 billion – to combat PFAS
exposure. These dollars will be crucial in providing our municipalities
with the resources they will need to comply with these new regulations
so that together we can prioritize clean water for our communities.”
\[[Statement](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/biden-harris-administration-proposes-first-ever-national-standard-protect-communities),
3/14/23\]  
  
**New Hampshire Senator Maggie Hassan**: “Granite Staters know all too
well the dangers of PFAS chemicals, which is why I’ve pushed the
administration and my colleagues in Congress to help communities make
real progress in addressing hazardous PFAS contamination. The proposed
rule creates strong, enforceable drinking water limits for PFAS, and is
an important step forward in ensuring that every household has access to
clean, safe, and reliable drinking water. I will keep working with the
administration and in Congress to combat dangerous PFAS contamination.”
\[[Statement](https://www.hassan.senate.gov/news/press-releases/senator-hassan-applauds-epas-proposal-to-address-dangerous-pfas-chemicals),
3/14/23\]  
  
**New York Senator Kirsten Gillibrand:** “This is a major victory for
New York families. I’ve been calling for the EPA to set limits on toxic,
cancer-causing PFAS chemicals in our water for years. And finally,
they’re taking the steps needed to ensure that every family has the
safe, clean drinking water they deserve.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/gillibrandny/status/1635676543958626313?s=20),
3/14/23\]  
  
**Maryland Senator Chris Van Hollen:** “For years many of us have
sounded the alarm on PFAS pollution. These ‘forever chemicals’ threaten
the wellbeing of our children, families & communities — we must do
everything we can to get them out of our drinking water. This is a
historic & necessary move from @EPA.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/ChrisVanHollen/status/1635720470602317840?s=20),
3/14/23\]  
  
**Illinois Senator Dick Durbin**: “In a major move to control PFAS
exposure, the Biden Admin & @EPA proposed the first-ever national and
legally enforceable limit on PFAS in drinking water. This will protect
communities from serious illnesses and health problems caused by these
forever chemicals.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenatorDurbin/status/1635670311940005893?s=20),
3/14/23\]  
  
**Illinois Senator Tammy Duckworth**: “I applaud the EPA for taking
historic action to protect more communities from these six chemicals
that we know jeopardize our public health and the environment. Every
American deserves safe, clean drinking water. And I’ll keep working
every day to make that a reality.”
\[[Tweet](https://mobile.twitter.com/SenDuckworth/status/1635765594376085504),
3/14/23\]  
  
**Rhode Island Senator Sheldon Whitehouse:** “Everyone deserves access
to clean water. Very glad to see the @EPA taking an important step to
limit PFAS and protect public health.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenWhitehouse/status/1635794425531056129),
3/14/23\]  
  
**Massachusetts Senator Ed Markey**: “The science is clear—PFAS is a
growing problem in our waterways. @EPA’s proposal would set the
first-ever national limits on PFAS in drinking water and be a major leap
toward making these forever chemicals into never chemicals.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenMarkey/status/1635783735600730116?cxt=HHwWiMC-nYGpvLMtAAAA),
3/14/23\]  
  
**Pennsylvania Congressman Brian Fitzpatrick,** **Co-Chair of the
Bipartisan Congressional PFAS Taskforce:** “Today’s announcement is a
step in the right direction as we work to prevent the future
contamination of PFAS ‘forever chemicals’ in our water and I look
forward to continuing to work with the Administration to enforce a high
standard of water quality.”
\[[Statement](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/biden-harris-administration-proposes-first-ever-national-standard-protect-communities),
3/14/23\]  
  
**Michigan Congressman Dan Kildee, Co-Chair of the Bipartisan
Congressional PFAS Taskforce:** “Access to safe, affordable and reliable
drinking water should be a right, not a luxury. For far too long, the
federal government has not acted to protect the American people from
PFAS chemicals in our drinking water. After past presidents have failed
to act, I applaud President Biden and his administration for proposing
stronger drinking water standards. As co-chair of the bipartisan
Congressional PFAS Task Force, I will continue working with Republicans
and Democrats to protect families from PFAS.”
\[[Statement](https://dankildee.house.gov/media/press-releases/statement-congressman-kildee-epa-s-proposed-pfas-drinking-water-standards),
3/14/23\]  
  
**Michigan Congresswoman Debbie Dingell:** “Today, @EPA took an
important step in protecting drinking water with proposed action to
establish a national drinking water standard for PFAS chemicals. I will
continue working with EPA to ensure we’re keeping Americans safe from
this growing & urgent public health threat.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepDebDingell/status/1635676210511347713?s=20),
3/14/23\]  
  
**Michigan Congresswoman Haley Stevens:** “A major win for the
environment and the American people! Today @EPA is proposing the
first-ever national standard to limit PFAS in drinking water. Tackling
and restricting PFAS will protect the health of hundreds of millions of
people.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepHaleyStevens/status/1635682556954673152?s=20),
3/14/23\]  
  
**New Hampshire Congressman Chris Pappas:** “Today @EPA took an
essential step forward for public health by proposing a national
standard to limit PFAS in drinking water. I’ll keep working to upgrade
water infrastructure, hold polluters accountable, and set limits on
industrial discharges of PFAS.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepChrisPappas/status/1635715626638376967?s=20),
3/14/23\]

  
  \###
