---
date: '2023-03-23'
modified_time: 2023-03-23 10:52:49-04:00
published_time: 2023-03-23 10:52:48-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/23/what-they-are-saying-president-biden-champions-conservation-takes-action-to-protect-lands-and-waters/
tags: statements-releases
title: "WHAT THEY ARE SAYING: President\_Biden Champions Conservation, Takes Action\
  \ to Protect Lands and\_Waters"
---
 
Leaders across the country are celebrating President Biden’s [boldest
steps to
date](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=13adc81ebf&e=ce8fea7c33)
to protect the power and promise of America’s extraordinary natural
wonders. At the White House Conservation in Action Summit this week,
President Biden announced action to:

-   Establish two new national monuments, [Avi Kwa Ame National
    Monument](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=5e82ff759a&e=ce8fea7c33)
    in Nevada and [Castner Range National
    Monument](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=1518d19c4e&e=ce8fea7c33)
    in Texas, protecting over half a million acres of public lands and
    honoring Tribal Nations and military veterans.
-   Direct the Secretary of Commerce to immediately consider initiating
    a new National Marine Sanctuary designation to protect all U.S.
    waters around the Pacific Remote Islands, a region with a rich
    ancestral tie to many Native Hawaiian and Pacific Island
    communities.
-   Take a dozen other new steps to conserve, restore, and expand access
    to lands and waters across the country, including tens of millions
    of new investments in conservation efforts.

With these new actions, President Biden is further delivering on the
most ambitious land and water conservation agenda in American history
and working to meet the first-ever national conservation goal to
conserve at least 30% of U.S. lands and waters by 2030.  
  
*Leaders from across the country praised the announcements. Here’s what
they’re saying:*

 **<u>Tribal Leaders</u>**  
  
**Chairman Timothy Williams, Fort Mojave Indian Tribe:** “Since the
beginning of the Biden-Harris Administration, the President has
demonstrated the commitment to respect Tribal Nations and our
nation-to-nation relationship. Under his leadership we have a seat at
the table and we have seen an unprecedented era and opportunity for our
Tribal communities. And we are all grateful to the President for taking
historic action to combat the climate crisis and conserve and restore
our nation’s land and water.”
\[[Remarks](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=54c7b3feed&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Ashley Hemmers, Tribal Administrator for Fort Mojave Tribe:** “For my
people, we believe that when you come to the Mojave and it speaks to
you, then you are automatically going to want to hold it in high regard
and so we’ve really taken the approach through our leadership to be able
to share that and facilitate that and work with anyone who shares that
same vision. When we think about protection, we think of it through a
lens of respect, and so if we can teach those things to people who are
now moving in this space, then it’s not just ours, the mountain isn’t
just for Mojave, it’s for everyone to protect.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=a7ddfe8322&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Shan Lewis, Vice Chairman, Fort Mojave Indian Tribe:** “Avi Kwa Ame is
significantly an important part of our community as it is where our
tribal creation story begins. Its protection is the equivalent to
protecting the existence of the Mojave people and culture itself. This
fight for protection has been a priority of our people for generations.
As leaders we carry the honor of fighting for the right to protect that
which is most sacred to the Mojave people. To be able to offer
protection under the status of a monument now not only protects this
sacred area but shares it with others in a respectable way.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=72fd450a65&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Colleen Garcia, Councilwoman, Fort Mojave Indian Tribe:** “Avi Kwa Ame
or Spirit Mountain is of utmost importance to our Community because it
is a sacred place where we believe our God Matevilye, his younger
brother Mastamho and the original people lived. The original people left
images and stories through petroglyphs on the rocks at Avi Kwa Ame.
Mastamho brought life to the world, as we know it now, by creating all
living things: animals, birds, the river, vegetation, etc. Avi Kwa Ame
has a physical and spiritual connection to our Community. Conceptually,
Avi Kwa Ame is comparable to Christianity’s most sacred and holy places.
For me, personally, Avi Kwa Ame is where my origin began, my roots. I am
a traditional Aha Macav (Mojave) elder whose ancestors were the original
people who lived at Avi Kwa Ame in the beginning of life on earth. Avi
Kwa Ame is the origin of my life yesterday, today and tomorrow. I am
connected to Avi Kwa Ame physically and spiritually.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=4d71c6c2c1&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Rafael “Shorty” Gómez, Councilman, Tigua Ysleta Pueblo del Sur:**
“Castner Range, a beautiful living oasis nested in our beautiful
Franklin mountains of our West Texas city of El Paso. This place that
means so much to so many, from those who no longer walk among us, to
those of us existing today and to those who will come tomorrow. May
these lands be protected for all to appreciate and be loved for
generations to come.” \[Statement, 3/21/23\]  
   
**<u>Conservation and Climate Advocates</u>**  
  
**Collin O’Mara, President & CEO, National Wildlife Federation**:
“National monument status for Avi Kwa Ame will benefit wildlife and
people alike as the lands they depend on will be conserved and restored
for future generations. In addition, sites of significance for a dozen
Tribes in the region will be permanently protected and opportunities for
outdoor recreation in Nevada will be expanded. For more than 50 years,
community groups in El Paso have fought for protections for Castner
Range so that wildlife migration corridors are safeguarded, historic
sites dating back 14,000 years preserved, and access to nature is
expanded for residents of El Paso and the surrounding area –
particularly for those who have traditionally lacked access.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=f5f3d0526c&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Mark Magaña, Founding President & CEO, GreenLatinos:** “Conserving
ecosystems in their natural state is the single most effective action
for addressing nature deprivation, climate disaster, and the massive
ongoing loss of species happening nationwide and globally. These
monuments will also provide jobs and associated economic benefits. Today
marks a day that President Biden is acting on his commitment to conserve
at least 30% of U.S. land and waters by 2030 so more Americans can
access the benefits of our natural world.” \[Statement, 3/21/23\]  
  
**Janessa Goldbeck, CEO, Vet Voice Foundation: “**We want to offer our
sincere thanks to President Biden, Secretary Haaland, and others in the
administration for today’s designations of Avi Kwa Ame and Castner Range
National Monuments. Protecting and expanding our nation’s public lands
is the duty of any patriot — veterans understand and military families
understand this, President Biden understands this. And we applaud the
President, a Blue Star father, for his actions today. We also want to
offer our most sincere appreciation for the steadfast support for these
campaigns from champions Congresswomen Veronica Escobar and Dina Titus,
along with Senators Rosen and Cortez Masto. Thanks to today’s
designation, these special places can be enjoyed by veterans and all
Americans for generations to come.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=e0f6cd7dde&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Gene Karpinski, President, League of Conservation Voters:** “President
Biden delivered for the communities who have worked for decades to
protect these landscapes and their natural and cultural significance all
while expanding access to nature. LCV applauds President Biden,
Secretary Haaland, and the entire administration for their commitment to
supporting locally led conservation efforts – a vital component of
addressing climate change. The Avi Kwa Ame landscape is sacred to 12
Tribes, home to rare wildlife and plants, and full of opportunities to
enjoy the outdoors. We celebrate with the coalition of Tribal Nations,
businesses, recreationists, gateway community residents, and local
leaders as well as Senators Cortez Masto and Rosen and Representatives
Titus and Lee. Castner Range, an incredible place with significance for
Indigenous people, veterans, and the world’s largest binational
community, and this monument designation will help ensure the community
has access to clean water, protect the area’s endemic rare and
endangered species, and preserve fragile lands already surrounded on
three sides by development. We celebrate with the community
organizations, religious leaders, veteran groups, and Rep. Escobar. We
are also pleased the President will initiate the public process to
expand the Pacific Remote Islands Marine National Monument. If finalized
as envisioned, this designation will surpass the administration’s goals
to protect 30 percent of our waters by 2030. LCV looks forward to
working with partners across the country and the Biden-Harris
administration to strengthen protections for additional sites and
landscapes, including through the Ocean Climate Action Plan and the
guidance on wildlife corridors and connectivity, in the coming months.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=ecb060c103&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Adam Cramer, CEO, Outdoor Alliance**: “The Biden administration has
taken important steps to advance its conservation vision, and we’re
pleased to see the recognition that there’s more work to do. Alongside
historic investments in public lands and waters, new national monuments,
and an ambitious whole-of-government approach to climate, the
administration has evinced a new way of thinking about conservation.
People, communities, and equitable and sustainable access to the
outdoors has been central to the Biden administration’s approach to
conservation. We look forward to continuing to work alongside the
administration and leadership at the land management agencies to pursue
these critical conservation and recreation priorities.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=8ef3c6969c&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Anna Peterson, Executive Director, The Mountain Pact:** “We are
thrilled that President Biden will permanently protect both Avi Kwa Ame
and Castner Ranges’ landscapes’ natural, cultural, and historic values
by designating them national monuments. The Antiquities Act conserves
vital places so our stories can be told and experiences can be shared
for generations to come. We celebrate today and tomorrow we will
continue to urge President Biden to use his authority under the
Antiquities Act to protect more places with cultural and scientific
significance as national monuments.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=83933572ae&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Marcia Argust, Director of Pew’s U.S. Public Lands and Rivers
Conservation Project, Pew Charitable Trusts:** “We applaud President
Biden for establishing the Avi Kwa Ame and Castner Range national
monuments today. Indigenous leaders, local elected officials, community
organizations, veterans, and business leaders in Nevada and Texas came
together to support safeguards for these landscapes. President Biden’s
monument proclamations honor Indigenous connections to these landscapes,
provide communities with more equitable access to nature, celebrate
local history and culture, protect wildlife habitat and connectivity,
and will boost local economies.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=40e550c23f&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Patrick Gaspard, President & CEO, Center for American Progress:**
“Today, President Biden took major steps toward his commitment to
conserve our most treasured public lands and waters for the benefit of
current and future generations. By listening to and supporting community
leaders, the president is helping to jump-start the nationwide mission
he announced at the start of his presidency to conserve lands and ocean.
These two monument designations will help preserve more nature for the
benefit of historically underrepresented communities. Protecting both
Castner Range and Avi Kwa Ame addresses the problem of nature
deprivation that has disproportionately affected people of color and
low-income communities. The Avi Kwa Ame monument helps preserve the
history, culture, and stories of sacred lands in Nevada and, together
with other announcements today from the administration and external
partners, represents a major milestone in the Biden administration’s
work to support Indigenous-led conservation.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=7c3603f5b7&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Chris Hill, Our Wild America Campaign Senior Director, Sierra Club**:
“Avi Kwa Ame and Castner Range are spiritual, cultural, and natural
treasures with thousands of years worth of history and legacies worth
protecting. Since time immemorial, these two places have had deep
connections to the Indigenous peoples of Nevada and Texas, and have been
critical parts of the environmental landscapes of their regions. Today’s
designations will preserve them for generations to come and add to the
stories and legacies we commemorate through public lands, in addition to
protecting critical habitats and vulnerable species.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=fc0e5426d1&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
***Avi Kwa Ame National Monument***  
  
**Honor Avi Kwa Ame Coalition:** “Since President Biden’s announcement
at the Tribal Nations Summit, we have been eager to see the
administration follow through and issue an official designation of this
sacred land. The President’s action today will safeguard these hundreds
of thousands of acres in southern Nevada bearing great cultural,
ecological, and economic significance to our state. We are honored and
grateful to his leadership and are thrilled to be a part of this
historic day. Tribal leaders and members, monument supporters, and the
general public made their voices heard in unanimous support of this
proposal and the need to safeguard these resources for future
generations. Yuman-speaking Tribes believe the mountain is the spiritual
birthplace of the tribes – the place where ancient ancestors emerged
into this world… Finally, we again express our deepest thanks to
President Biden for taking action to protect this land as a new national
monument in southern Nevada. Our coalition looks forward to continuing
to educate our Nevada community, our elected officials, and the nation
about the importance of Avi Kwa Ame, the leadership of those who made
this designation possible, and the need for respecting and honoring
Indigenous history in the southwest.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=649f692018&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Taylor Patterson, Executive Director, Native Voters Alliance Nevada**:
“We thank President Biden for following through on his promise to
protect Avi Kwa Ame and for designating this sacred land. It feels good
to finally say ‘Avi Kwa Ame National Monument. This land is considered
sacred to Tribes who trace their creation story to this land and it
deserves to be protected and those Tribes have been involved in this
effort to protect Avi Kwa Ame for years. This is truly a historic day as
it signifies a change in posture towards Indigenous people from the
federal government than that which we are unfortunately used to by now.
It’s with great joy that I once again thank Congresswoman Dina Titus,
Congresswoman Susie Lee, Senator Catherine Cortez Masto, Senator Jacky
Rosen, and Interior Secretary Deb Haaland for their support and efforts
bringing Avi Kwa Ame to the forefront of President Biden’s conservation
agenda. Of course, there are still many other special places with deep
significance to Tribal nations that deserve the protection Avi Kwa Ame
has been given today. But, here in Nevada, we are thrilled to see such a
long-fought struggle come to fruition with this new monument. We will
continue working alongside leaders in the Biden-Harris administration to
ensure sovereign Tribal nations are given a voice in matters that
concern their ancestral lands, as we celebrate this historic and
incredibly significant event this morning.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=f8c326babb&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Annette Magnus, Executive Director, Institute for a Progressive
Nevada.** “We are grateful to President Joe Biden for signing today’s
proclamation declaring Avi Kwa Ame a brand new national monument in
Nevada. Today highlights the importance of our elected leaders giving
recognition to Indigenous peoples whose land we now occupy, as well as
its environmental importance as a diverse desert plant and animal
habitat. Moreover, this designation is a vital measure to extend federal
protection for the desert plants and wildlife that blanket the hundreds
of thousands of acres comprising the monument, such as the desert
Bighorn Sheep, Desert Tortoise, Joshua Trees, and more. We are also
looking forward to both locals and tourists alike visiting southern
Nevada to recreate outdoors in this new monument, boosting our local
outdoor recreation economy, creating jobs, and supporting Nevada
communities like those in Searchlight, Boulder City, and Laughlin… With
this proclamation, President Biden’s administration has fulfilled a
promise to the Indigenous tribes in the region and honored their
requested boundaries — and we, and the more than 160,000 supporters who
signed the petition supporting the monument, thank him and his
administration for heeding the call. We’ll continue to work with Tribal
leadership, our coalition and stakeholders to uplift and center
indigenous voices in the protection of our public lands and look forward
to celebrating a brand new national monument in Nevada. Thanks to
President Biden, this is a historic day for the state of Nevada.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=d7b479fb17&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Camilla Simon, Executive Director, Hispanics Enjoying Camping,
Hunting, and the Outdoors**: “We are pleased that President Biden and
the Administration have listened to the request for the urgent
protection of Avi Kwa Ame, supported by the Fort Mojave Tribe, local
lawmakers, sports-men and women, and the Hispanic community, among many
others. This area is sacred to Indigenous Peoples and is vulnerable to
energy development proposals. Protecting Avi Kwa Ame means honoring that
sacred connection, and choosing a future that values the protection of
land, water, wildlife, history, and culture.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=05c5a57807&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/23/23\]  
  
**Gwen Lachelt, Executive Director, Western Leaders Network**: “My hat
is off to the tribes, elected officials, local governments, state
legislatures, conservation groups, and other stakeholders who worked
tirelessly for decades to make these national monuments a reality. On
behalf of our 450 local, tribal and state elected officials, Western
Leaders Network thanks President Biden for his leadership in protecting
Avi Kwa Ame and the Castner Range for current and future generations
through the Antiquities Act.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=387665fd06&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Jim Stanger, Director, Friends of Sloan Canyon**: “Protecting Avi Kwa
Ame helps ensure that areas such as Sloan Canyon National Conservation
Area do not become biological islands cut off from the wider ecology of
the eastern Mojave desert. In the face of future encroaching
development, populations such as desert bighorn sheep and others will
maintain more of their traditional habitat, traveling in and out of the
area with a greater chance to survive and thrive.” \[Statement,
3/21/23\]  
  
**Arevia Power**: “Arevia Power was a early supporter of the news that
Avi Kwa Ame would likely become a National Monument back in December of
2022. With this official declaration and through the leadership of
President Biden, Secretary Haaland, Senators Cortez Masto and Rosen,
Representatives Titus and Lee and the Fort Mojave Tribal Council, Avi
Kwa Ame’s incredible cultural, historical, and biological significance
will be recognized and protected. Arevia Power is proud of its history
of partnership with Tribal Nations across the West and believes
responsible energy developers have a positive role to play in these
critical issues.”  \[Statement, 3/21/23\]  
  
**Maite Acre, President & CEO, Hispanic Access Foundation**: “We applaud
President Biden for listening to Indigenous tribes and protecting Avi
Kwa Ame as a national monument. Located in southern Nevada, the 450,000
acres is the ancestral home of 10 Yuman-speaking tribes. The land is
rich in both its beauty and history, and now, it can be protected for
future generations to come. About [30
percent](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=80dc316790&e=ce8fea7c33)
of Nevada’s population is made up of Latinos. Protecting this public
land increases access to nature for its nearby Latino communities, so
they can enjoy the benefits of the outdoors. A National Monument will
increase recreational opportunities like hiking, stargazing, bird
watching, etc. for everyone to enjoy… By establishing the Avi Kwa Ame
National Monument, we can ensure that future generations can enjoy and
learn from these special places, and more national monuments represent
the diverse communities that make this country great.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=58ffa1a6e7&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Theresa Pierno, President and CEO, National Parks Conservation
Association**: “President Biden’s establishment of Avi Kwa Ame National
Monument is a testimony to protecting and preserving lands with not just
our children and grandchildren in mind but for generations to come. Avi
Kwa Ame National Monument honors the Native Americans who have long
called for preservation of their cultural heritage, and we are grateful
to the President for taking historic action. Amid the worsening climate
crisis, the long-term health of Joshua trees and other plants and
wildlife in this region is inextricably linked to conserving critical
lands. Avi Kwa Ame National Monument furthers our country’s desert
conservation legacy and connects a vibrant, rich landscape that
stretches from Lake Mead in Nevada to Mojave National Preserve,
encompassing other treasured California desert parks.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=435b7a17e0&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Jose Witt, Mojave Desert Landscape Director, The Wilderness Society**:
“We are excited to see the Biden administration prepare to follow
through on their promise to designate Avi Kwa Ame National Monument.
This monument will secure rich, diverse wildlife habitat, including that
of the threatened Desert Tortoise. Additionally, these protections will
expand wildlife connectivity within the region, helping other iconic
desert species, like bighorn sheep and mule deer, adapt to the
challenges of habitat fragmentation and climate change. We applaud the
administration for their continued commitment to protecting Nevada’s
wildlife for future generations.” \[Statement, 3/21/23\]  
  
**Sara Husby, Executive Director, Great Old Broads for Wilderness**:
“Great Old Broads for Wilderness is honored to support the protection of
a landscape that is not only sacred to several Tribes in the region, it
also creates a vital connection to other protected areas and provides
vital habitat benefiting wildlife, plants, and fragile ecosystems. This
monument designation, similar to Bears Ears, is another contribution to
the current movement honoring Native American ancestral lands, and
further preserves the unique beauty of the Mojave Desert.” 
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=f3f71be7e6&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Kevin Emmerich, Co-Founder, Basin and Range Watch**: “We have been
working with tribal members across Nevada and California, from Ivanpah
Valley to Chuckwalla Valley and along the lower Colorado River to
support their push to protect important cultural landscapes in the
region, including the Salt Song Trail, and the viewsheds around Spirit
Mountain. We were pleased to see this National Monument designated and
are happy that our work to prevent industrial wind energy development on
monument lands was so successful.” \[Statement, 3/21/23\]  
  
**Coalition to Protect America’s National Parks**: “The designation of
the Avi Kwa Ame National Monument and the protection of this sacred
landscape is an important contribution to the preservation of Native
American ancestral lands. This national monument designation will help
to protect hundreds of thousands of acres of land in the Mojave Desert
that are rich in biodiversity, history, and culture.” \[Statement,
3/21/23\]  
  
***Castner Range National Monument***  
  
**Janaé Reneaud Field, Castner Range Coalition and Executive Director,
The Frontera Land Alliance:** “This expected designation from President
Biden will honor the 52 years of El Pasoans, Texans and people around
the country fighting for the conservation of Castner Range – to say
we’re excited is an understatement. We are incredibly thankful to
President Biden for the designation of Castner Range National Monument
and thankful to the thousands of El Pasoans who have worked so long and
so hard to make this happen. Preserving Castner Range is about equity
through open space preservation and respect for the residents of El
Paso, and we are thankful that Castner Range will now be protected for
generations of El Pasoans.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=edae0f9e8d&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**El Paso Matters:** “For a decade, El Pasoans have been fighting to
protect culturally historic and environmentally sensitive land in
Northeast El Paso’s Franklin Mountains. Today, that fight will result in
the creation of Castner Range National Monument.”
\[[Tweet](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=3508825ee9&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Eric Pearson, President & CEO, El Paso Community Foundation:** “This
is a real victory of perseverance for the region and we thank President
Biden for his leadership in making this happen. Now we can get the real
work of interpretation and narrative around Castner Range, providing
access and context at the same time.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=53d4c66940&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Scott Cutler, Founding Member, Frontera Land Alliance:** “The Frontera
Land Alliance and the Franklin Mountains Wilderness Coalition have been
working for decades for the conservation of Castner Range. Today is a
great achievement that will benefit the community, region, and nation
for generations to come. We thank the Biden Administration for taking
this step and commitment to El Paos and our future.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=8bddf48deb&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Moses Borjas, Pastor, Living Covenant Church in El Paso & Leader, Por
la Creación:** “This is great news to all El Pasoans and especially
those who have for many years advocated to see Castner Range become a
National Monument. The challenges that our city has faced — poverty,
pollution, inequality, climate change — are the results of broken
relationships. The designation of Castner Range as a National Monument
adds to the healing process that our city needs in these times.
Protecting Castner Range is not only protecting our mountains and
wildlife, but it’s protecting our history, heritage and our legacy.
Thank you President Biden for providing this opportunity for our
community to find healing through our natural spaces.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=a176cbe3da&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Marshall Carter-Tripp, Board Member, Frontera Land Alliance:** “I am
grateful to President Biden for the long-awaited designation of Castner
Range as a National Monument. Castner Range is not only a beautiful
section of the Franklin Mountains but a repository of much history,
including that of Native Americans who lived in this region before the
European settlers arrived. And it is home to a magnificent spread of
Mexican poppies in the spring!”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=ecd27be710&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Ángel Peña, Executive Director, Nuestra Tierra Conservation Project:**
“Border communities thank President Biden and Rep. Veronica Escobar for
her leadership in leading the proper protection of one of El Paso’s most
iconic and intact Chihuahuan Desert landscapes. The designation of the
Castner Range National Monument is of great significance to frontera
residents. The protection of the Castner Range will ensure that
fronterizos have the opportunity to find solace, comfort and equitable
access to the outdoors, right here in our community. This monument
proposal recognizes just how intertwined our public lands and the
environment are with issues centered around justice, race and equity. As
an organization born on the border, Nuestra Tierra thanks the Biden and
Harris Administration for this momentous step in the forward direction.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=1b6fc71585&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Richard Teschner, Author and Conservationist:** “Many things
distinguish El Paso from cities like Midland and Odessa, but the main
thing is our Franklin Mountains. Yet, 25 percent of the Franklins — the
part within the boundaries of Castner Range — had still not been
conserved. But now, almost all of the Franklins are conserved by our
wonderful new Castner Range National Monument! I’m thankful that
President Biden has seen what El Pasoans know is a treasure for West
Texas and has taken steps to protect Castner Range.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=7719e097bb&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Camilla Simon, Executive Director, HECHO*****:*** “We are very excited
to learn that President Biden has finally used his authority under the
Antiquities Act to designate the Castner Range National Monument. The
local community has advocated long and hard for this day, and today we
celebrate this victory with them. The monument designation increases
access to and protects a unique mountain range in a highly urban area,
and will benefit people from all economic backgrounds while reflecting
and honoring the local communities and the history and culture of those
who live there. Community advocates in El Paso have sought protection
and public access to this landscape for decades. The campaign that
supported Castner Range’s designation included community leaders from
the region who genuinely represent the borderlands.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=411fa4ce28&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Maite Arce, President & CEO, Hispanic Access Foundation:** “The
challenges that our city has faced — such as poverty, pollution,
inequality, climate change — are the results of broken relationships.
Protecting Castner Range is not only protecting our mountains and
wildlife but it’s protecting our history, heritage and our legacy.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=7deb40e9a1&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Coalition to Protect America’s National Parks:** “The designation of
the Castner Range National Monument will protect an unspoiled landscape
that is home to diverse vegetation and wildlife, as well as
archaeological and historical resources that date back thousands of
years. It will also provide more equitable outdoor access to a local
community that has passionately supported a national monument
designation for Castner Range. We thank President Biden for this action
today, and we encourage the administration to continue to strengthen
their conservation legacy – and push hard towards the goals laid out in
the 30 x 30 initiative – by using the Antiquities Act to establish
protections for other culturally and naturally significant spaces.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=084b8e936a&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Karina Martinez, Director of Communications, Corazon Latino**: “The
Biden Administration has taken a critical step towards honoring our
sacred sites, preserving our nation’s history, and protecting our
natural resources by designating Avi Kwa Ame and Castner Range as
national monuments. We are proud that hundreds of thousands of acres of
land will be safeguarded through this designation, allowing us to
continue to build our bond with Madre Tierra at these unique sites. We
will continue to cherish and guard these areas to ensure their
respectful use, the protection of endangered wildlife, and their proper
resource management. Our future generations will remember and thank us
for preserving this special inheritance for them.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=569f01ff2d&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
***Pacific Remote Islands and Ocean Climate Action Plan***  
  
**Jonee Peters, Executive Director, Conservation Council for Hawai’i:**
“Mahalo to President Biden for his support in protections of the Pacific
Remote Islands. With his support, this action ensures a healthy marine
ecosystem of native species, corals, seabirds, and all of the marine
‘ohana that support the perpetuation of traditional voyaging practices
in Oceania. Furthermore, I am grateful for his recognition of the
bravery and sacrifices made by the Hui Panalāʻau.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=171bf717eb&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Lisa Frank, Legislative Office Director, Environment America:** “We’re
fortunate to have some of the most pristine ocean ecosystems around the
Pacific Remote Islands, but as our oceans heat up, acidify and face
threats from plastic pollution to overfishing and drilling, we need to
do more to safeguard our seas. Today’s announcement is a great step
toward expanding ocean protections in the tropical Pacific.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=825c82ca40&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Shannon Colbert, Vice President of External Affairs, National Marine
Sanctuary Foundation:** “The waters surrounding the Pacific Remote
Islands contain a multitude of natural and cultural wonders across
nearly 500,000 square miles of breathtaking beauty above and below the
surface. We are pleased the Biden Administration is listening to the
Indigenous, Native Hawaiian, and local communities that are calling for
protection of this special place as part of the National Marine
Sanctuary System. Sanctuary designation would protect sites that are
important to the preservation and prosperity of Indigenous cultures as
well as habitat for threatened and endangered species including sharks,
turtles, seabirds, whales, manta rays, and more. Some endemic species in
these waters are found nowhere else on Earth.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=04ae7ef231&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Dr. Lance Morgan, President, Marine Conservation Institute:** “The
administration’s announcement today at the Conservation in Action Summit
that it will propose a new national marine sanctuary around the existing
Pacific Remote Islands National Marine Monument out to the limits of the
US Exclusive Economic Zone is an exciting and important decision for
several reasons. A new sanctuary covering the ocean around these islands
out to the 200-mile limit will provide protection for wondrous marine
life, large seabird populations, migrating and nesting sea turtles and
the numerous underwater seamounts found in these areas. The proposal
would also contribute to achieving the President’s goal of conserving
30% of US lands and waters by 2030. But to achieve the high level of
conservation needed to protect marine life and restore our ocean the
proposed sanctuary must provide a high level of protection and eliminate
commercial fishing in line with the existing marine national monument.
We have been working with NOAA and Fish and Wildlife Service for over a
decade to create a management plan for the Pacific Islands monument and
the addition of the Sanctuary program’s management expertise will create
a strong template to model protections for other marine sanctuaries in
US waters.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=47ad7b3d19&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Amy Kenney, Executive Director, National Ocean Protection Coalition:**
“The National Ocean Protection Coalition applauds President Biden’s
commitment to initiate the designation process for a new national marine
sanctuary protecting all U.S. waters around the Pacific Remote Islands
and the release of the first-ever Ocean Climate Action Plan. Together,
these announcements are an important acknowledgement of the ocean’s role
in tackling the twin biodiversity and climate crises. They represent
important milestones that help chart the course toward meaningful ocean
climate action. We commend the Administration’s actions and look forward
to working together to support this important work in the months ahead.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=766f06bd5e&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Kim McIntyre, Executive Director, Aquarium Conservation Partnership:**
“The Aquarium Conservation Partnership celebrates the release of the
first-ever Ocean Climate Action Plan and President Biden’s commitment to
expand protections for all Pacific Remote Islands and their surrounding
waters while including excluded voices throughout the process. These
actions will help meet U.S. targets to achieve a 50% reduction of
greenhouse gas emissions and protect 30% of our lands and waters by
2030. We must look to the ocean for solutions by embracing equity and
amplifying all voices who want to work towards eliminating our
biodiversity and climate crises.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=5fb36b7786&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Marce Gutierrez-Graudins, Executive Director, Azul:** “Today, the
first-ever U.S. Ocean Climate Action Plan was released by the Biden
Administration. This groundbreaking roadmap acknowledges the ocean’s
power as a vital tool in the fight against climate change. We look
forward to working with the Biden Administration to implement this plan
and ensure we center equity at every step. To succeed, the
administration must not only harness the power of the ocean to fight the
climate crisis; it must also protect the communities carrying the burden
of inaction in the face of climate change.” \[Statement, 3/21/23\]  
  
**Tegan Hoffman, Executive Director, Coastal Quest:** “Coastal Quest
celebrates the Biden Administration’s leadership to protect our nation’s
ocean and coasts. The President’s commitment to increase protections for
the Pacific Remote Islands and the release of the first-ever U.S. Ocean
Climate Action Plan represent an important acknowledgement of the role
of the ocean and coast in tackling the twin biodiversity and climate
crises. The Ocean Climate Action Plan is America’s first-of-its-kind,
whole-of-government plan to reach the Administration’s ambitious ocean
climate goals and the coast is a critical part of the solution.”
\[Statement, 3/21/23\]  
  
**Conservation International:** “Conservation International supports
President Biden’s direction for the Secretary of Commerce to consider
initiating a new National Marine Sanctuary designation to protect all
U.S. waters around the Pacific Remote Islands (PRI). The oceans are the
key life support system on Earth. And seamounts, like the ones found in
the waters surrounding the PRI, are home to a diversity of marine life –
from huge schools of tuna to unique forms of life found nowhere else –
making this region an extremely high priority for protection. In
addition, the White House Conservation in Action Summit saw the Biden
Administration release the first-ever, whole-of-government Ocean Climate
Action Plan.”
\[[Tweet](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=95c10549fa&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Wendy Wendlandt, President, Environment America:** “America the
Beautiful is full of wondrous places and protecting them is part of our
identity as Americans. President Biden is on track to leave a
significant legacy on conservation with his plan to protect 30 percent
of our lands and oceans by 2030. We’re happy to celebrate Conservation
Day with such a monumental proclamation.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=5628e568e7&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Mark Perry, Executive Director and CEO, Florida Oceanographic
Society:** “Florida Oceanographic Society is encouraged by the Biden
Administration’s release of the Ocean Climate Action Plan. As a coastal
organization in Southeast Florida, climate impacts are a current reality
and pose increasing future threats. Our research, education, and
advocacy efforts are reflected in this plan, particularly the emphasis
on blue carbon ecosystem protection, research, and restoration as well
as coastal climate resilience. We look forward to implementation efforts
that transform this plan into action and results.” \[Statement,
3/21/23\]  
  
**Sarah Winter Whelan, Executive Director, Healthy Ocean Coalition:**
“The Healthy Ocean Coalition is thrilled by today’s release of the Ocean
Climate Action Plan and the intention to increase protections for some
of our planet’s most important ocean ecosystems. It was incredibly
heartening to hear federal leaders recognize that the worst impacts of
the climate crisis cannot be mitigated or reversed without seeing and
treating the ocean as the champion that it is while centering equity and
justice. The HOC looks forward to helping ensure implementation of the
Ocean Climate Action Plan holds to those ideals.” \[Statement,
3/21/23\]  
  
**Lance Kittel, Executive Director, Inland Ocean Coalition:** “The
Inland Ocean Coalition supports and celebrates the Biden-Harris
Administration’s announcement of an Ocean Climate Action Plan to best
inform immediate steps to protect our planet’s most valuable resource.
These commitments, among others, are hugely influential and beneficial
for our marine ecosystem. The administration continues to demonstrate
leadership and initiative and we are eager to further develop a
sustainable and resilient future for our ocean.” \[Statement,
3/21/23\]  
  
**Amy Kenney, Executive Director, National Ocean Protection Coalition:**
“The National Ocean Protection Coalition applauds President Biden’s
commitment to initiate the designation process for a new national marine
sanctuary protecting all U.S. waters around the Pacific Remote Islands
and the release of the first-ever Ocean Climate Action Plan. Together,
these announcements are an important acknowledgement of the ocean’s role
in tackling the twin biodiversity and climate crises. They represent
important milestones that help chart the course toward meaningful ocean
climate action. We commend the Administration’s actions and look forward
to working together to support this important work in the months ahead.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=3b7cacfa05&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Christy Goldfuss, Chief Policy Impact Officer, Natural Resources
Defense Council:** “The Biden Administration’s bold, inclusive
conservation vision for our lands and waters will set us on the right
path to fight the climate and nature crises. The Ocean Climate Action
Plan marks a new perspective on ocean management and an important and
necessary step by the Biden Administration. The plan harnesses the power
of the ocean to fight climate change and enhance the resilience of
marine ecosystems to climate stresses. This week’s IPCC report is a
sobering reminder that we must do everything in our power to address the
climate and biodiversity crises. For this ocean plan to reflect the
climate strategy the planet needs, it must also end new offshore oil and
gas drilling off our coasts. In other areas the plan does target for
action, like marine carbon removal and storage, a cautious approach is
warranted to prevent repeating ocean and community health stewardship
mistakes of the past.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=2fa9b35cc8&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/22/23\]  
  
**Vikki N. Spruill, President and CEO, New England Aquarium:** “New
steps taken by the Biden-Harris Administration to protect ocean health
and further a responsible blue economy will empower the United States to
tackle the climate crisis and increasing loss of marine biodiversity.
Now is the time to mobilize around the blue economy of the future: one
where the ocean’s resources are used to meet our clean energy and food
security needs, while safeguarding marine life and critical habitats, as
well as coastlines and communities. The New England Aquarium looks
forward to working with the Administration as it fulfills its
commitments to engage local stakeholders, support communities, and
protect the ocean.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=4c3349db39&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Anna-Marie Laura, Senior Director of Climate Policy, Ocean
Conservancy:** “We at Ocean Conservancy are thrilled to finally see a
national-level plan detailing how the U.S. can harness the ocean’s
potential to provide climate solutions and protect coastal communities
from climate change impacts. By releasing a first of its kind Ocean
Climate Action Plan, the Biden Administration is reorganizing often
siloed agency efforts into a concrete action plan that puts the ocean at
the forefront of climate policy where it needs to be. We’re very excited
to see over 200 specific recommendations for future ocean climate action
and look forward to working with the Administration to make sure it
follows through on its plan and the Biden Administration’s existing
promise to advance environmental justice. As we continue to address
climate change, we must make sure the long-term wellbeing of the ocean
and everyone who relies on it remains the guiding principle.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=56638f248e&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Jean Flemma, Director, Ocean Defense Initiative:** “This Ocean Climate
Action Plan is the first comprehensive approach that the U.S. has taken
to leveraging the power of the ocean in the fight against climate
change. The plan should inspire a ripple effect of powerful climate
actions from coast-to-coast that will slash emissions and help frontline
communities. Still, a plan is only as strong as its implementation. We
look forward to working with the Biden Administration to ensure strong
ocean climate action policies are adopted across federal agencies and
help the communities that need it most.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=66460f5ceb&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Lara Croushore, Managing Director, Urban Ocean Lab:** “Urban Ocean Lab
welcomes the release of the first-ever, whole-of-government Ocean
Climate Action Plan. It will be an important aspect of the Biden
Administration’s efforts to address the climate crisis and its impacts
on the health and safety of coastal cities and communities. In the U.S.,
65 million people live in coastal cities. Storms, flooding, rising seas
and erosion fueled by climate change have already led to a considerable
loss of life and billions of dollars of damage in coastal
cities—disproportionately impacting historically-disadvantaged
communities. While coastal cities have high exposure to climate risks,
they also play an important role in developing equitable and just
ocean-climate solutions that benefit lives and livelihoods, and coastal
economies and ecosystems. The Ocean Climate Action Plan sets the stage
for coastal cities to help catalyze transformative ocean-climate action.
Urban Ocean Lab looks forward to working with coastal city leaders and
the Ocean Policy Committee to support these solutions with ocean justice
in mind.” \[Statement, 3/21/23\]  
   
**<u>Elected Officials</u>**  
  
**Nevada Senator Catherine Cortez Masto:** “Avi Kwa Ame is a sacred and
stunning landscape, and I’m thrilled to celebrate its official
designation with the Tribal nations and conservation advocates who
helped make this happen. Nevada’s newest National Monument is an
important step for preserving our cultural heritage, honoring sacred
Tribal sites, and helping our families enjoy our great outdoor
landscapes.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=f548e20f48&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Nevada Senator Jacky Rosen:** “Today’s designation will preserve and
protect an area of great cultural significance to Tribal nations for
generations to come. This sacred land is rich with natural beauty,
diverse wildlife, and immense ecological importance. As a firm and
strong supporter of the Avi Kwa Ame National Monument, it was an honor
to join so many Nevadans to celebrate the permanent protection of this
land.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=c3c13dbef8&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Arizona Congressman Raul Grijalva, Ranking Member, House Natural
Resources Committee:** “Today’s designations of Avi Kwa Ame and Castner
Range National Monuments are unquestionably major wins for conservation,
but they are also huge victories for including tribal voices in our
public lands decisions. Tribal consultation and Indigenous traditional
ecological knowledge should continue to be put at the forefront of
federal decision-making, especially when it comes to protecting and
respecting the ancestral homelands and cultural resources of Indigenous
Peoples. I’m also pleased to see that this administration understands
that our oceans—which absorb a quarter of all carbon pollution—are a
critical component in our fight against climate change. The Biden
administration’s plan to protect our oceans and coastal habitats is the
kind of bold action we need to reach our climate goals before our
‘rapidly closing window of opportunity’ shuts for good.” \[Statement,
3/21/23\]  
  
**Nevada Congresswomen Dina Titus:** “One cannot overstate the
importance of the sacred land of Avi Kwa Ame to Southern Nevada’s native
tribes. And for the Yuman speakers and the Hopi and Chemehuevi Paiute
who place it at the center of all creation, along with every Nevadan who
knows the value of our cherished public lands, designating Spirit
Mountain as a national monument will protect this treasured space for
future generations. Having led the charge to protect Gold Butte, Basin
and Range, and Tule Springs Fossil Beds, I’ve been proud to work with
indigenous leaders, environmental champions, and grassroots
organizations across Nevada to keep our public lands safe. Without their
unflinching dedication over many years this would not have happened. I’m
hugely grateful that President Biden and Interior Secretary Haaland have
heeded our call to permanently protect Avi Kwa Ame.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=9a765cc94a&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Nevada Congresswoman Susie Lee:** “For over a year, I’ve stood
alongside environmental advocates and tribal leaders in calling for Avi
Kwa Ame to become our nation’s next national monument. Today, we have
made that dream a reality. To the activists and advocates who started
this movement, and to this Administration for taking the final steps
today in making history, thank you. This land holds immense cultural,
recreational, and ecological value. Today’s action honors our commitment
to the 12 tribes who consider these lands to be sacred and the abundance
of diverse ecological treasures they encompass.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=4109529380&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Texas Congresswomen Veronica Escobar:** “I’m absolutely thrilled about
the designation. Today’s historic announcement has been decades in the
making. Generations of activists have dedicated countless hours and
resources toward achieving this once seemingly impossible goal. It
brings me such joy to know that El Pasoans will soon be able to enjoy
the beauty of this majestic, expansive landmark for years to come.”
\[Statement, 3/21/23\]  
  
**Texas Congressman Colin Allred:** “Protecting and expanding our public
lands is our responsibility and @POTUS’s designation of Castner Range
National Monument in El Paso will help ensure we preserve it for decades
to come.”
\[[Tweet](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=51ecc3dde1&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Hawaii Congressman Ed Case:** “Great news for protecting our world’s
oceans! President Biden has adopted our proposal to advance full marine
sanctuary status for the pristine and fragile waters of the U.S. Pacific
Remote Islands.”
\[[Twitter](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=987a147a38&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Former Congressman Beto O’Rourke:** “Castner Range becomes a National
Monument today! 10,000 years of human history in one of the most
beautiful places on the planet will now be preserved forever. THANK YOU
President Biden, Rep. Escobar and the El Paso community (Judy Ackerman,
I know you’re smiling up there)!”
\[[Tweet](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=fbd59be55b&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**Michael Naft, Commissioner, Clark County, Nevada**: “We are grateful
President Biden has designated Avi Kwa Ame National Monument today. This
area in Clark County is rich in both history, wildlife, and beauty. For
years, Tribes, local elected officials, community leaders, and
businesses have supported the creation of a national monument because
protecting the area is both the right thing to do but also the
economically beneficial approach. Nearby communities like Searchlight
and Laughlin will benefit from the financial impact of achieving
monument status.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=a613d82601&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  
  
**El Paso City Council Representative Isabel Salcido:** “Castner Range
becomes a designated National Monument! Thank you to President Biden,
Congresswoman Escobar, the late Judy Ackerman (we miss you) and all the
amazing El Pasoans who for decades advocated to make this happen. This
action will protect the cultural, scientific and historic objects found
within the monument’s boundaries, honor our veterans, servicemembers,
and Tribal Nations, and expand access to outdoor recreation on our
public lands.”
\[[Tweet](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=9b9dfaef1c&e=ce8fea7c33),
3/21/23\]  

  
  \###
