---
date: '2023-03-09'
published_time: 2023-03-09 12:14:50-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/09/fact-sheet-president-bidens-budget-makes-our-communities-safer-and-combats-crime/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden\u2019s Budget Makes Our Communities Safer and\
  \ Combats\_Crime"
---
 
From Day One, the Biden-Harris Administration has taken decisive and
historic action to make America’s communities safer. Last year, the
President brought Members of Congress from both parties together to
secure the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act—the first significant piece
of legislation to address the epidemic of gun violence in America’s
communities in three decades. This historic legislation expands
background checks and funds crisis intervention, including red-flag
laws, and helps keep guns out of the hands of people, including
convicted dating partners, who are a danger to themselves and others. It
makes historic investments in upstream violence prevention and reduction
programs and addressing the youth mental crisis by expanding community
violence prevention programs and expanding trauma informed services to
mitigate the impact of violence. And it builds on the Administration’s
efforts to crack down on ghost guns, rogue dealers, and gun trafficking.

The President has also been clear about the Administration’s commitment
to investing in safe, effective, and accountable community policing,
community violence intervention, and crime prevention. In May 2022,
after Senate Republicans blocked passage of the George Floyd Justice in
Policing Act last year—even though leading law enforcement groups
supported a deal—President Biden signed a historic Executive Order to
advance effective, accountable policing and strengthen public safety. In
August, the Biden-Harris Administration released the comprehensive Safer
America Plan that funds the police for safe, effective, and accountable
community policing and promotes effective prosecution of crimes
affecting families, invests in upstream crime prevention and a fairer
criminal justice system, and takes additional steps on guns to keep
dangerous firearms out of dangerous hands.

The Budget builds on this progress by making investments to prevent and
reduce crime and improve the fairness and effectiveness of the criminal
justice system in improving public safety and public trust and easing
the burden on police, invest in Federal Law Enforcement to combat gun
violence and other violent crime, support state, local, and tribal law
enforcement and other first responders, and reinvigorate Federal civil
rights enforcement. The President believes we can and must do more to
prevent and reduce crime and save lives. The Budget:

-   **Invests in Federal Law Enforcement, Public Safety, Community
    Violence Interventions, and Prevention to Combat Gun Violence and
    Other Violent Crime.** The Budget makes robust investments to
    bolster Federal law enforcement capacity. The Budget includes $17.8
    billion for DOJ law enforcement, including a total of nearly $2
    billion for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives
    (ATF) to expand multijurisdictional gun trafﬁcking strike forces
    with additional personnel, increase regulation of the ﬁrearms
    industry, and implement the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act. The
    Budget also includes $1.9 billion for the U.S. Marshals Service to
    support personnel dedicated to ﬁghting violent crime, including
    through fugitive apprehension and enforcement operations. And the
    Budget provides $51 million to the Federal Bureau of Investigation
    (FBI) to support the continued implementation of enhanced background
    checks required by the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act. In
    addition, the Budget provides a total of $2.9 billion for the U.S.
    Attorneys, which includes 130 new personnel to support the
    prosecution of violent crimes. The Budget also continues to fund the
    President’s comprehensive Safer America Plan, including funding to
    put 100,000 additional police officers on our streets for
    accountable, community-oriented policing.

<!-- -->

-   **Supports Effective and Accountable State, Local, and Tribal Law
    Enforcement and Public Safety.** The Budget provides DOJ $4.9
    billion in discretionary resources for State and local grants to
    enhance public safety, including $537 million for the COPS Hiring
    Program, and $30 billion in mandatory resources to fully fund
    President Biden’s Safer America Plan, a comprehensive blueprint to
    protect the safety of our communities through evidence-based
    strategies that promote effective and accountable crime prevention.
    As part of the Safer America plan, the Budget includes funding to
    put 100,00 additional police officers on the street for accountable
    community policing. The officers will be recruited, trained, hired,
    and supervised — consistent with the standards in the President’s
    Executive Order — in order to enhance trust and public safety. The
    Budget requests $19.4 billion over 10 years for crime prevention
    strategies and affirms the President’s goal to provide $5 billion
    over 10 years for community violence interventions. The Budget also
    includes $717 million, an $86 million increase, in Tribal public
    safety and justice funding at the Department of the Interior.

<!-- -->

-   **Prioritizes Efforts to End Gender-Based Violence.** The Budget
    proposes $1 billion to support implementation of programs through
    the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (VAWA), which was recently
    reauthorized and strengthened in 2022. This is a $300 million or
    43-percent increase over the 2023 enacted level, which was the
    highest funding level in history. The Budget funds new VAWA programs
    to address online abuse, and provides substantial increases for
    longstanding VAWA programs, including key investments in legal
    assistance for victims, transitional housing, and sexual assault
    services. In addition, the Budget provides $120 million, an increase
    of $65 million above the 2023 enacted level, to the Ofﬁce of Justice
    Programs for the Sexual Assault Kit Initiative to address the rape
    kit backlog, and for the Regional Sexual Assault Investigative
    Training Academies Program.

<!-- -->

-   **Reinvigorates Federal Civil Rights Enforcement.** In order to
    address longstanding inequities and strengthen civil rights
    protections, the Budget invests $252 million, an increase of $62
    million over the 2023 enacted level, in the DOJ Civil Rights
    Division. These resources would support police reform via
    pattern-or-practice investigations, the prosecution of hate crimes,
    enforcement of voting rights, and efforts to provide equitable
    access to justice.

<!-- -->

-   **Improves the Fairness and Effectiveness of the Criminal and
    Juvenile Justice System.** The Budget advances and invests in
    comprehensive, evidence-informed, and high-impact initiatives to
    enhance public safety and advance equity in the criminal and
    juvenile justice systems. The Budget supports key investments to
    provide comprehensive, intensive, and market-driven workforce
    development services and reentry to people in the Federal prison
    system. The Budget also invests $300 million to support the first
    year of a new ten-year Accelerating Justice System Reform program as
    part of the President’s Safer America Plan, with a total of $14.7
    billion in mandatory funding requested over the following nine
    years, which will provide state, local, and tribal governments with
    additional resources they need to advance evidence-based strategies
    that will prevent violence and ease the burden on law enforcement
    and the court system in cases that do not merit their intervention.
    Doing so not only enhances public safety, but also delivers
    evidence-based criminal justice reform that advances equity. The
    Budget also proposes $760 million for juvenile justice programs, an
    increase of $360 million over the 2023 enacted level, to bolster
    diversionary juvenile justice strategies.

<!-- -->

-   **Counters Cyber Threats.** The Budget expands DOJ’s ability to
    pursue cyber threats through investments that support efforts to
    build cyber investigative capabilities at FBI ﬁeld divisions
    nationwide. These investments include an additional $63 million for
    more agents, enhanced response capabilities, and strengthened
    intelligence collection and analysis capabilities. These investments
    are in line with the National Cybersecurity strategy that emphasizes
    a whole-of-Nation approach to addressing the ongoing cyber threat.

**\###**
