---
date: '2023-03-21'
modified_time: 2023-03-22 19:45:29-04:00
published_time: 2023-03-21 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/21/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-new-action-to-conserve-and-restore-americas-lands-and-waters/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Takes New Action to Conserve\
  \ and Restore America\u2019s Lands and\_Waters"
---
 
*President Establishes New National Monuments in Nevada and Texas;
Directs Secretary of Commerce to Consider Expanding Protections for
Pacific Remote Islands Which Would Reach Goal of Conserving 30% of U.S.
Ocean by 2030*

At the White House Conservation in Action Summit today, President Biden
will announce major new actions to conserve and restore lands and waters
across the nation, including by establishing Avi Kwa Ame National
Monument in Nevada and Castner Range National Monument in Texas. The
President will also direct the Secretary of Commerce to consider
exercising her authority to protect all U.S. waters around the Pacific
Remote Islands. These new commitments build on President Biden’s
historic climate and environmental record, including delivering on the
most ambitious land and water conservation agenda in American history.  

Today’s announcements include:

-   **<u>Establishing two new national monuments: Avi Kwa Ame National
    Monument in Nevada and Castner Range National Monument in
    Texas.</u>** The designation of these two national monuments
    demonstrates the Biden-Harris Administration’s commitment to protect
    historically and culturally significant areas and conserve our
    nation’s treasured outdoor spaces. [Avi Kwa Ame National
    Monument](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/21/fact-sheet-president-biden-designates-avi-kwa-ame-national-monument/)
    in Nevada will honor Tribal Nations and Indigenous peoples while
    conserving our public lands and growing America’s outdoor recreation
    economy. In Texas, [Castner Range National
    Monument](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/21/fact-sheet-president-biden-designates-castner-range-national-monument/)
    will expand access to the outdoors for the El Paso community while
    honoring our nation’s veterans and servicemembers. Together, these
    new national monuments protect nearly 514,000 acres of public
    lands.  
-   **<u>Protecting all U.S. waters around the Pacific Remote
    Islands</u>.** The President will direct the Secretary of Commerce
    to consider initiating a new National Marine Sanctuary designation
    within the next 30 days to protect all U.S. waters around the
    Pacific Remote Islands. If completed, the new sanctuary would ensure
    the U.S. will reach the President’s goal of conserving at least 30%
    of ocean waters under American jurisdiction by 2030.  
-   **<u>New actions to conserve, restore, and expand access to lands
    and waters.</u>** The Biden-Harris Administration is announcing a
    series of new steps to conserve, restore, and expand access to lands
    and waters across the country. These include a proposal to modernize
    the management of America’s public lands, a plan to harness the
    power of the ocean to fight the climate crisis, a strategy to better
    conserve wildlife corridors, and new funding to improve access to
    outdoor recreation, promote Tribal conservation, reduce wildfire
    risk, and more.

These actions build on more than two years of the Biden-Harris
Administration’s progress and historic investments to advance
conservation, restoration, and stewardship nationwide:

-   During his first year in office, President Biden protected more
    lands and waters than any president since John F. Kennedy, including
    by restoring protections for [Bears Ears, Grand Staircase-Escalante,
    and Northeast Canyons and Seamounts National
    Monuments](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/07/fact-sheet-president-biden-restores-protections-for-three-national-monuments-and-renews-american-leadership-to-steward-lands-waters-and-cultural-resources/).
    Last year, President Biden designated his first new national
    monument, [Camp Hale – Continental
    Divide](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/12/fact-sheet-president-biden-designates-camp-hale-continental-divide-national-monument/)
    in Colorado.  
-   Thanks to the President’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and the
    Inflation Reduction Act, President Biden has, over his first two
    years in office, invested over $10 billion in conservation
    initiatives – more than any other modern president.  
-   Under the President’s leadership, the Administration is making
    unprecedented investments in land, water, and wildlife conservation,
    including by launching the [$1 billion America the Beautiful
    Challenge](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ceq/news-updates/2022/04/11/biden-harris-administration-launches-1-billion-america-the-beautiful-challenge-to-support-and-accelerate-locally-led-conservation-and-restoration-projects/).
    These investments will help meet the President’s goal – set during
    his first week in office – of conserving at least 30% of U.S. lands
    and waters by 2030.  
-   The Biden-Harris Administration has protected nationally-significant
    lands and waters across the country, including recent actions to
    restore protections for roadless areas of the [Tongass National
    Forest](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2023/01/25/biden-harris-administration-finalizes-protections-tongass-national),
    prevent future oil and gas leasing in the entire [U.S. Arctic
    Ocean](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-announces-sweeping-protections-16-million-acres-land-and),
    safeguard [Bristol
    Bay](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/biden-harris-administration-announces-action-help-protect-bristol-bay-salmon-fisheries)
    in Alaska and the world-class salmon fishery it supports, and
    protect America’s most-visited wilderness area, the [Boundary
    Waters](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-protects-boundary-waters-area-watershed)
    in Minnesota. The Administration is also working to protect [Chaco
    Canyon](https://www.blm.gov/press-release/bureau-land-management-takes-next-steps-protect-chaco-canyon)
    in New Mexico, the [Thompson
    Divide](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-proposes-protections-thompson-divide)
    in Colorado, and accelerating restoration efforts in the [Great
    Lakes](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/president-biden-epa-announce-1-billion-investment-bipartisan-infrastructure-law-will),
    the [Chesapeake
    Bay](https://www.fsa.usda.gov/news-room/news-releases/2022/usda-announces-initiative-invests-225-million-in-water-quality-improvements-in-chesapeake-bay),
    the
    [Everglades](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/11/Florida-BIL-State-Fact-Sheet-Nov-22.pdf),
    and the [Columbia River
    Basin](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ceq/news-updates/2022/03/28/columbia-river-basin-fisheries-working-together-to-develop-a-path-forward/).

**<u>Establishing Avi Kwa Ame National Monument in Nevada  
</u>**  
Today President Biden will sign a proclamation establishing the Avi Kwa
Ame National Monument. This designation will honor Tribal Nations and
Indigenous peoples by protecting this sacred Nevada landscape and its
historically and scientifically important features, while conserving our
public lands and growing America’s outdoor recreation economy.

Avi Kwa Ame is considered to be among the most sacred places on Earth by
the Mojave, Chemehuevi, and some Southern Paiute people. It is also
important to other Tribal Nations and Indigenous Peoples including the
Cocopah, Halchidhoma, Havasupai, Hopi, Hualapai, Kumeyaay, Maricopa, Pai
Pai, Quechan, Yavapai, and Zuni Tribes. Its scenic peaks include Avi Kwa
Ame (Spirit Mountain), which is designated as a Traditional Cultural
Property on the National Register of Historic Places in recognition of
its religious and cultural importance. The area is also home to one of
the world’s largest Joshua tree forests, and provides continuous habitat
or migration corridors for species such as the desert bighorn sheep,
desert tortoise, and Gila monster.

**<u>Establishing Castner Range National Monument in Texas</u>**

President Biden will also sign a proclamation establishing the Castner
Range National Monument in El Paso, Texas. This action will protect the
cultural, scientific, and historic objects found within the monument’s
boundaries, honor our veterans, servicemembers, and Tribal Nations, and
expand access to outdoor recreation on our public lands. 

Located on Fort Bliss, Castner Range served as a training and testing
site for the U.S. Army during World War II, the Korean War, and the
Vietnam War. The Army ceased training at the site and closed Castner
Range in 1966. Once the area is sufficiently remediated to be safe for
public access, Castner Range will offer unique opportunities for the El
Paso community to experience, explore, and learn from nature. President
Biden is committed to expanding access to nature for underserved
communities that have historically had less access to our public lands,
like those bordering Castner Range. Protecting Castner Range connects
the area with the Franklin Mountains State Park, creating continuous
habitat for wildlife and improved public access for outdoor recreation.
Castner Range also hosts significant cultural sites documenting the
history of Tribal Nations, including the Apache and Pueblo peoples and
the Comanche Nation, Hopi Tribe, and Kiowa Indian Tribe of Oklahoma.

**<u>Directing Consideration of a Sanctuary to Complete Protections for
Waters Around the Pacific Remote Islands</u>**

Consistent with the Biden-Harris Administration’s commitment to
conserving 30% of lands and waters by 2030, the President will sign a
Presidential Memorandum directing the Secretary of Commerce to, using
the National Marine Sanctuaries Act, consider initiating a sanctuary
designation within the next 30 days to expand protections around the
Pacific Remote Islands southwest of Hawaii. Such protections would
encompass areas unaddressed by previous administrations so all areas of
U.S. jurisdiction around the islands, atolls, and reef of the Pacific
Remote Islands will be protected.

The potential new National Marine Sanctuary identified in the Memorandum
would conserve about 770,000 square miles, including the existing
Pacific Remote Islands Marine National Monument and currently
unprotected submerged lands and waters. The region has a rich ancestral
tie to many Native Hawaiian and Pacific Island communities. The process
for a potential sanctuary designation would allow the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to further explore the area’s
scientific, cultural, and ancestral linkages, and tailor its management
accordingly.

The President is also directing the Secretary of the Interior and the
Secretary of Commerce to conduct a public process to work with regional
Indigenous cultural leaders to appropriately rename the existing Pacific
Remote Islands National Monument, and potentially the Islands
themselves, to honor the area’s heritage, ancestral pathways, and
stopping points for Pacific Island voyagers, and to provide posthumous
recognition for young Native Hawaiian men sent to secure U.S.
territorial claim to the islands in the run up to World War II.

**<u>New Federal and Other Actions to Conserve, Restore, and Expand
Access to Lands and Waters</u>**

**Ocean Climate Action Plan:** The Ocean Policy Committee, co-chaired by
the White House Council on Environmental Quality and the White House
Office of Science and Technology Policy, is releasing the first-ever
[United States Ocean Climate Action
Plan](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/03/Ocean-Climate-Action-Plan_Final.pdf),
a groundbreaking roadmap to harness the power of the ocean to advance
immediate, transformational steps to protect ocean health and address
the climate crisis. Acknowledging that there is no path to a healthy and
livable climate without the ocean, the plan outlines new actions on the
Administration’s ocean-climate priorities, including efforts to advance
climate solutions, promote environmental justice, support healthy
communities, and ensure a robust and sustainable ocean economy.

**Wildlife Corridors Guidance:** The White House Council on
Environmental Quality is issuing [new
guidance](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/03/230318-Corridors-connectivity-guidance-memo-final-draft-formatted.pdf)
to Federal agencies on how to better incorporate ecological connectivity
and wildlife corridors into federal planning and decision-making. The
guidance highlights the importance of connectivity across terrestrial,
marine, and freshwater habitats, encouraging collaboration across
management and ownership boundaries with states, Tribes, local
governments, and private land owners. This helps deliver on one of the
America the Beautiful Initiative’s six early focus areas – supporting
collaborative conservation of fish and wildlife habitat and corridors.

**Strengthening the Stewardship of America’s Public Lands: **The
Department of the Interior’s Bureau of Land Management will, in the
coming weeks, seek public input on a proposed rule that will help update
and modernize the agency’s tools and strategies for managing America’s
public lands. With climate change imposing mounting impacts on the
nation’s public lands, and the growing importance of public lands for
recreation and conservation, the proposed rule would help ensure that
the nation’s lands continue to provide abundant and well-connected
wildlife habitat, supply clean drinking water, and power local
economies.  
  
**New Partnership to Protect Military Readiness and Preserve Green
Space:** The Department of the Interior and the Department of Defense
are partnering to allocate $80 million through a combination of the Land
and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) and matching funds from DoD’s
Readiness and Environmental Protection Integration Program (REPI) to
preserve green space around military installations and improve access to
outdoor recreation for millions of Americans. The Departments will make
the funding available to states through a competitive process that could
support projects on Tribal, private, state, or local lands.  
  
**$100 Million Tribal Conservation Funding Pledge:** Today, Native
Americans in Philanthropy, in collaboration with Biodiversity Funders
Group and 15 philanthropies, is launching the Tribal Nations
Conservation Pledge with an initial commitment of more than $100
million. This is a new platform for philanthropic organizations to
support the conservation work of Tribal Nations and public-private
partnerships between the Biden-Harris Administration, Tribes, and
philanthropy. The pledge calls on funders to commit to a self-determined
amount of funding, or a self-determined percentage of annual
programmatic funding, to support the biodiversity and conservation
efforts of Tribes, inter-Tribal organizations, and Tribal consortia.

**America the Beautiful 2022 Annual Report:** The Biden-Harris
Administration is releasing the [2022 America the Beautiful Annual
Report](https://www.doi.gov/sites/doi.gov/files/final-atb-2022-annual-report-508.pdf),
an update on progress made to support locally-led conservation and
restoration efforts and meet the President’s goal to conserve at least
30% of U.S. lands and waters by 2030.  
  
**New Partnership to Accelerate the Conservation of At-Risk Species:**
The Department of the Interior’s U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service,
National Alliance of Forest Owners and the National Council for Air and
Stream Improvement Inc., will announce a memorandum of understanding
which formalizes the Wildlife Conservation Initiative, a collaborative
partnership focused on advancing the conservation of at-risk and listed
species within private working forests nationwide. The announcement
comes as the Department of the Interior celebrates the 50<sup>th</sup>
anniversary of the Endangered Species Act and highlights the landmark
law’s importance in preventing imperiled species’ extinction, promoting
the recovery of wildlife, and conserving the habitats upon which they
depend.   
  
**Wildlife Crossing Pilot Program:** Soon the Federal Highway
Administration and the Department of Transportation will open
applications for the first-of-its-kind $350 million Wildlife Crossings
Pilot Program. The program will build infrastructure that is proven to
improve roadway safety – particularly in rural communities – and bring
down the roughly 200 deaths stemming from more than one million
collisions every year between vehicles and wildlife.

**Nearly $200 Million to Reduce Wildfire Risk to Communities:**
Yesterday the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Forest Service announced
[nearly $200 million in Community Wildfire Defense Grant (CWDG) program
grants](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/20/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-provides-communities-resources-to-bolster-resilience-to-wildfires-in-advance-of-2023-fire-season/)
to communities across the country. Funded by President Biden’s
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the CWDG program is designed to assist
communities, including Tribal communities, non-profit organizations,
state forestry agencies and Alaska Native corporations with planning for
and mitigating wildfire risks to communities and critical infrastructure
as the nation faces an ongoing wildfire crisis.

**State Wildlife Grants:** The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is
distributing [over $56
million](https://www.fws.gov/press-release/2023-03/states-receive-56-million-advance-conservation-efforts-and-protect-vulnerable)
for state fish and wildlife agencies through the State Wildlife Grant
Program to support conservation and stewardship efforts for imperiled
wildlife and their habitats.    
  
**Boating Infrastructure Grants:** The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is
distributing [over $20
million](https://fws.gov/press-release/2023-03/20m-support-boating-infrastructure-local-communities-and-outdoor-recreation)
in grant funding to assist states and territories in the construction,
renovation and maintenance of marinas and other boating facilities for
outdoor recreation. Grants will support projects in 20 states, Puerto
Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands to increase outdoor recreation access
and waterway stewardship.    
  
**Pactola Reservoir Protection:** The U.S. Forest Service and the Bureau
of Land Management announced actions to consider protections for
cultural and natural resources in the [Pactola Reservoir – Rapid Creek
Watershed](https://www.fs.usda.gov/news/releases/bureau-of-land-management-and-usda-forest-service-commit-to-study)
in South Dakota, including drinking water for Rapid City and Ellsworth
Air Force Base, from the adverse impacts of mineral exploration and
development. The Pactola Reservoir is the largest and deepest reservoir
in the Black Hills National Forest, with 14 miles of shoreline and
150-foot depths on 800 acres and provides high quality recreation for
communities and visitors. 

\###
