---
date: '2023-03-09'
published_time: 2023-03-09 12:24:15-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/09/fact-sheet-the-presidents-budget-cuts-the-deficit-by-nearly-3-trillion-over-10-years/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: The President\u2019s Budget Cuts the Deficit by Nearly $3 Trillion\
  \ Over 10\_Years"
---
 
President Biden believes that investing in America, growing the economy
from the bottom up and middle out, lowering costs for families, and
reforming our tax code to reward work and not wealth are economic and
fiscal imperatives. Strong and shared growth that benefits all Americans
isn’t just good for the economy; it will also lead to better fiscal
outcomes. At the same time, President Biden believes that long-term
investments in our Nation and its people should be paid for. And his
Budgets
[have](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/05/budget_fy22.pdf)
[consistently](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/03/budget_fy2023.pdf)
paid for all of his investments and improved the Nation’s fiscal
outlook.

The President took office after his predecessor signed into law a
reckless and unpaid for tax cut that was skewed to the wealthy and large
corporations, adding [nearly $2
trillion](https://www.cbo.gov/publication/53787) to the deficit. He also
inherited a poorly managed pandemic response. The President has taken a
different, responsible approach. He enacted a bold agenda to rescue the
economy and get the American people vaccinated. Because of the strength
of the recovery and responsible winding down of emergency programs, the
deficit fell by [$1.7
trillion](https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/briefing-room/2022/10/21/joint-statement-of-janet-l-yellen-secretary-of-the-treasury-and-shalanda-d-young-director-of-the-office-of-management-and-budget-on-budget-results-for-fiscal-year-2022/)
in the first two years of the Biden-Harris Administration compared to
the year before the President took office. And the Inflation Reduction
Act that the President signed into law last year will reduce the deficit
by [more than $200 billion](https://www.cbo.gov/publication/58455) over
the next decade, relative to deficit projections without that law.

Building on that record of fiscal responsibility, the President’s Budget
improves the fiscal outlook by reducing the deficit by nearly $3
trillion over the next decade. The Budget achieves this deficit
reduction while lowering costs for families, investing in our economy
and our future, and protecting the most vulnerable Americans because it
proposes tax reforms to ensure the wealthy and large corporations pay
their fair share and tackles wasteful special interest giveaways.

**<u>Improving the Nation’s Fiscal Outlook</u>**

The President’s Budget improves the Nation’s fiscal outlook and reduces
long-term fiscal risks by reducing the deficit, stabilizing deficits as
a share of the economy, and keeping the economic burden of debt within
historical norms. Specifically, the Budget reduces the deficit by nearly
$3 trillion over the next decade, compared to deficits without the
President’s policies. The deficit reduction in the Budget increases over
time, with $500 billion of deficit reduction in 2033.

The Budget also reduces the deficit, as a share of the economy, from
current levels. Under the Budget policies, the deficit would decline
over the next several years, stabilizing at around five percent of the
economy throughout the remainder of the 10-year window. This compares to
deficits increasing to around 6 percent without the President’s
policies.

Finally, under the President’s Budget, the economic burden of debt would
remain in line with historical norms over the next decade. Real net
interest as a share of the economy directly measures the cost of
servicing the debt: resources that must go towards paying off old debt
rather than investing in the future or providing services to Americans
now. The Budget forecast takes into account recent increases in interest
rates and projected future increases in line with private-sector
forecasters. Nonetheless, the Budget keeps real net interest payments as
a share of the economy at or below the average for the last several
decades, around 1 percent of GDP, and well below the 2 percent level of
the 1990s. 

**<u>Reducing the Deficit by Making the Tax System Fairer and Ending
Special Interest Giveaways</u>**

The President believes that the best way to reduce the deficit is to
reform our tax code to reward work and not wealth, ensure that the
largest corporations pay their fair share, and end giveaways to special
interests. For example, the Inflation Reduction Act he signed into law
cracked down on wealthy tax cheats and took critical steps forward in
ensuring that large corporations pay their fair share, including a 15%
corporate minimum tax and a surcharge on large, publicly-traded
corporations that buy back their own stock. The Inflation Reduction Act
will save taxpayers more than $150 billion through reforms that cut what
Medicare pays to Big Pharma.

The Budget builds on this progress and reflects the President’s ironclad
belief that we need to reward work, not wealth—and ensure the wealthiest
Americans and biggest corporations don’t pay lower tax rates than
teachers or firefighters.

To date, Republicans in Congress have put forward a much different
approach, calling for more than [$3
trillion](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/15/fact-sheet-the-congressional-republican-agenda-to-increase-the-debt-by-over-3-trillion/#:~:text=The%20fiscal%20consequences%20of%20the,by%20almost%2010%20percentage%20points.)
in tax giveaways to the rich and large corporations and handouts to
special interests. While they haven’t said how they would pay for those
giveaways and also reduce the deficit, their past proposals have cut
[Social
Security](https://banks.house.gov/uploadedfiles/fy23_budget_final_copy.pdf)
and
[Medicare](https://www.cbpp.org/research/federal-budget/house-gop-budget-retains-tax-cuts-for-the-wealthy-proposes-deep-program),
repealed the [Affordable Care
Act](https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama-health-forum/fullarticle/2761532),
slashed
[Medicaid](https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama-health-forum/fullarticle/2761532),
and made deep cuts to other
[programs](https://www.washingtonpost.com/us-policy/2023/02/19/russ-vought-republican-debt-ceiling-strategy/)
that [drive economic
growth](https://www.reuters.com/world/us/republican-war-woke-policies-creeps-into-us-debt-ceiling-debate-2023-02-27/)
and that seniors, people with disabilities, and families count on.

Instead of making reckless cuts to programs that millions of Americans
count on, the President’s Budget takes the following steps to reduce the
deficit.

***Making the Wealthy Pay Their Fair Share***

-   **Proposing a Minimum Tax on Billionaires**. The tax code currently
    offers special treatment for the types of income that wealthy people
    enjoy. Whereas the wages and salaries that everyday Americans earn
    are taxed as ordinary income, billionaires make their money in ways
    that are taxed at lower rates, and sometimes not taxed at all. This
    special treatment, combined with sophisticated tax planning and
    giant loopholes, allows many of the wealthiest Americans to pay an
    average tax rate of just 8 percent on their full incomes, less than
    many middle-class households pay. To finally address this glaring
    problem, the Budget includes a 25 percent minimum tax on the
    wealthiest 0.01 percent.

<!-- -->

-   **Raising Taxes on the Wealthiest Americans to Improve Medicare
    Hospital Insurance (HI) Trust Fund Solvency by At Least 25 Years**.
    The Budget includes key reforms to the tax code to ensure
    high-income individuals pay their fair share into the Medicare HI
    trust fund. Specifically, it closes the loophole that allows some
    wealthy investors with passthrough businesses to avoid paying the
    tax on their investments that everyone else pays, and it directs
    that tax into the HI trust fund as was originally intended. It also
    raises the tax rate that households earning more than $400,000 per
    year pay into the Medicare trust fund – by just 1.2 percentage
    points. These reforms will extend the life of the trust fund without
    cutting any benefits, or raising costs for beneficiaries.

<!-- -->

-   **Repealing the Trump Tax Cuts for the Wealthy and Reforms Capital
    Gains Tax to Ensure the Wealthy Pay Their Fair Share.** The 2017 tax
    law lowered tax rates for the wealthiest Americans,
    [delivering](https://www.taxpolicycenter.org/model-estimates/individual-income-tax-provisions-tax-cuts-and-jobs-act-tcja-february-2018/t18-0025)
    an average tax cut of more than $50,000 for the top 1% and more than
    $190,000 for the top 0.1%. The Budget repeals those cuts, restoring
    the top tax rate of 39.6 percent for those making more than $400,000
    a year. It also proposes taxing capital gains at the same rate as
    wage income for those with more than $1 million in income, closing
    the capital gains loophole that allows the wealthy to avoid ever
    paying tax on their appreciated investments, and finally closing the
    carried interest loophole that allows some wealthy investment fund
    managers to pay tax at lower rates than their secretaries.

***Making Large Corporations Pay Their Fair Share***

-   **Reversing the Trump Tax Giveaway to Large Corporations**. The
    Budget includes an increase to the rate that corporations pay in
    taxes on their profits. Corporations received an enormous tax break
    in 2017, cutting effective tax rates for corporations to an average
    of [7.8 percent in
    2018](https://www.jct.gov/publications/2021/jcx-16r-21/), compared
    to 16 percent in 2016. While their
    [profits](https://www.brookings.edu/wp-content/uploads/2021/07/20210628_TPC_GaleHaldeman_TCJASupplySideEffectsReport_FINAL.pdf)
    have soared, their [investment in the economy did
    not](https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=&ved=2ahUKEwjjs4eXjOz5AhUKFVkFHTI-B_oQFnoECAgQAQ&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.imf.org%2F-%2Fmedia%2FFiles%2FPublications%2FWP%2F2019%2FWPIEA2019120.ashx&usg=AOvVaw29pz8TcBSuOvzVM7ywjcM_). 
    Their shareholders and top executives reaped the benefits, without
    the promised trickle down to workers, consumers, or communities. The
    Budget would set the corporate tax rate at 28 percent, still well
    below the 35 percent rate that prevailed prior to the 2017 tax law.
    This tax rate change is complemented by other proposals to
    incentivize job creation and investment in the United States and
    ensure large corporations pay their fair share.

<!-- -->

-   **Stopping the Race to the Bottom in International Corporate Tax and
    Ending Tax Breaks for Offshoring**. For decades, countries have
    competed for multinational business by slashing tax rates, at the
    expense of having adequate revenues to finance core services. Thanks
    in part to the Administration’s leadership, more than 130 nations
    signed on to a global tax framework to finally address this race to
    the bottom. Building on that framework, the Budget proposes to
    reform the international tax system to reduce the incentives to book
    profits in low-tax jurisdictions, stop corporate inversions to tax
    havens, and raise the tax rate on U.S. multinationals’ foreign
    earnings from 10.5% to 21%. These reforms will ensure that
    profitable multinational corporations pay their fair share.

***Ending Wasteful Spending to Special Interests***

-   **Expand Medicare’s Ability to Negotiate Drug Prices.** The IRA
    finally gave Medicare the power to negotiate with drug companies on
    the high prices they charge for prescription drugs, and the Budget
    builds on that progress. The Budget cuts Federal spending by $160
    billion: increasing the number of drugs Medicare can select for
    negotiation and bringing more drugs into the negotiation process
    sooner. (All estimates are for savings over 10 years.) These reforms
    will not only cut costs for the Federal government; they will also
    save billions of dollars for seniors.

<!-- -->

-   **Expand the IRA’s Requirement that Drug Companies Pay Rebates When
    They Increase Prices Faster than Inflation.** Thanks to the IRA,
    drug manufacturers must now pay rebates to Medicare if their price
    increases for certain drugs exceed inflation. The Budget builds on
    the IRA by requiring rebates for commercial drug sales, as well as
    sales to Medicare. That will save the Federal Government $40
    billion, further curb prescription drug price inflation, and reduce
    health insurance premiums for people with private health insurance
    coverage. 

<!-- -->

-   **Eliminating Tax Subsidies for Oil and Gas.** The President is
    committed to ending tens of billions of dollars of Federal subsidies
    for oil and gas companies, leveling the playing field for clean
    energy. Oil companies had record profits in 2022 and undertook
    record stock buybacks that benefited executives and wealthy
    shareholders, all while continuing to benefit from tax subsidies
    worth billions of dollars. The Budget eliminates special treatment
    for oil and gas company investments, as well as other tax
    preferences. 

<!-- -->

-   **Lower Medicaid Spending by Addressing Excessive Payments to
    Medicaid Managed Care Organizations.** The Budget will lower
    Medicaid costs by over $20 billion by requiring that insurance
    companies that are charging Medicaid far more than they actually
    spend on patient care pay back some of the excess. Currently, only
    about half of states require private insurance companies that
    provide Medicaid coverage to pay money back when they realize
    outsize profits. ** **Without this requirement, insurance companies
    are keeping  [millions of
    dollars](https://oig.hhs.gov/oei/reports/OEI-03-20-00230.pdf) each
    year in excessive payments. The Budget would apply this requirement
    nationwide, consistent with similar requirements in Medicare
    Advantage and Affordable Care Act plans. With it, insurance
    companies will no longer be able to charge for unnecessary
    administrative expenses or sacrifice quality care to increase their
    profit margins, and if they charge too much, they will have to pay
    it back to the Medicaid program rather than keeping the profits and,
    in some cases, making larger payments to shareholders.

<!-- -->

-   **Eliminate Tax Subsidies for Real Estate.** The Budget saves $19
    billion by closing the “like-kind exchange” loophole, a special tax
    subsidy for real estate. This loophole lets real estate investors
    put off paying tax on profits from real estate deals indefinitely as
    long as they keep investing in real estate. This amounts to an
    indefinite interest free loan from the government. Real estate is
    the only asset that gets this sweetheart deal.

<!-- -->

-   **Eliminate Tax Subsidies for Cryptocurrency Transactions.** The
    Budget saves $24 billion by eliminating a special tax subsidy for
    crypto currency and certain other transactions. Right now, crypto
    investors aren’t subject to the same rules of the road that
    investors in stocks or other securities have to follow, allowing
    them to report excessive losses. For example, a crypto investor –
    unlike an investor in stocks or bonds – can sell a cryptocurrency at
    a loss, take a substantial tax loss to reduce their tax burden, and
    then buy back that same cryptocurrency the very next day. The Budget
    eliminates this tax subsidy for crypto currencies by modernizing the
    tax code’s anti-abuse rules to apply to crypto assets just like they
    apply to stocks and other securities.

**\###**
