---
date: '2023-03-21'
modified_time: 2023-03-20 20:13:14-04:00
published_time: 2023-03-21 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/21/fact-sheet-president-biden-designates-avi-kwa-ame-national-monument/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Designates Avi Kwa Ame National\_Monument"
---
 
*Nevada Landscape Is Sacred to Indigenous Peoples, Protects One of
World’s Largest Joshua Tree Forests and Connects Wildlife Habitat*

As part of the Biden-Harris Administration’s commitment to protect
historically and scientifically important sites, honor culturally
significant areas, and conserve and restore our country’s treasured
outdoor spaces, today President Biden will sign a proclamation
establishing the Avi Kwa Ame National Monument. This designation will
honor Tribal Nations and Indigenous peoples by protecting this sacred
Nevada landscape and its historically and scientifically important
features, while conserving our public lands and growing America’s
outdoor recreation economy.

Avi Kwa Ame is considered to be among the most sacred places on Earth by
the Mojave, Chemehuevi, and some Southern Paiute people. It is also
important to other Tribal Nations and Indigenous Peoples including the
Cocopah, Halchidhoma, Havasupai, Hopi, Hualapai, Kumeyaay, Maricopa, Pai
Pai, Quechan, Yavapai, and Zuni Tribes. Its scenic peaks include Avi Kwa
Ame (Spirit Mountain), which is designated as a Traditional Cultural
Property on the National Register of Historic Places in recognition of
its religious and cultural importance. The area is also home to the one
of the world’s largest Joshua tree forests, and provides continuous
habitat or migration corridors for species such as the desert bighorn
sheep, desert tortoise, and Gila monster.   

At the White House Conservation in Action Summit today, the President
will announce additional actions to conserve and restore lands and
waters across the nation, including establishing Castner Range National
Monument in Texas. The President will also direct the Secretary of
Commerce to consider exercising her authority to protect all U.S. waters
around the Pacific Remote Islands. These new commitments build on
President Biden’s record of delivering on the most ambitious land and
water conservation agenda in American history.  

The Biden-Harris Administration is committed to honoring Tribal
sovereignty, protecting Tribal homelands, and conducting regular,
meaningful, and robust consultation with Tribal Nations. Today’s action
builds on the President’s commitment to protect America’s lands and
waters through the Administration’s America the Beautiful Initiative,
which supports locally-led conservation efforts across the country in
pursuit of the U.S.’s first national conservation goal.

**Avi Kwa Ame National Monument**

The Avi Kwa Ame National Monument protects and preserves the rich
ecological, historic, cultural, and scenic values of this unique desert
landscape. The monument designation protects sacred space for spiritual
uses, including Spirit Mountain, which is central to the creation story
of many Tribal Nations, while ensuring continued access to hunting,
camping, hiking, OHV use, photography, and other recreational
activities. The natural springs, natural soundscapes, and dark skies
protected within the monument will support Nevada’s outdoor recreation
economy, while safeguarding these historically and scientifically
important treasures for generations to come.

The designation of the new national monument creates one of the largest
contiguous areas of protected wildlife habitat in the United States,
tying together the protected lands of the Mojave Desert in California to
the southwest with the Lake Mead National Recreation Area and other
protected areas to the east near the Colorado River. Avi Kwa Ame and the
surrounding landscape provide native species – including desert bighorn
sheep, Gila monsters, desert tortoises, and Arizona toads – a space to
thrive and adapt amid the pressures of a changing climate. The
designation also provides protection to an ancient and intact Joshua
tree forest that contains Nevada’s largest Joshua tree.

To help sustain the health of wildlife populations in Avi Kwa Ame, the
national monument proclamation recognizes and reaffirms the State of
Nevada’s ongoing primary role in the management of wildlife within the
monument. Hunting, trapping, wildlife watching, aerial surveys, wildlife
infrastructure installation and maintenance, and a wide range of other
wildlife management activities will continue to be allowed within the
national monument. The proclamation further directs the Interior
Department to build on its ongoing partnership with the Nevada
Department of Wildlife to explore developing a memorandum of
understanding to further improve these collaborative efforts.

Recognizing the critical role that sportsmen and sportswomen have played
historically – and continue to play – in restoring and conserving
bighorn sheep and other wildlife populations in southern Nevada, the
proclamation requires representation from the sportsmen and sportswomen
community on a monument advisory committee.

Consistent with direction in the proclamation, the Interior Department
will enter into a memorandum of understanding with Tribal Nations to
carry out co-stewardship of the monument and will work with local
communities to locate and develop a visitor center and other visitor
facilities.

The national monument designation recognizes and respects valid existing
rights. The proclamation specifies that maintenance and upgrades to
water infrastructure for flood control, utilities, water district
facilities, wildlife water catchments, and other uses may continue; and
that transmission lines, pipelines, and roads can continue to be
maintained and upgraded. The proclamation allows for military,
commercial, and private flights in and out of existing or future
airports in the area. It also does not change the class II air quality
designation for the area or affect the State’s authority over
administering air quality designations.

The national monument spans approximately 506,814 acres of lands managed
by the Interior Department’s Bureau of Land Management, Bureau of
Reclamation, and National Park Service. All of the land reserved by the
proclamation is currently owned by the Federal government; existing
State and private lands within the boundary are not included in the
monument. 

The designation will not slow the positive momentum of clean energy
development in the State of Nevada, which will continue to play a
leading role in helping the nation meet its goal of permitting 25
gigawatts (GW) of renewable energy by 2025. Outside of the national
monument boundaries, the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) has identified
more than 9 million acres of public lands within the State of Nevada
that may be appropriate for solar development. Additionally, BLM is
currently reviewing more than three dozen proposed renewable energy
projects in the state that would add more than 13 GW of potential clean
energy generation to the grid if constructed.

**Background on Antiquities Act Designations**

President Theodore Roosevelt first used the Antiquities Act in 1906 to
designate Devils Tower National Monument in Wyoming. Since then, 18
presidents of both parties, including recent Presidents Trump, Obama,
G.W. Bush, and Clinton have used this authority to protect unique
natural and historic features in America, including the Grand Canyon,
the Statue of Liberty, and Colorado’s Canyons of the Ancients.

In addition to designating Avi Kwa Ame National Monument, today the
President is also taking action to establish Castner Range National
Monument in Texas. These are President Biden’s second and third new
monument designations, following the creation of the Camp
Hale-Continental Divide National Monument in Colorado last fall.

\###
