---
date: '2023-03-29'
modified_time: 2023-03-28 22:33:54-04:00
published_time: 2023-03-29 05:01:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/29/joint-statement-by-president-biden-and-president-yoon-on-the-third-summit-for-democracy/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Joint Statement by President\_Biden and President Yoon on the Third Summit\
  \ for\_Democracy"
---
 
The United States and the Republic of Korea share deep bonds, rooted in
our common democratic values and respect for human rights, and we are
committed to further strengthening our robust political, economic,
security, and people-to-people ties.  
  
As a reflection of this work, we are looking forward to co-hosting the
second Summit for Democracy today to continue building the connections
among democracies, so that we can better deliver for the needs of our
people and the world. And today, we are announcing that the Republic of
Korea will host a future, third Summit.    
  
The Republic of Korea’s democratic institutions are a beacon of strength
in the Indo-Pacific and demonstrate to the world that democracy fosters
the conditions needed to cultivate continued security and prosperity. In
recent years, the Republic of Korea has emerged as a global leader, in
no small part because of the enduring commitment of the Korean people to
increasing governmental transparency, ensuring effective checks and
balances, and developing laws that are responsive to public needs.  
  
Since 2021, the Summit for Democracy process has brought together
hundreds of leaders from governments, civil society, and the private
sector committed to strengthening democratic governance, protecting
human rights, and advancing the fight against corruption.  
  
Participating governments have made hundreds of commitments to reform
laws and policies, bolster transparent and accountable institutions, and
contribute additional support to democratic reformers, journalists, and
activists. Non-governmental organizations have used the Summit for
Democracy platform to expand their own vital work of protecting the most
vulnerable and holding their leaders to account. Corporations have taken
action to improve democratic resilience through their business practices
and engagement with workers, communities, and other stakeholders.  
  
Strengthening transparent, accountable governance rooted in the consent
of the governed is a fundamental imperative of our time. Cooperation
among strong, resilient democracies is essential to tackling the world’s
greatest challenges: safeguarding shared security and prosperity,
addressing the climate crisis, promoting global health and pandemic
preparedness, and ensuring new and emerging technologies work for, and
not against, democratic societies.    
  
We are proud to continue our work together to ensure that the momentum
built by the first two Summits for Democracy will continue into the
future and reflect this effort’s global leadership.

\###
