---
date: '2023-03-16'
published_time: 2023-03-16 21:48:48-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/16/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-top-three-insulin-producers-lowering-prices/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on Top Three Insulin Producers Lowering\_\
  Prices"
---
 
As of this afternoon, all three of the leading insulin producers in
America have agreed to substantially reduce their prices, following my
calls to expand my $35 cap for seniors to all Americans. Sanofi is the
latest company to recognize that charging hundreds of dollars for
insulin that costs $10 to produce is just wrong, especially when the
lives of so many children, parents, and grandparents depend on it.

My administration is working every day to bring working people and
families more breathing room, and we won’t stop. Congress should still
pass legislation to ensure everybody can get insulin for no more than
$35 per month, along with a Junk Fee Prevention Act, and legislation to
make childcare more affordable and accessible.

What Congress should not do is repeal laws like the Inflation Reduction
Act, which would represent one of the biggest Medicare benefit cuts in
history and raise costs for prescription drugs, health coverage, and
home energy—all to give billionaires a tax cut.

Where Congress won’t work with me, I will continue to speak out and act
on my own, just as I have to give millions of families life-changing
breathing room on insulin costs. After the strongest two years of job
growth and new small business applications in history, and with real
progress against the inflation affecting countries around the world, I
am more optimistic than ever that America’s best days are ahead.

\###
