---
date: '2023-03-10'
modified_time: 2023-03-10 16:58:07-05:00
published_time: 2023-03-10 15:45:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/10/strongpresident-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-boards-and-commissions-strong/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to Boards and\_Commissions"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint the
following individuals as members to the Advisory Committee for Trade
Policy and Negotiations:

-   Revathi Advaithi
-   Manish Bapna
-   Timothy Michael Broas
-   Thomas M. Conway
-   Erica R.H. Fuchs
-   Marlon E. Kimpson
-   Ryan LeGrand
-   Kerman Maddox
-   Sean M. O’Brien
-   Javier Saade
-   Shonda Yvette Scott
-   Elizabeth Shuler
-   Nina Szlosberg-Landis
-   Wendell P. Weeks

**<u>Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations</u>**

The Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations is an advisory
committee established to provide overall policy advice to the United
States Trade Representative on matters arising in connection with the
development, implementation, and administration of the trade policy of
the United States including negotiating objectives and bargaining
positions before entering into trade agreements, the impact of the
implementation of trade agreements, matters concerning the operation of
any trade agreement once entered into, and other matters arising in
connection with the development, implementation, and administration of
the trade policy of the United States. The Committee includes up to 45
members recommended by the U.S. Trade Representative who are appointed
by the President and have expertise in general trade, investment, and
development issues, including representatives of non-federal
governments, labor, industry, agriculture, small business, service
industries, retailers, nongovernmental environmental and conservation
organizations, and consumer interests.

**Revathi Advaithi**

Revathi Advaithi is Chief Executive Officer of Flex, the global
manufacturing partner of choice that helps a diverse customer base
design and build products to improve the world. Since assuming the role
in 2019, Advaithi has been responsible for architecting the company’s
strategic direction and leading Flex through a transformation that is
defining a new era in manufacturing. Advaithi is focused on driving
technology innovation, supply chain, and responsible, sustainable
manufacturing solutions across various industries and end markets.

Prior to Flex, Advaithi was President and Chief Operating Officer for
the electrical sector business for Eaton, a company with over $20
billion in sales and 102,000 employees. She had corporate responsibility
for the Europe, Middle East, and Africa regions. Previously, Advaithi
was President of Eaton’s electrical sector, Americas, and was
responsible for North, South, and Central America. In addition to her
time at Eaton, she worked at Honeywell for six years. Advaithi is a
Co-Chair of the World Economic Forum (WEF) Advanced Manufacturing CEO
Community and joined the WEF Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders. She serves
on the Board of Directors of Uber and Catalyst.org. Advaithi was
recognized on *Fortune*’s Most Powerful Women in Business list for four
consecutive years and named one of *Business Today*’s Most Powerful
Women in India. She holds a bachelor’s degree in mechanical engineering
from the Birla Institute of Technology and Science and an MBA from the
Thunderbird School of Global Management.

**Manish Bapna**

Manish Bapna is President and CEO of the Natural Resources Defense
Council (NRDC). NRDC has been behind many of the most significant
environmental milestones of the last half century—from the creation of
bedrock environmental laws, to landmark legal victories, and
foundational research. Today, its staff of more than 750 policy
analysts, lawyers, and scientists—backed by the power of more than 3
million members and online activists—are standing up for climate,
nature, health, and equity in the United States and around the world.
During his 25-year career, Bapna’s leadership roles have focused on
tackling the root causes of poverty and climate change with strategies
that are equitable, durable, and scalable. Most recently, he served as
Executive Vice President and Managing Director of the World Resources
Institute, a research organization focused on the intersection of the
environment and human development, for more than 14 years. An economist
by training, he got his start at McKinsey & Company and the World Bank
before pursuing a career in advocacy at the Bank Information Center. He
has master’s degrees in Business and Political and Economic Development
from Harvard University and a bachelor’s degree in Electrical
Engineering from MIT.

**Timothy Michael Broas**

Tim Broas, a resident of Maryland, is currently Senior Of Counsel at the
Washington, D.C. office of the law firm Wilson, Sonsini, Goodrich, &
Rosati. He practices in the Government Investigations group at the firm,
representing and advising clients that are undergoing judicial and
regulatory investigations and enforcement. During the first term of the
Obama-Biden Administration, Broas served on the Board of Trustees of the
Wilson Center of International Scholars. He was then nominated by
President Obama to serve as U.S. Ambassador to the Kingdom of the
Netherlands, and he served as Chief of Mission in The Hague from 2014 to
2016. In recognition of his service, Broas was awarded the Distinguished
Public Service Award by the Department of the Navy, the highest award
given by the Secretary of the Navy to a civilian.

Broas serves on the Boards of Trustees of Partners in Health, Humanity
in Action, The Hague Institute, the Netherlands America Foundation, and
the Stanford Center on Longevity. Broas graduated *magna cum laude* from
Boston College, with a Bachelor of Arts in Economics and History, and he
received his J.D. from the College of William & Mary School of Law.

**Thomas M. Conway**

Thomas M. Conway has served as International President of the United
Steelworkers (USW) union since 2019. He became an activist in USW Local
6787 in 1978 when he went to work at the Burns Harbor Works of Bethlehem
Steel. While working as a millwright in the coke plant, Conway served as
a griever for plant-wide maintenance and was a member of the safety and
contracting-out committees. He served as USW staff and was elected as
USW International Vice President in 2005.

During his tenure as International Vice President, Conway became the
union’s most experienced contract negotiator in steel, aluminum, oil,
and other major industries where USW members work, often directing
bargaining during crises. While heading the union’s work with the
Alliance for American Manufacturing, Conway demanded that the government
enforce U.S. trade laws to prevent importation of unfairly traded,
subsidized, and dumped products that damage domestic industries and
destroy good-paying American jobs. He is now leading the charge in
organizing more workers into the labor movement, extending the benefits
of union representation to workers in a variety of fields from
manufacturing to higher education.

**Erica R.H. Fuchs**

Dr. Erica R.H. Fuchs is a Professor in the Department of Engineering and
Public Policy at Carnegie Mellon University, and by courtesy in the
Department of Materials Science and Engineering, and the Heinz College
of Information Systems and Public Policy. Fuchs is also a Research
Associate with the National Bureau of Economic Research. Fuchs’ research
focuses on the development, commercialization, and global manufacturing
of emerging technologies, and national policy in that context. Fuchs is
the founding Director of Carnegie Mellon’s Critical Technology Strategy
Initiative – an initiative spanning Carnegie Mellon’s schools of
engineering, computer science, and the Heinz College of Information
Systems and Public Policy. She is also the Director of the one-year, $4
million pilot National Network for Critical Technology Assessment, which
is funded by the National Science Foundation’s Technology, Innovation,
and Partnerships Office., involving academic thought-leaders from 13
Tier I research universities across the country. Fuchs grew up and
attended K-12 in the Reading Public School District in Reading, PA. She
received both her Bachelor’s in Materials Science and Engineering,
Master’s in Technology Policy, and her Ph.D. in Engineering Systems from
MIT. She has testified in Congressional hearings in both the House and
Senateand had her work covered, among other places, by National Public
Radio, *Bloomberg*, and the *New York Times*.

**Marlon E. Kimpson**

As a partner with Motley Rice LLC, Marlon E. Kimpson represents
individuals, state and municipality pension funds, multi-employer plans,
unions, and other institutional investors in securities fraud class
actions and on mergers and acquisition cases, seeking asset recovery,
and improved corporate governance. He also has represented a variety of
clients in civil litigation including personal injury and wrongful death
victims and families devastated by air crash accidents. In addition to
his law practice, Kimpson was elected to the South Carolina State Senate
in the general election in October 2013 and again in November 2020. As
the resident Senator for Mother Emanuel AME Church, Kimpson was a
sponsor and one of the floor leaders of the bill that removed the
Confederate flag from the South Carolina State House grounds. In 2017,
Kimpson received the Johnnie L. Cochran, Jr. Soaring Eagle Award by the
American Association of Justice.

A frequent speaker, Kimpson has presented at conferences across the
country, including the Public Funds Summit, the National Association of
State Treasurers, the National Conference on Public Employee Retirement
Systems, and the National Association of Securities Professionals.
Kimpson is active in the community, serving as a lifetime member of the
NAACP, member of Omega Psi Phi Fraternity, Incorporated, and the Sigma
Pi Phi Boulé. He is a member of Morris Brown AME in downtown Charleston.
Kimpson graduated from Morehouse College and received his J.D. from the
University of South Carolina School of Law. Kimpson has two young
children, Marleigh and Marlon Davis.

**Ryan LeGrand**

Ryan LeGrand serves as the President and CEO for the U.S. Grains
Council, a non-profit organization that promotes the global use of U.S.
barley, corn, sorghum, and related products including ethanol and
distiller’s dried grains with solubles (DDGS).

LeGrand joined the Council in 2015 as the Assistant Director and then
Director of the Council’s Mexico office where he identified and
addressed all relevant trade, technical, and policy-related factors
relevant to building and maintaining the market for U.S. grains and
co-products in Mexico. Before joining the Council, LeGrand worked for
Gavilon as the Director of Ingredients, located in Guadalajara, Mexico.
In this capacity, he managed the company’s feed ingredients trading,
import, and distribution throughout Mexico. LeGrand also served as the
Director of Exports for Hawkeye Gold, LLC, where he exported DDGS to
Latin America and Asia, and began his career as an Export Merchandiser
with Garvey International. LeGrand earned a bachelor’s degree from
Oklahoma State University in International Business.

**Kerman Maddox**

Kerman Maddox is President and majority owner of K&R Hospitality, an
ACDBE food and beverage concession business and Managing Partner of
Dakota Communications, a strategic planning and communication consulting
firm. As a small business owner, Maddox is keenly aware of the daily
challenges small businesses face retaining customers, controlling
expenses, managing employees, negotiating contracts, responding to
regulatory challenges, and navigating changing political environments.
Maddox is a member of Los Angeles Mayor Karen Bass’ transition team and
serves on the transition team’s Small Business Committee. Maddox
develops strategic planning, management, and communications programs for
corporations, small businesses, governmental agencies, faith-based
institutions, foundations, and academic institutions.

Maddox was an adjunct professor of Political Science at the University
of Southern California and a full time Political Science professor for
the Los Angeles Community College District. Maddox was an appointee to
the Executive Committee of the Democratic National Committee by
President Barack Obama. Maddox is a graduate of Cal Poly Pomona, USC,
and the Coro Foundation’s Leadership Training Institute. He is an active
member at First AME Church Los Angeles, where he received the church’s
Outstanding Community Service Award, the NAACP’s Youth Council Mentor
Award and the Greater Los Angeles African American Chambers Businessman
of the Year award. Maddox has won two Emmy Awards from the Academy of
Television Arts and Sciences and a Golden Mike Award from the Radio and
Television News Association of Southern California. Maddox lives in Los
Angeles and is married to Attorney Capri Maddox, and they have one son.

**Sean M. O’Brien**

Sean M. O’Brien is a fourth-generation Teamster and General President of
the 1.2 million-member International Brotherhood of Teamsters. In March
2022, O’Brien took office as the union’s 11th General President. O’Brien
is committed to winning and defending strong national contracts,
organizing new members, and aggressively taking on employers. He is
focused on mobilizing rank-and-file Teamsters through education and
increased engagement—traveling extensively to visit with members at
worksites throughout the country.

O’Brien joined Teamsters Local 25 in Charlestown, Massachusetts, at the
age of 18, working in the rigging industry as a heavy-equipment driver
in the Greater Boston area. O’Brien became a business agent in 2001 and,
in 2006, the youngest President in Local 25’s 128-year history. Under
his leadership, Local 25’s membership increased by more than 30 percent.
In 2011, he was elected Eastern Region Vice President of the
International Brotherhood of Teamsters. O’Brien is the proud father of
two sons, Sean Jr. and Joseph.

**Javier Saade**

Javier Saade has decades of experience as an investor, operating
executive, entrepreneur, board member, and policymaker. He is Managing
Partner of Impact Master Holdings, Venture Partner at Fenway Summer, and
serves or recently served on the boards of SoftBank Vision Fund
Investment Corp, GP Funding, Inc, Porch Group, The Nature Conservancy,
Pan American Development Foundation, and Harvard University’s Arthur
Rock Center for Entrepreneurship. He also held seats on the Global Board
of Advisors of Docusign, Inc. and the Corporate Responsibility Board of
Univision, and is a CNBC contributor.

Saade served as Associate Administrator, Chief of Investment &
Innovation of the U.S. Small Business Administration, Member of the
Committee on Small and Emerging Companies of the U.S. Securities &
Exchange Commission, and Member of President Biden’s Transition Team
focused on the Department of the Treasury. Before public service, he
spent 20 years at organizations that include McKinsey & Company,
Bridgewater Associates, Booz Allen & Hamilton, Abbott Laboratories, and
Air America Media, a company he co-founded. He holds an MBA from Harvard
Business School, an MS in Operations & Technology from Illinois
Institute of Technology, and a BS in Industrial Management from Purdue
University.

**Shonda Yvette Scott**

Shonda Yvette Scott is a distinguished business leader, entrepreneur,
and small business advocate. As Founder and CEO of 360 Total Concept
Inc., Scott has over twenty years of business management experience and
has assisted major municipalities, real estate developers, and
corporations to build their diversity and equity strategies developing
programs for the betterment of the community. Programs implemented by
Scott have led to the reinvestment of dollars into historically
underutilized communities, providing economic equity focused solutions
for small businesses on major infrastructure and capital programs.

Scott has worked with some of the largest capital programs and key
industry leaders in the country, assisting in building contractor
diversity, equity, and inclusion on projects. She has a reputation for
leading with integrity and fairness as she bridges relationships between
industry giants and small businesses. Recognized nationally as an
award-winning entrepreneur, Scott was inducted into the Alameda County
Women’s Hall of Fame. She has served on many boards and organizations,
including the Advisory Minority Aviation Council Foundation, Conference
of Minority Transportation Officials – Women Who Move the Nation, Black
Women in Business for Biden, the Democratic National Committee’s
Platform Committee, and African American Leadership Council. Scott also
led an international trade mission which focused on increasing bilateral
business ties with small, diverse U.S. businesses. A native of Oakland,
California, Scott earned her Bachelor of Arts Degree from the University
of California, Los Angeles.

**Elizabeth Shuler**

Elizabeth H. Shuler is President of the AFL-CIO, a federation of 59
unions, 12.5 million working people across all sectors of the U.S.
economy. She is the first woman to hold the office of president in the
history of the labor federation. A visionary leader and longtime trade
unionist, Shuler believes the labor movement is a powerful vehicle for
progress and that unions are a central force in leading lasting societal
transformations. Her leadership has focused on the future of work, clean
energy economy, workforce development, and empowering women and young
workers. She is committed to leveraging the labor movement’s diversity
and power to advance social and economic justice, and to making the
benefits of a union voice on the job available to working people
everywhere.

**Nina Szlosberg-Landis**

Nina Szlosberg-Landis is a respected civic leader with a wide range of
experience. Currently, she serves as a director on the Raleigh-Durham
Airport Authority Board which has oversight of the agency’s $250 million
annual budget. With more than 600 daily departures and arrivals, the
airport serves approximately 15 million people and 100,000 tons of cargo
annually. Previously, Szlosberg-Landis served four terms under three
Governors as an At-large member and first female Vice Chair of the North
Carolina Board of Transportation, responsible for oversight of the
department’s five-billion-dollar multi-modal transportation program.
While there she established and chaired the Board’s Environment Planning
and Policy Committee, and chaired both the Multi-Modal and Advanced
Technology Committees and was Vice Chair of the Board’s Finance
Committee.

Szlosberg-Landis also served on the Triangle Region’s transit authority
board and on the Transportation Advisory Committees of the region’s two
federally mandated Metropolitan Planning Organizations. She also served
as a Director on the Board of the North Carolina Railroad Company. In
2003, Szlosberg-Landis was honored to be selected as an Eisenhower
Fellow and traveled in the European Union, where she studied
transportation-land use policy, with an emphasis on environmental
protection and sustainability. She remains in the Eisenhower Fellow
International Network today. Szlosberg-Landis also serves on the Board
of the North Carolina League of Conservation Voters and has served on
the national board of the Environmental Defense Action Fund.
Szlosberg-Landis is retired from a profession in communications with
more than 30 years of experience in broadcasting, media production,
community relations, and social advocacy.

**Wendell P. Weeks**

Wendell P. Weeks has served as the Chief Executive Officer of Corning
Incorporated, a glass and materials science innovator, since April 2005
and Chairman of the Board of Directors since April 2007. He has held a
variety of financial, commercial, business development, and general
management positions across Corning’s market access platforms and
technologies since he joined the company in 1983. He also has earned 34
U.S. patents.

Weeks is a graduate of Lehigh University and earned a Master of Business
Administration from Harvard University as a Baker Scholar. He serves on
the board of directors at Amazon.com Inc. and on the board of trustees
for the Corning Museum of Glass and the Institute for Advanced Study. He
is a member of the Liveris Academy Honorary Board.

\###
