---
date: '2023-03-26'
modified_time: 2023-03-26 11:16:54-04:00
published_time: 2023-03-26 12:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/26/what-they-are-reading-in-the-states-biden-harris-administration-is-investing-in-america-local-communities-reap-benefits/
tags: statements-releases
title: "What They Are Reading in the States: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration is\
  \ Investing in America; Local Communities Reap\_Benefits"
---
 
The Biden-Harris Administration is delivering historic investments to
communities across the country, growing our economy from the middle-out
and bottom-up, not top-down. This week, as a result of President Biden’s
Investing in America agenda, multiple manufacturing companies announced
new investments that will create hundreds of good-paying jobs, and the
Administration announced significant actions to implement the historic
legislation President Biden signed into law that is creating economic
opportunity for hardworking American families.

Prompted by the Inflation Reduction act, this week LG Energy and QCELLS
both announced expansions of their manufacturing facilities in Arizona
and Georgia, which will create hundreds of good-paying jobs. Vice
President Kamala Harris announced $197 million to support wildfire
resilience across 22 states, putting people to work and protecting
communities.  And the Department of Transportation announced investments
in new programs across 33 states that will improve transportation
infrastructure and safety.

Also this week, the White House announced that President Biden will be
kicking off an Administration-wide, three-week Investing in America tour
that will highlight how the President’s economic policies are benefiting
hardworking Americans across the country and reinforce what’s at stake
if MAGA Republicans in Congress get their way and repeal the Inflation
Reduction Act and slash funding for manufacturing, research, and
innovation.

*A sampling of the local coverage on President Biden’s investments
across the country:*

-   **AZ: Arizona Central:** [**Korean electronics giant LG announces
    huge expansion of plans for battery factory in Queen
    Creek**](https://www.azcentral.com/story/money/business/2023/03/24/lg-energy-solution-plan-for-arizona-battery-factory-grows-to-5-5-billion/70045306007/)

“LG Energy Solution said it will quadruple its initial budget for a
battery manufacturing plant in Queen Creek and now plans to spend $5.5
billion for the project, which will create thousands of jobs and could
become the largest stand-alone battery complex in North America. LG
Energy Solution said demand for batteries is surging, and the company
expects its 2023 revenue to increase by 25% to 30%. The company
attributed the demand increase in part to federal tax credits in the
Inflation Reduction Act, which was passed by Congress last year.”

-   **GA: Atlanta Journal Constitution:** [**Solar parts supplier for
    Qcells building $147M Cartersville
    plant**](https://www.ajc.com/news/solar-parts-supplier-for-qcells-building-147m-cartersville-plant/V67LCMRISRF43BJ5BZEQRGHL3Y/)

“In a statement on HAGA’s plant, Biden connected the dots between the
IRA and the new investment in Georgia. The IRA provides $10 billion in
tax credits for building new solar manufacturing facilities, plus
billions more for manufacturers to make components for solar panels,
batteries, and wind turbines in the U.S., among a host of other clean
energy incentives. ‘With the support of Senators Warnock and Ossoff and
Georgia House Democrats, clean energy manufacturing announcements in
Georgia are creating thousands of good-paying jobs making solar panels
and components here at home and tackling the climate crisis,’ Biden said
in a statement.”

-   **NC: Spectrum (North Carolina statewide):** [**President Biden to
    kick off ‘Investing in America’ tour in N.C. next
    week**](https://spectrumlocalnews.com/nc/charlotte/news/2023/03/24/biden-to-kick-off--investing-in-america--tour-in-n-c--next-week-)

“President Joe Biden plans to visit North Carolina Tuesday as part of a
three-week administration-wide “Investing in America” tour. The White
House says Biden will travel to Durham to visit Wolfspeed, a producer of
semiconductors and their key components. Wolfspeed recently announced a
$5 billion investment to build its North Carolina facility and the
creation of 1,800 jobs.”

-   **KY: Louisville Courier Journal: ** [**These 4 flood-prone
    underpasses in Louisville are getting ‘smart
    technology’**](https://www.courier-journal.com/story/news/politics/metro-government/2023/03/21/louisville-receives-2m-federal-infrastructure-money-for-underpasses/70034248007/)

“The U.S. Department of Transportation is awarding Louisville nearly $2
million to improve its aging traffic management system at four of its
most dangerous, flood-prone underpasses, local and federal officials
announced Tuesday. The $1,999,481 grant comes thanks to the
Strengthening Mobility and Revolutionizing Transportation program that
was established through the bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and
Jobs Act. Congress passed and President Joe Biden signed the $1.2
trillion bill into law in 2021.”

-   **NY: The Daily Sentinel:** [**NY Thruway awarded $1.5M federal
    grant for drone
    program**](https://romesentinel.com/stories/ny-thruway-awarded-15m-federal-grant-for-drone-program,171995)

“The New York State Thruway Authority will continue its drone program
with the support of a $1.5 million grant from the U.S. Department of
Transportation. The Biden administration announced Tuesday that more
than $94 million has been awarded to 59 entities through the
Strengthening Mobility and Revolutionizing Transportation program, which
created by the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act.”

-   **CA: Los Angeles Times:** [**Harris unveils $197 million for
    wildfire resilience as California’s fire season
    looms**](https://www.latimes.com/politics/story/2023-03-20/kamala-harris-wildfire-funding-california)

“Vice President Kamala Harris detailed $197 million in new federal
grants on Monday to help fortify high-risk communities against
wildfires. More than 100 communities scattered across 22 states and
seven tribes will receive funding to supplement pay for wildland
firefighters and provide housing for fire personnel as part of the Biden
administration’s wildfire defense grant program.”

-   **NM: Source New Mexico:** [**Feds to send nearly $200 million to
    help communities prepare for
    wildfires**](https://sourcenm.com/2023/03/21/feds-to-send-nearly-200-million-to-help-communities-prepare-for-wildfires/)

“The Biden administration will send $197 million from the 2021
bipartisan infrastructure law to help communities prepare for wildfires
this summer, Vice President Kamala Harris and other administration
officials said Monday. The funding represents the first round of a new
$1 billion Community Wildfire Defense Grant program authorized under the
$1.2 trillion infrastructure bill that President Joe Biden signed in
November 2021.”

-   **NV: KUNR (NPR Reno, NV):** [**Wildfire projects in Mountain West
    receive new federal
    funds**](https://www.kunr.org/energy-and-environment/2023-03-24/mountain-west-receive-federal-funds-for-wildfire-projects)

“The money comes from the department’s new Community Wildfire Defense
Grant program, a $1 billion initiative funded by President Biden’s
bipartisan infrastructure law. The first round of funding is aimed at
100 projects in 22 states and seven tribes, with most plans focused on
clearing flammable brush near homes and businesses, and in forests.
Communities are increasingly at-risk as the climate changes, Vice
President Kamala Harris said in a call with reporters on March 20.”

  
  \###
