---
date: '2023-03-22'
published_time: 2023-03-22 17:11:51-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/22/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-the-occasion-of-ramadan/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on the Occasion of\_Ramadan"
---
 
Today, Jill and I extend our best wishes to Muslim communities across
the country and around the world as they begin the Islamic holy month of
Ramadan—a time of fasting, renewal, charity, worship, and growth.

During this sacred time of reflection, the United States also reaffirms
our support to Muslim communities suffering hardships and devastation.
We will continue to stand with the people of Turkiye and Syria—who have
lost many loved ones during the recent devastating earthquakes—and with
the people of Pakistan, who are rebuilding their lives following last
summer’s floods. Today especially, we remember the universal human right
to practice, pray, and preach our faiths peacefully and openly. And
together with our partners, the United States stands in solidarity with
Muslims who continue to face oppression—including Uyghurs in the
People’s Republic of China, Rohingya in Burma, and other Muslim
communities facing persecution around the world.

During this holy month, we also honor Muslim communities across our
nation that have been part of the American story since our founding.
From science and technology, to arts and academia, to law and medicine,
to business and government, and beyond—Muslim Americans continue to
strengthen our nation’s diverse tapestry generation after generation. So
today, let us join together across cultures and faiths and renew our
commitment to creating a more equal, more just, more tolerant, and more
compassionate nation.

To my fellow Americans observing Ramadan, and to Muslims around the
world: Ramadan Kareem—we wish you a blessed and peaceful Ramadan.

\###
