---
date: '2023-03-30'
modified_time: 2023-03-30 10:21:46-04:00
published_time: 2023-03-30 10:21:45-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/30/joint-statement-on-efforts-to-counter-the-proliferation-and-misuse-of-commercial-spyware/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Joint Statement on Efforts to Counter the Proliferation and Misuse of Commercial\_\
  Spyware"
---
 
We, the governments of Australia, Canada, Costa Rica, Denmark, France,
New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the
United States, recognize the threat posed by the misuse of commercial
spyware and the need for strict domestic and international controls on
the proliferation and use of such technology. 

Commercial spyware has been misused across the world by authoritarian
regimes and in democracies.  Too often, such powerful and invasive tools
have been used to target and intimidate perceived opponents and
facilitate efforts to curb dissent; limit freedoms of expression,
peaceful assembly, or association; enable human rights violations and
abuses or suppression of civil liberties; or track or target individuals
without proper legal authorization, safeguards, or oversight.  The
misuse of these tools presents significant and growing risks to our
national security, including to the safety and security of our
government personnel, information, and information systems.

We therefore share a fundamental national security and foreign policy
interest in countering and preventing the proliferation of commercial
spyware that has been or risks being misused for such purposes, in light
of our core interests in protecting individuals and organizations at
risk around the world; defending activists, dissidents, and journalists
against threats to their freedom and dignity; promoting respect for
human rights; and upholding democratic principles and the rule of law. 
We are committed, where applicable and subject to national legal
frameworks, to implementing the Guiding Principles on Government Use of
Surveillance Technologies and the Code of Conduct developed within the
Export Controls and Human Rights Initiative. 

To advance these interests, we are partnering to counter the misuse of
commercial spyware and commit to:

-   working within our respective systems to establish robust guardrails
    and procedures to ensure that any commercial spyware use by our
    governments is consistent with respect for universal human rights,
    the rule of law, and civil rights and civil liberties;

<!-- -->

-   preventing the export of software, technology, and equipment to
    end-users who are likely to use them for malicious cyber activity,
    including unauthorized intrusion into information systems, in
    accordance with our respective legal, regulatory, and policy
    approaches and appropriate existing export control regimes;

<!-- -->

-   robust information sharing on commercial spyware proliferation and
    misuse, including to better identify and track these tools;      

<!-- -->

-   working closely with industry partners and civil society groups to
    inform our approach, help raise awareness, and set appropriate
    standards, while also continuing to support innovation; and  

<!-- -->

-   engaging additional partner governments around the world, as well as
    other appropriate stakeholders, to better align our policies and
    export control authorities to mitigate collectively the misuse of
    commercial spyware and drive reform in this industry, including by
    encouraging industry and investment firms to follow the United
    Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. 

Our efforts will allow us to work collectively for the first time as we
develop and implement policies to discourage the misuse of commercial
spyware and encourage the development and implementation of responsible
use principles that are consistent with respect for universal human
rights, the rule of law, and civil rights and civil liberties.

\###
