---
date: '2023-03-21'
modified_time: 2023-03-20 20:13:58-04:00
published_time: 2023-03-21 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/21/fact-sheet-president-biden-designates-castner-range-national-monument/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Designates Castner Range National\_Monument"
---
 
As part of the Biden-Harris Administration‘s commitment to protect,
conserve, and restore our country’s iconic lands and historic sites for
the benefit of future generations, today President Biden will sign a
proclamation establishing the Castner Range National Monument, in El
Paso, Texas. This action will protect the cultural, scientific and
historic objects found within the monument’s boundaries, honor our
veterans, servicemembers, and Tribal Nations, and expand access to
outdoor recreation on our public lands.  

Located on Fort Bliss, Castner Range served as a training and testing
site for the U.S. Army during World War II, the Korean War, and the
Vietnam War. The Army ceased training at the site and closed Castner
Range in 1966. Once the area is sufficiently remediated to be safe for
public access, Castner Range will offer unique opportunities for the El
Paso community to experience, explore, and learn from nature. President
Biden is committed to expanding access to nature for underserved
communities that have historically had less access to our public lands,
like those bordering Castner Range. Protecting Castner Range connects
the area with the Franklin Mountains State Park, creating continuous
habitat for wildlife and improved public access for outdoor recreation.
Castner Range also hosts significant cultural sites documenting the
history of Tribal Nations, including the Apache and Pueblo peoples and
the Comanche Nation, Hopi Tribe, and Kiowa Indian Tribe of Oklahoma.

At the White House Conservation in Action Summit today, the President
will announce additional actions to conserve and restore lands and
waters across the nation, including establishing Avi Kwa Ame National
Monument in Nevada. The President will also direct the Secretary of
Commerce to consider exercising her authority to protect all U.S. waters
around the Pacific Remote Islands. These new commitments build on
President Biden’s record of delivering on the most ambitious land and
water conservation agenda in American history.  

President Biden is committed to supporting locally-led conservation
efforts. This designation advances the President’s America the Beautiful
Initiative, which includes our country’s first national conservation
goal.

**Castner Range National Monument**

Castner Range National Monument consists of 6,672 acres of high-desert
mountains, making up the southern component of the Franklin Mountain
range, just outside of El Paso, Texas. Located on Fort Bliss Military
Base, Castner Range served as the training and testing site for the U.S.
Army from 1926-1966. The Army ceased training at the site and closed
Castner Range in 1966.

Before the U.S. Army used the lands, Castner Range was home to the
Apache and Pueblo peoples and the Comanche Nation, the Hopi Tribe, and
Kiowa Indian Tribe of Oklahoma. The Castner Range area contains more
than 40 known archeological sites including living structures, hearths,
remnants of pottery and other tools, as well as a myriad of petroglyphs
and images on the rock faces that make up the canyons and mountains of
Castner Range.

The local El Paso community cherishes the Franklin Mountains for their
natural and ecological features. Castner Range remains an area of high
biodiversity for desert species in America, including spring blooms of
the Mexican Poppy. In addition to the poppies, this section of the
Franklin Mountains also contains a high concentration of natural
springs. Along with creosote brush vegetation, it provides important
habitat to wildlife that call Castner Range home, including the American
peregrine falcon, Golden eagle, mountain plover, Texas horned lizard,
Black-tailed prairie dog, Baird’s swallow, and the Western burrowing
owl. The endangered Sneed pincushion cactus and a host of other rare or
endemic plants also inhabit the area. Protecting Castner Range ensures
connectivity with other protected areas and migratory corridors for
species to travel without the threat of human impacts.

The U.S. Army will manage the national monument consistent with
protection of the objects of historic and cultural significance and will
commence a land management planning process with robust public
engagement in the next sixty days. Castner Range will continue to
undergo evaluation, planning and remediation of munitions through The
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act
(CERCLA) process, informed by public input and consistent with this
proclamation. The Army will work with Tribes and the community to secure
public access to the monument in phases, as it is safe and appropriate.

Though previous national monument designations have protected important
historic military sites, this would be the first national monument
directly managed by the U.S. military since national battlefields were
transferred to the National Park Service in the 1930s.

**Background on Antiquities Designations**

President Theodore Roosevelt first used the Antiquities Act in 1906 to
designate Devils Tower National Monument in Wyoming. Since then, 18
presidents of both parties, including recent Presidents Trump, Obama,
G.W. Bush, and Clinton have used this authority to protect unique
natural and historic features in America, including the Grand Canyon,
the Statue of Liberty, and Colorado’s Canyons of the Ancients.

In addition to designating Castner Range National Monument, today the
President is also taking action to establish Avi Kwa Ame National
Monument in Nevada. These are President Biden’s second and third new
monument designations, following the creation of the Camp
Hale-Continental Divide National Monument in Colorado last fall.

\###
