---
date: '2023-03-24'
modified_time: 2023-03-24 20:08:25-04:00
published_time: 2023-03-24 20:01:19-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/24/letter-from-president-joe-biden-on-the-u-s-strategy-to-prevent-conflict-and-promote-stability/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Letter from President Joe\_Biden on the U.S. Strategy to Prevent Conflict\
  \ and Promote\_Stability"
---
 
In our interconnected world, instability anywhere can have global
repercussions. The security and prosperity of Americans here at home is
directly connected to the security and economic health of people
everywhere. Strife spills across borders. Violence and deprivation are
driving a record number of people from their homes. The horrors of war
unfolding in Ukraine, where Russian forces are committing war crimes and
crimes against humanity, as well as in Yemen and Syria, remind us every
day of the terrible human costs of conflict. And, as we have all
experienced these past few years living through the COVID-19 pandemic
and the accelerating impacts of the climate crisis, no nation can wall
itself off from the shared challenges that are shaping our world.  
  
Sadly, and all too often, the nations that are hit the hardest are also
the ones that have the fewest resources to recover. American leadership
and American commitment are critical to rallying the world to respond in
times of crisis and to mitigate the impacts on communities around the
world. At the same time, we recognize that the best strategy to save
lives, build lasting stability, and disrupt the cycle of violence is to
prevent conflicts before they happen. We must both continue to address
the urgent demands of today, while also looking ahead to the investments
we can make now that will deliver a more peaceful tomorrow for people
everywhere—including in the United States.   
  
That is the goal of the Global Fragility Act, which Congress passed in
2019 with strong bipartisan support. Last year, my Administration
announced our priority partner countries and an updated vision to
implement the U.S. Strategy to Prevent Conflict and Promote Stability in
line with the goals of the Global Fragility Act. And today, I am
submitting to Congress the 10-year plans for implementing our strategy
working together with our priority partners: Haiti, Libya, Mozambique,
Papua New Guinea, and Coastal West Africa, including Benin, Côte
d’Ivoire, Ghana, Guinea, and Togo.  
  
These plans represent a meaningful, long-term commitment by the United
States to building the political and economic resilience of partner
societies by making strategic investments in prevention to mitigate the
underlying vulnerabilities that can lead to conflict and violence and
are critical to achieving lasting peace.  The plans are a statement of
our values, deeply rooted in America’s commitment to upholding human
rights and strengthening democracy and good governance, and amplify the
unsung work of prevention and capacity building, which often reflects
the dedication of decades of dialogue and diplomacy. And, critically,
they are built around local partnerships, elevating diverse voices,
including the voices of women and young people, in recognition of the
fact that those who are the closest to the challenges know best what is
needed to bring about peace and progress.   
  
Each plan emphasizes collaboration and coordination across the U.S.
Government and between the U.S. government and local and international
partners, and leverages the full range of our diplomatic, development,
and defense toolkit, while also being tailored to the unique challenges
and opportunities of each country and region. These investments in peace
and prosperity will not only deliver returns for our priority partner
nations in the decades ahead—they will foster greater stability,
success, and security for nations everywhere and help advance progress
toward the Sustainable Development Goals. As my Administration works to
translate these plans from roadmaps into results, I look forward to
continuing to work closely with Congress and with the civil society
stakeholders who are driving this effort at all levels.  
  
We stand at an inflection point in history—where the choices we make
today will determine the shape of the world for generations to come. By
bringing together long-term planning, locally-owned solutions, and vital
American leadership now, I believe we will create a more peaceful and
prosperous future for everyone.

Joseph R. Biden, Jr. 

\###
