---
date: '2023-03-06'
modified_time: 2023-03-07 19:30:27-05:00
published_time: 2023-03-06 17:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/06/icymi-president-biden-uses-bully-pulpit-to-lower-costs-for-americans/
tags: statements-releases
title: "ICYMI: President\_Biden Uses Bully Pulpit to Lower Costs for\_Americans"
---
 
Today, several outlets highlighted how President Biden has leveraged the
bully pulpit to drive change in the private sector to bring down costs
for Americans.  
  
As Politico put it, “Just weeks after Biden used his State of the Union
to call for crackdowns on insulin prices and ‘junk fees,’ a handful of
companies are starting to comply on their own. They’re taking voluntary
steps meant to lower patients’ medical bills and make it easier for
families to fly together.”  
  
The Washington Post noted: “On its own, the administration has taken
action to make airline pricing more transparent while backing proposed
legislation to reduce unexpected consumer charges. But the presidential
rhetoric also has delivered results: American Airlines revised its
family seating policies last week, prompting Biden to declare victory on
Twitter.”  
   
And HuffPost wrote, “All three announcements advance the
administration’s long-standing policy goals — to lower prescription drug
costs, to expand affordable child care options and to eliminate
so-called ‘junk fees’ — in ways Congress has so far been unable to.”  
  
The President’s top economic priority is lowering costs and giving
American families a little bit of breathing room. He will continue to
implement his competition agenda and use the bully pulpit to spur
actions that benefit American consumers, workers, and families.  
  
*See coverage below:*  
  
**Politico:** [**Biden gets a rare hand from Big Business in quest to
ease consumer
pain**](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=f9630ba366&e=9c901b24f8)  
\[Adam Cancryn, 3/5/23\]  
   
Just weeks after Biden used his State of the Union to call for
crackdowns on insulin prices and “junk fees,” a handful of companies are
starting to comply on their own. They’re taking voluntary steps meant to
lower patients’ medical bills and make it easier for families to fly
together.  
  
\[…\]  
  
“The president has made clear for over a year now that a top priority is
bringing down costs for folks,” said Bharat Ramamurti, deputy director
of the National Economic Council and one of the officials spearheading
the junk fee initiative. “The fact he’s willing to sharply call out
certain behavior and highlight it is encouraging these corporations — at
least some of them — to come along with us.”  
  
\[…\]  
  
Democrats have long targeted high pharmaceutical prices, driven in large
part by surveys showing drug affordability is a top worry for voters on
both sides of the aisle. White House economic aides charged with
assembling Biden’s “junk fee” agenda, meanwhile, zeroed in on surprise
fees that not only affect broader economic competition but are simply
the most likely to drive Americans crazy.  
  
“I do a lot of polling, and it’s rare to see policies that have this
much universal consensus,” said Danielle Deiseroth, the interim
executive director at Data for Progress. The progressive think tank
published a [post-State of the Union
survey](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=de83549b49&e=9c901b24f8) pegging
voter support for banning such fees — like those tied to concert ticket
purchases, hotel stays and seating families together on airplanes — at
nearly 80 percent. “Saving people money transcends party lines,” she
said.  
  
\[…\]  
  
The airlines’ decisions to be more family friendly came after the
Department of Transportation told companies it planned to publish a
table showing which carriers charged parents extra to sit with their
young kids. Eli Lilly is cutting insulin prices amid sustained scrutiny
over the drug’s cost, going as far in its announcement as urging
“policymakers, employers and others to join us in making insulin more
affordable,” despite resisting such calls from consumer advocates for
years until it made financial sense for the company.  
   
**HuffPost:** [**Biden’s Bully Pulpit Is Giving Him Wins Congress
Couldn’t**](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=ca94b609bf&e=9c901b24f8)  
\[Kevin Robillard, 3/6/23\]  
   
On Wednesday, Biden celebrated pharmaceutical giant Eli Lilly’s
announcement that it would slash and cap the cost of insulin. Earlier in
the week, the Commerce Department announced it would require chipmakers
to offer plans for affordable child care to qualify for more than $50
billion in subsidies. And three major airlines responded to Biden’s call
in the State of the Union to eliminate fees for parents and children to
sit together by doing just that.  
  
All three announcements advance the administration’s long-standing
policy goals — to lower prescription drug costs, to expand affordable
child care options and to eliminate so-called “junk fees” — in ways
Congress has so far been unable to. It shows how the administration is
turning to public pressure and regulations to enact its agenda.  
  
“The president’s bully pulpit is a really important tool that he’s using
to reduce costs for families in a number of ways,” Bharat Ramamurti, the
deputy director of the White House’s National Economic Council, told
HuffPost in a phone interview. “It’s not meant to substitute for getting
things through Congress, or for getting something done in rulemaking.”  
  
Key to the efforts is the underlying popularity of the ideas: Lowering
prescription drug costs has long been one of the public’s biggest
priorities, and public surveys show Biden’s push against junk fees is
broadly popular.  
  
“We pick these issues where there is something fundamentally unfair and
unreasonable that is happening, and you shine the presidential spotlight
on it,” Ramamurti continued. “The president must have talked about
lowering the price of insulin 100 times over the last year and a half as
he’s been pushing for this, and this week you saw a pharmaceutical
company respond to his call to act.”  
   
**The Washington Post:** [**Biden scraps reliance on market for faith in
broader government
role**](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=7e71adaf3e&e=9c901b24f8)  
\[David Lynch and Tony Romm, 3/6/23\]  
   
President Biden has embarked upon the most ambitious use of federal
economic power in several decades as he seeks to reshape major U.S.
industries for long-term prosperity while pressing businesses to deliver
immediate benefits for consumers by lowering prices today.  
  
\[…\]  
  
“The bully pulpit is another important tool we have to bring down costs
for families,” Ramamurti said.  
  
The latest example came Wednesday, when the pharmaceutical giant Ely
Lilly announced it would lower the price of its most widely prescribed
insulin by nearly 70 percent after frequent criticism from the
president.  
  
As part of the Inflation Reduction Act, which Biden signed into law last
year, Congress capped the out-of-pocket cost of insulin at $35 — but
only for seniors on Medicare.  
  
Since then, the president repeatedly has castigated drugmakers. “Big
Pharma has been unfairly charging people hundreds of dollars — $4\[00\]
to $500 a month — making record profits,” he said in last month’s State
of the Union address.  
  
Last week, Biden took credit for Eli Lilly’s price-cut move and called
on other drugmakers to follow.  
  
Eli Lilly chief executive David Ricks acknowledged in an interview that
the Inflation Reduction Act served as a “trigger for us,” even though
the company had been “working on this for a little while.”  
  
Over the past year, Biden similarly has criticized rental-car companies,
airlines, hotels and ticket vendors for what he calls “junk fees.”  
On its own, the administration has taken action to make airline pricing
more transparent while backing proposed legislation to reduce unexpected
consumer charges. But the presidential rhetoric also has delivered
results: American Airlines revised its family seating policies last
week, prompting Biden to declare victory on Twitter.  
  
“I called for airlines to eliminate family seating fees in my State of
the Union — and today, @AmericanAir announced they’re doing just that,”
he wrote. “Time for more airlines to follow suit.”  
  
Last May, the president leaned on 20 internet service providers,
including AT&T, Charter, Comcast and Verizon, to offer a broadband plan
that would be fully covered by a $30-per-month federal subsidy that was
included in bipartisan infrastructure legislation adopted in 2021. The
move meant many low-income families effectively could secure free
broadband access.  
  
“It’s a big deal,” Biden said at a Rose Garden ceremony at the time.
“This is a great example of what we can achieve if the federal
government and the private sector work together to solve serious
problems.”

  
  \###
