---
date: '2023-03-03'
modified_time: 2023-03-03 16:04:09-05:00
published_time: 2023-03-03 16:03:16-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/03/executive-summary-initial-blueprint-for-the-white-house-task-force-to-address-online-harassment-and-abuse/
tags: statements-releases
title: "EXECUTIVE SUMMARY: Initial Blueprint for the White\_House Task Force to Address\
  \ Online Harassment and\_Abuse"
---
 
Online harassment and abuse is increasingly widespread in today’s
digitally connected world.   This can include online threats and
intimidation as well as various forms of technology-facilitated
gender-based violence (GBV), such as the non-consensual distribution of
intimate images, cyberstalking, and sextortion. Women, girls, and
LGBTQI+ individuals are disproportionately affected.  Survivors of
online harassment and abuse—especially image-based abuse—are often
forced to relive their trauma and face ongoing harm that increases
exponentially over time, owing to the viral flow of information on
digital media and the difficulty of removing damaging, non-consensual
content. Simply put: the scale, reach, and amplification effects of
technology platforms have exacerbated GBV, and platforms have not
sufficiently prevented or addressed how these modalities are used for
harm.

To tackle this scourge, President Biden issued a [Presidential
Memorandum](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/06/16/memorandum-on-the-establishment-of-the-white-house-task-force-to-address-online-harassment-and-abuse/)
in June 2022 establishing the White House Task Force to Address Online
Harassment and Abuse (Task Force), with a mandate to develop concrete
actions in a Blueprint to prevent online harassment and abuse, provide
support for survivors, increase accountability, and expand research.

Since its
[launch](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/16/fact-sheet-presidential-memorandum-establishing-the-white-house-task-force-to-address-online-harassment-and-abuse/),
the Task Force has heard from hundreds of stakeholders—survivors,
advocates, parents, educators, law enforcement, medical and legal
professionals, and researchers—who discussed the significant harm caused
by online harassment and abuse. The powerful [testimonies of
survivors](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/17/readout-of-the-white-house-task-force-to-address-online-harassment-and-abuse-launch/),
[including from
youth](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/11/readout-of-white-house-task-force-to-address-online-harassment-and-abuse-youth-roundtable/),
college students, public figures, and social media influencers,
demonstrate the widespread reach of technology-facilitated GBV.  While
each of their stories is unique, they share common threads and lessons
that informed the initial Task Force Blueprint.

Stakeholders shared with the Task Force how online harassment and abuse
can have a severe impact on health, disrupt education, and derail
careers.  They explained how victims experience real, devastating
consequences to their health, including post-traumatic stress disorder
(PTSD), depression, anxiety, eating disorders, self-harm, and suicide,
as well as increased risk of physical and sexual violence. Survivors
described how they self-censored and withdrew from online spaces and
from broader engagement in academic, workplace, or social settings,
often encouraged to do so by those who were unable—or unwilling—to help.
The Task Force also heard from stakeholders about the impact on safety,
health and wellbeing of children and youth stemming from the
proliferation of child sexual abuse material traded online—including
through exposure to unknown adults through gaming and messenger
platforms.

The stakes of inaction couldn’t be higher: experts from a range of
disciplines underscored to the Task Force that in addition to the
devastating effects on individuals, the proliferation of online
harassment, abuse and misogyny results in the normalization of this
abusive behavior and the degradation of our democracy and public safety,
including through the suppression and silencing of diverse voices, and
the violent expression of gender-motivated, extremist acts. Despite the
pervasive nature of online harassment and abuse, as well as robust
evidence of its consequences, it became evident to the Task Force that
there is much more to be done to ensure that educators, parents, service
providers, the legal system, and society as a whole are aware of and
responsive to the issue and its detrimental impacts.

Today, the Biden Harris Administration is releasing an Executive Summary
of the initial Task Force Blueprint, which includes a broad range of new
and expanded commitments from Federal agencies to address
technology-facilitated GBV across four main lines of effort: Prevention,
Survivor Support, Accountability, and Research. Through this Blueprint,
Senior Administration officials are working to operationalize the
President’s [call to
action](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/02/07/remarks-of-president-joe-biden-state-of-the-union-address-as-prepared-for-delivery/)
in the State of Union for solutions to address online safety, health,
privacy, and
[accountability](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/08/readout-of-white-house-listening-session-on-tech-platform-accountability/). 
While the President continues to [call on
Congress](https://www.wsj.com/articles/unite-against-big-tech-abuses-social-media-privacy-competition-antitrust-children-algorithm-11673439411?mod=article_inline)
to do its part, senior officials from Federal departments and agencies
are undertaking key actions across the Administration.

The following are highlights from the initial Blueprint developed by the
Task Force:

**Prevention**, including actions to create safer online environments
for youth and adults, incorporate digital safety curricula into our
schools, and provide resources and trainings for parents, educators, and
employers, such as:

-   **Promoting Prevention through Digital Equity Grants**. The National
    Telecommunications and Information Administration of the Department
    of Commerce plans to promote prevention efforts and increase
    awareness of services and support for victims of online harassment
    and abuse through the forthcoming Notice of Funding Opportunity for
    the FY24 [Digital
    Equity](https://broadbandusa.ntia.doc.gov/digital-equity-programs)
    Competitive Grant Program, which can provide support to digital
    inclusion projects that address online safety, and work to prevent
    online harassment and abuse, in order to ensure that all people and
    communities have the skills, technology, and capacity needed to reap
    the full benefits of our digital economy.

**Survivor Support**, including efforts to increase training and
technical assistance to law enforcement, prosecutors, educators, and
victim advocates, so that survivors can access support and assistance
from professionals who recognize the complexities and seriousness of
technology-facilitated gender-based violence, such as:

-   **New Resources to Train Law Enforcement, Prosecutors, and Victim
    Services Providers on Cybercrimes against Individuals.** The
    Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2023 (FY23 omnibus law) allocates
    $7 million for the Department of Justice (DOJ) to fund two new
    programs authorized in the Violence Against Women Act
    reauthorization of 2022 (VAWA), including the establishment of a
    National Resource Center on Cybercrimes Against Individuals, and
    grants to provide training and support to State, Tribal, and local
    law enforcement, prosecutors, and judicial personnel to assist
    victims of cybercrimes. Cybercrimes is defined in VAWA as the use of
    electronic interactive devices to harass, threaten, stalk, extort,
    coerce, cause fear to, or intimidate an individual, or without
    consent distribute intimate images of an adult.

**Accountability**, including strengthening coordination among Federal,
state, Tribal, territorial and local law enforcement agencies to
investigate and prosecute cyberstalking, image-based abuse, sextortion,
and child sexual exploitation online, and providing resources for
workplaces and schools to hold individuals accountable for engaging in
online harassment and abuse, such as:

-   **Guidance to Institutions of Higher Education on Clery Act
    Obligations regarding Online Harassment and Abuse.** The Department
    of Education will issue guidance to help institutions comply with
    the Clery Act and educate students and employees about their rights
    and options under the law.  This forthcoming guidance will clarify
    that certain acts of online harassment and abuse, including the
    non-consensual distribution of intimate images, are reportable
    offenses under the Clery Act when they occur as part of a pattern of
    cyberstalking and for hate crimes that are classified as acts of
    intimidation.
-   **New Initiative for the Prosecution and Investigation of Online
    Abuse.** DOJ’s Office on Violence Against Women will launch an
    initiative, with the funding allocated in the FY 23 bipartisan
    omnibus, focused on the prosecution and investigation of online
    abuse. 

**Research,** to inform evidence-based interventions, deepen our
understanding of the impacts of exposure to online harassment and abuse,
including mental health implications for youth and adults, and guide
upstream efforts to prevent young men and boys from engaging in targeted
acts of violence that share roots with online misogyny and other forms
of hate, such as:

-   **Research on Online Harassment, Abuse, and Youth Social and
    Emotional Development.** The National Institutes of Health (NIH)
    will host a scientific workshop to identify gaps and challenges in
    advancing the research agenda on online harassment and abuse, and
    continue to support investigator-initiated research to better
    understand the clinical and developmental implications of online
    harassment and abuse, including child sexual exploitation and
    sextortion. This will complement efforts by NIH to implement the
    bipartisan Children and Media Research Advancement Act (CAMRA),
    passed by Congress in the bipartisan omnibus law, which directs $15
    million in the first of a multi-year initiative for NIH to research
    technology and media’s effects on infants, children, and adolescents
    in core areas of cognitive, physical, and socio-emotional
    development.

Other recent actions to address online harassment and abuse include:

-   **Supporting Survivors of Technology-Facilitated Abuse to Separate
    from their Abusers’ Mobile Phone and Wireless Accounts.** In
    February, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) [proposed
    rules](https://docs.fcc.gov/public/attachments/DOC-391129A1.pdf) to
    implement key provisions in the recently enacted Safe Connections
    Act to support survivors of domestic abuse and other related crimes
    seeking to maintain critical connections with friends, family, and
    support networks. These proposed rules would help survivors obtain
    separate service lines (through their mobile phones and broadband
    plans) from shared accounts that include their abusers, protect the
    privacy of calls made by survivors to domestic abuse hotlines, and
    provide support for survivors who suffer from financial hardship
    through the FCC’s affordability programs.
-   **Advancing Research on Targeted Violence, Exploring
    its Nexus with Misogyny, Online Harassment, and Domestic Violence**.
    Earlier this month, the U.S. Secret Service’s National Threat
    Assessment Center (NTAC), under the Department of Homeland Security,
    released [Mass Attacks in Public Spaces: 2016 –
    2020](https://www.secretservice.gov/newsroom/releases/2023/01/new-secret-service-research-examines-first-time-five-years-mass-violence),
    a comprehensive report examining 173 incidents of targeted violence
    and highlighting the observable commonalities among the attackers.
    The report reinforces NTAC’s [prior
    research](https://www.secretservice.gov/sites/default/files/reports/2022-03/NTAC%20Case%20Study%20-%20Hot%20Yoga%20Tallahassee_0.pdf) demonstrating
    that individuals who perpetrate acts of targeted violence frequently
    display histories of concerning behavior, including hate-based
    beliefs, domestic violence, harassment, and threatening online
    communications.
-   **Holding Gaming Platforms Accountable Under the Federal Trade
    Commission’s Authority.** In December 2022, the Federal Trade
    Commission [settled two
    action](https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/news/press-releases/2022/12/fortnite-video-game-maker-epic-games-pay-more-half-billion-dollars-over-ftc-allegations)s
    against Epic Games, Inc., creator of the popular video game
    Fortnite, requiring the company to pay a total of $520 million in
    relief over allegations it violated the Children’s Online Privacy
    Protection Act (COPPA), and employed dark patterns—design practices
    to intentionally manipulate users—to charge consumers without
    authorization. In a first-of-its-kind provision, the settlement also
    requires Epic to adopt strong privacy default settings for children
    and teens, ensuring that voice and text communications are turned
    off by default, in order to reduce the risk of matching children and
    teens with adult strangers. In a complaint filed in federal court,
    the FTC alleged that Epic violated the COPPA Rule by collecting
    personal information from children under 13 who played Fortnite, a
    child-directed online service, without notifying their parents or
    obtaining their parents’ verifiable consent. Epic also allegedly
    violated the FTC Act’s prohibition against unfair practices by
    enabling real-time voice and text chat communications for children
    and teens by default, exposing them to dangerous and psychologically
    traumatizing issues such as suicide, as well as bullying, threats
    and harassment.
-   **Preventing and Addressing Technology-Facilitated Gender-Based
    Violence Globally.** In December 2022, the Administration released
    an updated [U.S. Strategy to Prevent and Respond to Gender-Based
    Violence
    Globally](https://www.state.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/12/GBV-Global-Strategy-Report_v6-Accessible-1292022.pdf),
    which bolsters U.S. commitments to prevent and address this global
    scourge, including a specific objective to prevent and respond to
    technology-facilitated gender-based violence. The Strategy
    complements the Administration’s ongoing efforts to better
    prioritize, understand, prevent, and address technology-facilitated
    gender-based violence through the [Global
    Partnership](https://www.state.gov/2022-roadmap-for-the-global-partnership-for-action-on-gender-based-online-harassment-and-abuse/)
    for Action on Gender-Based Online Harassment and Abuse, which the
    U.S. launched in 2022 and coordinates with 11 other countries.

Over the next year, the Task Force will work across key federal agencies
to build on the initial Blueprint for Action, and will release a final
report at the end of the year. The Biden-Harris Administration
recognizes online harassment and abuse as a multifaceted problem
requiring a multifaceted response.  As an Administration, we will
continue to harness the whole of government to address it, as a matter
of gender equity and equality, national security, and technology
accountability. We will therefore continue to pursue meaningful actions
to address online harassment and abuse in all its forms, recognizing
that bolstering online safety requires coordination and accountability
across sectors, spanning Federal, state, Tribal, territorial and local
governments, community-based organizations, schools, and the private
sector, including the tech sector.

\###
