---
date: '2023-03-09'
published_time: 2023-03-09 12:17:04-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/09/fact-sheet-president-bidens-budget-lowers-housing-costs-and-expands-access-to-affordable-rent-and-home-ownership/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden\u2019s Budget Lowers Housing Costs and Expands\
  \ Access to Affordable Rent and Home\_Ownership"
---
 
President Biden believes that everyone deserves to live in a safe and
affordable home. Whether you rent or own, having a place to live that
you can afford in a neighborhood with opportunities is the foundation
for so much else in life.

It’s also the foundation for so much else in our economy. A lack of
quality affordable housing hinders the job market and holds back
economic growth by making it harder for workers to access good-paying
jobs. It drives up costs for families and inflationary pressures. It
also increases commutes and inefficient energy consumption, which
exacerbates climate change. And a lack of affordable housing
opportunities perpetuates the ongoing segregation and discrimination
that our nation committed to eradicate nearly 60 years ago.

**<u>That’s why the President’s Budget includes a historic investment to
lower housing costs, expand housing supply, improve access to affordable
rental options and homeownership, and advance efforts to end
homelessness</u>**. The Budget includes both mandatory and discretionary
housing investments, totaling more than $175 billion. The Budget:

-   Invests in building and preserving millions of affordable homes for
    rent and ownership, and reducing barriers to housing production –
    from restrictive land use policies to practices that foster
    discrimination and disparate treatment in the housing market.

<!-- -->

-   Makes a long-term commitment to housing accessibility and
    affordability for youth aging out of foster care and veterans. This
    support – targeted to extremely low-income populations that are
    vulnerable to homelessness – is a historic down payment on the
    President’s goal of providing universal housing vouchers for
    low-income households.

<!-- -->

-   Invests in first-time, first-generation homebuyers who have been
    locked out of the generational wealth building that can be
    associated with homeownership by providing down payment assistance.

<!-- -->

-   Provides funding to build on the Biden Administration’s
    unprecedented eviction prevention, diversion, and rent relief
    programs, advance efforts to end homelessness, and make progress
    towards President Biden’s goal of reducing homelessness by 25% by
    2025.

Together, the Budget proposes investments and actions that will lower
costs for renters and homebuyers, make our economy stronger and more
resilient, and advance equity, economic opportunity, and fair housing
principles that are central to the President’s economic agenda.

**<u>Building and Preserving Affordable Housing</u>**

America faces a longstanding and nationwide shortfall in affordable
housing that has been growing for decades. In May 2022, the
Administration released a [Housing Supply Action
Plan](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/16/president-biden-announces-new-actions-to-ease-the-burden-of-housing-costs/)
that included administrative and legislative actions to close the
housing supply shortfall in 5 years. The Administration has already
[delivered on many of those
commitments](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/07/biden-harris-administration-announces-progress-in-implementing-its-housing-supply-action-plan/),
and will continue to build on the historic number of multifamily units
under construction through additional administrative actions that: make
it easier to build and preserve affordable, multifamily supply; advance
the production and preservation of homes like accessory dwelling units
and manufactured housing; and incentivize state and local governments to
reduce barriers to affordable housing development. The President’s
Budget builds on that progress and calls on Congress to:

-   **Create A New Neighborhood Homes Tax Credit.** The Budget proposes
    a new Neighborhood Homes Tax Credit, which would be the first tax
    provision to directly support building or renovating affordable
    homes for homeownership. At a cost of $16 billion over ten years,
    the credit would cover the gap between the cost of construction and
    the sale price for rehabilitated or newly constructed single-family
    homes in low-income communities, encouraging investment in homes
    that would otherwise be too costly or difficult to develop or
    rehabilitate – and spurring investment and economic activity in
    communities that have long suffered from disinvestment. The tax
    credit would be provided on the condition that the home is occupied
    by low- or middle-income homeowners.  

<!-- -->

-   **Expand the Low-Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC).** LIHTC is the
    largest Federal incentive for affordable housing construction and
    rehabilitation. The Budget invests $28 billion in expanding this tax
    credit in order to boost the supply of housing that is affordable
    for low-income renters. Specifically, the Budget permanently
    increases the allocation of tax credit states receive. It also
    reduces the private activity bond financing requirement from 50
    percent to 25 percent in order to leverage more private capital into
    LIHTC deals and build more units of affordable housing. And it
    repeals the qualified contract provision and right of first refusal
    provision – both of which allowed some owners of LIHTC units to exit
    requirements to keep rents at affordable levels.

<!-- -->

-   **Provide New Project-Based Rental Assistance (PBRA) for ELI
    households**. Eleven million of the 44 million renter households in
    the U.S. have extremely low incomes (ELI)—incomes at or below the
    poverty level or 30% of the area median income. Producing and
    preserving housing that is affordable for those households – and
    ensuring rents remain affordable for those households – is a
    critical component of tackling the Nation’s housing challenges that
    often requires additional subsidy. The Budget includes $7.5 billion
    in funding for new Project-Based Rental Assistance (PBRA) contracts,
    which are long-term contracts with private for-profit or non-profit
    owners to rent new affordable housing units. These new contracts, in
    combination with other low-income housing programs and incentives,
    will attract development capital for the creation of new affordable
    homes for America’s neediest families.

<!-- -->

-   **Reduce Barriers to the Development of Affordable Housing.** The
    Budget includes $10 billion for planning and housing capital grants
    to incentivize State and local jurisdictions to expand supply and
    increase housing choice by reducing barriers to the development of
    affordable housing. The grants will help jurisdictions identify and
    remove barriers to affordable housing in their communities, such as
    restrictive zoning and burdensome permitting processes. These grants
    build on discretionary investments in the Budget, including $85
    million for a competitive program to reward State, local, and
    regional jurisdictions that make progress in removing barriers to
    affordable housing development and $90 million to support State and
    local fair housing enforcement organizations and to further
    education, outreach, and training on rights and responsibilities
    under Federal fair housing laws. HUD also promotes fair housing with
    recent Administration actions like the
    [proposed](https://www.hud.gov/press/press_releases_media_advisories/hud_no_23_013)
    Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing Rule.

<!-- -->

-   **Preserve Public Housing through Rehabilitation and
    Redevelopment.** Over 1.7 million Americans live in Public Housing,
    and over half of households are led by seniors or people living with
    disabilities. The Budget includes a one-time $7.5 billion investment
    in funding on the mandatory side of the budget to address the
    capital needs of the most distressed public housing properties
    nationwide. Ensuring communities have the funds they need for Public
    Housing rehabilitation and modernization is critical to providing
    safe and sustainable living conditions for all – and to ensuring
    housing shortages aren’t exacerbated. In addition to this one-time
    investment, the Budget centralizes inspection-related funding for
    HUD-assisted multifamily properties and Public Housing, which would
    enhance HUD’s ability to address financial and physical risks and
    would complement HUD’s cutting-edge National Standards for Physical
    Inspection of Real Estate (NSPIRE) inspection standards. The Budget
    also provides $3.2 billion for Public Housing modernization and $300
    million to improve the physical condition, energy efficiency, and
    climate resilience of the Public Housing stock. In addition, across
    its programs, HUD is investing in and coordinating efforts to allow
    for simultaneous implementation of climate resilience, carbon
    reduction, and mitigation and adaptation actions at the project,
    community and regional levels. The budget includes $752 million for
    targeted investments in these efforts for public and assisted
    housing.

<!-- -->

-   **Increase the Supply of Affordable Housing Financed by Existing HUD
    programs.** The Budget provides $1.8 billion for the HOME Investment
    Partnerships Program (HOME), an increase of $300 million over the
    2023 enacted level, to construct and rehabilitate affordable rental
    housing and provide homeownership opportunities. In 2022 the program
    helped create over 15,000 units of housing and nearly 17,000
    households were assisted with tenant based rental assistance through
    the HOME program. In addition, the Budget provides $258 million to
    support 2,200 units of new permanently affordable housing
    specifically for the elderly and persons with disabilities,
    supporting the Administration’s priority to maximize independent
    living for people with disabilities.And the Budget provides over $1
    billion to fund tribal efforts to expand affordable housing, improve
    housing conditions and infrastructure, and increase economic
    opportunities for low-income families. Of this total, $150 million
    would prioritize activities that advance resilience and energy
    efficiency in housing-related projects.** ** The Budget also
    recognizes the importance of advancing modern building and energy
    codes in existing housing and new construction; ensuring housing is
    designed, built, and operated to be high performing and adapted to
    climate risks and natural hazards. This builds on the
    Administration’s efforts to secure in the Inflation Reduction Act $1
    billion to create a national green-and-resilient-retrofit-program.

<!-- -->

-   **Reduce Housing Insecurity in Rural Communities**. Affordable
    housing has been a long-standing problem for low-income residents in
    rural communities, one that is exacerbated by low energy efficiency
    of the aging housing stock which means higher costs to families. The
    Budget increases funding by 283 million above the 2023 enacted level
    for USDA’s multifamily housing programs.  This initiative would
    allow the Administration to reduce rent burdens for low-income
    borrowers while also increasing the resiliency of rural housing to
    the impacts of climate change through a proposal to require energy
    and water efficiency improvements and green features in housing
    construction.

**<u>Promoting Rental Affordability and Fairness, and Making Progress
Toward Universal Housing Vouchers for Extremely Low-Income
Households</u>**

While around 2.3 million low-income households receive rental assistance
through the Housing Choice Voucher (HCV) program, another roughly 10
million are eligible and do not receive assistance due to funding
limitations and wait lists. The Administration has secured rental
assistance for an additional 100,000 households through the American
Rescue Plan and the 2022 and 2023 appropriations bills. And in January,
the Administration announced a [Blueprint for a Renters Bill of
Rights](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/White-House-Blueprint-for-a-Renters-Bill-of-Rights-1.pdf),
which enumerated principles to shape federal, state, and local action,
and announced agency commitments to strengthen tenant protections and
encourage rental affordability.

But there is more work to do. For the first time in history, the Budget
includes a voucher guarantee for two population groups that are acutely
vulnerable to homelessness:
[youth](https://www.chapinhall.org/wp-content/uploads/Midwest-Eval-Outcomes-at-Age-23-and-24.pdf)
aging out of foster care and extremely low-income
[veterans](https://www.usich.gov/resources/uploads/asset_library/Homelessness_in_America._Focus_on_Veterans.pdf).
Between discretionary funding, program reserves, and these mandatory
proposals, these vouchers would serve well over an additional 200,000
households. The President’s Budget calls on Congress to:

-   **Expand the HCV Program and Enhance Household Mobility**. The
    Budget provides $32.7 billion, an increase of $2.4 billion
    (including emergency funding) over the 2023 enacted level, to
    maintain services for all currently assisted families and to expand
    assistance to an additional 50,000 households. In addition, the
    Budget anticipates funding from the HCV program reserves will expand
    assistance to another 130,000 households. The Budget also provides
    $25 million for mobility-related supportive services to provide
    low-income families with greater options to advance true housing
    choice.

<!-- -->

-   **Create a Housing Voucher Guarantee for Extremely Low-Income
    Veterans.** The President believes that no one should be forced to
    live on the street, especially not those who have served our Nation.
    But an estimated 450,000 veteran renter households with extremely
    low incomes currently receive no rental assistance and have what HUD
    terms “worst-case housing needs.” Over a ten-year period and at a
    cost of $13 billion, the Budget expands rental assistance to
    extremely low-income (ELI) veteran families, starting with an
    allocation of 50,000 targeted vouchers in 2025 and paving a path to
    guaranteed assistance by 2033 for all who have served the Nation and
    are in need.

<!-- -->

-   **Create a Housing Voucher Guarantee for Youth Aging out of Foster
    Care.** Approximately 20,000 youth exit foster care annually,
    typically between the ages of 18 and 21, and these young people face
    greater obstacles to accessing and maintaining housing and as a
    result experience higher rates of homelessness and housing
    instability compared to the general population. To ensure these
    young people are stably housed and better able to focus on advancing
    their education or building a career during this difficult
    transition, the Budget establishes a housing voucher program for all
    youth aging out of foster care annually.

**<u>Making Homeownership a Reality for More First-Time and
First-Generation Homebuyers</u>**

Achieving and maintaining homeownership is the primary way that American
families build wealth and create economic security. That’s why the
Administration implemented a series
of [measures](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/23/fact-sheet-biden-administration-announces-additional-actions-to-prevent-foreclosures/#:~:text=The%20new%20steps%20the%20Department%20of%20Housing%20and,remain%20in%20their%20homes%20and%20build%20equity%20long-term.) that
protected homeowners from foreclosure during the pandemic, including
enhanced loan modifications to resolve delinquencies. In addition, the
American Rescue Plan’s [Homeowner Assistance
Fund](https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/coronavirus/assistance-for-state-local-and-tribal-governments/homeowner-assistance-fund) is
helping struggling homeowners catch up on their mortgage payments and
utility costs. These actions have helped keep foreclosures below
pre-pandemic levels.

It’s also why just last month – as reflected in the President’s Budget –
HUD, through the Federal Housing Administration (FHA), lowered its
annual mortgage insurance premium. This step is
[projected](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/22/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-action-to-save-homebuyers-and-homeowners-800-per-year/)
to save homebuyers and homeowners with new FHA-insured mortgages an
average of $800 per year, lowering housing costs for an estimated
850,000 homebuyers and homeowners in the first year. And it builds on
steps the Administration has already taken, including changing FHA
underwriting policies to allow lenders to use positive rental history in
evaluating applicants’ creditworthiness for an FHA-insured mortgage,
changing the way in which student loan debt is evaluated in FHA mortgage
underwriting, and announcing [more than
20](https://pave.hud.gov/sites/pave.hud.gov/files/documents/PAVEActionPlan.pdf)
concrete agency actions to root out racial and ethnic bias in home
valuations. In addition, the Budget reflects a reduction in mortgage
insurance fees for Native American borrowers in the Indian Housing Loan
Guarantee Program, which will save borrowers over $500 on average in
their first year.

But there is more work to do to make the dream of homeownership
attainable for more Americans, particularly first-time and
first-generation homebuyers who have been locked out of the generational
wealth building that can come from homeownership. That’s why the Budget
calls on Congress to:  

-   **Launch a First-Generation Down Payment Assistance Program**. The
    Budget provides $10 billion for a program to target down payment
    assistance to first-time homebuyers whose parents do not own a home
    and are at or below 120% of the area median income or 140% of the
    area median income in high-cost areas. Eligible activities would
    include costs in connection with acquisition such as down payment
    costs, closing costs, and costs to reduce the rates of interest on
    eligible mortgage payments.
    [Analysis](https://www.urban.org/urban-wire/down-payment-assistance-focused-first-generation-buyers-could-help-millions-access-benefits-homeownership)
    estimates these program parameters would mean that more than 35% of
    potential program participants would be African-American and more
    than 25% would be Latino – helping to address the stubborn racial
    homeownership gap that
    [remains](https://www.pewtrusts.org/en/research-and-analysis/blogs/stateline/2022/10/13/black-families-fall-further-behind-on-homeownership#:~:text=The%20gap%20between%20White%20and,of%20more%20than%2029%20points.)
    at pre-Fair Housing Act levels.

<!-- -->

-   **Increase HUD Funding for Homeownership.** The Budget also includes
    $100 million for a down payment assistance pilot to expand
    homeownership opportunities for first-generation and/or low wealth
    first-time homebuyers and $15 million to increase the availability
    of FHA small balance mortgages.

<!-- -->

-   **Promote Homeownership in Rural America.** Single-Family Housing
    Direct loans from USDA help low-income borrowers in rural areas
    realize the dream of homeownership. That said, the current program
    requires borrowers to repay subsidy costs, a requirement unique to
    rural housing. The Budget proposes eliminating this penalty, making
    the program consisted with other USDA subsidized interest rate
    programs, and promoting equity for low-income rural residents.

**<u>Advancing Efforts to Prevent Evictions and End Homelessness</u>**

During the pandemic, the Administration stood up a first-of-its-kind
national eviction prevention infrastructure, which helped [8
million](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy1213) renter
households at risk of eviction and kept evictions below pre-pandemic
levels. During one of the greatest periods of economic uncertainty our
Nation’s history, we did not see a spike in homelessness.

In addition, at the end of last year, President Biden set the bold goal
of reducing homelessness by 25% by 2025 with the release of [*All In:
The Federal Strategic Plan to Prevent and End
Homelessness*](https://www.usich.gov/All_In_The_Federal_Strategic_Plan_to_Prevent_and_End_Homelessness.pdf).
The Administration’s roadmap is not only about getting people into
housing but also ensuring that they have access to the support,
services, and income that allow them to thrive. The plan focuses
attention on homelessness prevention and actions to ensure an adequate
and diverse stock of affordable housing, renter protections, and social
service supports. The plan also seeks to promote and expand
eviction-prevention reforms, including those advocated as part of the
Biden Administration’s implementation of the Emergency Rental Assistance
program. The Budget seeks to continue the policies that are most
effective in preventing avoidable evictions and give hard pressed
American families more opportunities to stay in their homes, even during
hard times. The President’s Budget calls on Congress to:

-   **Support, Solidify, and Encourage State and Local Reforms to Avoid
    Evictions.** The Administration stood up [a
    historic](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/02/fact-sheet-white-house-summit-on-building-lasting-eviction-prevention-reform/)
    national eviction prevention infrastructure during the pandemic,
    helping keep eviction filings 20% below historical averages, even
    well after the eviction moratorium ended. The Budget provides $3
    billion to build on these efforts, with a focus on upstream
    prevention and eviction diversion, improving renters’ access to
    resources, and making the legal process for renters fairer. This
    funding can be used to develop or implement policy reforms and
    program improvements such as providing emergency rental assistance
    or other forms and new models of rent relief, and expanding access
    to legal counsel, housing counselors, and court navigators.

<!-- -->

-   **Bolster efforts to prevent and end homelessness.** To prevent and
    reduce homelessness, the Budget provides $3.7 billion, an increase
    of $116 million over the 2023 enacted level, for Homeless Assistance
    Grants to meet renewal needs and expand assistance to approximately
    25,000 additional households, including survivors of domestic
    violence, dating violence, sexual assault, stalking, and human
    trafficking and homeless youth.  These targeted resources would
    support the Administration’s recently released Federal Strategic
    Plan to End Homelessness.  The Budget also provides $505 million for
    Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS, serving a population
    with a disproportionately high rate of homelessness and providing a
    critical link to services.

**\###**
