---
date: '2023-03-13'
modified_time: 2023-03-13 16:01:49-04:00
published_time: 2023-03-13 16:01:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/13/fact-sheet-trilateral-australia-uk-us-partnership-on-nuclear-powered-submarines/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET:\_ Trilateral Australia-UK-US Partnership on Nuclear-Powered\_\
  Submarines"
---
 
On March 13, 2023, Prime Minister Anthony Albanese of Australia, Prime
Minister Rishi Sunak of the United Kingdom, and President Joseph R.
Biden, Jr. of the United States announced an arrangement for Australia
to acquire a conventionally-armed, nuclear-powered submarine (SSN)
capability through the Australia-United Kingdom-United States (AUKUS)
enhanced security partnership.  
  
On September 15, 2021, our three nations embarked on an 18-month
consultation period to identify the optimal pathway for Australia to
acquire this capability, while setting the highest nuclear
non-proliferation standard. The plan announced today will deliver on
that commitment. Further, this plan will lift all three nations’
submarine industrial bases and undersea capabilities, enhancing
deterrence and promoting stability in the Indo-Pacific.  
  
Australia’s future SSN – which we are calling “SSN-AUKUS” – will be a
state-of-the-art platform designed to leverage the best of submarine
technology from all three nations. SSN-AUKUS will be based upon the
United Kingdom’s next-generation SSN design while incorporating cutting
edge U.S. submarine technologies, and will be built and deployed by both
Australia and the United Kingdom.  
  
AUKUS demonstrates our shared commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific
and an international system that respects the rule of law, sovereignty,
human rights, and the peaceful resolution of disputes free from
coercion. AUKUS partners operating highly capable conventionally-armed,
nuclear-powered submarines will provide an assured undersea capability
that contributes to stability, peace, and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific
and around the world.  
  
**<u>A Phased Approach to Build Stewardship and Sustain Australia’s
Undersea Capability</u>**  
  
Our nations have outlined an ambitious approach that will provide
Australia with a conventionally-armed, nuclear powered submarine
capability at the earliest possible date while ensuring Australia’s
capacity to safely operate, maintain and regulate this technology, and
setting the highest standards for nuclear non-proliferation. Our phased
approach includes the following elements, each underwritten by the
mutual commitments of each nation:

-   **Embedded Personnel and Port Visits.** Beginning in 2023,
    Australian military and civilian personnel will embed with the
    United States Navy, the United Kingdom Royal Navy and, subject to
    any necessary arrangements, within the United States and United
    Kingdom submarine industrial bases.  This will accelerate the
    training and development of Australian personnel to ensure our
    ability to work together and for Australians to take on the
    responsibilities associated with these programs. The United States
    plans to increase SSN port visits to Australia beginning in 2023,
    with Australian sailors joining U.S. crews for training and
    development; the United Kingdom will increase visits to Australia
    beginning in 2026.

<!-- -->

-   **Submarine Rotational Forces.** As early as 2027, the United
    Kingdom and the United States plan to establish a rotational
    presence of one UK Astute class submarine and up to four U.S.
    Virginia class submarines at HMAS *Stirling* near Perth, Western
    Australia – this initiative will be known as ‘Submarine Rotational
    Force-West’ (SRF-West). This rotational presence will comply fully
    with Australia’s longstanding position of no foreign bases on its
    territory. It will put our nations shoulder to shoulder as Australia
    builds the necessary operational capabilities and skills to steward
    and operate its own fleet of nuclear-powered submarines. Australia
    is launching an ambitious national effort to grow its defense and
    industrial workforce to support this plan.

<!-- -->

-   **Sale of U.S. Virginia Class Submarines.** Beginning in the early
    2030s, pending approval from the U.S. Congress, the United States
    intends to sell Australia three Virginia class submarines, with the
    potential to sell up to two more if needed. This action is critical
    to continue growing Australia’s ability to own and operate a fleet
    of SSNs, and to provide Australia with a sovereign capability at the
    earliest possible date. It also ensures Australia sustains its
    undersea capabilities until SSN-AUKUS is ready, given the planned
    retirement of Australia’s current fleet of submarines.

<!-- -->

-   **SSN-AUKUS.** The combination of United Kingdom submarine design
    and advanced United States technology is intended to deliver a
    best-in-class submarine that meets Australia’s long-term defense
    needs while bolstering trilateral industrial cooperation. SSN-AUKUS
    will be the future attack submarine for both Australia and the
    United Kingdom. Australia and the United Kingdom intend to start
    building SSN-AUKUS in their domestic shipyards before the end of
    this decade. The United Kingdom intends to deliver its first
    SSN-AUKUS to the UK Royal Navy in the late 2030s. Australia plans to
    deliver the first Australian-built SSN-AUKUS to the Royal Australian
    Navy in the early 2040s.

The implementation of this approach will be consistent with the
trilateral partners’ respective international obligations and domestic
law and underpinned by future legal and enabling arrangements for
sharing sensitive information, equipment and technology.  
  
**<u>Responsible Stewardship of Naval Nuclear Propulsion
Technology</u>**  
  
All three nations appreciate the enormity of this endeavor and are
committed to the principles that have upheld the United Kingdom and
United States naval nuclear propulsion programs’ unmatched safety
records. For over 60 years, the United Kingdom and United States have
operated more than 500 naval nuclear reactors that have collectively
travelled more than 150 million miles – the equivalent of over 300 trips
to the moon and back – without incident or adverse effect on human
health or the quality of the environment. Australia is committed to
upholding these same standards to safely steward naval nuclear
propulsion technology.  
  
As part of this commitment to nuclear stewardship, Australia has
committed to managing all radioactive waste generated through its
nuclear-powered submarine program, including spent nuclear fuel, in
Australia. The United Kingdom and the United States will assist
Australia in developing this capability, leveraging Australia’s decades
of safely and securely managing radioactive waste domestically.
Australia will manage these materials in accordance with its nuclear
non-proliferation and other international obligations and commitments.  
  
**<u>Strengthening the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Regime</u>**  
  
When the AUKUS leaders announced this initiative in September 2021, they
committed to meeting our countries’ respective nuclear non-proliferation
obligations, setting the highest non-proliferation standard, and
strengthening the non-proliferation regime while protecting classified
and controlled information.  
  
Our nations have made clear commitments to meet these objectives,
including that:

-   As a non-nuclear-weapon state, Australia does not – and will not –
    seek to acquire nuclear weapons;  
-   Australia will not enrich uranium or reprocess spent fuel as part of
    this program;  
-   Australia will not produce its own nuclear fuel for its SSNs;  
-   The United Kingdom and United States intend to provide Australia
    with nuclear material in complete, welded power units that will not
    require refueling during their lifetime;  
-   The nuclear fuel that Australia receives cannot be used in nuclear
    weapons without further chemical processing, which would require
    facilities that Australia does not have and will not seek; and  
-   This initiative will occur within the framework of Australia’s
    Comprehensive Safeguards Agreement (CSA) and Additional Protocol
    (AP) with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA).

Our nations have consulted regularly with the IAEA over the past year,
in support of the IAEA’s mandate to uphold the integrity of the global
nuclear safeguards regime. The Director General of the IAEA has reported
to IAEA Member States that he believes the AUKUS partners “are committed
to ensuring the highest non-proliferation and safeguards standards are
met,” and noted his “satisfaction with the engagement and transparency
shown by the three countries thus far.” The international community can
be confident that our nations will continue to work transparently with
the IAEA towards an approach that will strengthen the nuclear
non-proliferation regime and set the strongest non-proliferation
precedent.  
  
**<u>Upgrading Infrastructure and Industrial Capacity</u>**  
  
AUKUS submarine cooperation will result in significant benefits to
infrastructure and industrial capacity in all three nations.

-   **Australia**: The pathway to Australia acquiring SSN-AUKUS will be
    a whole-of-nation undertaking. HMAS *Stirling* in Western Australia
    will be expanded to support the scale of infrastructure required for
    nuclear-powered submarines – both for visiting and rotational
    submarines and for Australia’s own nuclear-powered submarines.
    Australia’s SSN-AUKUS submarines will be built at Australia’s future
    Submarine Construction Yard in Adelaide, South Australia – employing
    thousands of workers onsite at peak. Overall, this enterprise will
    almost double the previously forecasted demand for personnel in
    Australia’s submarine shipyard, and will be supported by significant
    investment in Australia’s domestic industrial capacity and
    infrastructure. Australia will establish additional training,
    skilling and educational programs to achieve this growth for
    Australia’s local submarine and shipbuilding industry.

<!-- -->

-   **United Kingdom**: The United Kingdom intends to build on the
    recent investment it has been making in its submarine delivery, such
    as the £2.0 billion in BAE Systems, Barrow and Rolls Royce, Derby
    announced last year. This will deliver thousands of jobs in the
    United Kingdom, including in the supply chain. Australia has
    committed to a proportionate financial investment in the United
    Kingdom submarine industrial base to accelerate production of
    SSN-AUKUS.

<!-- -->

-   **United States**: The United States is investing an additional U.S.
    $2.4 billion over fiscal years 2023-2027 in the submarine industrial
    base to increase construction capacity – above and beyond its annual
    investment in undersea platforms – to meet U.S. national needs. The
    United States also added $2.2 billion to its submarine maintenance
    budget over fiscal years 2024-2028 to improve Virginia class SSN
    maintenance. The U.S. is examining what additional investments are
    required to accelerate submarine production and maintenance to
    support both U.S. and AUKUS needs. These investments will support
    thousands of high-skill jobs in the United States. Australia has
    committed to a proportionate financial investment in the U.S.
    submarine industrial base to accelerate delivery of Virginia class
    submarines.

**<u>Increasingly Integrated Submarine Forces</u>**  
  
Incorporating proven, advanced U.S. technologies into SSN-AUKUS will
optimize the capability, commonality and interoperability of all three
nations’ SSN platforms. Trilaterally sharing sophisticated submarine
technology is emblematic of the broader integration of our submarine
enterprises. For example:

-   **Australian submariner training in United States and United Kingdom
    schools**: In 2022, the United States accepted its first Royal
    Australian Navy personnel into nuclear propulsion training programs,
    with additional personnel slated to join upcoming cohorts. The
    United States Congress, as part of the Fiscal Year 2023 National
    Defense Authorization Act, passed a bipartisan provision that
    establishes the ability for Royal Australian submarine officers to
    train at the Naval Nuclear Power Training Command and eventually
    serve on operational U.S. submarines. The United Kingdom has also
    welcomed Australian submariners into the Royal Navy’s nuclear
    courses.

<!-- -->

-   **Australian personnel on board United States and United Kingdom
    submarines**. Australian submariners already train aboard U.S. and
    UK submarines. We will increase their numbers and levels of
    seniority over time as we grow Australia’s capacity to operate,
    maintain and regulate its own sovereign nuclear-powered submarines.

<!-- -->

-   **Training Australia’s industrial and technical workforce**.
    Australia intends to send hundreds of workers to United States and
    United Kingdom shipyards, and scientists and engineers to United
    States and United Kingdom technical facilities, for specialized
    skills training and to gain the experience required to build and
    sustain nuclear-powered submarines.

<!-- -->

-   **Interoperable Infrastructure.** As Australia upgrades its
    infrastructure to support the arrival of SSNs, it will build
    maintenance and repair capabilities that United States and United
    Kingdom submarines may also use, increasing our capacity to enhance
    our forces in peacetime and meet operational needs in times of
    crisis.

**<u>Conclusion</u>**  
  
The optimal pathway announced today will enhance the capabilities of
AUKUS partners to contribute to security and stability in the
Indo-Pacific. It will:

-   Increase the number of partner-nation SSNs in the Indo-Pacific,
    increasing our combined capacity in the undersea domain;

<!-- -->

-   Create additional production capacity, enabling AUKUS partners to
    grow the size of our combined submarine forces;

<!-- -->

-   Strengthen and make more resilient trilateral supply chains,
    enhancing the industrial bases in all three nations; and

<!-- -->

-   Enhance the ability of our three nations to deter aggression and
    contribute to stability in the Indo-Pacific, and globally.

We are committed to open and transparent engagement with partners within
and beyond the region as we implement this plan. The initiatives
announced today will strengthen deterrence and bolster stability in the
Indo-Pacific and beyond for decades to come.  

\###
