---
date: '2023-03-29'
modified_time: 2023-03-29 11:27:50-04:00
published_time: 2023-03-29 11:27:49-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/29/fact-sheet-advancing-technology-for-democracy-at-home-and-abroad/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Advancing Technology for Democracy at Home and\_Abroad"
---
 
The first wave of the digital revolution promised that new technologies
would support democracy and human rights. The second saw an
authoritarian counterrevolution. Now, the United States and other
democracies are working together to ensure that the third wave of the
digital revolution leads to a technological ecosystem characterized by
resilience, integrity, openness, trust and security, and that reinforces
democratic principles and human rights.  
  
Together, we are organizing and mobilizing to ensure that technologies
work for, not against, democratic principles, institutions, and
societies.  In so doing, we will continue to engage the private sector,
including by holding technology platforms accountable when they do not
take action to counter the harms they cause, and by encouraging them to
live up to democratic principles and shared values.  
  
At the first Summit for Democracy, President Biden
[launched](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/09/fact-sheet-announcing-the-presidential-initiative-for-democratic-renewal/)
the *Presidential Initiative for Democratic Renewal*, an innovative,
targeted expansion of U.S. Government efforts to defend and grow
democratic resilience with likeminded partners through diplomacy and
foreign assistance. The United States’ agenda on advancing technology
for democracy constitutes one of the *Presidential Initiative’s* five
pillars.  
  
This agenda recognizes that to harness current and emerging technology
in a manner that supports democratic values and institutions,
democracies must put forward a vision of what they *stand for* – an
affirmative, persuasive, secure and privacy-preserving, values-driven,
and rights-respecting view of how technology can enable individual
dignity and economic prosperity, and also what they will *stand against*
– the misuse and abuse of technology to repress, control, divide,
discriminate, and disenfranchise.  Additionally, democracies must
continue *looking ahead*, so as to align emerging technologies, such as
artificial intelligence (AI), with respect for democratic principles,
human rights and fundamental freedoms.  
  
The Biden-Harris Administration’s approach to advancing technology for
democracy, and the U.S.-hosted event undertaken as part of the second
Summit for Democracy, are each guided by three key themes: advancing
democracy and internet freedom in the digital age, countering the misuse
of technology and rise of digital authoritarianism, shaping emerging
technologies to ensure respect for human rights and democratic
principles  
  
**<u>Advancing Democracy and Internet Freedom in the Digital Age</u>**  
  
Our affirmative vision for the world’s technological and digital future
is one that is free, open, secure, and aligned with respect for
democratic principles and human rights. The *Declaration for the Future
of the Internet*, now affirmed by more than 65 countries, and the
*Blueprint for an AI Bill of Rights*, both released following the first
Summit for Democracy, help to lay the groundwork for this vision.
Additionally, the Biden-Harris Administration’s inaugural *National
Cybersecurity Strategy* outlines a series of actions to advance our
positive vision for cyberspace.  
  
Since the first Summit for Democracy, we have advanced our affirmative
agenda in additional key areas, including by mobilizing fellow
democracies to advance Internet freedom, bolstering the development of
national technology frameworks that align with human rights, and
supporting the development of technologies that embed democratic values
at every stage of their design and use. And the Biden-Harris
Administration is making historic investments to close the digital
divide in the United States, while laying the foundation to help shape
biotechnologies in line with democratic principles and human rights.  
  
Key actions announced or highlighted at the second Summit for Democracy
include:

-   Expanding the Advancing Digital Democracy Initiative. This USAID
    initiative launched at the first Summit aims to foster open, secure,
    and inclusive digital societies in which technology advances
    democratic principles and respect for human rights. In addition to
    existing pilot programs in Serbia and Zambia, USAID is standing up
    six more programs in Africa, Asia, Europe, and Latin America.  
-   Strengthening the Freedom Online Coalition. To implement the
    *Presidential Initiative’s* commitment to strengthen and expand the
    Freedom Online Coalition, the United States assumed the body’s
    chairship in January 2023 for the first time in the Coalition’s
    12-year history. The Department of State, together with USAID and
    the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, is now
    implementing an ambitious Program of Action for this coalition of 36
    governments focused on Internet freedom. This includes expanding the
    body’s membership and strengthening its governance by
    institutionalizing a troika leadership system among past, present,
    and future chairs.

Growing the Multilateral Surge and Sustain Fund for Anti-Censorship
Technology. This Fund, created following the first Summit for Democracy,
is managed by the Department of State and designed to expand access to
anti-censorship technologies for those who most need critical tools to
access the free and open Internet in repressive environments.  The
Department of State and U.S. Agency for Global Media have contributed
over $17 million to the Open Technology Fund, an independent 501(c)(3)
non-profit organization, for this fund. The United States welcomes a
recent pledge from the Government of Estonia to contribute to the Fund.
 

-   Updating Existing Internet Freedom General Licenses. To help make
    critical Internet communications technology available to local
    populations in closed societies, the Department of the Treasury’s
    Office of Foreign Assets Control will amend existing internet
    communications general licenses (GLs) across relevant sanctions
    regimes that impose comprehensive sanctions on the target
    jurisdiction, emulating recent action in the context of Iran, and
    will work with other countries to share best practices in this
    area.  
-   Developing Donor Principles for the Digital Age. USAID announced
    that it will work with its partners to develop a voluntary,
    non-binding *Donor Principles for the Digital Age* to advance human
    rights and democratic principles, as well as relevant safeguards for
    donor-supported programs.  
-   Promoting Information Integrity and Resilience (ProInfo)
    Initiative. Building on the work of the Summit for Democracy
    Information Integrity Cohort, the ProInfo Initiative expands
    existing efforts at USAID and the Department of State to strengthen
    information integrity and resilience globally by advancing
    private-public-civic partnerships and improving cooperation among
    key stakeholders, including by demonstrating leadership at the OECD
    and in other relevant multilateral fora.  USAID will provide up to
    $16 million to enhance technical assistance and capacity building to
    local civil society, governments, and media outlets. USAID will
    expand international donor coordination in order to maximize
    investments to strengthen information integrity and resilience,
    especially with respect to marginalized communities, including in
    the Global South.   
-   Cybersecurity Support. On the margins of he Costa Rica’s Summit for
    Democracy event in San José, the U.S. government will announce a new
    funding package to strengthen the Government of Costa Rica’s
    cybersecurity. Following damaging ransomware attacks, the assistance
    package will include a combination of vulnerability assessments,
    capacity building, and the provision of tools and services. This is
    an example of how the United States works with partners around the
    world to build their capacity to address shared threats in
    cyberspace and support a secure, open, and reliable digital
    ecosystem.

**<u>Countering the Misuse of Technology and Rise of Digital
Authoritarianism</u>**  
  
From AI-powered mass surveillance to censorship at scale, autocratic
governments are increasingly employing technology to repress their
citizens and control critics at home and abroad. At the same time,
misuse and abuse of technologies can occur in both autocracies and
democracies alike, as evidenced by alarming instances of misuse of
commercial spyware and the spread of online harassment and abuse.    
  
To address this challenge, the Biden-Harris Administration is unveiling
at the second Summit for Democracy a comprehensive package of actions
meant to combat digital repression from multiple angles – from leading
by example with respect to use of commercial spyware and deepening
international cooperation on this issue; to championing new principles
to guide governments’ use of surveillance technology; to announcing a
new efforts to integrate a human rights lens into export controls so as
to prevent dual-use technologies and goods from falling into the hands
of those that may misuse them. The U.S. government is also calling on
the private sector to combat authoritarian use of network-level
filtering technology for repressive censorship by supporting and
furthering censorship-resistant technologies and technical standards.  
  
Key actions announced or highlighted at the second Summit for Democracy
include:

-   Executive Order Prohibiting the Use of Commercial Spyware that Poses
    Risks to National Security. President Biden’s new Executive Order
    prohibits the operational use of commercial spyware by the U.S.
    Government when it poses significant counterintelligence or security
    risks to the United States, or significant risks of improper use by
    a foreign government or foreign person. The Executive Order
    substantially advances the Administration’s multifaceted effort to
    counter the proliferation and misuse of commercial spyware and
    serves as a demonstration of the United States’ commitment to
    countering the proliferation and misuse of commercial spyware and
    other surveillance technology.    
-   Joint Statement on Efforts to Counter the Proliferation and Misuse
    of Commercial Spyware. Complementing the Executive Order, the United
    States is joining an initial group of nine partners in endorsing the
    *Joint Statement*, which aims to deepen international cooperation on
    countering the proliferation and misuse of commercial spyware. The
    initial group of partners includes: Australia, Canada, Denmark,
    France, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United
    Kingdom.  
-   Restrictions on Post-Service Employment with Foreign Entities of
    Concern: In addition, Congress enacted new statutory authorities and
    requirements related to commercial spyware in the Intelligence
    Authorization Acts for Fiscal Years 2022 and 2023, including new
    restrictions and reporting requirements for Intelligence Community
    (IC) employees’ post-service employment with foreign governments or
    companies, to include foreign commercial spyware entities. On March
    23, 2023, the Director of National Intelligence issued [binding
    guidance ](https://www.dni.gov/index.php/newsroom/press-releases/press-releases-2023/item/2368-issuance-of-intelligence-community-directive-712-requirements-for-certain-employment-activities-by-former-intelligence-community-employees)to
    the U.S. Intelligence Community to implement these statutory
    requirements, which set a standard that we hope will be followed by
    other countries.   
-   High Risk Community Protection Initiative. The Cybersecurity and
    Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) at the U.S. Department of
    Homeland Security announced the next phase of its groundbreaking
    High Risk Community Protection Initiative, which is dedicated to
    strengthening the cybersecurity of high-risk communities—such as
    civil society organizations—in the United States against
    transnational repression.  
-   Strategic Dialogue on Cybersecurity of Civil Society Under Threat of
    Transnational Repression. In complement to CISA’s High Risk
    Community Protection Initiative, which focuses on actors within the
    United States, the United Kingdom and the United States will co-host
    the *Strategic Dialogue* to facilitate greater international
    cooperation among the cybersecurity agencies of likeminded countries
    to strengthen the cybersecurity of civil society against
    transnational repression within participating states’ respective
    borders. The eight initial participants in this dialogue include the
    United Kingdom (co-lead), Australia, Canada, Denmark, Estonia,
    France, Japan, New Zealand, and Norway.  
-   Guiding Principles on Government Use of Surveillance Technology.
    Drafted as a consensus document among the 36 members of the Freedom
    Online Coalition, these principles outline how governments can
    respect democratic values and protect human rights as they use
    surveillance technologies in three key areas of concern. The
    *Guiding Principles* draw a clear distinction between those
    governments that adhere to appropriate behaviors and those who
    misuse surveillance technologies for repression. The members of the
    Freedom Online Coalition are Argentina, Australia, Austria, Canada,
    Chile, Costa Rica, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland,
    France, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kenya,
    Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Maldives, Mexico, Moldova, Mongolia,
    Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden,
    Switzerland, Tunisia, the United Kingdom, and the United States. The
    following additional states participating in the second Summit for
    Democracy have endorsed the *Guiding Principles*: Albania, Bulgaria,
    Croatia, Iceland, Kosovo, Malta, and North Macedonia.     
-   Export Controls and Human Rights Initiative – Code of Conduct for
    Enhancing Export Controls of Goods and Technology That Could be
    Misused and Lead to Serious Violations or Abuses of Human Rights.
    This multilateral *Code of Conduct*, developed through the Export
    Controls and Human Rights Initiative announced at the first Summit
    for Democracy, commits subscribing states to better integrate human
    rights criteria in their export control regimes. In addition to the
    United States, the 20 governments that have endorsed the voluntary
    code of conduct are:  Albania, Australia, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia,
    Czechia, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Japan, Kosovo,
    Latvia, Netherlands, New Zealand, North Macedonia, Norway, Republic
    of Korea, and the United Kingdom.

Complementing U.S. government efforts, a number of **private sector
actors** have also taken specific action to countering the misuse of
technology and rise of digital authoritarianism. For example, over 150
companies released a set of principles focused on minimizing the risk
associated with commercial spyware. Among other corporate commitments,
Cloudflare has committed to meaningful consultation with civil society
as it works with Internet standards bodies and other Internet providers
on the next generation of privacy-enhancing technologies and protocols.
Meta has committed to helping people communicate freely and securely,
including through a new feature that allows users to connect to WhatsApp
by proxy when their Internet connection is disrupted or blocked.
Microsoft, together with other cloud service providers, has developed
and released the Trusted Cloud Principles. Google is launching a $2
million fund to support human rights defenders, and providing 100,000
security keys at no cost to individuals at higher risk of cyber attacks,
such as journalists and human rights defenders.  
  
Additionally, the Biden-Harris Administration announced, as part of the
**Global Partnership for Action on Gender-Based Online Harassment and
Abuse**, a series of actions to prevent and respond to
technology-facilitated gender-based violence and counter its chilling
effects on women leaders. This includes committing more than $13 million
in targeted funding across USAID and the Department of State. The Global
Partnership has grown to be a 12-country initiative bringing together
governments, international organizations, civil society, and the private
sector to prioritize, understand, prevent, and address the growing
scourge of technology-facilitated gender-based violence, which
disproportionately impacts women, girls, and LGBTQI+ political and
public figures, leaders, journalists and activists. These actions and
investments also include the release of the Global Partnership’s 2023
Roadmap and several other initiatives.  
  
Finally, in September 2022, the Administration released **principles for
reforms to enhance tech platform accountability**, including **providing
robust federal protections for Americans’ privacy;** removing the
special legal protections that broadly shield social media companies
from liability; **and increasing transparency about platform’s
algorithms and content moderation decisions. **  
  
**<u>Shaping Emerging Technologies to Ensure Respect for Human Rights
and Democratic Principles</u>**  
  
Emerging technologies, including AI and biotechnology, hold the power to
fundamentally shape industries, economies, and entire societies.
Automated systems are driving extraordinary benefits, from technology
that helps farmers grow food more efficiently and computers that predict
storm paths, to algorithms that can identify diseases in patients. These
tools now drive important decisions across sectors, while data is
helping to revolutionize global industries. They hold the potential to
redefine every part of our societies and make life better for everyone,
but they also present significant new challenges and risks including to
the enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms. We – the private
sector, government, and civil society – must ensure that innovation and
progress does not come at the price of democratic values or respect for
human rights. That is why the Biden-Harris Administration is leveraging
the second Summit for Democracy to shine a spotlight on steps it is
taking to mitigate risks, and ensure that innovation drives new
opportunities for all.     
  
The Administration has released foundational documents providing a road
map for achieving these objectives, including an *AI Risk Management
Framework* that the Department of Commerce’s National Institute of
Standards and Technology (NIST) released in January 2023, as well as the
*Blueprint for an AI Bill of Rights* that the White House Office of
Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) released in October 2022. In
February 2023, the President signed [Executive Order 14091 on Further
Advancing Racial Equity and Support for Underserved Communities Through
the Federal
Government](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/02/16/executive-order-on-further-advancing-racial-equity-and-support-for-underserved-communities-through-the-federal-government/),
which directs federal agencies to root out bias in the design and use of
new technologies, such as AI and other automated systems, and to protect
the public from algorithmic discrimination. The Administration is also
advancing the implementation of the President’s September 2022
[Executive Order on Advancing Biotechnology and Biomanufacturing
Innovation for a Sustainable, Safe, and Secure American
Bioeconomy](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/09/12/executive-order-on-advancing-biotechnology-and-biomanufacturing-innovation-for-a-sustainable-safe-and-secure-american-bioeconomy/)
as the foundation to engage stakeholders at home and abroad on the
importance of shaping ethical standards for the biotechnology of the
future.  
  
Key deliverables announced or highlighted at the second Summit for
Democracy include:

-   National Strategy to Advance Privacy-Preserving Data Sharing and
    Analytics. OSTP released a *National Strategy to Advance
    Privacy-Preserving Data Sharing and Analytics*, a roadmap for
    harnessing privacy-enhancing technologies, coupled with strong
    governance, to enable data sharing and analytics in a way that
    benefits individuals and society, while mitigating privacy risks and
    harms and upholding democratic principles.    
-   National Objectives for Digital Assets Research and Development.
    OSTP also released a set of *National Objectives for Digital Assets
    Research and Development*, which outline its priorities for the
    responsible research and development (R&D) of digital assets. These
    objectives will help developers of digital assets better reinforce
    democratic principles and protect consumers by default.  
-   Launch of Trustworthy and Responsible AI Resource Center for Risk
    Management. NIST announced a new *Resource Center*, which is
    designed as a one-stop-shop website for foundational content,
    technical documents, and toolkits to enable responsible use of AI.
    Government, industry, and academic stakeholders can access resources
    such as a repository for AI standards, measurement methods and
    metrics, and data sets. The website is designed to facilitate the
    implementation and international alignment with the *AI Risk
    Management Framework*. The Framework articulates the key building
    blocks of trustworthy AI and offers guidance for addressing them.  
-   International Grand Challenges on Democracy-Affirming Technologies.
    Announced at the first Summit, the United States and the United
    Kingdom carried out their joint *Privacy Enhancing Technology Prize
    Challenges.* IE University, in partnership with the U.S. Department
    of State, hosted the *Tech4Democracy Global Entrepreneurship
    Challenge.* The winners, selected from around the world, were
    featured at the second Summit. 

\###
