---
date: '2023-03-01'
modified_time: 2023-03-06 15:47:33-05:00
published_time: 2023-03-01 15:52:10-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/01/what-they-are-saying-wide-range-of-elected-officials-labor-leaders-and-community-advocates-applaud-president-joe-bidens-nomination-of-julie-su-for-secretary-of-labor/
tags: statements-releases
title: "WHAT THEY ARE SAYING: Wide Range of Elected Officials, Labor Leaders and Community\
  \ Advocates Applaud President Joe\_Biden\u2019s Nomination of Julie Su for Secretary\
  \ of\_Labor"
---
 
President Biden officially announced his intention to nominate Julie Su
for Secretary of Labor. Su currently serves as the Deputy Secretary of
Labor.  
  
In a statement, President Biden said, “Julie is a champion for workers,
and she has been a critical partner to Secretary Walsh since the early
days of my Administration. Over several decades, Julie has led the
largest state labor department in the nation, cracked down on wage
theft, fought to protect trafficked workers, increased the minimum wage,
created good-paying, high-quality jobs, and established and enforced
workplace safety standards.”  
  
*A wide range of elected officials, labor leaders, and community
advocates championed the President’s nomination. Here’s what they are
saying:*

***Senators***  
  
**Senate Majority Leader, Chuck Schumer (NY)**: “As a proven fighter for
American workers, Julie Su will be a phenomenal Labor Secretary.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenSchumer/status/1630663800050405376),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**Senator Bernie Sanders (VT):** “I’m confident Julie Su will be an
excellent Secretary of Labor. I look forward to working with her to
protect workers’ rights and build the trade union movement in this
country.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenSanders/status/1630634451217596436),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**Senator Mazie Hirono (HI):** “@POTUS made the right choice in
nominating Deputy Secretary of Labor Julie Su to serve as the next
Secretary of Labor.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/maziehirono/status/1630684201530867714),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**Senator Tammy Duckworth (IL):** “Julie Su is the most qualified person
to be our nation’s next Secretary of Labor and I’m thrilled that
President Biden nominated her to serve in his Cabinet today. With her
proven track-record, I’m confident Deputy Secretary Su is prepared to
lead the Department on day one.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenDuckworth/status/1630686975765233664),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**Senator Catherine Cortez Masto (NV):** “I have no doubt that Julie Su
will make an excellent Labor secretary and I look forward to confirming
her. This will be a huge victory for America’s Asian and Pacific
Islander communities and working families. Su is a fierce champion for
unions and who we need leading @USDOL.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenCortezMasto/status/1630638417129160711),
2/28/23\]  
  
**Senator Chris Coons (DE):** “Julie Su is the right choice to lead the
Labor Department. I look forward to her speedy confirmation so she can
continue to work on growing and strengthening America’s workforce.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/ChrisCoons/status/1630640135661338638),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**Senator Cory Booker (NJ):** “Congratulations to my friend Julie Su.
President Biden has made an excellent choice to lead the Department of
Labor in a critical time for workers.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenBooker/status/1630654952593825802),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**Senator Dianne Feinstein (CA):** “Julie Su is an excellent nominee to
be Secretary of Labor. As deputy secretary, she helped lead one of the
fastest labor market recoveries in U.S. history, lowering our
unemployment rate to a 54-year low of 3.4 percent.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenFeinstein/status/1630666870134022144),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**Senator Tom Carper (DE):** “It’s great to hear of @POTUS’ historic
nomination for the next Secretary of Labor. I look forward to continuing
to work with @USDOL to build a stronger, more inclusive economy that
helps Delawareans succeed.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenatorCarper/status/1630670425536491520),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**Senator Alex Padilla (CA):** “By nominating @JulieSuCA to serve as
Secretary of Labor, @POTUS is doing right by millions of hardworking
Americans. Julie’s proven record of protecting workers’ rights both in
California and at @USDOL make her the right pick for the job. I’m proud
to support her nomination.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenAlexPadilla/status/1630686986921967618),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**Senator Jacky Rosen (NV):** “Julie Su has dedicated her career to
fighting for workers and their right to organize. If confirmed, she will
make history as the first AANHPI cabinet secretary in the Biden
Administration. I’m proud to have been part of the push for her historic
nomination.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenJackyRosen/status/1630691757305339905),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**Senator Kristen Gillibrand (NY):** “Julie Su is a champion for
America’s working families, and I’m thrilled that @POTUS has nominated
her to be our next Labor Secretary!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/gillibrandny/status/1630701347166093312),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**Senator John Hickenlooper (CO):** “A good life starts with a good job
and Julie Su will be a labor secretary who can build a 21st century
workforce from the bottom up. We can’t wait to get her confirmed and
work with her to do it.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenatorHick/status/1630954657647345667),
3/1/23\]  
  
***Representatives***  
  
**Congresswoman Judy Chu (CA):** “I am elated that President Biden is
nominating Julie Su to be our nation’s next Labor Secretary. She’s
eminently qualified to lead the Department and will successfully deliver
results for our workers on Day 1. Thank you, @POTUS, for nominating your
first AAPI Cabinet Secretary!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepJudyChu/status/1630646585435496454),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**Congresswoman Grace Meng (NY):** “Thank you
[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS/) for nominating a historic Secretary
of Labor [@JulieSuCA](https://twitter.com/JulieSuCA/). So appreciate
strong support from
[@TheBlackCaucus](https://twitter.com/TheBlackCaucus/)[@HispanicCaucus](https://twitter.com/HispanicCaucus/)
@CAPAC”
\[[Tweet,](https://twitter.com/Grace4NY/status/1630954075243048960)
3/1/23\]  
  
**Congressman Mark Takano (CA):** “I’m thrilled @POTUS has nominated
Julie Su as his next Labor Secretary and first AAPI Cabinet member! Ms.
Su brings commendable experience and a passion to advance workers’
rights, fair labor practices, and equity to @USDOL. I look forward to
her confirmation and
leadership.”\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepMarkTakano/status/1630663065883516943),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal (WA):** “I’m thrilled to see @POTUS
nominate @JulieSuCA to be the first AAPI Secretary of Labor! She will be
a champion for working people across this country, as she has been for
the lowest-wage workers, including domestic workers, immigrant workers,
and workers of color in California.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepJayapal/status/1630669837742616577),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**Congressman Ted Lieu (CA):** “Congratulations to Julie Su, who will be
nominated as the next Secretary of Labor. Julie did a great job as
Deputy Secretary of Labor and will be a terrific head of the Department.
Thank you @POTUS for nominating a fantastic American who will serve well
the American people.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/tedlieu/status/1630693604866904065),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**Congresswoman Jasmine Crockett (TX):** “Congrats on your nomination,
@JulieSuCA! As @USDOL head, her field expertise would propel our nation
into the future. She’ll make history as the 1st \#AAPI member of @POTUS’
the Cabinet. Worker’s rights must be \#1. I look forward to all being
invited to the table.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepJasmine/status/1630655144370089985),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**Congressman Gerry Connolly (VA):** “President Biden has fulfilled his
promise to assemble a Cabinet that looks like America. Earlier this
month, I proudly endorsed the immensely qualified Julie Su for Secretary
of Labor. There is no doubt she will excel as the Biden Administration’s
first AAPI Cabinet Secretary.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/GerryConnolly/status/1630656658551582720),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**Congresswoman Barbara Lee (CA):**  “Congrats, @JulieSuCA! You’ve been
a trailblazing leader for Californians, and I have no doubt you will
serve the entire country well as Secretary of Labor.👏🏾”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepBarbaraLee/status/1630658331709718528),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**Congresswoman Katie Porter (CA):** “There isn’t a better candidate for
Secretary of Labor than Julie Su—a Californian who has fought
relentlessly for workers. Her nomination to lead @USDOL is a win for the
AAPI community and the entire labor movement.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepKatiePorter/status/1630670676485894144),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**Congressman Mark Pocan (WS):** “Julie Su will be an incredible Labor
Secretary. Her record standing up for workers is second to none!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepMarkPocan/status/1630672838494498821),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**Congressman Scott Peters (CA):** “I recently joined 30+ members of
Congress in a letter to recommend Julie Su for this position. Su is
ready & qualified to take on the responsibility as Secretary of Labor.
Su is committed to fighting for workers’ rights, fair labor practices
and good jobs for all Americans. Congratulations on this historic
nomination!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepScottPeters/status/1630673155915407363),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**Congressman Bobby Scott (VA):** “Julie Su’s strong record of
leadership is precisely what we need during this difficult time for our
nation’s workers. I congratulate Julie Su on her nomination and express
my strong confidence that she will continue fighting for America’s
workers as the Secretary of
Labor.”\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/BobbyScott/status/1630691059993812993),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**Congresswoman Katherine Clark (MA):** “Excellent choice, @POTUS. 
Julie Su is a trailblazing leader dedicated to building an economy that
works for working families. Eager to partner with her as our new Labor
Secretary!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/WhipKClark/status/1630695247670804481),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**Congressman Adam Schiff (CA):** “Julie Su will be a phenomenal
Secretary of Labor. She’s the fighter working individuals need as our
economy continues to recover. In California, she was a tireless leader
for working families. And now she’ll be a champion for all.
Congratulations @JulieSuCA!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepAdamSchiff/status/1630734590770831360),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**Congresswoman Sylvia Garcia (TX):** “Breaking news! @POTUS nominated
Julie Su as the next U.S. Secretary of Labor. We heard this exciting
news as my team welcomed Deputy Secretary Su to Houston for the of a
launch a new apprenticeship program with United and the Teamsters.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepSylviaGarcia/status/1630720848104509440),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**Congresswoman Sydney Kamlager (CA):** “Congratulations to Julie Su on
her nomination to be the next Labor Secretary and first Asian American
in President Biden’s cabinet. Her experience as California labor
secretary shows her dedication to worker protections and her ability to
support the workforce of the future.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/sydneykamlager/status/1630716281430368256),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky (IL): “**The Biden administration is the
most pro-worker administration ever to occupy the White House. I have no
doubts Julie Su will step right in and help advance an economy that puts
our workers first. I thank my friend,
[@SecMartyWalsh](https://twitter.com/SecMartyWalsh/), for his
outstanding leadership at the [@USDOL](https://twitter.com/USDOL/).”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/janschakowsky/status/1630956717855981570),
3/1/23\]  
  
***Labor Leaders***  
  
**Liz Shuler, President, American Federation of Labor and Congress of
Industrial Organizations (AFL-CIO):** “Simply put: There’s no one more
dedicated and qualified to defend the fundamental rights of working
people than Julie Su. It’s her life’s work. The @AFLCIO is thrilled with
her historic nomination to become our nation’s next secretary of labor.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/LizShuler/status/1630661286273884165),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**Mary Kay Henry, President, Service Employees International Union
(SEIU):** “Thank you, @POTUS for nominating @JulieSuCA as our next U.S.
Secretary of Labor! She will make history as the daughter of Asian
immigrants who has fought for workers all across our economy and has
stood up for every worker’s right to join a union.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MaryKayHenry/status/1630644762465189915),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**National Fraternal Order of Police:** “We look forward to working with
@POTUS’s nominee for Secretary of Labor @USDOL Julie Su as she continues
her lifelong advocacy  for working Americans in every skill and
profession.  She’ll be building on the strong foundation laid down
during her historic partnership with outgoing Secretary Marty Walsh—and
we’ll  have her back.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/GLFOP/status/1630703596747595781?s=20),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**Randi Weingarten, President, American Federation of Teachers (AFT):**
“This is great news. Julie Su isn’t just ready to lead the labor
department, she’s read to make a difference for workers across the
country.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/rweingarten/status/1630665069657726986),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**Sean O’Brien, General President, International Brotherhood of
Teamsters**: “Huge congrats to @JulieSuCA for being nominated by @POTUS
to take over as the next \#SecretaryofLabor…Had the pleasure of spending
time with Julie today in TX…She is the definition of qualified & will be
a great ally to have in that position. Look forward to working with
her.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/TeamsterSOB/status/1630646999505575936),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**United Food and Commercial Workers (UFCW):** “Congratulations to
@JulieSuCA, @POTUS nominee for Secretary of @USDOL. UFCW has had the
pleasure to work with Julie in her role as CA Labor Secretary where we
saw first-hand her commitment to workers’ rights. We look forward to
working with her in the coming years.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/UFCW/status/1630674631219728384),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**Ai-jen Poo, Domestic Workers Alliance**: “This deserves a standing
ovation @POTUS @VP @WhiteHouse!! 👏🏽👏🏽👏🏽👏🏽👏🏽👏🏽👏🏽👏🏽👏🏽👏🏽👏🏽👏🏽”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/aijenpoo/status/1630642728999501952),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**Sara Nelson, President, Association of Flight Attendants:** “Fantastic
news for the country! Julie Su is the real deal and she will do
everything in her power to put working people central to the agenda! I
am so proud of her work, her sisterhood and solidarity, her commitment
to promote a labor movement for all working people! TY, @POTUS!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/FlyingWithSara/status/1630641757992960000),
2/28/23\]  
  
**Lorena Gonzalez Fletcher, Leader, California American Federation of
Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations (AFL-CIO):** “Labor
Secretary @JulieSuCA — I like the sound of that!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/LorenaSGonzalez/status/1630640894826393600),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**Robert Martinez Jr., International President, Machinist Union:** “We
know that as @USDOL Secretary, Julie Su will continue to champion unions
as the answer to historically high inequality and aggressively take on
employers that trample on the rights of workers.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/IAMBobMartinez/status/1630654144527605764),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees
(AFSCME):** “Julie Su is a fearless champion for workers and an
outstanding choice for Secretary of Labor — AFSCME is proud to support
her nomination.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/AFSCME/status/1630696863681658887),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**Transport Workers Union (TWU):** “Julie Su has been a fierce advocate
for workers her entire career. There is no question she is an excellent
choice to continue advancing the needs of working people by building an
economy from the bottom up and middle out.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/transportworker/status/1630698928705249283),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**National Education Association (NEA):** “Since taking office,
President Joe Biden has made good on his pledge to nominate a cabinet
that reflects America, with our diverse backgrounds and experiences, and
has repeatedly demonstrated his commitment to being the most pro-union
president leading the most pro-union administration in American history.
America’s educators applaud the historic nomination of Julie Su as the
next Secretary of Labor, which speaks loudly to young Asian and Pacific
Islander Americans attending public schools across this country that
there is no limit to their dreams. Su has been a champion of workers
throughout her long career in government and the labor movement. …We
also urge Congress to act quickly to confirm Su as the Secretary of
Labor.”
\[[Statement](https://www.nea.org/about-nea/media-center/press-releases/nea-applauds-julie-sus-historic-nomination-next-labor-secretary),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW):** “’Deputy
Secretary Su has dedicated her life to the cause of workers’ rights and
good middle-class jobs,’ IBEW International President Kenneth W. Cooper
said. ‘Like President Biden and outgoing Secretary Walsh, she sees labor
unions as key to rebuilding America’s middle class. I know she will
bring the dedication and passion she has shown throughout her career for
working families to this new role leading the Department of Labor, and
the IBEW fully supports her nomination. The Biden-Harris
administration’s pro-worker and pro-middle-class agenda is unprecedented
in this country’s history, and Julie Su is the right person to help
carry that agenda forward at the Department of Labor.’”
\[[Statement](http://www.ibew.org/media-center/Articles/23Daily/2302/230228_Urging),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**John Costa, International President, Amalgamated Transit Union
(ATU):** “A champion of the underrepresented for nearly three decades,
Su has devoted her life to advancing workers’ rights, workplace
protections, and employment opportunities for all. The daughter of
immigrant parents, she became a civil rights attorney fighting wage
theft for low-wage and immigrant workers before rising to serve as the
Secretary of the California Labor and Workforce Development Agency. Su
has since been confirmed by the Senate for her current role as Deputy
Secretary of Labor…As the largest labor organization representing
transit workers in the United States and Canada, upon her
confirmation, we look forward to immediately working with Deputy
Secretary Su to strengthen labor protections and improve safety measures
for our members, who have seen a growing epidemic of attacks and
violence on public transit, and to continue President Biden’s
initiatives to create a more inclusive and equitable economy for all.”
\[[Statement](https://www.atu.org/media/press/2023/atu-applauds-president-bidens-nomination-of-julie-su-for-u-s-labor-secretary),
2/28/23\]  
  
**James T. Callahan, General President, International Union of Operating
Engineers:** “During her time as Deputy Secretary of the U.S. Department
of Labor, she worked closely with our friend Marty Walsh to spearhead
the Good Jobs Initiative, reform antiquated wage and hour regulations,
and improve the safety of America’s workplaces. The International Union
of Operating Engineers proudly supports the nomination of Julie Su as
Secretary of Labor, and we urge Senators on both sides of the aisle to
swiftly confirm her nomination, allowing her to build on the Biden
Administration’s record of success for American workers.” \[Statement,
2/28/23\]  
**   
Eric Dean, President, The International Association of Bridge,
Structural, Ornamental and Reinforcing Iron Workers (IW):** “Deputy
Secretary Su has an excellent record of being a fierce champion for
working people,” Iron Workers General President Eric Dean said. Her
previous work at CA LWDA made important progress in protecting
ironworkers. Su has been an active and skilled hand in implementing
President Biden’s priorities for over two years and has contributed to
the agency’s historic labor partnerships. Before working with the
Department of Labor, Julie Su served as secretary for the California
Labor and Workforce Development Agency and state labor commissioner.
Throughout her career, she has remained true to working families. Most
recently, Su has worked alongside Secretary Marty Walsh in advancing a
strong, resilient, inclusive economy in line with Biden administration
priorities for working people of all backgrounds. Su is a proven leader
in advocating for working people and civil rights.”
\[[Statement](http://ironworkers.org/docs/default-source/Political/iw-statement_su-nomination.pdf?sfvrsn=0),
2/28/2023\] 

***Sean McGarvey, President, North America’s Building Trades Unions
(NABTU): ***“We applaud President Biden for nominating Julie Su to serve
as Secretary of the Department of Labor. Julie is a champion for
workers, and her experience and leadership are already an asset to the
Department of Labor and the entire U.S. workforce. We are confident that
working families will have another ally and advocate as DOL Secretary
like they did with Secretary Walsh. Julie’s work combating wage theft,
ensuring health and safety on the job, increasing access to quality jobs
and career pathways for historically marginalized communities, and more,
demonstrates her sincere commitment to uplifting and protecting
America’s workforce and strengthening and expanding the middle class. We
look forward to her confirmation and working with her and the entire
Biden-Harris Administration to create more diverse avenues of
opportunity for good-paying, high-quality, family-sustaining careers
across this great nation and to ensure all working families flourish in
America’s reinvigorated economy.”
\[[Statement](https://nabtu.org/press_releases/nabtu-julie-su-dol-sec-nomination-statement/),
2/1/2023\]  
  
**Rhett Buttle, Senior Advisor, Small Businesses for America’s Future:**
“We are pleased with the nomination of Julie Su as Labor Secretary. Her
experience as deputy secretary and track record of supporting workers
will make her well-suited for the role. Our economy is emerging from the
pitfalls of the pandemic, with inflation beginning to ease, strong
hiring, and new small business starts. In order for that momentum to
continue we need quality jobs and Su has been leading the way to make
sure that happens. She helped implement the [Good Jobs
Initiative](https://link.mediaoutreach.meltwater.com/ls/click?upn=OCpMavucL-2FBtpo3rL83O22d-2BTp7flX8MGWByL-2FVRrf5sx8nw1KPKD3LWIr4BrPx02dds_kQklFmiVQM2EEZ2ekvZ2MbQ1bvbB0GmjYQbjWEBoVyv-2FhncMpbdNgEMTWMF-2BVPuTWhO-2BSdON-2FrL-2Bj5HLTGQGpWtZJTDhoXLN8MIIFbV0Y3k71IMihEwM6DCFq5CKk-2BP-2BCk7CltAzJPQWsuVEpSJRaHT3wCUR32Ta-2BSb1Io0maVGMAtN13EUH4AhVTGi5MsZUlvwZ8gj0EADF-2FcgOmAWUswEKUct-2Fp-2FEW3yVPSyoAL8XXyh-2BVjjqmfjyOfM7oHTJ8liv6uCc-2BSPtOwrnvMIeMzUFib66kHBoAK73LHC21ktpRi8dKViWq03sDPvrBrOaZ2YvUEBZ7CZyEu-2FLkPSb2u-2FxDvg-2FWUf-2BCg3z078B-2FOOYVAELAJkisbLsFloy1z3AxDEAb1dVEyhjQ-2FggRf4hdrw-3D-3D) that
ensures that jobs created by key economic legislation like the [CHIPS
and Science
Act](https://link.mediaoutreach.meltwater.com/ls/click?upn=OCpMavucL-2FBtpo3rL83O2ybErg7Fyp5M1ryI9QBbJee1KmQL6Emlbaapwqfxsq2WhhhDL1PxY9eGsEMlniFTqoVrg6DE-2FUm0aZ5UdpaWkoN-2Fg7w3T-2FSk8HiQ4cMXPN6ttmC0-2F5ByVe-2FORU7uSgjQMpk8fuvIBJNr4IMuGUaEtso-3D_1bW_kQklFmiVQM2EEZ2ekvZ2MbQ1bvbB0GmjYQbjWEBoVyv-2FhncMpbdNgEMTWMF-2BVPuTWhO-2BSdON-2FrL-2Bj5HLTGQGpWtZJTDhoXLN8MIIFbV0Y3k71IMihEwM6DCFq5CKk-2BP-2BCk7CltAzJPQWsuVEpSJRaHT3wCUR32Ta-2BSb1Io0maVGMAtN13EUH4AhVTGi5MsZUlvwZ8gj0EADF-2FcgOmAWUswEKUct-2Fp-2FEW3yVPSyoAL8WJKQSfcZrht2BX-2Fd7YL4Mey3uZV8eiuZXYSw5jOkPIWeRFaKLmjt4uvs2kstOXW-2BW09MZ3OQxqvaIDGAONJNXWKBTolTgf3wP4td19DqrLEFBa98onFOAiQkArZbpttTuH322-2BpsvovZH-2BD2eZqNlmXRm42Yi0EzD-2FUMrZyOgy7w-3D-3D) and
the [Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law ](https://link.mediaoutreach.meltwater.com/ls/click?upn=OCpMavucL-2FBtpo3rL83O271-2B-2F25tbeEk5OHewHxpow2hjaMOrwGVVcuFEggok5IP-2FtV6C1YqNLnlRqLGgzvAyu4-2BxtfXJZVNfXfN44BghTcAEYHwZp47pD40ga-2F2oj7-2F5D-2FN-2FRWMyGlMxu-2BXbEe9TgWIrYv7o7pTnRN-2FgWUUwKc-3Doxu5_kQklFmiVQM2EEZ2ekvZ2MbQ1bvbB0GmjYQbjWEBoVyv-2FhncMpbdNgEMTWMF-2BVPuTWhO-2BSdON-2FrL-2Bj5HLTGQGpWtZJTDhoXLN8MIIFbV0Y3k71IMihEwM6DCFq5CKk-2BP-2BCk7CltAzJPQWsuVEpSJRaHT3wCUR32Ta-2BSb1Io0maVGMAtN13EUH4AhVTGi5MsZUlvwZ8gj0EADF-2FcgOmAWUswEKUct-2Fp-2FEW3yVPSyoAL8VH3brsHfLQuAei3e9InDoKVQteKrYRsEG7nB1-2FnFOqv-2FmErr-2FVpfdeXpI5N7-2B27if-2FQGEGD4OFaVpMFNIaLdImn06Ars24l9aIbVzoF1qJBkN5IJwkHESStSzAPvsoEENOhdCHtW8K6feWQXNNz581CHgUGWkHXHW4dbFHPV9ZzQ-3D-3D)are
accessible, pay well and are free from discrimination. Su takes great
pride in her Asian heritage and will bring more diversity to the current
administration. We appreciate the leadership of outgoing Secretary Marty
Walsh and know Su will continue that same work ethic as head of our
nation’s Labor Department. We urge the US Senate to act swiftly and
approve her nomination.”
\[[Statement](https://www.smallbusinessforamericasfuture.org/small-business-group-supports-nomination-of-julie-su-as-labor-secretary-encourages-lawmakers-to-confirm-her-to-the-post-swiftly),
3/1/23\]  
  
**United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America (UBC):**
“Julie Su is an experienced leader who is committed to building a
stronger economy for America’s middle class,” said Douglas J. McCarron,
General President of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters. “Throughout
her career, she has fought to combat some of the biggest problems
workers face, especially in the construction industry, like wage theft
and worker misclassification. Working people deserve a government that
supports safe jobsites and good wages. Julie Su will continue the Biden
Administration’s commitment to that kind of government.” \[Statement,
3/1/23\]  
  
**Terry O’Sullivan, General President, The Laborer’s International Union
of North America (LiUNA):** “LIUNA commends the Biden Administration’s
nomination of Julie Su to serve as the next U.S. Department of Labor
Secretary. Su has made fighting for workers her life’s work. She has
decades of experience as a public servant and civil rights attorney. At
the Department of Labor, under the leadership of Secretary Walsh and
Deputy Secretary Su, the agency completed a once in a generation update
to protect and strengthen prevailing wage rules. This update will have a
profound impact on the lives of working men and women; ramping up
enforcement on law-breaking contractors, stopping wage theft, and
modernizing the process for setting wages, which will strengthen the
wage floor and be more fair and accurate. The White House continues to
demonstrate an unflinching commitment to working men and women with the
selection of Julie Su and LIUNA looks forward to continuing to work with
her as Secretary of Labor. LIUNA urges the Senate to confirm Julie Su as
Secretary of Labor.” \[Statement, 3/1/23\]  
  
***AA and NHPI Advocates***  
  
**Sandra Leung, President, National Asian Pacific American Bar
Association (NAPABA):** “Julie Su is one of the most qualified
individuals to be nominated to serve as U.S. Secretary of Labor. If
confirmed, she will be the first Asian American to lead an executive
department in the Cabinet of the Biden Administration. We are proud that
an accomplished member of the Asian American legal community and NAPABA
can serve the country in this role. We thank President Biden for
honoring his commitment to diversity within the Administration and urge
the Senate to quickly confirm Julie Su as Secretary of Labor.”
\[[Statement](https://www.napaba.org/page/juliesu_nomination), 2/28/23\]

**Gregg Orton, Executive Director, National Council of Asian Pacific
Americans (NCAPA):** “The Biden Administration got it right in
nominating Julie A. Su to be the next Secretary of Labor. She will be
the first Asian American Cabinet Secretary in the Biden Administration
and reflects the continued commitment of the Administration to appoint
AANHPIs throughout the government. We thank President Biden and
congratulate Deputy Secretary Su, and look forward to continuing our
work with the administration to advance a vision of racial equity that
includes Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians and Pacific Islanders.”
\[[Statement](https://www.ncapaonline.org/ncapa-applauds-nomination-of-julie-a-su-as-next-secretary-of-labor/),
2/28/2023\]

**Asian Pacific American Labor Alliance, AFL-CIO:** “APALA is thrilled
at the news that President Biden intends to nominate Julie Su to serve
as Secretary of the Department of Labor. Julie has been a champion for
workers throughout her career and has the experience and track record of
success needed to lead the Department of Labor. As the first and only
organization for Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) union
members and allies, we applaud the Biden Administration for its first
nomination of an AAPI Cabinet Secretary and we are excited to continue
working with Julie Su to advance policies that empower workers and
strengthen workplace protections.”
\[[Statement](https://www.apalanet.org/press-releases/apala-applauds-president-bidens-nomination-of-julie-su-to-be-the-next-secretary-of-the-us-department-of-labor?emci=7d1a51d2-5cb8-ed11-a8e0-00224832e811&emdi=73d97b83-5db8-ed11-a8e0-00224832e811&ceid=12052635),
3/1/23\]

**Asian Americans Advancing Justice (AAJC):** “Julie Su’s nomination is
a welcome and critical step in increasing Asian American representation
in the Cabinet, as Su would be the only Asian American head of a federal
department. Su, a nationally recognized expert on labor policy and
workers’ rights, would bring her lived experience as a daughter of
immigrants, a woman of color, and an Asian American to the role of U.S.
Secretary of Labor, ensuring the concerns of all communities are
prioritized in the workforce, labor, and employment goals set forth by
the Biden Administration. We have full confidence in Julie Su and will
continue to voice our belief that she is the best person to fulfill this
role in the Department of Labor.” \[[Press
Release](https://www.advancingjustice-aajc.org/press-release/advancing-justice-aajc-applauds-nomination-julie-su-us-secretary-labor),
2/28/23\]

**APIA Vote:** “We’re excited to hear this news! Julie Su has a proven
track record of standing up for workers and AANHPI communities. We’re
glad to see this administration further diversity its cabinet with this
important nomination. We urge the Senate to swiftly appoint Su to this
position.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/APIAVote/status/1630642072125358104),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**AAPCHO, Association of Asian Pacific Community Health Organizations:**
“AAPCHO strongly supports President Biden’s nomination of Julie Su as
the next Secretary of Labor. Ms. Su is exceptionally qualified to lead
the Labor Department and advance important initiatives to address labor
challenges, especially in our health and mental health workforce. We are
confident her lived experiences and expertise will provide important
perspectives as a member of the president’s cabinet, especially for
Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander communities.
AAPCHO and our member community health centers urge the Senate to
confirm Julie Su as Secretary of Labor without delay.”
\[[AAPCHO](https://aapcho.org/aapcho-statement-in-support-of-julie-su-as-secretary-of-labor/),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**Norman Chen, Chief Executive Officer, The Asian American Foundation:**
“The Asian American Foundation congratulates Julie Su for her nomination
to serve as Secretary of the Department of Labor. Julie has been a
tireless advocate for labor and civil rights of historically
underrepresented communities including people of color, women, the
LGBTQ+ community, and immigrants and a lifelong champion for workers’
well-being including fair access to wages and skills training. Serving
alongside Secretary Walsh, Julie has advanced policies to create a
stronger, more inclusive, and resilient economy. We have no doubt that
Julie Su will continue her visionary leadership in her new role as
Secretary.”
\[[Statement](https://www.taaf.org/pages/julie-su-nomination), 2/28/23\]

**Juliet K. Choi, President and CEO, Asian & Pacific Islander American
Health Forum (APIAHF):** “As a former colleague of Julie Su, I know
firsthand that she will champion worker rights and ensure that all
Americans, including Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians and Pacific
Islanders, will not be marginalized.”
\[[Statement](https://www.apiahf.org/press-release/apiahf-applauds-the-nomination-of-julie-ann-su-to-secretary-of-labor/),
2/28/23\]

**National Asian Pacific American Women’s Forum (NAPAWF):** “NAPAWF is
thrilled that President Biden will move forward with her nomination to
Secretary of Labor and urge the Senate to swiftly confirm her…Deputy
Secretary Su has not just the expertise, but the lived experiences to be
a strong advocate for immigrant workers. She is the daughter of Chinese
immigrants, and grew up supporting her family’s small laundromat
business and translating for her parents. Deputy Secretary Su has the
professional expertise and lived experiences to be an advocate for all
workers, particularly low-wage and immigrant workers who are
marginalized.” \[[Press
Release](https://www.napawf.org/press-releases/230228), 2/28/23\]  
  
**Varun Nikore, Executive Director, AAPI Victory Alliance:** We applaud
the President for continuing to diversify his cabinet with Julie Su’s
nomination. AAPI Victory Alliance has been working with our partners in
the AAPI community since 2020 in an effort commonly called “AAPI46.” Our
goal has been to work with the Administration to uphold our shared
values of diversity, equity, and inclusion in staffing the federal
government at all levels. This is why it is so inspiring and heartening
to see the President nominate the most diverse slate of appointees in
American history.”
\[[Statement](https://aapivictoryalliance.com/updates/2023/2/28/statement-aapi-victory-alliance-applauds-white-house-nomination-of-julie-su-to-be-next-secretary-of-labor),
2/28/23\]  
  
**OCA – Asian Pacific American Advocates:** “We are encouraged to see
that President Biden has announced his nomination of Julie A. Su to be
the next Secretary of Labor. This shows the Administration’s continued
commitment to ensuring that Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and
Pacific Islanders (AANHPIs) are represented throughout the U.S.
government. We congratulate Deputy Secretary Su, who if confirmed, will
be the first Asian American Cabinet Secretary in the Biden
Administration. We look forward to continuing our work together with the
administration to empower and promote AANHPIs at the national, state,
and local levels.”
\[[Statement](https://www.ocanational.org/press-releases/oca-commends-president-bidens-nomination-of-julie-sunbspfor-secretary-of-labornbsp),
2/28/23\]  
  
**OCA – Asian Pacific American Advocates**: “We applaud @POTUS for
supporting Julie Su, who has been a tireless advocate for the community
since the beginning of her career. @WhiteHouse @WHIAANHPI”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/OCANational/status/1630650322774269963),
2/28/2023\]  
  
**Katrina Dizon Mariategue, Acting Executive Director, Southeast Asia
Resource Action Center (SEARAC):** “We applaud President Biden’s
nomination of Julie Su as the 30th Secretary of Labor and as the first
Asian American Cabinet Secretary to serve in the Biden Administration.
As a champion of workers’ rights and fair labor practices, we look to
her leadership to protect Southeast Asian American workers, many of whom
are low-wage workers. Her nomination is a historic moment for Asian
American Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander representation — a
critical step in feeling seen in the labor, workforce, and employment
initiatives set forth by the Department of Labor. SEARAC urges Congress
to move swiftly to confirm Julie Su as the next US Secretary of Labor.” 
\[Statement, 2/28/23\]  
  
**Madalene Xuan-Trang Mielke, President and CEO, Asian Pacific American
Institute for Congressional Studies (APAICS):** “Julie Su is an
indispensable leader within the Department of Labor and is a role model
for many in our Asian American & Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander
communities. We are thrilled that President Biden has honored his
commitment to diverse representation by nominating her. Her nomination
reflects who we are as a country. As we hear this news on the eve of
Women’s History Month, we are excited to see and champion more women of
color in positions of leadership and power.”
\[[Statement](https://www.apaics.org/post/apaics-applauds-julie-ann-su-nomination-to-secretary-of-labor),
2/28/23\]  
  
**CA Asian American and Pacific Islander Leg. Caucus:** “The California
Asian American & Pacific Islander Legislative Caucus is delighted to
learn that President Biden has nominated Julie Su as the U.S. Secretary
of Labor…Ms. Su’s dedication to promoting workers’ rights and building a
strong, resilient workforce illustrates her excellence as an AANHPI
leader. As the Presidential cabinet increases its diversity, the AAPILC
is proud to continue supporting Ms. Su and her exemplary efforts for an
equitable and inclusive experience for all American workers.”
\[[Tweet,](https://twitter.com/AAPILegCaucus/status/1630741316798906368?s=20)
2/28/23\]  
  
**Latino Community Foundation:** “Julie Su understands the experiences
of America’s workforce — their values, the challenges they face, &
opportunities they deserve. Thank you @POTUS for your intention to
nominate Julie Su to serve as our nation’s next Labor Secretary!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/LatinoCommFdn/status/1630658563575287808),
2/28/2023\]

\###
