---
date: '2023-03-28'
published_time: 2023-03-28 19:27:38-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/28/readout-of-space-systems-cybersecurity-executive-forum-hosted-by-the-office-of-the-national-cyber-director-and-the-national-space-council/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of Space Systems Cybersecurity Executive Forum Hosted by the Office\
  \ of the National Cyber Director and the National Space\_Council"
---
 
This afternoon, the Office of the National Cyber Director (ONCD) and the
National Space Council convened government and private-sector leaders
for a forum focused on bolstering cybersecurity in the space systems
ecosystem. This forum took place as part of a larger series of
executive-level meetings hosted by ONCD targeting various sectors,
including most recently an [electric vehicles and electric vehicle
supply equipment-focused
event](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/25/readout-of-cybersecurity-executive-forum-on-electric-vehicles-and-electric-vehicle-charging-infrastructure-hosted-by-the-office-of-the-national-cyber-director/)
in October 2022. The Space Forum was designed to facilitate robust
discussion on this topic at the executive level and drive action to
motivate critical cybersecurity investments across the space systems
ecosystem.  
  
Kemba Walden, Acting National Cyber Director, and Chirag Parikh, Deputy
Assistant to the President and National Space Council Executive
Secretary, hosted Don Graves, Deputy Secretary, Department of Commerce;
Bill Nelson, Administrator, National Aeronautics and Space
Administration (NASA); Anne Neuberger, Deputy Assistant to the President
and Deputy National Security Advisor for Cyber & Emerging Technology,
National Security Council; Cara Abercrombie, Deputy Assistant to the
President and Coordinator for Defense Policy and Arms Control, National
Security Council; General David Thompson, Vice Chief of Space
Operations, United States Space Force; and other senior government
officials and senior executives representing diverse elements of the
U.S. space industry for a cyber threat briefing and a roundtable
discussion on cybersecurity. U.S. Government officials emphasized the
need to partner closely with the private sector to ensure the resiliency
of the U.S. space ecosystem against cyber threats.  
  
Industry participants — including from the satellite communications,
launch, imagery, cloud and data, cross-functional defense systems and
services, and venture capital elements of the space industry — shared
their organizations’ views on current space system cybersecurity
practices including strategies for executives to measure cyber risk,
addressing supply chain challenges, deploying quantum resistant
cryptographic algorithms, and the need to better secure open source
libraries. Attendees discussed recommendations to build on existing
policy, including [Space Policy Directive-5, “Cybersecurity Principles
for Space
Systems](https://trumpwhitehouse.archives.gov/presidential-actions/memorandum-space-policy-directive-5-cybersecurity-principles-space-systems/),”
to mitigate cybersecurity vulnerabilities and address cyber threats.
Government officials noted the need for tangible, comprehensive guidance
for government and commercial space system developers and operators to
measurably improve the cybersecurity of their space systems in the
current threat environment. Government officials also shared that the
Biden-Harris Administration’s new [National Cybersecurity
Strategy](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/03/National-Cybersecurity-Strategy-2023.pdf)
outlines an affirmative vision for building digital and space systems
ecosystem that is more inherently defensible, resilient, and aligned
with U.S. values, which applies equally to the space systems ecosystem.
All participants emphasized the importance and urgency of
executive-level attention on shoring up the resilience of U.S. space
systems through increased investments in cybersecurity.  
  
Public and private sector space actors — including stakeholders
representing the diversity of the space ecosystem — must work together
to proactively address cybersecurity challenges. Toward this objective,
the following commitments were made:

-   In the coming months, the Office of the National Cyber Director will
    convene workshops in regional hubs for U.S. space industry
    innovation to understand (1) industry perspectives on current policy
    for cybersecurity of space systems, including Space Policy
    Directive-5, and (2) gaps requiring more specific guidance and
    tangible next steps that the White House could build upon;
-   The Department of Commerce will hold a Space Cybersecurity Symposium
    in Washington, D.C., with participation from a broad range of public
    and private space and cybersecurity stakeholders; and,
-   The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) will
    finalize its report, “Introduction to Cybersecurity for Commercial
    Satellite Operations,” this fiscal year, providing a method for
    applying the NIST Cybersecurity Framework to commercial space
    activities and a set of cybersecurity outcomes, requirements, and
    suggested controls.

\###
