---
date: '2023-03-09'
published_time: 2023-03-09 12:10:04-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/09/fact-sheet-president-bidens-budget-lowers-energy-costs-combats-the-climate-crisis-and-advances-environmental-justice/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden\u2019s Budget Lowers Energy Costs, Combats the\
  \ Climate Crisis, and Advances Environmental\_Justice"
---
 
In the two years since taking office, the President’s leadership to
tackle the climate crisis has boosted U.S. manufacturing and deployment
of cost-cutting clean energy technologies, put the United States on a
durable path aligned with limiting warming to 1.5 °C, galvanized global
action by partners and the private sector, and advanced environmental
justice. On the first day of the Biden-Harris Administration, the
President rejoined the Paris Agreement—strengthening international
partnerships that are key to addressing the climate crisis on the global
stage. He set an ambitious domestic goal to reduce greenhouse gas
pollution 50 to 52 percent from 2005 levels in 2030 and has rallied
countries around the world to make their own bold contributions. 

In signing the Inflation Reduction Act last year, the President also
secured the largest investment to advance energy security and combat
climate change in American history—all while lowering energy costs for
the American people. The Administration is continuing to implement the
Inflation Reduction Act, which is already galvanizing our clean energy
transition and making clean and energy efficient technologies more
affordable for American families. At the same time, the Administration
has launched numerous initiatives to accelerate America’s clean energy
future and advance environmental justice—from jumpstarting an electric
transportation future that is Made in America, to announcing new
climate-smart agriculture and forestry initiatives, to investing in the
places that kept America’s lights on for generations, to implementing
the President’s Justice40 Initiative that ensures 40 percent of the
benefits of Federal investments in climate and clean energy are
delivered to disadvantaged communities. The Budget invests in clean
energy across America, bringing jobs to rural communities and cities,
leaving no one behind.

The Budget builds on this historic progress by advancing clean energy
and investing in climate science, strengthening resilience, advancing
environmental justice, and doubling down on America’s global climate
leadership. The President’s Budget invests a total of $52.2 billion in
discretionary budget authority to tackle the climate crisis, $10.9
billion more than FY 2023 or an increase of nearly 26 percent. The
combination of these and other long-term investments:

**CREATES JOBS BUILDING CLEAN ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE AND LOWERS ENERGY,
WATER, AND FUEL BILLS FOR AMERICAN FAMILIES**

-   **Creates Jobs Building Clean Energy Infrastructure.** The Budget
    invests $4.5 billion in clean energy across America, bringing jobs
    to rural communities and cities, leaving no one behind. For example,
    the Budget includes nearly $50 million for the Department of
    Energy’s Solar Energy Technology Office to assist communities and
    low-income households in continuing to decrease the cost of
    installing rooftop solar and solar plus storage on homes across the
    country.

<!-- -->

-   **Cuts Energy and Water Bills**. The Budget would cut energy bills
    for American families so that they pay less each month. The Budget
    supports clean energy workforce and infrastructure projects across
    the Nation and invests $1.8 billion in low-income Americans’ homes,
    including $375 million for DOE Weatherization Assistance grants,
    nearly $750 million to support energy efficiency and resilience in
    HUD-assisted and financed developments, $800 million for HHS LIHEAP
    funded efficiency upgrades, and $50 million to launch a new Energy
    Burden Reduction Pilot by DOE to lower energy costs while also
    reducing emissions through efficiency, electrification, and
    distributed energy resource installation retrofits in in at least
    3,000 low-income households.

<!-- -->

-   **Supports Clean Energy Projects at Tribal Colleges and
    Universities**. The Budget includes $83 million to electrify Tribal
    homes and transition Tribal Colleges and Universities to clean
    energy. It also includes $13 million to provide grid planning and
    technical assistance to Tribes and other communities to ensure they
    have access to clean and reliable electricity.

<!-- -->

-   **Invests in Building Clean Energy and Lowering Energy Costs in
    Rural Communities.** The Budget provides $30 million for grants and
    $1 billion for loan guarantees for clean energy systems and energy
    efficiency improvements for farmers and rural small businesses. The
    Budget also provides $6.5 billion in authority for rural electric
    loans to support additional clean energy, energy storage, and
    transmission projects that would create good-paying jobs. In
    addition, the Budget includes $15 million in funding to support the
    creation of the Rural Clean Energy Initiative to provide critical
    technical assistance to rural electric providers and help to achieve
    the President’s clean energy goals.

<!-- -->

-   **Accelerates American Manufacturing and Deployment of Clean Energy
    Technologies.** The Budget includes $75 million for the Department
    of Energy to carry out the President’s recent determinations under
    the Defense Production Act to enhance domestic supply chain capacity
    for key climate technologies. To build on the resurgence of American
    manufacturing, the Budget complements funding provided in the
    Inflation Reduction Act by providing robust support for Loan Program
    Office administrative expenses to originate and oversee the
    ambitious growth in the financing of clean energy, projects
    supporting the repurposing of legacy energy infrastructure, and
    advanced technology vehicle manufacturing projects envisioned in the
    Inflation Reduction Act.   

<!-- -->

-   **Improves the Energy Efficiency and Climate Resilience of
    HUD-Assisted Housing.** The Budget provides $3.2 billion for public
    housing modernization and $300 million to improve the energy
    efficiency, climate resilience, and physical condition of the public
    housing stock. To complement these investments, the Budget provides
    $7.5 billion in mandatory funding for comprehensive modernization of
    targeted public housing communities.

<!-- -->

-   **Promotes Resilience in Rural Housing.** The Budget requires that
    all of USDA’s funding for construction or rehabilitation of rural
    housing be targeted to projects that improve energy or water
    efficiency, implement green features, or address climate resilience.
    These requirements will improve the adaptability and resilience of
    rural housing to climate change.

<!-- -->

-   **Establishes a Novel Regional Energy-Water Demonstration Project.**
    The Budget provides funding for a regional U.S. Energy-Water
    Demonstration Facility funded within the Office of Energy Efficiency
    and Renewable Energy to solve the critical and interlinked
    challenges at the energy, water and carbon nexus. A successful
    demonstration will be designed around the needs of stakeholders in a
    defined national watershed region or catchment and enhance clean
    energy benefits to a regional community.

<!-- -->

-   **Increases Permitting Capacity.** The Budget invests in
    environmental permitting programs that will expedite delivery of new
    and modernized infrastructure. The Budget also proposes to expand
    existing transfer authority by enabling Federal agencies to transfer
    funds provided under the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to the U.S.
    Fish and Wildlife Service and NOAA Fisheries to improve efficiencies
    and increase capacity for environmental planning and consultation.
     Together with existing law, this proposal would accelerate and
    improve environmental reviews in support of responsible development
    of priority infrastructure projects and energy solutions. The Budget
    supports efforts at the Department of the Interior to meet the
    Administration’s goal of deploying 30 gigawatts of offshore wind
    capacity by 2030 and also provides $60 million to expand offshore
    wind permitting activities at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
    Administration (NOAA) to allow NOAA to use the best available
    science to help meet the Administration’s deployment goal while
    protecting biodiversity and promoting sustainable ocean co-use.

<!-- -->

-   **Advances Climate-Friendly Transportation Networks.** The Budget
    provides $60.1 billion for the Federal-Aid Highway program, $1.2
    billion for the National Infrastructure Project Assistance program,
    and $560 million for the Federal-State Partnership for Intercity
    Passenger Rail Grants to support projects that, among other
    priorities, address climate change by increasing resilience and
    lowering emissions, including by expanding our Nation’s passenger
    rail network and building out a national network of electric vehicle
    chargers. The Budget also fully reflects funding for highway climate
    programs provided by the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, including
    $1.5 billion for charging and alternative fueling infrastructure,
    $1.3 billion for the Carbon Reduction Program, and $1.8 billion for
    the PROTECT resilience program.

<!-- -->

-   **Invests in American Made, Zero-Emission Vehicles through Federal
    Procurement**. The Budget invests $801 million across 21 agencies
    for zero emission fleet vehicles and associated charging or fueling
    infrastructure. This investment will provide an immediate, clear,
    and stable source of demand to help accelerate American industrial
    capacity to produce clean vehicles and components, and includes
    dedicated funds for USPS charging infrastructure.

<!-- -->

-   **Accelerates Transition Toward Net-Zero Emissions Aviatio**n. The
    Budget provides $570 million for NASA green aviation initiatives,
    including partnerships with industry to develop hybrid-electric jet
    engines, research to better understand aviation’s non-carbon climate
    impacts, and technology development to increase fuel efficiency
    while simultaneously enabling more widespread use of sustainable
    aviation fuel.

**MAKES HISTORIC INVESTMENTS IN SCIENCE AND RESEARCH TO CONTINUE TO
LOWER THE COST OF CLEAN ENERGY** 

-   **Invests Historic Levels of Funding in the Bipartisan CHIPS and
    Science Act.** The Budget provides $25 billion, up approximately
    $6.5 billion from the 2023 level, for CHIPS and Science
    Act-authorized activities. This includes $11.3 billion at the
    National Science Foundation, $8.8 billion at DOE’s Office of
    Science, $1 billion at NIST and more than $4 billion at the
    Department of Commerce’s Economic Development Administration.

<!-- -->

-   **Makes Historic Investments in Climate Science and Cutting-Edge
    Clean Energy Innovation.**  The Budget provides $16.5 billion to
    support climate science and clean energy innovation, proposing $5.1
    billion to fund a broad portfolio of research to improve
    understanding of our changing climate and inform adaptation and
    resilience measures across multiple agencies, including the
    Department of the Interior, National Aeronautics and Space
    Administration, Department of Commerce, National Science Foundation,
    and others. The Budget supports U.S. preeminence in developing
    innovative technologies that accelerate the transition to a clean
    energy economy by investing more than $11.3 billion to boost
    American innovation and reestablish American leadership in clean
    energy innovation.

<!-- -->

-   **Supports the Biden-Harris Net-Zero Game Changers Initiative**. The
    Budget includes over $4 billion to support the Initiative’s goal to
    identify, prioritize, and accelerate innovation in game-changing
    technologies where transformative progress can help the U.S. reach
    its net-zero 2050 climate goal and support global decarbonization.
    The Budget invests across the government in five initial
    game-changing focus areas: $282 million for net-zero low-greenhouse
    gas building heating and cooling research, development, and
    demonstration; $580 million for net-zero aviation research,
    development, and demonstration; $1 billion for net-zero grid
    research, development, and demonstration; $1 billion for game
    changing net-zero fusion; and more than $1.1 billion for net-zero
    manufacturing and circular economy research, development, and
    demonstration.

<!-- -->

-   **Helps Plan for a New National Lab at a Historically Black College
    or University, Tribal College or University, or Minority Serving
    Institution**. The Budget invests $35 million in the Office of
    Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy for the initial planning of
    and a new solicitation for a new laboratory at a Historically Black
    College and University, Tribal College or University, or Minority
    Serving Institution.

<!-- -->

-   **Restores American Leadership in Agricultural Innovation and
    Research.** The Budget restores American innovation in agriculture
    by providing a total of more than $4 billion for agricultural
    research, education, and outreach, including $370 million to
    increase capacity among historically underserved populations. The
    Budget provides $7 billion, $2 billion over 2023 enacted levels, for
    climate-related funding at USDA, including a total of $612 million
    for the Department’s core climate-related R&D activities.
    Additionally, the Budget invests in ensuring that innovative
    products can come to market safely and efficiently with improved
    regulatory review.

<!-- -->

-   **Bolsters our Understanding of Earth Systems Science**. The Budget
    provides $2.5 billion for NASA’s Earth Science program, which will
    enhance our understanding of Earth systems and provide information
    to tackle the climate crisis and mitigate natural hazards.

**CUTS CLIMATE POLLUTION**

-   **Addresses Hard to Decarbonize Industrial Processes.** The Budget
    supports more than $1.2 billion in DOE industrial decarbonization
    activities. The Budget considers the importance of strategically
    supporting U.S. industrial decarbonization through innovation,
    targeted investment, and technical assistance. The Budget encourages
    adoption of industrial decarbonization solutions including through
    the Office of Manufacturing and Energy Supply Chains (MESC) and
    expanded research and development efforts in the Industrial
    Efficiency and Decarbonization Office. The Budget includes $160
    million for the Office of Clean Energy Demonstrations to support at
    least two large-scale industrial decarbonization projects directly
    benefitting disadvantaged communities.

<!-- -->

-   **Reduces HFC Pollution.** The Budget includes $64.4 million at EPA
    to implement the American Innovation and Manufacturing (AIM) Act and
    continue phasing out potent greenhouse gases known as
    hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs).  The Budget also includes investments to
    support the private sector in calculating their GHG emissions and
    climate risk and setting science-based climate targets, as well as
    investments to embed the economic impacts of climate change and
    decarbonization efforts within Government economic projects.  

<!-- -->

-   **Sequesters Carbon through Restoring Aquatic Ecosystems**. The
    Budget invests in the restoration of some of the Nation’s most
    unique aquatic ecosystems, such as the Chesapeake Bay, the Upper
    Mississippi River, the Great Lakes, and the Louisiana Coast. The
    Army Corps of Engineers is undertaking an analysis of how aquatic
    ecosystem restoration projects can offset greenhouse gases emissions
    by promoting carbon sequestration on a carbon lifecycle basis for
    each project. 

<!-- -->

-   **Increases Global Energy Security, Infrastructure, and
    Resilience**. The Budget supports the President’s pledges to more
    than quadruple international climate finance and to provide more
    than $3 billion for the President’s Emergency Plan for Adaptation
    and Resilience (PREPARE).  This includes a $1.6 billion contribution
    to the Green Climate Fund and a $1.2 billion loan to the Clean
    Technology Fund. The Budget also advances new tools, such as loan
    guarantees, to re-assert U.S. leadership in the Indo-Pacific to
    finance energy security and infrastructure projects and reduce
    reliance on volatile energy supplies and prices. 

**PROTECTS CLEAN AIR AND WATER, ADVANCES ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE, AND
DELIVERS FOR COMMUNITIES LEFT BEHIND**

-   **Advances Environmental Justice and Equity.** The Budget bolsters
    the Administration’s efforts on environmental justice by investing
    nearly $1.8 billion across EPA and over $150 million at DOE in
    environmental justice initiatives, including to advance President
    Biden’s Justive40 Initiative. The Budget includes $15 million for a
    new fellowship at NSF that would fund researchers studying disparate
    impacts of climate change. The Budget provides $48 million for
    Tribal climate resilience, adaptation, and relocation programs at
    the Department of the Interior, supporting sovereignty as Tribal
    communities tackle the impacts of climate change. The Budget also
    ensures Federal agencies will have the staff and resources they need
    to advance equity and to promote environmental, health, and civil
    rights protection for communities nationwide, to fulfill the
    Administration’s whole-of-government equity and environmental
    justice objectives.

<!-- -->

-   **Helps Provide Technical Assistance.** The Budget provides $91
    million forEPA’s Office of Environmental Justice and External Civil
    Rights to provide technical assistance to support capacity building
    for communities to advance equity and justice.

<!-- -->

-   **Supports Energy Communities.** The Budget includes almost $7
    billion, an increase of approximately $1 billion from FY 2023
    enacted, in discretionary funding for programs and initiatives
    across the Federal Government that support economic revitalization,
    job creation, and other priority needs in hard-hit coal, oil and
    gas, and power plant communities. This funding includes: $235
    million for the Appalachian Regional Commission, including $72
    million for the Partnerships for Opportunity and Workforce and
    Economic Revitalization (POWER) Initiative that targets Federal
    resources to help Appalachian communities that have been affected by
    job losses in coal mining, power plant operations, and coal-related
    supply chain industries; $311 million for the Department of the
    Interior to remediate orphaned oil and gas wells and reclaim
    abandoned mine lands on Federal and non-Federal lands, including $30
    million to address abandoned hardrock mine sites through the
    Department’s Energy Community Revitalization Program; $84 million
    for the Economic Development Administration’s Assistance to Coal
    Communities program to assist communities and regions severely
    impacted by the declining use of coal through activities that
    support economic diversification, job creation, capital investment,
    workforce development, and re-employment opportunities; and $20
    million to support the Department of Labor’s (DOL) role in the
    multi-agency POWER+ Initiative and $67 million for DOL’s Workforce
    Opportunities for Rural Communities, a program administered in
    partnership with the Appalachian Regional Commission, the Delta
    Regional Authority, and the Northern Border Regional Commission that
    aims to help these communities develop local and regional workforce
    development strategies that promote long-term economic stability and
    opportunities for workers, especially those connected to the energy
    industry.

<!-- -->

-   **Reduces Health and Environmental Hazards for At-Risk
    Communities.** The Budget includes $8.3 billion for DOE’s
    Environmental Management program to support the cleanup of
    communities used for nuclear weapons production. The Budget also
    provides approximately $356 million for EPA’s Superfund program to
    continue cleaning up some of the Nation’s most contaminated land. In
    addition, an estimated $2.5 billion in Superfund tax revenue will be
    available to EPA in 2024.

<!-- -->

-   **Upgrades the Nation’s Drinking Water and Wastewater
    Infrastructure.** The Budget provides EPA more than $4 billion for
    water infrastructure. These resources would advance efforts to
    upgrade drinking water and wastewater infrastructure nationwide,
    with a focus on decreasing health disparities in underserved and
    rural communities that have historically been overlooked.

<!-- -->

-   **Tackles Per- and Polyfluoroalkyl Substances (PFAS) Pollution.
     **PFAS are a set of man-made chemicals that threaten the health and
    safety of communities across the Nation, disproportionately
    impacting historically disadvantaged communities. The Budget
    provides approximately $170 million for EPA to continue working
    toward commitments made in the 2021 PFAS Strategic Roadmap,
    including: increasing knowledge of PFAS impacts to human health and
    ecological effects; restricting use to prevent PFAS from entering
    the air, land, and water; and remediating PFAS that have been
    released into the environment.

<!-- -->

-   **Protects Against Climate-Related Health Risks**. The Budget
    provides $110 million for CDC’s Climate and Health program to expand
    the program to all states and territories to identify potential
    health effects associated with climate change and implement health
    adaptation plans.

<!-- -->

-   **Researches the Health Impacts of Climate Change.** The Budget
    provides $179 million at the National Institute of Environmental
    Health Sciences, $25 million above 2023 enacted level, to support
    research aimed at understanding the health impacts of climate
    change.

<!-- -->

-   **Advances Climate and Health Equity Workstreams.** The Budget
    provides $4.65 million for HHS’s Office of Climate Change and Health
    Equity (OCCHE), which under the leadership of the Assistant
    Secretary of Health, serves as a department-wide hub for convening,
    coordination and oversight of climate change related efforts. This
    funding includes $1.65 million for the newly established Office of
    Environmental Justice within OCCHE. 

<!-- -->

-   **Increases Global Energy Security, Infrastructure, and
    Resilience.** The Budget supports the President’s pledges to more
    than quadruple international climate finance and to provide more
    than $3 billion for the President’s Emergency Plan for Adaptation
    and Resilience (PREPARE). This includes a $1.6 billion contribution
    to the Green Climate Fund and a $1.2 billion loan to the Clean
    Technology Fund. The Budget also advances new tools, such as loan
    guarantees, to re-assert U.S. leadership in the Indo-Pacific to
    finance energy security and infrastructure projects and reduce
    reliance on volatile energy supplies and prices.

**INCREASES RESILIENCE TO CLIMATE-DRIVEN NATURAL DISASTERS AND CUTS THE
COSTS OF CLIMATE CHANGE TO AMERICAN FAMILIES**

-   **Bolsters Community Resilience to Climate Change.** The Budget
    invests more than $24 billion for climate resilience across DOI,
    USDA, DHS, the Department of Defense, and other agencies to help
    build communities’ resilience to floods, wildfires, storms, extreme
    heat, and drought brought on by climate change, expand conservation
    and ecosystem management, strengthen America’s natural disaster
    response capabilities, increase the resilience of rural housing to
    the impacts of climate change while reducing rent burdens, and
    ensure the resilience of our nation’s defense to climate change. The
    Budget helps State and local communities, Tribes, and Territories
    build climate resilience through investing $3.3 billion in various
    Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) grant programs, and
    investing over $500 million for flood hazard mapping, including new
    data to support future flood conditions, and funding to sustain the
    Civilian Climate Corps.

<!-- -->

-   **Strengthens the Nation’s Frontline Defenses Against Catastrophic
    Wildfires and Provides Long-Term Investments in the Wildland
    Firefighting Workforce.** As both the frequency and intensity of
    catastrophic wildfires are expected to increase due to climate
    change, the Budget provides for critical mitigation efforts and
    invests in America’s Federal wildland firefighting workforce. The
    Budget invests in the Federal wildland firefighting workforce by
    ensuring that no Federal wildland firefighter will make less than
    $15 an hour and by creating a new comprehensive and equitable
    compensation structure. Additionally, the Budget increases the size
    of the workforce and supports additional mental and physical health
    services for the workforce. Together, these efforts would help
    address long-standing recruitment and retention challenges, build
    upon the historic reforms in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, and
    ensure that the workforce receives the enhanced support it needs to
    continue meeting evolving mission demands. The Budget also provides
    USDA with $323 million to increase the scale of fuel and restoration
    treatments within high-risk “firesheds” and DOI with $314 to help
    reduce the risk and severity of wildfires through fuels management
    and restore lands devastated by catastrophic fire. These risk
    mitigation efforts serve as an important part of the
    Administration’s comprehensive, nationwide response to the threat of
    catastrophic wildfire to natural resources, communities, and
    infrastructure.

<!-- -->

-   **Increases Resilience to the Effects of Drought.** The Budget helps
    ensure communities across the West have access to a resilient and
    reliable water supply by investing in rural water projects, water
    conservation, development of desalination technologies, and water
    recycling and reuse projects. The Budget complements the nearly $1.7
    billion provided in 2024 for western water infrastructure through
    the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, as well as the nearly $4.6
    billion that was provided by the Inflation Reduction Act for drought
    mitigation and domestic water supply projects through the Bureau of
    Reclamation. The Budget provides $375 million to address the ongoing
    drought in the western United States through the Bureau of
    Reclamation, including funding for WaterSMART, Central Valley
    Project drought activities, and implementation funding to conserve
    water in the Colorado River System, which is at historically low
    levels. The budget also requests new funding at DOE to invest in
    desalination.

<!-- -->

-   **Invests in Flood Risk Management and Mitigation**. The Budget
    invests in programs that help communities address the risks
    associated with floods. Investments include over $1.9 billion for
    the Army Corps of Engineers to address coastal and inland flood
    risks and $175 million for flood mitigation grants through FEMA. In
    addition, as part of a long-term strategy to reduce repetitive flood
    losses, the Administration will convene an interagency working
    group, including the Corps, FEMA, and NOAA, to develop a methodology
    that Federal agencies could use to identify coastal communities
    across the Nation that are likely to have the highest risk of
    repetitive storm-related flooding over the next 50 years without
    further measures to reduce this risk, with the intention of
    informing future Federal investments in these areas. The
    Administration looks forward to working with the Congress on
    bipartisan principles for these and other flood risk management
    investments.

<!-- -->

-   **Helps Farmers withstand the Impact of Climate Change.** The Budget
    provides $208 million above the 2023 enacted level, for a total of
    $1.2 billion, to increase conservation adoption and farm income
    across privately owned land through the Natural Resources
    Conservation Service (NRCS). This builds upon and supports the
    generational investments provided through the Inflation Reduction
    Act to increase the voluntary adoption of conservation practices
    that sequester carbon and reduce greenhouse gas emissions associated
    with agricultural production. The Budget also includes a mandatory
    proposal to provide sustained incentives for cover crop usage, to
    improve climate resilience by reducing soil erosion and compaction,
    increasing soil organic matter, and limiting nutrient runoff—and
    this incentive program is a key part of motivating agricultural
    producers to adopt and maintain the practice.

**RESTORES AND CONSERVES AMERICA’S LANDS AND WATERS AND ADVANCES
NATURE-BASED CLIMATE SOLUTIONS**

-   **Strengthens Voluntary Conservation.** The Budget supports efforts
    to restore, conserve and protect our natural world. The Budget
    invests significant resources across the six key focus areas in the
    America the Beautiful initiative, invests in providing greenspace in
    underserved communities; supports tribal co-stewardship and
    co-management; and the first-ever national nature assessment.  The
    Budget also provides $25.5 million to develop the Conservation and
    Stewardship Atlas, which will help inform conservation decisions. 

<!-- -->

-   **Increases Access to Nature and Parks.** An estimated 100 million
    Americans do not have an accessible park within a ten-minute walk of
    their home. Communities of color and low-income communities have
    disproportionately less access to nature’s benefits including clean
    water, clean air, and open spaces for recreation. The Budget
    allocates $135 million to the Outdoor Recreation Legacy Program to
    develop high-quality recreation opportunities in economically
    disadvantaged urban communities. The Budget provides $3.8 billion
    for the National Park Service, $289 million over the 2023 enacted
    level; this includes a new $32 million initiative to build a more
    equitable National Park System, with investments to expand tribal
    co-stewardship of national parks, address transportation barriers
    between parks and underserved communities, improve park
    accessibility for visitors and employees with disabilities, and
    stand up the recently established African American Burial Grounds
    Preservation Program.

<!-- -->

-   **Invests in Addressing the Biodiversity Crisis**. The Budget
    increases biodiversity and halts nature loss by providing targeted
    increases for key biodiversity programs including funding for
    Endangered Species Act implementation, the National Wildlife Refuge
    System, migratory birds, fish and aquatic conservation, and
    international conservation.  The Budget includes $20 million for the
    Coastal Program and $80 million to support the Partners for Fish and
    Wildlife Program, a flagship program for voluntary conservation on
    private lands – a key focus of the America the Beautiful
    initiative.  
-   **Informs Land Management Practices to Increase Climate
    Mitigation**. The Budget makes investments at DOI to identify
    innovative biologic and geologic mitigation opportunities, and
    measure and monitor greenhouse gas emissions and sinks on Federal
    lands.

\###
