---
date: '2023-03-09'
modified_time: 2023-03-09 12:11:10-05:00
published_time: 2023-03-09 12:02:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/09/fact-sheet-the-presidents-budget-reduces-deficits-by-nearly-3-trillion-over-10-years/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: The President\u2019s Budget Reduces Deficits by Nearly $3 Trillion\
  \ Over 10\_Years"
---
 
*Budget Details Plan to Invest in America, Lower Costs and Cut Taxes for
Working Families, and Protect and Strengthen Medicare and Social
Security*

President Biden has long believed that we need to grow the economy from
the bottom up and middle out, not the top down. Over the past two years,
in the face of significant challenges, that economic strategy has
produced historic progress for the American people.  
  
Under the President’s leadership, the economy has added more than 12
million jobs—more jobs in two years than any president has created in a
four-year term—including 800,000 manufacturing jobs. The unemployment
rate has fallen to 3.4 percent, the lowest in 54 years. The Black and
Hispanic unemployment rates are near record lows. The past two years
were the best two years for new small business applications on record.
The President has taken action to lower costs and give families more
breathing room, including cutting prescription drug costs, health
insurance premiums, and energy bills, while driving the uninsured rate
to historic lows. And the President’s plan is rebuilding America’s
infrastructure, making the economy more competitive, investing in
American innovation and industries that will define the future, and
fueling a manufacturing boom that is strengthening parts of the country
that have long been left behind while creating good jobs for workers,
including those without college degrees.  
  
The President has done all of this while delivering on his commitment to
fiscal responsibility. While the previous Administration passed a nearly
$2 trillion unpaid-for tax cut with benefits skewed to the wealthy and
big corporations while dramatically increasing the deficit, President
Biden cut the deficit by more than $1.7 trillion during his first two
years in office—the largest decline in American history. And the reforms
he signed into law to take on Big Pharma, lower prescription drug costs,
and make the wealthy and large corporations pay their fair share will
reduce the deficit by hundreds of billions of dollars more over the
coming decade.  
  
The President’s Budget details a blueprint to build on this progress,
deliver on the agenda he laid out in his State of the Union, and finish
the job: continuing to grow the economy from the bottom up and middle
out by investing in America, lowering costs for families, protecting and
strengthening Medicare and Social Security, and reducing the deficit by
nearly $3 trillion over the next decade by making the wealthy and big
corporations pay their fair share and cutting wasteful spending on Big
Pharma, Big Oil, and other special interests. No one earning less than
$400,000 per year will pay a penny in new taxes.  
  
Congressional Republicans have taken a very different approach. While
they have consistently said that reducing the deficit is a top priority,
Congressional Republicans have already proposed policies that would add
an additional $3 trillion to the debt over the next decade—all while
raising costs for working families and handing out tax giveaways to the
wealthy and big corporations. As the President has made clear, they owe
the American people a detailed accounting of exactly what they plan to
cut in order to cover the costs of their proposals, while also achieving
the kinds of fiscal targets that they claim to support. Until they
produce a plan, we’re left to rely on a wide array of Republican
budgets, statements, and proposals—past and present—which provide clear
and consistent evidence that many critical programs the American people
count on will be on the chopping block.  
  
<u>**Lowering Costs and Giving Families More Breathing Room**</u>  
  
As our economy transitions from a historically strong recovery to stable
and steady growth, the President has remained laser-focused on
continuing to lower costs for families and giving them more breathing
room, without giving up the historic economic gains we’ve made. While
more work remains, there are clear signs that the President’s strategy
is working. Annual inflation is lower than it was seven months ago, gas
prices are down $1.60 per gallon since their peak last summer, and
unemployment remains at its lowest level in 54 years, while take home
pay has gone up. And the Biden-Harris Administration has taken historic
action to lower the costs of health care, clean energy, and prescription
drugs, eliminate junk fees that make it harder for families to make ends
meet, promote greater competition to lower costs, and address
pandemic-driven supply chain bottlenecks. While some Congressional
Republicans have proposed repealing the Inflation Reduction Act and
taken other actions that would raise costs for working families, the
President’s Budget takes a very different approach—proposing a package
of policies to continue lowering everyday costs for the American
people.  
  
**Cuts Taxes for Families with Children and American Workers.** The
President is calling for the restoration of the full Child Tax Credit
enacted in the American Rescue Plan, which cut child poverty in half in
2021, to the lowest level in history. The Budget would expand the credit
from $2,000 per child to $3,000 per child for children six years old and
above, and to $3,600 per child for children under six. The Budget would
also permanently reform the credit to make it fully refundable. The
President also calls on the Congress to make the Earned Income Tax
Credit expansion for childless workers permanent, which would help pull
low-paid workers out of poverty.  
  
**Lowers Health Care Costs.** The President believes that health care
should be a right, not a privilege. With enrollment in affordable health
coverage at an all-time high, the Budget builds on the remarkable
success of the Affordable Care Act (ACA), by making permanent the
average $800 per year premium cuts through expanded premium tax credits
that the Inflation Reduction Act extended. It also provides
Medicaid-like coverage to individuals in States that have not adopted
Medicaid expansion under the ACA, paired with financial incentives to
ensure States maintain their existing expansions.   
  
**Reduces Prescription Drug Costs for All Americans.** The Budget builds
upon the Inflation Reduction Act to continue lowering the cost of
prescription drugs. For Medicare, this includes further strengthening
the newly established negotiation power by extending it to more drugs
and bringing drugs into negotiation sooner after they launch. The Budget
also proposes to limit Medicare Part D cost-sharing for high-value
generic drugs used for certain chronic conditions like hypertension and
high cholesterol to no more than $2. For Medicaid, the Budget includes
proposals to ensure Medicaid and CHIP programs are prudent purchasers of
prescription drugs, authorizing HHS to negotiate supplemental drug
rebates on behalf of interested States in order to pool purchasing
power. For the commercial market, the Budget includes proposals to curb
inflation in prescription drug prices and cap the prices of insulin
products at $35 for a monthly prescription.   
  
**Expands Access to Quality, Affordable Health Care.** The Budget
invests $150 billion over 10 years to improve and expand Medicaid home
and community-based services, such as personal care services, which
would allow seniors and individuals with disabilities to remain in their
homes and stay active in their communities as well as improve the
quality of jobs for home care workers. And because community health
centers—which provide comprehensive services regardless of ability to
pay—serve one in three people living in poverty and one in five rural
residents, the Budget puts the Health Center Program on a path to double
its size and expand its reach. To bolster the health care workforce, the
Budget provides a total of $966 million in 2024 to expand the National
Health Service Corps, which provides loan repayment and scholarships to
health care professionals in exchange for practicing in underserved
areas, and a total of $350 million to expand programs that train and
support the nursing workforce.    
  
**Expands Access to Affordable, High-Quality Early Child Care and
Learning.** Too many families across America cannot access high-quality,
affordable child care—preventing parents from working and holding back
our entire economy. The President’s Budget enables states to increase
child care options for more than 16 million young children and lowers
costs so that parents can afford to send their children to high-quality
child care. The Budget also funds a Federal-State partnership that
provides high-quality, universal, free preschool to support healthy
child development and ensure children enter kindergarten ready to
succeed.  
  
**Lowers Housing Costs by Increasing Affordable Housing Supply and
Expanding Access to Homeownership and Affordable Rent.** The President
believes that everyone deserves a safe and affordable place to live. To
address the critical shortage of affordable housing in communities
throughout the country that has exacerbated inflation, the Budget
includes $59 billion in mandatory funding and tax incentives aimed at
increasing the affordable housing supply, including for extremely
low-income households. The Budget also includes $10 billion in mandatory
funding to incentivize State, local, and regional jurisdictions to make
progress in removing barriers to affordable housing developments, such
as restrictive zoning. By expanding the supply of housing, the Budget
would help prevent the kind of rapid increases in rental and
homeownership costs we have seen in recent years. The Budget also
includes $10 billion in mandatory funding for a new First-Generation
Down Payment Assistance program to help address racial and ethnic
homeownership and wealth gaps—making homeownership more attainable for
Americans who have been locked out of the generational wealth building
that can come with owning a home. And the Budget expands access to
affordable rent through the Housing Choice Voucher (HCV) program to well
over 200,000 additional households. In addition to assisting all current
voucher recipients and providing new vouchers for tens of thousands of
additional families, the Budget includes mandatory funding to support
two populations that are particularly vulnerable to
homelessness—guaranteed assistance for all 20,000 youth who age out of
foster care annually and an incremental expansion to cover the 450,000
extremely low-income (ELI) veteran families nationwide.  
  
**Improves College Affordability and Expands Free Community College.**
The Budget proposes to increase the discretionary maximum Pell Grant by
$500—helping more than 6.8 million students pay for college, building on
successful bipartisan efforts to increase the maximum Pell Grant award
by $900 over the past two years, and laying out a path to double the
award by 2029. The Budget also invests mandatory and discretionary
funding to expand free community college, and provides mandatory funding
for two years of subsidized tuition for students from families earning
less than $125,000 enrolled in a participating four-year Historically
Black College or University (HBCU), Tribally-Controlled College or
University (TCCU), or Minority-Serving Institution (MSI).   
  
**Lowers Home Energy and Water Costs.** The Budget provides $4.1 billion
for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), building on
the $13 billion provided in the Inflation Reduction Act to reduce energy
bills for families, expand clean energy, transform rural power
production, and create thousands of good-paying jobs for people across
rural America. Since the Low Income Household Water Assistance Program
(LIHWAP) expires at the end of 2023, the Budget proposes to expand
LIHEAP funding and allow States the option to use a portion of their
LIHEAP funds to provide water bill assistance to low-income
households.  
  
**Increases Food Security.** As called for in the National Strategy on
Hunger, Nutrition and Health, the Budget provides over $15 billion to
allow more States and schools to leverage participation in the Community
Eligibility Program and provide healthy and free school meals to an
additional 9 million children. The Budget also includes $6.3 billion to
support the 6.5 million individuals expected to participate in the
Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children
(WIC).  
  
<u>**Protecting and Strengthening Medicare and Social Security**</u>  
  
The President has always believed that Medicare and Social Security are
a promise—a rock-solid guarantee generations of Americans have counted
on to be able to retire with dignity and security. The President will
reject any efforts to cut the Medicare or Social Security benefits that
seniors and people with disabilities have earned and paid into their
entire working lives. The Budget honors that ironclad commitment—not
only by rejecting benefit cuts, but by embracing reforms and investments
that will protect and strengthen both programs. The President is
committed to working with Congress to ensure Medicare and Social
Security remain strong for their beneficiaries, now and in the future.  
  
**Protects and Strengthens Medicare.** The Budget strengthens Medicare
by extending the solvency of the Medicare Trust Fund by at least 25
years, without cutting any benefits or raising costs for beneficiaries.
The Budget includes key reforms to the tax code to ensure high-income
individuals pay their fair share into the Medicare HI trust fund. It
also directs the revenue from the Net Investment Income Tax into the HI
trust fund as was originally intended. Finally, the Budget directs the
savings from the Budget’s proposed Medicare drug reforms into the HI
trust fund.   
  
**Protects the Social Security Benefits that Americans Have Earned.**
The Administration is committed to protecting and strengthening Social
Security and opposes any attempt to cut Social Security benefits for
current or future recipients. The Administration looks forward to
working with the Congress to responsibly strengthen Social Security by
ensuring that high-income individuals pay their fair share. The Budget
also invests in staff, information technology, and other improvements at
the Social Security Administration, providing an increase of $1.4
billion, a 10 percent increase, over the 2023 enacted level.  These
funds would improve customer service at Social Security Administration
field offices, State disability determination services, and teleservice
centers for retirees, individuals with disabilities, and their
families.  
  
<u>**Growing the Economy from the Bottom up and Middle Out by Investing
in America and Its People**</u>  
  
The Budget proposes smart, targeted investments to grow the economy from
the bottom up and middle out, not the top down, by investing in America
and its people—investing in the foundations of our country’s economic
strength; confronting the climate crisis while creating clean energy
jobs; and advancing equity, dignity, and opportunity and strengthening
our democracy.  
  
**Investing in the Foundations of Our Economic Strength**  
  
**Invests in American Manufacturing.** The Budget provides $375 million
for the National Institutes of Standards and Technology’s (NIST)
Industrial Technology Services to support the progress of NIST’s
existing manufacturing institute, fund a new institute to be launched in
2023, and promote domestic production of institute-developed
technologies. The Budget also includes $277 million for the
Manufacturing Extension Partnership, a public-private partnership that
offers advisory services to small and medium enterprises.  
  
**Makes Historic Investments in Innovation and Cutting-Edge Research.**
The Budget provides almost $21 billion in discretionary spending for
CHIPS and Science Act-authorized activities. This funding includes $1.2
billion for the CHIPS and Science Act-authorized Directorate for
Technology, Innovation, and Partnerships to help accelerate and
translate scientific research into innovations, industries, and jobs, as
well as $300 million for NSF’s Regional Innovation Engines program to
galvanize use-inspired research, technology translation, and workforce
development. Within DOE’s Office of Science, the Budget also supports
cutting-edge research in artificial intelligence, quantum information
sciences, microelectronics, and isotope production at the national
laboratories and universities. In addition, the Budget requests $4
billion in new mandatory funding for the Regional Technology and
Innovation Hub Program at the Economic Development Administration. And
the Budget provides $210 billion for Federal research and development,
an historic level of investment in American science, technology and
innovation.  
  
**Provides National, Comprehensive Paid Family and Medical Leave and
Calls for Paid Sick Leave for All Workers.** Workers power our
economy—and when they thrive, our economy thrives. The Budget proposes
to establish a national, comprehensive paid family and medical leave
program, providing up to 12 weeks of leave to allow eligible workers to
take time off to care and bond with a new child; care for a seriously
ill loved one; heal from their own serious illness; address
circumstances arising from a loved one’s military deployment; or find
safety from domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking. The
President also calls on Congress to require employers to provide seven
job-protected paid sick days each year to all workers.  
  
**Expands Workforce Training that Provides Pathways to Good Jobs.** The
Budget invests in evidence-based training models to ensure all
workers—including women, workers of color, and workers in rural
areas—have the skills they need for the good jobs being created by the
President’s historic legislative accomplishments. The Budget invests
$335 million in Registered Apprenticeship, an earn-and-learn model, to
provide debt-free pathways to careers in construction, clean energy,
semiconductor manufacturing, and other in-demand industries. The Budget
also provides $200 million for the new Sectoral Employment through
Career Training for Occupational Readiness (SECTOR) program, which will
support development and expansion of public-private partnerships to
equitably deliver high-quality training in growing industries, and
invests $100 million to help community colleges partner with employers
and the public workforce system to design and deliver effective training
models in communities across the Nation.  
  
**Invests in High-Poverty Schools.** The Budget provides $20.5 billion
for Title I, a $2.2 billion increase above the 2023 enacted level,
delivering critical funding to 90 percent of school districts across the
Nation and helping them provide students in low-income communities the
academic opportunities and support they need to succeed. This increase
in funding addresses chronic funding gaps between high-poverty
schools—which disproportionately serve students of color—and their
wealthier counterparts.    
  
**Taking Historic Action to Cut Energy Bills for Families and Confront
the Climate Crisis While Creating Clean Energy Jobs Across America**  
  
**Cuts Energy Bills for Families and Creates Jobs Building Clean Energy
Infrastructure.** The Budget invests $4.5 billion in clean energy across
America, bringing jobs to rural communities and cities, leaving no one
behind. The Budget supports clean energy workforce development and
sustainable infrastructure projects across the country, including $1.8
billion to weatherize and retrofit low-income Americans’ homes, and $83
million to electrify Tribal homes and transition Tribal Colleges and
universities to renewable energy.  
  
**Makes Historic Investments in Science & Research to Continue to Cut
the Cost of Clean Energy.** To boost American innovation and sustain
American leadership in research and scientific discovery, the Budget
also provides a historic investment of $16.5 billion in climate science
and clean energy innovation. The Budget includes $3.5 billion of the
$8.8 billion total for DOE’s Office of Science and $1.6 billion at NSF,
and makes advancements toward the CHIPS and Science Act authorizations,
including $1 billion for fusion, the largest ever investment in the
promise of a clean energy power source.  
  
**Cuts Global Warming Pollution.** The Budget invests in reducing global
warming pollution and achieving the President’s target to cut greenhouse
gas emissions 50-52 percent by 2030. These investments include an
additional $64.4 million at EPA to implement the American Innovation and
Manufacturing (AIM) Act and continue phasing out potent greenhouse gases
known as hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs). The Budget supports $1.2 billion in
DOE industrial decarbonization activities.  
  
**Helps Increase Climate Resilience and Bolsters Conservation.** The
Budget invests more than $24 billion to help build communities’
resilience to floods, wildfires, storms, extreme heat, and drought
brought on by climate change, expand conservation and ecosystem
management, strengthen America’s natural disaster response capabilities,
increase the resilience of rural housing to the impacts of climate
change while reducing rent burdens, and ensure the resilience of our
nation’s defense to climate change.  
  
**Advances Equity and Environmental Justice.** The Administration
continues to prioritize efforts to deliver environmental justice in
communities across the United States, including meeting the President’s
Justice40 Initiative to ensure that 40 percent of the overall benefits
of Federal investments in climate and clean energy reach disadvantaged
communities, including rural and Tribal communities. The Budget bolsters
these efforts by investing nearly $1.8 billion at EPA across numerous
programs that will support securing environmental justice for
communities that bear the brunt of toxic pollution and climate change.
The Budget also provides EPA $219 million to help remediate lead
contamination in water, an increase of $163 million over the 2023
enacted level.  
  
**Increases Global Energy Security, Infrastructure, and Resilience.**
The Budget supports the President’s pledges to more than quadruple
international climate finance and to provide more than $3 billion for
the President’s Emergency Plan for Adaptation and Resilience (PREPARE).
This includes a $1.6 billion contribution to the Green Climate Fund and
a $1.2 billion loan to the Clean Technology Fund. The Budget also
advances new tools, such as loan guarantees, to re-assert U.S.
leadership in the Indo-Pacific to finance energy security and
infrastructure projects and reduce reliance on volatile energy supplies
and prices.  
  
**Expanding Access to High-Quality Health Care and Improving Health
Outcomes**  
  
**Advances Maternal Health and Health Equity.** The United States has
the highest maternal mortality rate among developed nations, and rates
are disproportionately high for Black and American Indian and Alaska
Native women. The Budget includes $471 million to reduce maternal
mortality and morbidity rates; expand maternal health initiatives in
rural communities; implement implicit bias training for health care
providers; create pregnancy medical home demonstration projects; and
address the highest rates of perinatal health disparities, including by
supporting the perinatal health workforce. In addition, the Budget
requires all States to provide continuous Medicaid coverage for 12
months postpartum, eliminating gaps in health insurance at a critical
time.  
  
**Advances Cancer Moonshot Goals.** The Cancer Moonshot aims to reduce
the cancer death rate by at least 50 percent over the next 25 years and
improve the experience of people who are living with or have survived
cancer, their families, and caregivers. The Budget includes $1.7 billion
for dedicated Cancer Moonshot activities across the Department of Health
and Human Services (HHS), in addition to targeted investments at the
Departments of Veterans Affairs, Defense, Agriculture, and other Cancer
Cabinet agencies, and a total investment of $7.8 billion at the National
Cancer Institute (NCI) to drive progress on ways to prevent, detect, and
treat cancer. The Budget also provides an increase of $1 billion for the
Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health (ARPA-H), for a total of
$2.5 billion, to drive innovative health research and speed the
implementation of breakthroughs that would transform the treatment,
prevention, and early detection of cancer and other diseases.  
  
**Transforms Behavioral Health Care.** The United States is facing a
mental health crisis. While recently enacted legislation takes
significant steps to address this crisis, much more can be done. For
people with private health insurance, the Budget expands coverage of
mental health benefits and strengthens the network of behavioral health
providers. For people with Medicare, the Budget lowers patients’ costs
for mental health services, requires parity in coverage between
behavioral health and medical benefits, and expands coverage for
behavioral health providers. The Budget provides historic investments in
the behavioral health workforce, youth mental health care, Certified
Community Based Behavioral Health Clinics, Community Mental Health
Centers, and mental health research.  
  
**Making Our Communities Safer, Advancing Equity and Opportunity, and
Strengthening American Democracy**  
  
**Invests in Federal Law Enforcement, Community Violence Interventions,
and Prevention to Combat Gun Violence and Other Violent Crime.** The
Budget continues to fund the President’s comprehensive Safer America
Plan, including funding to put 100,000 additional police officers on our
streets for accountable, community-oriented policing; $19.4 billion over
10 years for crime prevention strategies; and $5 billion over 10 years
for community violence interventions. The Budget also includes $17.8
billion for DOJ law enforcement, including a total of nearly $2 billion
for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF) to
expand multijurisdictional gun trafﬁcking strike forces with additional
personnel, increase regulation of the ﬁrearms industry, and implement
the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act. The Budget also includes $1.9
billion for the U.S. Marshals Service to support personnel dedicated to
ﬁghting violent crime, as well as $51 million to the Federal Bureau of
Investigation (FBI) to support the continued implementation of enhanced
background checks required by the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act.  
  
**Prioritizes Efforts to End Gender-Based Violence.** The Budget
proposes $1 billion to support implementation of programs through the
Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (VAWA), which was recently
reauthorized and strengthened in 2022. The Budget supports substantial
increases for longstanding VAWA programs, including key investments in
legal assistance for victims, transitional housing, and sexual assault
services. The Budget also includes $519 million for the Family Violence
Prevention and Services (FVPSA) program and the National Domestic
Violence Hotline to support domestic violence survivors—double the 2023
enacted level.  
  
**Advances Child and Family Well-Being in the Child Welfare System.**
The Budget proposes to expand and incentivize the use of evidence-based
foster care prevention services to keep families safely together and
reduce the number of children entering foster care. The Budget provides
States with support to place more foster children with relatives or
other adults who have an existing emotional bond with the children,
while also providing additional funding to support youth who age out of
care without a permanent caregiver. In addition, the Budget proposes to
make the adoption tax credit refundable and to extend the credit to
legal guardianships. This would reduce the financial burden on low- and
moderate-income families wishing to pursue adoption, as well as for
families who opt for legal guardianship.  
  
**Strengthens Our Democracy.** To continue efforts to restore and
strengthen American democracy, the Budget proposes $5 billion in new
election assistance funding to be allocated over 10 years, $1.5 billion
to support increasing the living allowance provided to AmeriCorps
members so that national service is a more accessible pathway to
success, and $73 million to support American history and civics
education programs.  
  
<u>**Keeping America Safe and Confronting Global Challenges**</u>  
  
Even as he has taken decisive action to strengthen America at home, the
President has worked with allies and partners to confront pressing
global challenges. The Budget builds on that progress through proposals
to continue addressing threats to global security and strengthening the
U.S. military, addressing pressing global challenges, strengthening
border security and the U.S. immigration system, and honoring America’s
commitment to veterans, servicemembers, families, caregivers, and
survivors.  
  
**Supports Ukraine, European Allies, and Partners.** The Budget
continues support for Ukraine, the United States’ strong alliance with
the states of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), and other
European partner states by prioritizing funding to enhance the
capabilities and readiness of U.S. forces, NATO allies, and regional
partners in the face of continued Russian aggression.  
  
**Invests in New Ways to Out-Compete China and Deepens Alliances and
Partnerships in the Indo-Pacific.** China is the United States’ only
competitor with both the intent to reshape the international order and,
increasingly, the economic, diplomatic, military, and technological
power to do it. During these unprecedented and extraordinary times, the
Budget requests both discretionary and mandatory resources to
out-compete China and advance American prosperity globally. The
mandatory proposal will strengthen the U.S. role in the Indo-Pacific,
and advance the U.S. economy by investing $2 billion to create a new
International Infrastructure Fund to support “hard” critical
infrastructure; $2 billion to create a new equity revolving fund at the
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation to support equity
investments; and $2 billion to make game-changing investments in the
Indo-Pacific to strengthen partner economies and support their efforts
in pushing back against predatory efforts. As part of this mandatory
proposal, the Budget also requests a total of $7.1 billion over the next
20 years for the Compacts of Free Association with the Freely Associated
States of the Marshall Islands, Micronesia, and Palau.  
  
**Promotes Integrated Deterrence in the Indo-Pacific and Globally.** The
Budget prioritizes China as America’s pacing challenge in line with the
2022 National Defense Strategy. The Department of Defense’s 2024 Pacific
Deterrence Initiative highlights $9.1 billion of targeted investments
the Department is making to U.S. force posture, infrastructure,
presence, and readiness as well as efforts to bolster the capacity and
capabilities of U.S. allies and partners in the Indo-Pacific region.  
  
**Strengthens Democracy and Promotes Human Rights Globally.** The Budget
provides more than $3.4 billion to advance democratic governance and
foster democratic renewal globally. The Budget would strengthen free and
independent media, fight corruption, bolster democratic institutions,
advance technology for democracy, promote gender equality and women’s
civic and political participation, and defend free and fair elections
and political processes.  
  
**Enhances Border Security and Immigration Enforcement.** Strengthening
border security and providing safe, lawful pathways for migration remain
top priorities for the Administration. The Budget includes nearly $25
billion for U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) and Immigration and
Customs Enforcement (ICE). The Budget includes funds for CBP to hire an
additional 350 Border Patrol Agents, $535 million for border technology
at and between ports of entry, $40 million to combat fentanyl
trafficking and disrupt transnational criminal organizations, and funds
to hire an additional 460 processing assistants at CBP and ICE.  
  
**Expands Health Care, Benefits, and Services for Military Environmental
Exposures.** The PACT Act represents the most significant expansion of
VA health care and disability compensation benefits for veterans exposed
to burn pits and other environmental exposures in more than 30 years. As
part of the PACT Act, the Congress authorized the Cost of War Toxic
Exposures Fund (TEF) to fund increased costs above 2021 funding levels
for health care and benefits delivery for veterans exposed to a number
of environmental hazards—and ensure there is sufficient funding
available to cover these costs without shortchanging other elements of
veteran medical care and benefit delivery. The Budget provides $20.3
billion for the TEF in 2024, which is $15.3 billion above the 2023
enacted level.  
  
<u>**Reducing Deficits by Nearly $3 Trillion by Making the Wealthy and
Big Corporations Pay Their Fair Share and Cutting Wasteful Spending on
Big Pharma, Big Oil, and Special Interests**</u>  
  
After inheriting historically high deficits from the previous
Administration, President Biden told the American people he would reduce
the deficit, pay for his proposals, and ensure that no one making less
than $400,000 a year would pay a penny more in new taxes. That’s exactly
what he has done—and exactly what he will continue to do.  
  
The President’s Budget builds on the record-breaking deficit reduction
he achieved during his first two years in office. **It more than fully
pays for its investments, reduces deficits by nearly $3 trillion over
the next decade by making the wealthy and big corporations pay their
fair share and cutting wasteful spending on Big Pharma, Big Oil, and
other special interests, and ensures that no one making less than
$400,000 per year will pay a penny more in new taxes.**  
  
The Budget reflects the President’s ironclad belief that we need a tax
system that rewards work, not wealth—and that ensures the wealthiest
Americans and biggest corporations don’t pay lower tax rates than
teachers or firefighters. That’s in sharp contrast with Congressional
Republicans, who in recent months have proposed policies that would add
$3 trillion to the debt over the next decade while handing out tax
giveaways to the wealthy and big corporations.  
  
Building on the progress the President has already made to promote a
fairer tax code, the Budget proposes additional reforms that would
ensure the wealthy and corporations pay their fair share while cutting
wasteful spending on Big Pharma, Big Oil, and other special interests.  
  
**Proposes a Minimum Tax on Billionaires.** The tax code currently
offers special treatment for the types of income that wealthy people
enjoy. While the wages and salaries that everyday Americans earn are
taxed as ordinary income, billionaires make their money in ways that are
taxed at lower rates, and sometimes not taxed at all. This special
treatment, combined with sophisticated tax planning and giant loopholes,
allows many of the wealthiest Americans to pay lower rates on their full
income than many middle-class households pay. To finally address this
glaring problem, the Budget includes a 25 percent minimum tax on the
wealthiest 0.01 percent.  
  
**Ensures Corporations Pay Their Fair Share.** The Budget includes an
increase to the rate that corporations pay in taxes on their profits.
Corporations received an enormous tax break in 2017, cutting effective
U.S. tax rates for U.S. corporations to a low of less than 10 percent.
While their profits soared, their investment in the economy did not.
Their shareholders and top executives reaped the benefits, without the
promised trickle down to workers, consumers, or communities. The Budget
would set the corporate tax rate at 28 percent, still well below the 35
percent rate that prevailed prior to the 2017 tax law. This tax rate
change is complemented by other proposals to incentivize job creation
and investment in the United States and ensure large corporations pay
their fair share.  
  
**Stops the Race to the Bottom in International Corporate Tax and End
Tax Breaks for Offshoring.** For decades, countries have competed for
multinational business by slashing tax rates, at the expense of having
adequate revenues to finance core services. Thanks in part to the
Administration’s leadership, more than 130 nations signed on to a global
tax framework to finally address this race to the bottom. Building on
that framework, the Budget proposes to reform the international tax
system to reduce the incentives to book profits in low-tax
jurisdictions, stop corporate inversions to tax havens, and raise the
tax rate on U.S. multinationals’ foreign earnings from 10.5 percent to
21 percent. These reforms will ensure that profitable multinational
corporations pay their fair share.  
  
**Quadruples the Stock Buybacks Tax.** Last year, the President signed
into law a surcharge on corporate stock buybacks, which reduces the
differential tax treatment between buybacks and dividends and encourages
businesses to invest and grow as opposed to funneling tax-preferred
profits to foreign shareholders. The Budget proposes quadrupling the
stock buybacks tax from one percent to four percent to address the
continued tax advantage for buybacks and encourage corporations to
invest in productivity and the broader economy.  
  
**Repeals Trump Tax Cuts for the Wealthy and Reform Capital Gains Tax to
Ensure the Wealthy Pay Their Fair Share.** The 2017 tax law lowered
rates for the wealthiest Americans, delivering massive tax cuts to the
top one percent. The Budget repeals the Trump tax cuts for the
highest-income Americans, restoring the top tax rate of 39.6 percent for
single filers making more than $400,000 a year and married couples
making more than $450,000 per year. It also proposes taxing capital
gains at the same rate as wage income for those with more than $1
million in income and finally closes the carried interest loophole that
allows some wealthy investment fund managers to pay tax at lower rates
than their secretaries.  
  
**Cuts Wasteful Spending on Big Pharma, Big Oil, and Other Special
Interests, Combats Fraud, and Makes Programs More Efficient.** The
Budget puts forward reforms that cut wasteful spending on Big Pharma,
Big Oil, and other special interests, crack down on fraud, and
strengthen program integrity—saving taxpayers hundreds of billions of
dollars. For example, the Budget cuts Federal spending by $160
billion—and saves billions of dollars for seniors—by increasing the
number of drugs Medicare can select for negotiation and bringing more
drugs into the negotiation process sooner, building on the Inflation
Reduction Act’s reforms. It also includes a package of reforms to crack
down on systemic fraud—combatting identity theft and other fraud in
Unemployment Insurance, increasing funding for the Anti-Pandemic Fraud
Strike Force, and investing in Inspectors General.

\###
