---
date: '2023-03-16'
modified_time: 2023-03-16 12:14:13-04:00
published_time: 2023-03-16 16:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/16/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-boards-and-commissions-20/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to Boards and\_Commissions"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint the
following individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Joseph Max Asher, Chair, Woodrow Wilson International Center for
    Scholars Board of Trustees
-   Leah D. Daughtry, Vice Chair, Woodrow Wilson International Center
    for Scholars Board of Trustees
-   Lynn Hubbard, Member, Woodrow Wilson International Center for
    Scholars Board of Trustees
-   William T. Harris, Member, National Museum and Library Services
    Board
-   Lisa R. Hathaway, Member, National Museum and Library Services Board
-   Ashley Jordan, Member, National Museum and Library Services Board
-   MaryLynn Mack, Member, National Museum and Library Services Board
-   Kelli Mosteller, Member, National Museum and Library Services Board
-   Alan C. Price, Member, National Museum and Library Services Board
-   Ramiro S. Salazar, Member, National Museum and Library Services
    Board

**<u>Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars Board of
Trustees</u>**

The Wilson Center, chartered by Congress in 1968 as the official
memorial to President Woodrow Wilson, is the nation’s key non-partisan
policy forum for tackling global issues through independent research and
open dialogue to inform actionable policy ideas. Members of the Board of
Trustees are appointed to six-year terms by the President of the United
States. Trustees serve on various committees with functions including
executive, audit, finance and investment policy, development,
fellowship, as well as strategic planning and programming.

**Joseph Max Asher, Chair, Woodrow Wilson International Center for
Scholars Board of Trustees**

Joseph Max Asher is a leader in the U.S. sports betting industry. Asher
is the President of Sports Betting for IGT, a leading supplier of
technology to the global gaming industry. Previously, he was the CEO of
William Hill US from its founding in 2012 until its sale to Caesars
Entertainment in 2021. Asher’s work in the sports betting industry began
when he founded Brandywine Bookmaking in 2007, a company he sold to
William Hill in 2012. Previously, he was an attorney at Skadden, Arps,
Slate, Meagher & Flom. A Delaware native, Asher graduated from the
University of Delaware and the Delaware Law School of Widener University
and served a judicial clerkship with the Supreme Court of Delaware. He
is currently on the Nevada board of trustees for Olive Crest and
recently completed two terms on the Board of Directors of the National
Conference of Juvenile & Family Court Judges. Asher lives in Las Vegas
with his wife Cynthia and their three children, Sydney, Vivienne, and
Carson.

**Leah D. Daughtry, Vice Chair, Woodrow Wilson International Center for
Scholars Board of Trustees**

Leah D. Daughtry is a nationally recognized organizer-activist,
political strategist, author, and faith leader. She is Principal of On
These Things, LLC, a strategic planning and project management firm that
builds and supports partnerships that advance the common good. She has
previously served as Chief of Staff of the U.S. Department of Labor,
Chief of Staff of the National Democratic Party, as well as CEO of the
2008 and 2016 Democratic National Conventions, making her the only
person in Democratic Party history to hold the position twice.

The daughter of a long line of community organizer-activists, Bishop
Daughtry represents the fifth consecutive generation of clergypersons in
the Daughtry family. She is Presiding Prelate of The House of the Lord
Churches, and she is also Co-Convenor of Power Rising, which seeks to
educate, empower, and advocate for Black women and girls for the benefit
of their communities. Co-author of the NAACP Image Award winning book,
*For Colored Girls Who Have Considered Politics*, Daughtry serves as an
Equity Advisor for Sephora, Inc. and on the Editorial Board of the
Global Women’s Forum for the Economy and Society. She sits on the Boards
of Directors of Wesley Theological Seminary, the National Council of
Negro Women, and Higher Heights for America, and she is Co-Chair of the
Samuel Dewitt Proctor Conference. She is a member of Alpha Kappa Alpha
Sorority, Inc. A native of Brooklyn, New York, she is a graduate of
Dartmouth College and Wesley Theological Seminary.

**Lynn Hubbard, Member, Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars
Board of Trustees**

Lynn Hubbard has combined her legal background and commitment to civic
engagement to advance the arts, sustainable transportation, and
environmental conservation. As a Director and Board President of the
Seattle International Film Festival, Hubbard successfully led the
47-year-old institution through the COVID-19 crisis while helping to
strengthen the organization’s long-term financial position. She also
served as a mayoral appointee to Seattle’s Transit Advisory Board, where
she made recommendations and helped facilitate city policies, plans, and
projects relating to transit, including capital improvements, mobility,
and operations. She is currently a member of Puget Sound Energy’s Beyond
Net Zero Carbon Advisory Committee, Director of the Northwest Shipwreck
Alliance, and Advisor to the Northwest Conservation Fellows.

Hubbard’s experience serving as a USCG-licensed First Mate on
recreational diving boats sparked her interest in admiralty law. After
graduating from Tulane Law School, she practiced maritime law and
litigation before pursuing a variety of ventures, including co-founding
a media start-up and serving as an Executive Legal Search Consultant. A
daughter of a career military officer, Hubbard grew up all over the U.S.
and abroad. She currently resides in the Pacific Northwest.

**<u>National Museum and Library Services Board</u>**

The National Museum and Library Services Board advises the agency on
general policies with respect to the duties, powers, and authority of
the Institute of Museum and Library Service relating to museum, library,
and information services, as well as the annual selection of National
Medals recipients.

**William T. Harris, Member, National Museum and Library Services
Board**

William T. Harris oversees the strategic direction of the nonprofit
science and space exploration learning center, Space Center Houston.
Joining the foundation and center in April 2016, Harris has more than 39
years in nonprofit leadership including senior positions at museums and
universities, where he led numerous multimillion-dollar fundraising
campaigns, principal and major gifts, marketing, communications,
government relations, and strategy development. In 2019, he was named
CEO of the Year by the *Houston Business Journal*.

He serves as the Chair of the Board of Directors and Executive Committee
of the Association of Science and Technology Centers. He is also serves
as a member of the Board of Directors and Chair of the Grants Committee
for the QueensCare Charitable Foundation, Board Vice President of the
Association of Science Museum Directors, and as a member of the Board of
Directors for the Greater Houston Partnership.

**Lisa R. Hathaway, Member, National Museum and Library Services Board**

Lisa R. Hathaway serves as Director of the Mandel Public Library of West
Palm Beach, Florida. She oversees a modern, world-class library in the
heart of West Palm Beach, providing resources, services, and programs to
support and benefit people in all aspects of their lives. With a vision
to encourage a love of literacy for all ages and backgrounds, Hathaway
has also established the Mandel Public Library as a vital community
gathering space that supports jobseekers, economic redevelopment, and
life-long learning. Under her leadership, the library has been
distinguished as one of the country’s best, earning numerous national
and statewide awards, grants, and accolades, including one of the 11
Most Beautiful Libraries in 2022 by *Fodor’s Travel*. Hathaway earned
undergraduate degrees in Sociology and Information Studies and a
Master’s in Library and Information Studies from Florida State
University.

**Ashley Jordan, Member, National Museum and Library Services Board**

Ashley Jordan joined the African American Museum in Philadelphia as
President & CEO in September 2021. Jordan, who most recently served as
Senior Director of Development at the National Underground Railroad
Freedom Center in Ohio, brings significant experience managing and
leading cultural institutions focused on memorializing and celebrating
the African American experience in the United States. Other career
milestones include serving as Executive Director of the Evansville
African American Museum in Indiana and curator for the National
Afro-American Museum and Cultural Center in Wilberforce, Ohio. Jordan
earned her Ph.D. in United States History at Howard University in
Washington, D.C., an M.A. in Public History from Howard University, and
a B.A. in history from Kent State University in Kent, Ohio. Jordan is
also the proud recipient of numerous professional, academic, and
civic awards, including the Pace Setter Award from the Association of
African American Museums, the Black Excellence Award from the National
Association for the Advancement of Colored People, and multiple doctoral
fellowships from the Filson Historical Society and the Kentucky
Historical Society.

**MaryLynn Mack, Member, National Museum and Library Services Board**

MaryLynn Mack is the Chief Operating Officer of South Coast Botanic
Garden, an 87-acre public garden in Palos Verdes Peninsula, Los Angeles
County, where she is dedicated to providing a garden of experience for
all. With a commitment to serving others and building bridges of
understanding, Mack is currently the Board President of the American
Public Gardens Association and Inaugural Chair of the Inclusion,
Diversity, Equity, and Accessibility Committee.

Before joining South Coast, Mack served as the Director of Operations at
the Desert Botanical Garden in Phoenix, Arizona and has also enjoyed
successful careers as the Executive Director of the Rescue Mission’s
Women and Children’s Center, and as Director of Volunteers and Interns
at the San Diego Natural History Museum. She nurtured her love of giving
back and philanthropy as a founding member of the African American
Women’s Giving and Empowerment Circle and as a Board Member at the
Phoenix Metropolitan YWCA. Her efforts in both women’s issues as well as
arts and culture earned her the YWCA Tribute to Leadership and Black
Philanthropy Institute Leadership awards. Mack brings over 30 years of
staff and volunteer management, strategic planning and project
development. She is a past recipient of the Virginia G. Piper
Fellowship, a graduate of The Getty Leadership Institute, and a Veteran
of the U.S. Navy.

**Kelli Mosteller, Member, National Museum and Library Services Board**

Kelli Mosteller has served as the Executive Director of the Harvard
University Native American Program since the summer of 2022. In her
role, she works closely with Harvard students, faculty, and staff toward
the mission of fostering the well-being of Indigenous people and
championing Indigenous excellence. She is dedicated to supporting
programming that advances education and scholarship, as well as
opportunities that strengthen the Indigenous community at Harvard and
beyond.

Before her time at Harvard, she was the Executive Director for the
Citizen Potawatomi Nation Cultural Heritage Center (CHC). During her
tenure, she oversaw the tribe’s cultural services including a museum,
cultural classes and programming, tribal archives, and oral history
projects. She also led her team in a multi-year renovation of the CHC’s
exhibits, resulting in the museum’s recognition as a Top Ten Native
Cultural Center in the U.S. by the Association of Tribal Archives,
Libraries, and Museums in 2020. Mosteller was also her nation’s Tribal
Historic Preservation Officer, overseeing historic preservation for
thousands of acres of tribal trust lands and well as countless sites in
the Citizen Potawatomi’s historic homelands. In addition to these
preservation duties, she also oversaw her nation’s Native American
Graves Protection and Repatriation Act effort. As a Citizen Potawatomi
Nation (CPN) tribal citizen, her most cherished role over the years has
been as a mentor for Citizen Potawatomi youth, facilitator of women’s
ceremonies, and auntie to the eagles at the CPN Eagle Aviary.

**Alan C. Price, Member, National Museum and Library Services Board**

Alan C. Price was appointed Director of the John F. Kennedy Presidential
Library and Museum in November 2018. In 2015, Price was appointed by
President Barack Obama to serve as Associate Director of Management at
the Peace Corps and Acting Chief of Staff for the Federal Mediation and
Conciliation Service. Before joining the federal service, Price was a
manager at Northeast Utilities (now Eversource Energy) and Director of
the Global Leadership Initiative at Harvard Business School. He began
his career as a management consultant in the fields of dispute
resolution and leadership development. Price has a JD from Harvard Law
School and an undergraduate degree from Earlham College. He and his
wife, Gina LaRoche, have two sons, and live in Cambridge, Massachusetts.

**Ramiro S. Salazar, Member, National Museum and Library Services
Board**

Ramiro S. Salazar joined as the city of San Antonio, Texas’ Director of
the Public Library in April 2005. In this role, he is responsible for
the delivery of library services to over two million residents in San
Antonio and Bexar County, Texas. He provides management oversight for
the library system, consisting of the downtown Central Library, 29
library outlets, and leads a team of over 550 employees. Salazar is a
former President of the Public Library Association, currently serves on
the Public Library Section of the International Federation of Library
Associations and Institutions, and is a frequent presenter and panelist
at professional convenings. Before joining the San Antonio Public
Library, Salazar served as Interim Assistant City Manager for the City
of Dallas, Texas. Prior to that, he served as the Director of the Dallas
Public Library. He also served as Director of the El Paso Public
Library, City of El Paso, Texas for three years. He has dedicated his
public service to increasing availability of library resources and
services to all segments of the community.

\###
