---
date: '2023-03-15'
modified_time: 2023-03-15 11:54:38-04:00
published_time: 2023-03-15 14:31:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/15/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-actions-to-lower-high-speed-internet-costs/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces New Actions to Lower\
  \ High-Speed Internet\_Costs"
---
 
*Biden-Harris Administration announced over $73 million in outreach
grants to connect more Americans with affordable, high-speed internet*  
  
*Over 16.75 million households are now saving over $500 million per
month, thanks to the Affordable Connectivity Program (ACP)*

Today, the Biden-Harris Administration announced new funding to lower
the cost of high-speed internet, releasing $73 million in Affordable
Connectivity Outreach Grants to help more Americans sign up for the
Affordable Connectivity Program and save on monthly internet costs.  
  
In the 21<sup>st</sup> century, affordable, reliable high-speed internet
is key to opportunity – to access education, healthcare, work, precision
agriculture and keep in touch with loved ones. Still, too many are left
without high-speed internet because they lack the infrastructure, or are
inhibited by high costs or lack of technological skills. In particular,
these inequities impact communities of color, rural communities and
older Americans where the lack of affordable, reliable high-speed
internet contributes to significant economic, health and other
disparities.  
  
That’s why President Biden and Vice President Harris worked with
Democrats, Republicans, and Independents to make sweeping changes to
lower the cost of internet for families across the country as part of
the Biden Administration’s Investing in America Agenda, including a
record $65 billion in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to make sure all
Americans finally have access to affordable, high-speed internet.  
  
Already, **16.75 million households are saving $500 million per month on
high-speed internet through the Affordable Connectivity Program**. Now,
the Biden-Harris Administration is releasing an additional **$73 million
in Affordable Connectivity Outreach Grants to help more Americans sign
up for the program and save on internet costs**. These investments
include:  

-   **$66 million in the Affordable Connectivity Outreach Program** to
    drive awareness and enrollment in the country’s newest and largest
    broadband affordability program in the nation’s history.  Building
    on its current community partnerships, the FCC is providing
    financial support to partner organizations nationwide to serve as
    trusted community messengers for the Affordable Connectivity Program
    and equip them with funding to pursue innovative outreach strategies
    to reach historically underserved communities, including money set
    aside for outreach to households on Tribal lands. The [FCC selected
    197 applicants representing 50 states and
    territories](https://www.fcc.gov/document/fcc-announces-66m-affordable-broadband-outreach-grants-0)
    to pursue a broad range of outreach projects to promote the
    Affordable Connectivity Program. Partner organizations will now be
    able to use grant funds to conduct digital campaigns, door-to-door
    canvassing, operate phone banks, distribute direct mail, and host
    ACP application enrollment and outreach events. Of the 197
    applicants selected for funding, 177 represent governmental and
    non-governmental entities from the National Competitive Outreach
    Program (NCOP), with $60 million in funding. The remaining 20
    represent governmental and non-governmental funding recipients from
    the Tribal Competitive Outreach Program (TCOP), which is providing
    over $6 million in funding for ACP outreach and enrollment support
    targeting eligible households that live on qualifying Tribal lands  
-   **Over $7 million in outreach grants to support two additional
    one-year, pilot programs to raise awareness of the Affordable
    Connectivity Program.** [The two pilot programs will test a variety
    of methods to reach out to federal housing communities, and work
    with trusted third parties to assist consumers in applying for the
    Affordable Connectivity
    Program.](https://www.fcc.gov/document/fcc-targets-over-7m-toward-affordable-connectivity-program-awareness-0)
    The FCC has selected for grant funding 23 applicants for the Your
    Home, Your Internet Program and 9 applicants for the ACP Navigator
    Pilot Program. The Your Home, Your Internet Program is receiving
    over $4.9 million in funding allocation to increase awareness and
    encourage participation in the ACP for households receiving federal
    housing assistance; and the ACP Navigator Pilot Program is receiving
    over $2.4 million in funding allocations to provide a limited number
    of neutral, trusted third-party entities, such as schools and school
    districts, or other local, Tribal or state government entities, to
    assist consumers with applying for the Affordable Connectivity
    Program. 

**<u>Driving Down Costs through the Affordable Connectivity Program  
</u>**  
The Affordable Connectivity Program, authorized by the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, is the largest internet affordability program in our
nation’s history. The effort to bring high-speed, affordable internet to
every American household is part of the Biden Administration’s Investing
in America agenda, and the resources secured through the American Rescue
Plan and the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law are helping make critical
progress toward that goal.  
  
The Affordable Connectivity Program, administered by the Federal
Communications Commission (FCC), provides eligible households up to
$30/month (or up to $75/month on qualifying Tribal lands) off internet
bills, as well as a one-time discount of up to $100 off a laptop,
desktop computer or tablet. To further lower costs, in May 2022,
President Biden and Vice President Harris announced commitments from
internet service providers across the country to offer high-speed plans
that are fully covered by the Affordable Connectivity Program—meaning
millions of working families can now get high-speed internet without
paying a dime. They simultaneously
launched [GetInternet.gov](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=0ae7f75ebacfaef55ba39fcdb&id=88bf9e45ed&e=0ca263633c)—a
one-stop shop to check eligibility and sign up.  
  
In July 2022, the Vice President made a call to action to states and
federal agencies to help spread the word about the Affordable
Connectivity Program.  This call to action led to tens of millions of
text messages, emails, letters and flyers sent directly to consumers to
inform them about this opportunity.   
  
Last month, Vice President Harris announced that the Affordable
Connectivity Program is now reaching over 16.75 million households,
saving Americans over half-a-billion dollars per month. This is a more
than 40% increase since the announcement of GetInternet.gov.  
  
The Biden-Harris Administration’s [Internet for All
Initiative](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=0ae7f75ebacfaef55ba39fcdb&id=c4ed154e63&e=0ca263633c)
will ensure that everyone in America has access to reliable and
affordable high-speed internet. For more information about how the
Biden-Harris Administration is working to connect everyone in America,
you can visit [www.internetforall.gov](http://www.internetforall.gov). 
To sign-up for the Affordable Connectivity Program, you can visit
[www.getinternet.gov](http://www.getinternet.gov).

\###
