---
date: '2023-03-03'
modified_time: 2023-03-03 13:32:18-05:00
published_time: 2023-03-03 15:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/03/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-boards-and-commissions-19/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to Boards and\_Commissions"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint the
following individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Peter S. Cooke, Member, Adams Memorial Commission
-   Richard A. Houghton, Member, Adams Memorial Commission
-   Stephanie L. Enyart, Member, Architectural and Transportation
    Barriers Compliance Access Board
-   Carmen Daniel Jones, Member, Architectural and Transportation
    Barriers Compliance Access Board
-   Tina Guenette Pedersen, Member, Architectural and Transportation
    Barriers Compliance Access Board
-   Risa Lauren Goluboff, Member, Permanent Committee for the Oliver
    Wendell Holmes Devise
-   Martha S. Jones, Member, Permanent Committee for the Oliver Wendell
    Holmes Devise
-   Trevor Morrison, Member, Permanent Committee for the Oliver Wendell
    Holmes Devise
-   Elizabeth Rodke Washburn, Member, President’s Commission on White
    House Fellowships
-   Hamilton E. “Tony” James, Member, President’s Intelligence Advisory
    Board
-   Julia Santucci, Member, President’s Intelligence Advisory Board

**<u>Adams Memorial Commission</u>**

The Adams Memorial Commission was enacted with the purpose of
establishing a permanent memorial to honor John Adams and his legacy
located in Washington, DC. The bi-partisan Commission shall consider and
formulate plans for a John Adams memorial, including the nature,
location, design, and construction of the memorial. In addition to John
Adams, the proposed memorial would honor his wife and writer First Lady
Abigail Adams, their son, the sixth President John Quincy Adams, and
other members of the Adams family.

**Peter S. Cooke, Member, Adams Memorial Commission**

Peter S. Cooke has over 40 years of experience with public-private
partnerships, specifically in the real estate development industry. He
has led real estate ventures in affordable housing, military housing,
office space, and commercial space. In addition to his corporate
experience, Cooke served for 39 years in the U.S. Army Reserve, a tenure
that was highlighted by his time as Commanding General of the U.S.
Army’s 96<sup>th</sup> Regional Readiness Command.

After his retirement from the military, Cooke co-founded and served as
Director of the National Center for Veteran’s Studies and helped to
create initiatives like the Partnership with America & Employer
Partnership that provide employment resources for veterans and current
reservists. Cooke serves as the Chairman of the Board of The American
College of National Security leaders and was previously a Candidate for
Governor and Congress for the State of Utah.

**Richard A. Houghton, Member, Adams Memorial Commission**

Richard A. Houghton is a Principal Landscape Architect at Halvorson |
Tighe & Bond Studio in Boston, Massachusetts. The firm’s expertise in
Landscape Architecture and Urban Design creates timeless, engaging
landscapes that are rooted in fundamental design principles and inspired
by the dynamics of nature. Houghton has 20 years of experience leading
complex, transformative landscape architecture projects focused on
reimagining and invigorating the urban public realm, while preserving
and enhancing cultural landscapes. His passion for creating outstanding
civic spaces has led to collaborations that have memorialized defining
individuals and events in American history.

Houghton led the design and project delivery for the Hancock Adams
Common in Quincy, Massachusetts, which has become the keystone to the
revitalization of Quincy’s downtown. The project reorganized the street
layout to create a civic open space uniting the historic Old Town Hall
and Church of the Presidents, where the crypts of the two Adams
presidents are, and created a pedestrian promenade punctuated by bronze
sculptures of John Adams, Abigail Adams, John Hancock, and two
monumental fountains. Recognized for its significance for preservation,
engineering, and landscape architecture, the project has received
multiple awards. Houghton is an active member of the American Society of
Landscape Architects and has been a panelist for the Boston Society of
Civil Engineers and the ArchitectureBoston Expo.

**<u>Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Access
Board</u>**

The Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Access Board is
an independent federal agency that promotes equality for people with
disabilities through leadership in accessible design and the development
of accessibility guidelines and standards. The Board develops and
maintains design criteria for the built environment, transit vehicles,
telecommunications equipment, medical diagnostic equipment, and
information technology. It also provides technical assistance and
training on these requirements and accessible design and continues to
enforce accessibility standards that cover federally funded facilities.

**Stephanie L. Enyart, Member, Architectural and Transportation Barriers
Compliance Access Board**

Stephanie L. Enyart is a disability rights leader with 20 years of
experience advocating for people with disabilities. She currently serves
as American Foundation for the Blind’s (AFB) Chief Public Policy &
Research Officer. She launched the AFB Public Policy and Research
Institute, which conducts mixed-methods research that informs AFB’s
policy advocacy. She provides strategic leadership for the policy and
research functions across the key focus areas of education, employment,
technology, and transportation. Enyart currently leads a
cross-disability coalition advocating for regulatory clarity and
legislative solutions to the inaccessibility of websites and
applications.

Prior to AFB, she was the Disability & Inclusion Advisor at the
Corporation for National and Community Service (AmeriCorps), where she
provided thousands of nonprofit grantee organizations with inclusion
guidance and resources. She advocated for the disability community as a
Skadden Foundation Fellow for Disability Rights Advocates and the Judge
David L. Bazelon Center for Mental Health Law. Enyart spent over a
decade working in state and federal government and has extensive
expertise in nonprofit and community organizing. Enyart holds a B.A.
from Stanford University and a J.D. from the UCLA School of Law, where
she served as an Editor-in-Chief of Recent Developments for the UCLA
Women’s Law Journal. During law school she also founded the National
Association of Law Students with Disabilities and served as its first
President. Enyart is blind and is a proud mother to two daughters.

**Carmen Daniel Jones, Member, Architectural and Transportation Barriers
Compliance Access Board**

Carmen Daniels Jones is currently Vice President, Health Equity and
Disability Inclusion at UnitedHealthCare Community & State. Synthesizing
multidisciplinary thinking, marketing, and community engagement thought
leadership with an understanding of change management, Jones has been
instrumental in developing strategies that have transformed
organizations from Fortune 100 companies to the federal government.

Jones’ expertise across the public sector, small business, and large
corporations has been the catalyst for growth in industries as varied as
healthcare, financial services, telecommunications, and government.
Whether she was in her role as an executive for one of the nation’s
leading healthcare providers or advocating for equity for disadvantaged
businesses as a presidential appointee, Jones is known for her ability
to see potential and opportunities, and to galvanize teams around a
shared vision. An advocate at her core, championing people and causes is
not what Jones does – it’s who she is. Jones’ insight has been featured
on *CNN*, *The New York Times*, *Black Enterprise*, *Glamour*, *New
Mobility*, and *Essence Magazine*.

**Tina Guenette Pedersen, Member, Architectural and Transportation
Barriers Compliance Access Board**

Tina Guenette Pedersen is CEO, President, and Founder of RAMP (Real
Access Motivates Progress), a non-profit that educates and advocates for
accessibility and inclusion. She resides in Rhode Island. Eight years
ago, Pederson walked into a minor surgery which led to an injury of her
spinal cord, which paralyzed her from the waist down. Having survived
both cancer and strokes, she devotes her life to helping others by
raising awareness of accessibility for all. From talking with school-age
children to engaging with the disability community, she works with and
for the community on bullying prevention and speaks on the benefits of
maintaining a positive attitude throughout life. Pedersen works with
businesses, multiple professions, and first responders on areas of
communication and best practices to include the disability community in
their work. She is Vice Chair of the Rhode Island Governor’s Commission
on Disability and Chair of the Awareness Committee. She loves the
opportunity to share her story, meet new people, and advocate for all.
Pedersen believes that community service isn’t something she does, but
that it is part of her DNA.

**<u>Permanent Committee for the Oliver Wendell Holmes Devise</u>**

The Permanent Committee for the Oliver Wendell Holmes Devise was
established by Congress in 1955 after the late Associate Justice of the
Supreme Court Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr. bequeathed a portion of his
estate to the United States in 1935. Congress used the gift to establish
the Committee, which is charged with documenting and disseminating the
history of the United States Supreme Court. The Committee’s principal
purpose is to continue to publish the multi-volume work documenting the
history of the Court, and the Committee is composed of the Librarian of
Congress and four additional members appointed by the President.

**Risa Lauren Goluboff, Member, Permanent Committee for the Oliver
Wendell Holmes Devise**

Risa Lauren Goluboff is the 12th and first female Dean of the University
of Virginia School of Law. She is a nationally renowned legal historian
whose scholarship and teaching focuses on American constitutional and
civil rights law, especially their historical development in the 20th
century. Goluboff is the author of *The Lost Promise of Civil Rights*,
which won the Order of the Coif Biennial Book Award and the James
Willard Hurst Prize. Her second book, *Vagrant Nation: Police Power,
Constitutional Change, and the Making of the 1960s*, was supported by
fellowships from the John Simon Guggenheim Foundation and the American
Council of Learned Societies. It received the American Historical
Association’s Littleton-Griswold Prize, the Lillian Smith Book Award,
the John Phillip Reid Book Award, and the David J. Langum, Sr. Prize in
American Legal History, among other honors.

She is a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the
American Law Institute. Goluboff holds additional University of Virginia
appointments as Professor of History in the Corcoran Department of
History, Faculty Affiliate at the Carter G. Woodson Institute for
African-American and African Studies, and Faculty Senior Fellow at the
Miller Center. Prior to joining the Law School in 2002, Goluboff clerked
for Judge Guido Calabresi of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit and Justice Stephen G. Breyer of the U.S. Supreme Court. She
holds an A.B. from Harvard, M.A. and Ph.D. from Princeton, and J.D. from
Yale. Additionally, Goluboff served as a Fulbright Scholar to South
Africa.

**Martha S. Jones, Member, Permanent Committee for the Oliver Wendell
Holmes Devise**

Martha S. Jones is a cultural-legal historian whose work examines how
Black Americans have shaped the meaning of the U.S. Constitution. As the
Society of Black Alumni Presidential Professor at The Johns Hopkins
University, Jones serves on faculties of the department of history, the
SNF Agora Institute, and the Center for Africana Studies. She also
directs the Hard Histories at Hopkins Project. Jones is a prize-winning
historian of books that include *Birthright Citizens: A History of Race
and Rights in Antebellum America* and *Vanguard: How Black Women Broke
Barriers, Won the Vote, and Insisted on Equality for All,* and has been
supported by the American Council of Learned Societies, the National
Humanities Center, the Library of Congress Kluge Center, and the
American Historical Association*.* She has served as Co-President of the
Berkshire Conference of Women Historians and Vice President of the Law
and Humanities Interdisciplinary Workshop. Jones hold a J.D. from the
CUNY (City University of New York) School of Law and a Ph.D. from
Columbia University*.* Prior to her academic career, Jones was a public
interest attorney in New York City, recognized with a Charles Revson
Fellowship on the Future of the City of New York from Columbia
University. She lives in Baltimore, Maryland.

**Trevor Morrison, Member, Permanent Committee for the Oliver Wendell
Holmes Devise**

Trevor Morrison is the Eric M. and Laurie B. Roth Professor of Law and
Dean Emeritus at New York University School of Law, where he teaches and
writes about constitutional law and the federal courts. He is also Of
Counsel to the law firm of Kaplan Hecker & Fink LLP. Earlier in his
career, Morrison served as Associate Counsel to President Barack Obama,
and as a law clerk to Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg of the United States
Supreme Court and to Judge Betty B. Fletcher of the United States Court
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. He has served in the United States
Department of Justice as an attorney-advisor in the Office of Legal
Counsel and as a Bristow Fellow in the Office of the Solicitor General.

In 2016, Morrison was appointed by President Obama to the Public
Interest Declassification Board, and in 2021, he was appointed by
President Biden to the Presidential Commission on the Supreme Court.
Morrison received a B.A. in history from the University of British
Columbia and a J.D. from Columbia Law School. He is a Fellow of the
American Academy of Arts and Sciences and a member of the American Law
Institute and the Council on Foreign Relations.

**<u>President’s Commission on White House Fellowships</u>**

The President’s Commission on White House Fellowships is composed of
outstanding citizens who reflect the diversity and strength of America
while representing a broad range of backgrounds, experiences, and
professions. Commissioners are responsible for recommending a group of
candidates to the President for selection as White House Fellows, a
prestigious program for leadership and public service that provides
young Americans experience working at the highest levels of the federal
government.

**Elizabeth Rodke Washburn, Member, President’s Commission on White
House Fellowships**

Elizabeth Rodke Washburn serves as the Director of Ethics and Compliance
for the San Diego Zoo Wildlife Alliance in California. Prior to joining
the Alliance, Washburn served as Special Assistant to the President for
Native Affairs in the Biden-Harris Administration. She has served in
senior leadership roles at New Mexico State University and the
University of New Mexico, focusing on building compliance structures and
strengthening ethics requirements and Title IX processes. Previously,
she worked in the Obama-Biden Administration at the U.S. Department of
the Interior. Washburn worked for Senator Jeff Bingaman (D-NM), serving
as both the State Director and Legislative Counsel. Washburn received
her undergraduate degree from the University of Oklahoma, a graduate
degree from Texas Woman’s University, and a law degree from the
University of New Mexico School of Law. She is an enrolled tribal member
of the Chickasaw Nation.

**<u>President’s Intelligence Advisory Board</u>**

The President’s Intelligence Advisory Board is an independent element
within the Executive Office of the President. The President’s
Intelligence Advisory Board exists exclusively to assist the President
by providing the President with an independent source of advice on the
effectiveness with which the Intelligence Community is meeting the
Nation’s intelligence needs and the vigor and insight with which the
community plans for the future. The President is able to appoint up to
16 members of the Board.

**Hamilton E. “Tony” James, Member, President’s Intelligence Advisory
Board**

Tony James is an internationally recognized investor and leader in
global finance, having served for many years as President and COO of The
Blackstone Group, the world’s largest alternative asset manager with
approximately $1 trillion in assets under management. In that role, he
oversaw businesses and operations in all major countries throughout the
Americas, Europe, and Asia. He currently is Chairman of Jefferson River
Capital, a private investment group. He also serves as Chairman of the
Board of Costco Wholesale Corp., the world’s second largest retailer,
Co-Chair of The Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, Vice Chairman of
The Wildlife Conservation Society, and Chairman of the Finance Committee
of Mount Sinai Hospital System. Additionally, James is Chairman and
co-founder of The Partnership for Education Advancement, which provides
critical infrastructure support to Historically Black Colleges and
Universities (HBCU), serving over 40% of all HBCU students. James also
has served and continues to serve on numerous other charitable,
corporate, and public sector boards. He co-authored *Rescuing
Retirement*, a book proposing a solution to America’s looming retirement
crisis, and has published articles in *The New York Times*, *The Wall
Street Journal,* and other major publications. He graduated from Harvard
College as a John Harvard Scholar and from Harvard Business School as a
Baker Scholar.

**Julia Santucci, Member, President’s Intelligence Advisory Board**

Julia Santucci is Senior Lecturer in Intelligence Studies and Director
of the Johnson Institute for Responsible Leadership and the Frances
Hesselbein Leadership Forum at the University of Pittsburgh Graduate
School of Public and International Affairs (GSPIA). She is also an
affiliate scholar of the University’s Institute of Cyber Law, Policy,
and Security. Santucci teaches graduate-level courses centered around
the U.S. intelligence community, diplomacy, and the Middle East. As
Director of the Johnson Institute and Hesselbein Forum, she leads
GSPIA’s research and teaching efforts to develop leadership skills in
the next generation of public officials. Santucci served in the
Obama-Biden Administration as a Senior Advisor in the Secretary of
State’s Office of Global Women’s Issues from 2015 to 2017, where she
worked to advance gender equality as a core U.S. foreign policy
priority. From 2012 to 2014, she was Director for Egypt at the National
Security Council. She served for 10 years as a Middle East leadership
analyst at the Central Intelligence Agency. Santucci holds a M.A. in
Near Eastern Studies from the University of Arizona, and a B.A. in
History from the University of Dayton.

\###
