---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-12-29'
modified_time: 2021-12-29 14:12:51-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/12/29/press-briefing-by-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-public-health-officials-76/
published_time: 2021-12-29 14:12:50-05:00
title: "Press Briefing by White\_House COVID-\u206019 Response Team and Public Health\_\
  Officials"
---
 
Via Teleconference

11:09 A.M. EST

MR. ZIENTS:  Good morning, everyone.  And thanks for joining what is a
phone briefing today.  We expect to return to our regular format next
week.

Today, Dr. Walensky will provide an “Omicron in the U.S.” update and
discuss CDC’s updated guidance for people who test positive for COVID.

Dr. Fauci will discuss the latest science on Omicron.

Before we turn to the doctors, I thought I would provide a brief update
on the actions the administration is taking to ensure states,
communities, and hospitals have the support they need in the coming
weeks.

For months, the Biden administration’s whole-of-government surge
response teams have been working hand-in-hand with governors and local
health officials across the country to assess and address needs on the
ground.

More than 13,000 National Guard members have been activated in 48 states
to support the COVID response, from vaccinations, to testing, to
clinical care.  These are state deployments that, thanks to the
President’s actions, are fully paid for by the federal government.

Additionally, we have directly helped more than 30 states and
territories by deploying over 2,100 federal personnel and thousands of
ambulances, ventilators, and other critical supplies. 

On Monday, the President joined the administration’s regular meeting
with governors — it was actually our 40th meeting this year — to
reiterate that we continue to stand ready to help them with more support
for hospitals, more testing, and more capacity to get shots in arms. 
This includes an additional 1,000 military doctors, nurses, and EMTs
ready to deploy when and where needed.

Our message to governors around the country is simple: If you need
something, say something.  And we will mobilize to quickly get you the
resources you need.

And that’s exactly what we’ve done over the past week or so.  More boots
and supplies have already landed on the ground.  For example, in New
York, 60 FEMA medical personnel and 30 ambulances arrived last week to
help transport patients to hospitals around the state and balance
patient loads.  And in just one week, we had established nine federally
run testing sites in New York City with three more sites opening this
Sunday.

In Arizona, 20 FEMA paramedics began providing clinical support across
the state on Christmas Eve, with nearly 40 more medical personnel
arriving next week to help administer treatments in Maricopa and Pima
counties, as well as in Tribal communities.

In Indiana, 23 military medical personnel started their mission on
Christmas Day at University Methodist Hospital in Indianapolis.

In New Mexico, 15 medical personnel from the U.S. Public Health Service
Commissioned Corps arrived on Monday to provide surge support in Indian
Country.  Today, we’re sending 15 ventilators to the state, and 12
federal medical personnel will arrive next week to help get more shots
in arms.

In Wisconsin, a 23-person military medical team is scheduled to start
its support mission at Bellin Hospital in Green Bay on Friday.

In New Jersey, a new federally run free testing site will open New
Year’s Day.

And more sites will open across the next several days in Philadelphia
and Washington, D.C.

And on top of all of this, a million gloves; 342,000 masks, respirators,
and face shields; and 40,000 gowns the administration has shipped for
frontline healthcare workers in states in the past couple of weeks
alone.

So, as you can see, we’ve been working around the clock to surge
reinforcements to communities as they battle Omicron, helping to staff
hospitals, administer monoclonal antibody treatments, transport
patients, add testing capacity, and get more PPE to where it is needed.

And you’ll see us continue to act aggressively to address communities’
needs in the days and weeks ahead.

So, with that, let me hand it over to Dr. Walensky.

Dr. Walensky.

DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you so much, Jeff.  Good morning, everyone.  I’d
like to start by walking you through today’s data.

The current seven-day daily average of cases is about 240,400 cases per
day, an increase of about 60 percent over the previous week.

The rapid increase in cases we are seeing across the country is in large
part a reflection of the exceptionally transmissible Omicron variant. 
In a few short weeks, Omicron has rapidly increased across the country
and, we expect, will continue to circulate in the coming weeks.

While our cases have substantially increased from last week,
hospitalizations and deaths remain comparatively low right now. 

The seven-day average of hospitalizations — admissions is about 9,000
per day, an increase of about 14 percent over the previous week.  This
could be due to the fact that hospitalizations tend to lag behind cases
by about two weeks, but may also be due to early indications that we’ve
seen from other countries like South Africa and United Kingdom of milder
disease from Omicron, especially among the vaccinated and the boosted.

And the seven-day average of daily deaths are about 1,100 per day, which
is a decrease of about 7 percent over the previous week.

As you continue to watch these trends, I want to emphasize that this
virus has proven its ability to adapt quickly, and we must adapt with
it.  And it is in that context that, last week, CDC updated our
isolation and quarantine guidance for healthcare workers as we prepare
for an anticipated surge in COVID-19 cases.

This updated guidance will help to ensure that hospitals, clinics, and
long-term care facilities can safely stay open and remain appropriately
staffed, both to handle hospitalizations from COVID-19 and to make sure
that we continue to provide the necessary care for those experiencing
heart attacks, strokes, and other illnesses.

Swiftly thereafter, on Monday, CDC also updated its recommendations to
shorten the recommended isolation and quarantine period for the general
public.

These updates to our recommendations were made to reflect what we
currently know about COVID-19 infection, including how long a person is
most infectious.  Studies have demonstrated that when infection with
SARS-CoV-2 — people are infected with SARS-CoV-2, people are most
infectious in the one to two days before symptoms develop and the two to
three days after.  After five days, the risk of ongoing transmission
substantially decreases.

Let me make clear that we are standing on the shoulders of two years of
science, two years of understanding transmissibility, and a lot of
information that we have gleaned from the wildtype virus, as well as the
Alpha and Delta variants, and more that we continue to learn every
single day about Omicron.

We do know the vast majority of viral transmission happens in those
first five days, somewhere in the 85 to 90 percent range.  So if a
person can isolate for the first five days, they absolutely should.

Many are asking why do we not require a test at the end of the five days
of isolation for those who are infected.  We know that PCR testing would
not be helpful in this setting, as people can remain PCR positive for up
to 12 weeks after infection and long after they are transmissible and
infectious.  We also don’t know that antigen tests give a good
indication of transmissibility at this stage of infection.  On the other
hand, we know that after five days, people are much less likely to
transmit the virus and that masking further reduces that risk. And this
is why people need to mask for five days after their five days of
isolation.

This science, as well as what we know about the protection provided by
masking, vaccination, and booster doses, and about our test performance,
were all part of what informed our updated recommendations.

Let me walk you through exactly what these new recommendations mean for
you:

First, isolation refers to what you should do when you have COVID-19,
most likely diagnosed by a positive test.  Isolation prevents those who
are known to be infected from transmitting the virus to others.

  
Quarantine, on the other hand, is different.  This is what you do when
you have to be — when you’ve been exposed to someone who has disease and
are unsure if you, yourself, were infected.   
  
Quarantine prevents further spread of the virus in the time before
someone may develop symptoms or from those who are asymptomatic from
their infection.

If you are infected with SARS-CoV-2, regardless of your vaccination
status, you should isolate for five days.   
  
During periods of isolation, it’s best for you to wear a mask around
those in your household to avoid spreading the virus at home.   
  
After five days, if you’re asymptomatic or if your symptoms have largely
resolved, you may leave isolation, as long as you continue to wear a
mask around others, even in the home, for an additional five days.

For those who have been exposed to COVID-19, quarantine recommendations
are based on your vaccination status.

If you are boosted or have been vaccinated with your Pfizer or Moderna
series in the past six months or your J&J shot in the past two months,
no quarantine is needed.  However, a mask must be worn for 10 days
following your known exposure, and we also recommend getting a test on
day five after your exposure.

If you’re not vaccinated or you were vaccinated with your Pfizer or
Moderna series over six months ago or with J&J over two months ago and
have not yet received your booster, you should quarantine for five days
following your last exposure.  After five days, you should continue
masking around others for an additional five days and you should also
get a test at day five.

If it’s not possible for you to quarantine, it is really important that
you do the right thing and wear a mask at all times around others for 10
days after your exposure.  Here, we also emphasize that you should get a
test at day five.

And if at any point you develop symptoms of COVID-19 during your
quarantine period, or your 10 days after exposure, like fevers, runny
nose, a cough, headaches, or body aches, you should get a test and
isolate until your test results return.  And, of course, then isolate if
your test returns positive.

Now, with these updates to our isolation and quarantine recommendations,
I want to emphasize the critical importance of masking, which we know
decreases the risk of transmission, as well as the importance of staying
home when you’re sick.  If you are sick or have symptoms, it is best for
you to stay home and to stay away from others. 

As we continue to fight COVID-19, prevention is truly our best option. 
This means for everyone five and older, getting vaccinated.  And for
those eligible, it means getting your booster shot.  (Inaudible), it
means continuing to follow our multi-layer prevention measures,
including masking in public indoor settings in areas of substantial or
high community transmission, washing your hands frequently, and testing
before gathering when possible.

How well each of these prevention measures is implemented, as well as
adherence to isolation and quarantine recommendations, will determine
the outlook in the coming weeks and months. 

We, at CDC, are working to provide updated recommendations, using
science to ease the burden of lengthy isolation and quarantine
recommendations.  However, these recommendations will only work if
people follow them.

As we look to the new year, I am hopeful that we can come together and
do what is in the best interest of our loved ones, our friends, and our
communities. 

So, with that, I say: Thank you, Happy New Year, and I will now turn
things over to Dr. Fauci.  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Thank you very much, Dr. Walensky.  I’m going to concentrate
my remarks predominantly on severity or not of this disease.  
  
But before I do, I just want to underscore something that we always talk
about when we talk about severity, and that is the issue of
transmissibility and immune evasion.   
  
So, very briefly, we know now incontrovertibly that this is a highly,
highly transmissible virus.  We know that from the numbers we’re
seeing.  But I think each individual person throughout this country is
now seeing around them the high degree of transmissibility.  
  
With regard to immune evasion, very clearly now we have a number of
tests looking at the effect of Omicron on the evasion of immunity from
monoclonal antibodies as well as from vaccine-induced antibodies.  And
clearly there is a degree of immune evasion, particularly against
infection and to some degree against hospitalization.  
  
However, importantly, and the bottom line message here, is that boosters
bring back up that degree of protection to a level that is approximating
what it was before.   
  
So, boosters are critical in getting Our approach to Omicron to be
optimal.  
  
Now let’s focus on the severity of disease.  I’m going to review some
preliminary observational clinical data, as well as some selected
initial laboratory data.  
  
First, the data from South Africa.  There have been a number of
reports.  I’ll report here one published yesterday from a large hospital
in the Tshwane South African district added to an earlier report that is
very similar.  
  
COVID-19 hospital admissions from the Omicron wave were compared to
admissions from previous waves.  And here is the comparison: 

On hospital deaths: 4.5 versus 21.3.  ICU admissions: 1 percent from
Omicron, 4.3 for others; 45 percent of patients required supplemental
oxygen with Omicron compared to 99 percent in a prior wave.  Length of
study, four day — length of stay, excuse me: four days for Omicron, 8.8
days for the second wave.  Mean average age: 39 years for Omicron, 49
years for previous waves.  
  
The authors note in that study that the changing clinical presentation
of SARS-CoV-2 is likely due to the predominantly high level of prior
infection and, to some extent, vaccination coverage, since vaccine level
is relatively low in the Republic of South Africa.  
  
Moving on to the United Kingdom: In a study of the UK Health Security
Agency technical briefing, preliminary analysis was looked at from days
November the 22nd through December the 19th.  The risk of presentation
to emergency care or hospital admissions with Omicron was 60 percent
that of Delta.  The risk of hospitalization admission alone with Omicron
was 40 percent of that for Delta.  
  
These data were fortified by data from Scottish researchers that showed
when analyzed data in the Scottish population from November 1 to
December the 19th, preliminary data suggest that Omicron is associated
with a two-thirds reduction in the risk of COVID-19 hospitalization.  
  
Another study from the UK — Imperial College UK report in the
hospitalization risk.  Analysis of both clinical and laboratory data
indicate an overall significant reduction in the risk of hospitalization
for Omicron compared to Delta.  
  
In the United States, we are getting accumulation of data.  The spike in
cases is out of proportion to the increase in hospitalization.  
  
So, if one looks at 14-day averages, the data, as of last night,
indicate a plus 126 percent increase in cases and an 11 percent increase
in hospitalizations.  
  
Now, we must remember that hospitalizations and deaths are lagging
indicators.  However, the pattern and disparity between cases and
hospitalization strongly suggest that there will be a lower
hospitalization-to-case ratio when the situation becomes more clear.

Just a word about children: Certainly, more children are being infected
with the highly transmissible virus, and with that, there naturally will
be more hospitalizations in children.

It is noteworthy, however, that many children are hospitalized with
COVID as opposed to because of COVID, reflecting the high degree of
penetrance of infection among the pediatric population.

The final conclusion about the level of severity in children remains to
be determined. 

And finally, some in vitro and animal data which addressed the issue of
whether or not there is inherent lowering of virulence of the virus.  In
a study from Hong Kong, it was shown that although Omicron replicates
faster than Delta in the bronchus, there’s less efficient replication in
the lung.

Hamster models from the University of Tokyo show that Omicron poorly
infects and spreads in the lung and is less pathogenic compared to Delta
in a hamster model.  Belgian researchers in Syrian hamsters see the same
thing. 

NIH-funded studies that are ongoing right now in both mouse and hamsters
confirm the lesser virulence in the animal model. And studies here at
the Vaccine Research Center at NIH, in the nonhuman primate model, are
ongoing and will await results of that.

So, in conclusion, the data are encouraging but still, in many respects,
preliminary; yet they are getting stronger and stronger as additional
data are accumulated.  And it is still unclear how these data will
translate to other demographically diverse populations in the United
States and elsewhere throughout the world.

But having said this, all indications point to a lesser severity of
Omicron versus Delta.  It is difficult to determine what degree of
lessened severity is due to preexisting immunity or the intrinsically
lower virulence of Omicron, as suggested by the animal studies, or a
combination of both.  Increased transmissibility of Omicron resulting in
an extremely high volume of cases may override some of the impact of the
lower disease severity.

And so we should not become complacent since our hospital system could
still be stressed in certain areas of the country.

And so, to repeat what we say so often and that deserves reemphasis: The
risk of severe disease from any circulating variant, including Omicron,
is much, much higher for the unvaccinated.  And so, adults and children
who are eligible: Get vaccinated.  And vaccinated people: Get boosted
when eligible.

Back to you, Jeff.

MR. ZIENTS:  Okay.  Well, thank you, doctors.  And let’s open it up for
some questions.

Over to you, Kevin.

MODERATOR:  Thanks, Jeff.  And let’s try to be as efficient as possible
so we can get through as many questions as people have. 

First, let’s go to Ricardo at the AP. 

MR. ZIENTS:  Ricardo.

Q    Okay, can you hear me now?

MR. ZIENTS:  Now we can, yes.  Thank you.

Q    Okay.  Sorry about that.  That was a little slow there.

Yes, I’d like to ask Dr. Walensky what share of the infections that
we’re seeing now are accounted for by people — are breakthrough
infections, basically.  So, what proportion of the cases we’re seeing
now are breakthroughs?  Same for hospitalizations — what proportion are
breakthroughs?

And for Dr. Fauci, do you think that we’re going to need a fourth shot —
another shot just to keep something like Omicron, or whatever might be
coming next, at bay?

MR. ZIENTS:  Okay.  So, Dr. Walensky and then Dr. Fauci.

DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, thank you, Ricardo, for that question.  What I can
tell you is that compared to people who are un- — to who are boosted: If
you are unvaccinated, you are 10 times more likely to be a case and 20
times more likely to be a fatality; compared to people who are
unvaccinated, you are 17 times more likely to be in the hospital.

So, our vaccines are working really well to prevent severe disease and
hospitalization and death.  They’re actually also working quite well to
prevent cases, although we do know more breakthrough cases are happening
in the context of Omicron.

MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Fauci?

DR. FAUCI:  Yes.  Thank you for that question, Ricardo. Before we start
talking about a fourth shot, it will be very important for us to
determine the durability of protection, particularly against severe
disease for the third shot booster of an mRNA and the second shot of a
J&J.  Right now, we don’t have that information.

It is conceivable that in the future we might need an additional shot,
but, right now, we are hoping that we will get a greater degree of
durability of protection from that booster shot.

So, we’re going to take one step at a time, get the data from the third
boost, and then make decisions based on the scientific data.

MR. ZIENTS:  Next question.

MODERATOR:  We’ll go to Laurie Garrett.

Q    My question is to Jeff.  Over the last year and a half, roughly,
we’ve seen a steady escalation in attacks directed personally against
Dr. Fauci and generally against public health leadership, including
death threats.  And this has escalated to the point where we now have
actually had Jesse Watters call upon his followers in “Fox News land”
to, quote, “ambush” Tony and his family, and to, quote, take “the kill
shot.”  And then this was backed up by Steve Bannon.

We’ve had Lara Logan say to her followers that Tony is “Josef Mengele”
and should be handled accordingly, and so on.

And all over the country, public health leaders are getting death
threats; they’re getting threats against their families.  And we have
not heard a peep from the President, from the White House, from members
of Congress on the Democrat side in the defense of these individuals, or
nor have we heard anything about the Department of Justice issuing
indictments.  Is it now legal to yell in public that people should kill
and ambush federal health officials?

MR. ZIENTS:  Well, we’ve talked about disinformation in these types of
threats as being completely and utterly unacceptable.

The President has been very clear about how much of an impact this type
of misinformation is having on the country.  So, all I can say is that
Dr. Fauci is an extraordinary public servant, as are the whole team of
public healthcare professionals in the federal government, across state
and local governments.  They’re doing their jobs.  And this type of
disinformation and these types of threats are completely and utterly
unacceptable.

MODERATOR:  Next question, let’s go to Sabrina Siddiqui at the Wall
Street Journal.

Q    Yes, thank you so much for doing this.  I know that there’s going
to be a clear distinction here between people who are unvaccinated and
those who are vaccinated, but when you’re looking at the vaccinated and
boosted population, is it still your goal to minimize COVID cases across
the country?  Or at this point, is it more about preventing further
disruptions and learning how to live with the virus? 

It would be helpful if you can just kind of articulate where we are at
this stage of the pandemic with respect to transmissibility and the
expectation that many more people, even those who are vaccinated and
boosted, will likely be infected with Omicron.

MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Fauci, do you want to first here?

DR. FAUCI:  Yeah, I mean, obviously, as we get further and further in
the experience with Omicron — and perhaps even variants that might come
after that — it’s very, very clear: For example, with Omicron, if you
have a larger number of infections — and as the data that I presented
here indicate that there is — it looks like a significant lessening of
severity compared to others — it becomes much more relevant as to what
the seriousness of the impact on society is.

We’re never going to stop counting tests.  But we’re looking forward, as
I think everyone feels is appropriate, that, ultimately, when we’re
going to have to, quote, “live” with something that will not be
eradicated and very likely would not be eliminated, but can actually be
at such a lower level of control — namely a control that does not
disrupt society, does not disrupt the economy — that it will be much
more relevant as to what the level of seriousness of impact is, as
opposed to infection, which might turn out to be milder.

So we very well may see a transition in that direction as the months go
by.

MODERATOR:  Next question.  Let’s go to Cheyenne Haslett at ABC News.

Q    Hi, thank you for taking my question.  Can you guys hear me all
right?

MR. ZIENTS:  Yes.

Q    Okay.  Great.  I wonder — the FDA put out a confusing statement
about rapid tests last night, and I was hoping to get some clarity.  The
statement they’re less sensitive detecting Omicron but they still work. 
Can you clarify at exactly what phase people can actually trust rapid
tests when they should be using them?  And can you give an accurate
number — or can you give a number for how accurate they are up against
Omicron?

And lastly, Jeff, if you have new numbers on what percentage of eligible
people are boosted — I think you gave some two weeks ago — that would be
helpful.  Thank you.

MR. ZIENTS:  Good.  So, I’ll go first on the FDA test.  And then, Dr.
Fauci, if you want to add anything.

You know, the FDA clearly recommends the use of authorized at-home
tests.  They are a critical tool in our efforts to stop the spread of
COVID-19, as Dr. Walensky expanded on earlier with her guidance. 

And yesterday’s release from the FDA was to keep the public aware of
their ongoing work to evaluate the FDA-authorized test level of
sensitivity, specifically to Omicron.  But it’s clear that they are
recommending their continued use.

As has been known for a while and it was stated in their release, PCR
tests are more sensitive than antigen tests, but I want to again
emphasize that both are critical tools to stop the spread of COVID-19.

Dr. Fauci, anything to — or, Dr. Walensky, anything to add or subtract
there?

DR. FAUCI:  Well, I think you said it very well, Jeff.  When you’re
dealing with an antigen test, everyone knows from the beginning that it
is not, by the nature of the technical aspect of the test, as sensitive
as a PCR.  So it isn’t 100 percent sensitive and not like a PCR.  But it
has a considerable degree of usefulness in a number of different
circumstances, some of which Dr. Walensky has already mentioned in her
remarks.

What the FDA was saying: that when they were looking at the sensitivity
with regard to Omicron, in some of the tests, there appears to be
somewhat of a diminution, not a disappearance, but a diminution of the
sensitivity.

The fact that the sensitivity is diminished somewhat does not obviate
the importance of the still advantage and usefulness of these tests
under different circumstances.  That was the message of the FDA.  They
wanted to make sure they were totally transparent in saying the
sensitivity might come down a bit, but they did emphasize there still is
an important use of these tests.

DR. WALENSKY:  And, Jeff, if I might add to that: Another important use
is where we use them for serial testing in places like “test to stay” to
keep children in school, in higher ed to keep our college campuses
safe.  So, lots of important uses in addition to the one I outlined. 
And if you’re using them serially, you are able to easily give up a
little bit in terms of sensitivity.

MR. ZIENTS:  On your question on boosting: I think, importantly, we’re
continuing to boost about a million people a day, which is a good pace. 
Obviously, the more people who get boosted, the more people who get the
highest level of protection.   
  
The data I do have off the top my head is we’re nearing two out of three
seniors, those 65 and older, who — those who are most vulnerable — of
the eligible seniors, about two out of three are now boosted.  
  
And I’ll follow up or Kevin will follow up and get you the overall
percent of those eligible, what percent have now received booster shots.

MODERATOR:  All right, next question.  Let’s go to Joel Achenbach at
Washington Post.

  
Joel?

MR. ZIENTS:  Kevin, we’re not hearing anything on this end.

MODERATOR:  Yes, let’s go ahead and go to Jeremy Diamond, CNN.

Q    Hey there.  Thank for doing this briefing.  On the 500 million
tests, can you outline specific progress that you’ve made in getting
those 500 million antigen tests rolled out next month?  Do you have a
launch date for the website and for the arrival of those first
shipments?  And is there anything that you’re doing to ramp up PCR
capacity as well?  
  
And then secondly, to Dr. Walensky on the quarantine guidance: You know,
this is the first time that we’ve seen you distinguish between people
who are unvaccinated and those who are fully vaccinated, eligible for a
booster, but have not gotten it yet.  So, should those people who are
more than six months from their second mRNA dose or two months from J&J
no longer consider themselves to be fully vaccinated?  Thanks.

MR. ZIENTS:  So, on testing and the half billion tests bought by the
U.S. government to be distributed for free: The Department of Defense
and HHS are executing on an accelerated contracting timeline.  Companies
are already submitting information, and we expect the contract to be
completed late next week.   
  
That means that the first deliveries for manufacturers will start
January.  We’ll set up a free and easy system, including a new website
to get these tests out to Americans.  We’re actively working to finalize
that distribution mechanism, which includes a website where people will
be able to order tests for free.  And we’ll share more details in the
weeks ahead — days and weeks ahead.   
  
We’re able to do this now because of all the steps we’ve taken to
increase testing supply and manufacturing capacity.   
  
We have also taken steps on the PCR front, to answer your question
there.  You know, there are tests available at many websites and local
pharmacies.   
  
Obviously, demand is stronger; in certain areas, even higher.  And in
those areas, we’re supplementing, as you know, with federally run
testing sites that we’ve set up in New York City.  As I mentioned, we’re
doing the same in Philadelphia, New Jersey, and Washington, D.C.  And
we’re continuing to work with states to add those federally run testing
sites where needed.  
  
But tests are available online and in many local pharmacies — the rapid
at-home tests.  
  
Over to you Dr. Walensky.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, thank you, Jeff.  And thank you, Jeremy, for that
question.   
  
So, our CDC guidance has been very clear that people should get their
boost when they are eligible.  That is both for — because of waning
immunity and because we need more protection against Omicron.   
  
With regard to your question specifically about people who have received
two doses of their mRNA or perhaps just one dose of a J&J vaccine who
are eligible for a boost but haven’t yet gotten it: We do know that they
do have some protection against severe disease and death but that they
do have quite a bit of waning with regard to protection against
infection.  And since these are guidelines for quarantine, we really
wanted to have those measures in place since they have had quite a bit
of waning protection against infection.

MR. ZIENTS:  Next question.

MODERTOR:  All right.  We have time for a few more questions.  Let’s go
to Asma Khalid at NPR.

Q    Hi there.  Thank you, guys, for doing this.  Two quick questions. 
Dr. Fauci, I know that you have said that you don’t think people should
expect any requirement in domestic flight travels — any domestic travel
mandate.  There have been, I’m sure as you all know, a number of public
health experts who have been suggesting that would be a good move.  So,
could you explain the science in saying you do not think that should be
on the table anytime soon?  
  
And then, for Dr. Walensky, I know you were on CNN this morning speaking
to sort of risk tolerance around the changing quarantine guidelines and
the idea that behaviorally, also, folks who were not necessarily going
to be, under mild symptom — mild symptoms — I’m sorry — willing to
quarantine for up to 10 days.  Can you expound on that for me a little
bit?  
  
You know, I know that there’s been some pushback from people thinking
that there are other guidelines that have been difficult for people to
tolerate — you know, kind of case in point is the mother of a toddler
keeping a mask on a toddler is one that I think many parents of young
children would say is very difficult from a behavioral science
perspective as well.

DR. FAUCI:  So, with regard to the issue of traveling, let me make sure
we continue to clarify what I’ve been trying to do: I had said, and I’ll
say it again, that we — when we talk about keeping America safe and
keeping our citizens safe, everything that is an intervention is always
on the table and always discussed.  And we discuss it regularly on —
literally on a daily and a weekly basis. 

The difference between requiring a vaccination before you get on a plane
to come from out of the country into the United States is for the
obvious reason of keeping infection, particularly new variants, out of
the country.

When you’re dealing with domestic flights, you want to keep people safe
on domestic flights.  And as I said, right now, we feel that the masking
requirement and the degree of filtration on a plane is sufficient to
keep people safe. 

However, as is very clearly the case for domestic travelers, as I
mentioned, we want to keep them safe, but we believe that the
requirement achieves that goal.  If there’s a need to do more beyond
this masking, mainly having a vaccine issue, we will seriously consider
that as new information arises. 

So, it’s just keeping an open mind that the situation may change.  But
at this particular time, we do not feel that is necessary to make that a
requirement for domestic flights.

MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Walensky?

DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, thank you, Jeff.  Asma, thanks for this question. 
I think you’re referring to my discussion with regard to isolation
rather than quarantine.  And what we really do know is that the vast
majority of your transmissible time is in those first five days.  Up to
85, 90 percent of all of your transmission is happening in those first
five days — those two days before you have symptoms and the two to three
days after.  So, we think it’s most important to make sure that people
are isolating during that period of time.  And then any of that
lingering small amount of transmission afterwards would be prevented by
masking.

MR. ZIENTS:  Just one follow-up from a previous question on boosters; I
did track down the data.  So, as I said, nearly two out of three
eligible seniors, those ages 65 and older, have now been boosted.  And
for 18 and over — so, the population 18 and over — 45 percent — about 45
percent have now received a booster, of the eligible. 

But, you know, those numbers have gone up a lot — doing about a million
a day.  But as the doctors continually emphasize: Everybody who is
eligible should go get boosted as soon as possible.

MODERATOR:  Next question.  All right, we’re going to do two more
questions. 

Nate Weixel, The Hill.

Q    Hi, thanks.  Just a question on the isolation and quarantine
guidance.  Why was there no distinction between vaccinated and
unvaccinated with regards to the five days?  I mean, is there evidence
that the virus is going to be less contagious after five days no matter
what your vaccination status is?

MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Walensky.

DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, thank you for that question, Nate.  The — you know,
obviously, vaccination and boosting is going to prevent you from getting
virus to begin with.  But if you happen to be one of those breakthrough
infections, we have seen data that you — at least for other variants —
that you peak at around the same place, if you happen to be a
breakthrough, than you were — than you would if you were unvaccinated. 

You may have a slightly steeper rate of decline than if you were
unvaccinated.  But, in fact, most of that is still happening in the
first five days, and therefore we didn’t feel like we had enough
granularity to distinguish between the two. 

Next question.

MODERATOR:  Last question.  Let’s go to Evan Lambert at NewsNation Now.

Q    Thanks for taking my questions.  I have two.  So, I’m still a
little bit unclear on why isolation guidelines don’t include suggesting
a negative antigen test.  If people can get one, why shouldn’t they
check to make sure they aren’t infectious before they leave isolation? 

And then the second one, I guess, maybe for Dr. Fauci.  Can we get a
clear recommendation: Should Americans cancel their New Year’s Eve
plans?  Thank you.

MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Walensky. 

DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, so, we do know that certainly a PCR — you can stay
positive in your PCR for a long period of time. 

But with regard to the question of your antigen is: We do not know how
well those antigen tests perform at day five in detecting
transmissibility.  And it is for that reason that we would say, even if
you had a negative test, we would want you to mask, and even if you had
a positive test, we would also want you to mask.  And therefore, given
that these antigen tests are not authorized for use in this way, we did
not recommend them at that time.

MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Fauci — New Year’s Eve.

DR. FAUCI:  Yes, thank you very much for that question.  So, similar to
what I said for the Christmas holiday, it goes true here.  If you are in
a situation with a family setting in your home with family, parents,
children, grandparents, and everyone is vaccinated and boosted, although
the risk is never zero in anything, the risk is low enough that we feel
you should continue to go through with those plans of having a
home-related, vaccinated, boosted gathering with family and close
friends who are also vaccinated and boosted.

So, it really depends on what your plans are.  You said, “Should you
change or cancel your plans?”  If your plans are to go to a 40- or
50-person New Year’s Eve party with all the bells and whistles and
everybody hugging and kissing and wishing each other a Happy New Year, I
would strongly recommend that this year we do not do that.

MR. ZIENTS:  Thank you, everybody.  Thanks for joining.  I wish
everybody a safe and happy New Year, and we’ll look forward to next
week’s return to our normal-style briefings.  Thank you.

11:52 A.M. EST
