---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-12-22'
modified_time: 2021-12-22 21:20:21-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/12/22/press-briefing-by-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-public-health-officials-75/
published_time: 2021-12-22 21:20:20-05:00
title: "Press Briefing by White\_House COVID-\u206019 Response Team and Public Health\_\
  Officials"
---
 
Via Teleconference

3:14 P.M. EST  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Good afternoon.  And thank you for joining us.  
  
Today, Dr. Walensky will share the latest on the Omicron variant and
discuss how people can stay safe over the holidays.  And Dr. Fauci will
provide an update on the latest science.  
  
First, I want to underscore the President’s message yesterday.  Due to
Omicron, we expect a significant rise in cases.  Fully vaccinated
people, particularly those with a boost, are highly protected.  
  
But due to Omicron’s highly transmissible nature, we will see fully
vaccinated people get COVID.  They’ll likely be asymptomatic or will
feel under the weather for a few days.  
  
Let’s be clear: Unvaccinated people are at a higher risk of getting
severely ill from COVID, getting hospitalized, and dying.  
  
We are prepared for this moment.  
  
Yesterday, the President announced new actions the administration is
taking to protect families, communities, and hospitals as we face
Omicron.  These steps include:

-   More support for hospitals, including 1,000 military troops
    deployed, hundreds of ambulances, and help for hospitals to ensure
    adequate supplies, equipment, and beds.
-   More testing, including new federal sites and half a billion tests
    that will be free to all Americans.
-   And more capacity to get shots in arms, including new mobile
    clinics, hundreds of additional vaccinators in the field, and tens
    of thousands of new appointments.

Let me reiterate what the President said yesterday: This is not March
2020.  We have more tools than ever before to protect people:
vaccinations, boosters, testing, and treatments.  
  
Today, I want to give an update on treatments.  
  
From day one, our strategy has been to fill the nation’s medicine
cabinet with a diverse set of options to treat people.  
  
Let me walk through the three types of treatments, starting with
monoclonal antibody treatments, which have proven to be highly
effective.  
  
Since July, we have deployed 2.7 million monoclonal antibody treatment
courses to help keep people out of the hospital and save lives.  
  
From the moment we learned of Omicron, we began assessing our existing
monoclonal antibody treatments, and we learned that two of the three
existing treatments are not effective against the new variant.  
  
Fortunately, GlaxoSmithKline’s monoclonal antibody treatment is
effective, so we acted quickly to secure more supply of it.  
  
We’re doubling — more than doubling the supply of GSK’s monoclonal to
more than 1 million treatment courses, with 300,000 treatment courses
available in January.  
  
And we’ve already begun making this drug available to every state and
territory.  
  
Next, let me touch on a preventive treatment from AstraZeneca, which is
especially important for certain immunocompromised individuals at high
risk.  Many of these immunocompromised people are not able to get the
level of protection they need from a vaccine alone.  
  
We will have more than half a million doses of AstraZeneca’s monoclonal
antibody treatments on hand in January, and we’re preparing to purchase
significantly more across the next three months.   
  
And finally, let me provide an update on antivirals.  
  
We got good news today with the authorization of Pfizer’s antiviral. 
Merck’s pill, if authorized, along with Pfizer’s newly authorized pill,
add oral treatment options to our nation’s medicine cabinet.  
  
As soon as emerging science showed the promise of these antivirals, we
acted quickly and aggressively to pre-purchase 10 million treatment
courses of Pfizer and 3 million courses of Merck.  
  
For Merck, by end of January, we anticipate about 3 million treatment
courses available to send to states if FDA authorizes.  
  
The Pfizer team has a very promising and now authorized treatment: a
pill that dramatically reduces the risk of hospitalizations and death
for those at risk.   
  
We’ve purchased 10 million courses, more than anyone else in the
world.  
  
According to Pfizer, the complex chemistry involved in creating the
active ingredient in the pill means production takes about six to eight
months.  So, supply of this product will ramp up over the next several
months.  
  
Knowing that these pills take time to manufacture, Pfizer continues to
increase their production plans.  
  
And now that the pill is authorized, we will have discussions to explore
how we can help them improve their manufacturing capacity even further
by providing any resources needed.  
  
We will have 265,000 treatment courses of Pfizer available in January,
with monthly totals of pills ramping up across the year and all 10
million treatment courses delivered by late summer.  
  
As quickly as Pfizer gets the pills manufactured and delivered, we will
immediately provide them to states and jurisdictions for distribution.  
  
Just as we’ve done with vaccines and monoclonal antibody treatments, we
will ensure equity is at the center of antiviral distribution.  We are
not only urging states to ensure equity in their own distribution plans,
but we are also distributing antivirals directly to community health
centers across the country.  
  
This will help ensure these lifesaving antivirals are available to the
most vulnerable communities and hard-hit populations across the
country.  
  
In closing, as we face Omicron, the nation’s medicine cabinet of
treatments gives us more options to protect the American people.  It’s
yet another reason this moment is much different than March 2020.

We have tools to keep people safe, and we will continue using them to do
so.  
  
With that, over to Dr. Walensky.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you, Jeff.  Good afternoon.  As usual, I’d like to
start by walking you through today’s data.  
  
The current seven-day daily average of cases is about 149,300 cases per
day, an increase of about 25 percent over the previous week.  
  
The seven-day average of hospital admissions is about 7,800 per day.  
  
And the seven-day average of deaths are about 1,200 per day, which is an
increase of about 3.5 percent over the prior week.  
  
Over the past several weeks, CDC has continued to closely monitor the
emergence of the Omicron variant.   
  
Currently, over 85 countries have detected Omicron.  
  
And on Monday, we released updated data for the United States, which
estimates that the Omicron variant represents approximately 73 percent
of COVID-19 cases in the United States.  
  
And in some areas of the country, Omicron has increased even further,
accounting for an estimated 90 percent of cases in the Eastern Atlantic
states, parts of the Midwest, South, and Northern Pacific states.  
  
This rapid increase in the proportion of Omicron circulating around the
country is similar to what we have seen around the world.  Although this
is a reminder of continued threat of COVID-19 variants, this increase is
Omicron proportion is what we anticipated and what we have been
preparing for.  
  
I know there are a lot of questions about the Omicron variant: how to
protect yourselves, our loved ones, how to safely gather with our
families and friends over the holidays.  And you have heard me say
before, we know what works against COVID-19, and it is critically
important that we implement our proven multi-layer prevention
strategies.  
  
Let me reiterate those four prevention measures for you: Get vaccinated,
get boosted, wear a mask in public indoor settings in areas of
substantial and high-risk community transmission, and take a test before
you gather.  
  
I know many parents are wondering how they can keep their children safe
for the holidays. If your child is five or older, get them vaccinated. 
And if they are younger than five years, surround them with adults and
siblings who are vaccinated, boosted if eligible, and masking in public
indoor settings.  
  
I also want to be sure people understand the risks around holiday
travel.  Holiday gatherings and risk of travel really has less to do
with the airplane or car ride and much more to do with how people from
different households behave in the weeks to days before meeting up. 
Importantly, consider gathering with family and friends who are also
practicing similar proper prevention measures.  
  
And as we have said before, those who remain unvaccinated are the most
vulnerable to COVID-19.  CDC data now updated through November, when
Delta was the predominant strain circulating, demonstrated that an
unvaccinated person has a 10 times greater risk of testing positive for
COVID-19 and a 20 times greater risk of dying from COVID-19 when
compared to those who were fully vaccinated and received their booster
dose.  
  
Although every day we are following more and more studies emerging about
the Omicron variant, early data on the vaccine is promising against
Omicron, especially when people are boosted.  
  
COVID-19 vaccines, especially when accompanied by a booster dose, are
likely to protect against severe disease, hospitalization, and death.   
  
Still, we know we will continue to hear more about people who get
infected who are vaccinated.  These people may get mild or asymptomatic
infections and could unknowingly spread those infections to others.   
  
Again, this means it is important for everyone, regardless of
vaccination status, to wear a mask in public indoor settings in
communities of substantial or high transmission.  
  
And I would encourage people to take an at-home COVID-19 test ahead of
time to help protect you and your family and friends who may be at
greater risk for COVID-19 or severe outcomes.  
  
Evidence has repeatedly shown that these prevention measures, when
layered together, work.   
  
So, again, if you are wondering how to stay healthy and protect your
loved ones this winter, please get vaccinated, get boosted, wear a mask
in public indoor settings, and take a COVID-19 test before gathering
with others.  
  
We are at a critical point, and how well these measures are implemented
by all of us, caring for ourselves and for one another, will largely
determine the outlook of the coming weeks and months ahead.  
  
Thank you.  Happy holidays.  I’ll now turn things over to Dr. Fauci.  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Thank you very much, Dr. Walensky.  What I’d like to do now
is spend just a few minutes on underscoring and reiterating some of the
important principles that Dr. Walensky had mentioned.  
  
I’m going to touch on four areas very quickly: transmissibility,
severity, the evasion of immunity by vaccines, and the potential impact
on therapeutics.  
  
I will point out that there is a relationship between interpreting the
relationship between transmissibility and severity, and I’ll explain
what I mean in a moment.  
  
Next slide.  
  
No doubt, this is a highly transmissible infection.  These are the
latest data that we get from the CDC about the Omicron variant that is
sequenced in the United States isolates.  It is now about 73-plus
percent.  And speaking to governors from other regions of the country —
in some, they’re even as high as 80 to 90 percent.  
  
So, there is no doubt that we are dealing with a highly transmissible
virus for the reason, as Jeff mentioned just a moment ago, that we
expect that they will be continuing to have a substantial increase in
cases.  
  
Next slide.  
  
Now we get to the idea of severity.  These are data from our South
African colleagues, who have clearly been showing now — in conversations
we’ve had and now in this recent publication — that, in fact, it appears
that in the context of South Africa, there is a decrease in the severity
compared to Delta, both in the relationship and ratio between
hospitalizations and the number of infections, the duration of hospital
stay, and the need for supplemental oxygen therapy.   
  
Recently — literally, yesterday — there was another paper that came out
from Scotland, which appears to validate and verify the data that are in
South Africa.  This is good news; however, we must wait to see what
happens in our own population, which has its own demographic
considerations.   
  
I would point out that even if you have a diminution in severity, if you
have a much larger number of individual cases, the fact that you have so
many more cases might actually obviate the effect of it being less
severe.  And that’s one of the reasons why the President in his remarks
yesterday spoke about how we are going to supplement the capability of
hospitals to respond to the possibility that there might be a run on the
need for hospitalization.   
  
Next slide.   
  
Now let’s talk about some of the immune evasion.  We’ve mentioned this
in different briefings before, but just to reiterate: There’s no doubt
that there’s a marked reduction in neutralizing activity against Omicron
— when you look at the two-dose mRNA vaccines, when you compare Omicron
to earlier variants, such as Delta.   
  
However — and here, again, why we emphasize the importance of booster
shots — the anti-Omicron activity is about 20- to 40-fold higher in sera
from boosted vaccinees versus the peak in individuals who had a two-dose
vaccine.   
  
This is validated by the clinical data, which shows that the vaccine
efficacy, as we all know from previous studies, of a symptomatic
infection of a two-dose mRNA wanes over time.   However, there’s a
moderate-to-high effectiveness — about 75 percent — seen in the early
period after a booster dose — and very likely higher when it comes to
hospitalization and severe disease.   
  
Next slide.   
  
A quick word now on something that Jeff mentioned — is namely the
treatments that are available: Unfortunately, but understandably, with
the degree of mutations that we have with Omicron, some of the
monoclonal antibodies — shown on the slide here — very likely will not
work against Omicron.  And those are shown in the first two, under
“monoclonal antibody.”  
  
Fortunately, the GSK/Vir product, Sotrovimab, looks like it is well
positioned to be used as a treatment against Omicron.  And then, the AZ
product also is likely.  
  
Small-molecule antivirals are available now.  You heard the recent
approval of an EUA of paxlovid.  Of note and underappreciated is:
Remdesivir is already fully approved and is available in a three-day
course, which in a recent study showed to dramatically diminish the need
for hospitalization.  
  
Guidelines on this will be now reexamined by the NIH Guidelines
Committee, and you’ll be hearing more about recommendations — how to
utilize these.   
  
If I can have the last slide.   
  
I want to again just reiterate what Dr. Walensky said about prevention,
which is a multi-layered, comprehensive process, the hallmark of which
is vaccination.   
  
Now, one of the questions that Dr. Walensky and I and Dr.  Murthy and
others get asked very frequently is that, right now, as we get to the
Christmas holiday and the New Year’s, would it be safe for individuals
who are vaccinated, who are boosted to get together with family in the
setting of the home?  The answer to that is: Yes.  An extra level of
protection would be the testing that Dr. Walensky mentioned.   
  
But I want to make sure this is not confused with going to a large
gathering — and there are many of these — parties that have 30, 40, 50
people in which you do not know the vaccination status of individuals. 
Those are the kind of functions — in the context of COVID and
particularly in the context of Omicron — that you do not want to go
to.   
  
So, to the extent possible, we urge you to stay away from those
situations that could put you at a higher risk.   
  
I’ll stop there.  And back to you, Jeff.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Well, thanks, Doctors.  With that, let’s open it up for
some questions.   
  
Kevin?  
  
MODERATOR:  Thanks, Jeff.  Let’s try to get through as many questions as
we possibly can.   
  
First, let’s go to Peter Sullivan at The Hill.  
  
Q    Hi, thanks.  I wanted to ask on the supplies of the new Pfizer
treatment pill.  There have been some experts calling for the
administration to just do more to increase supply — for example,
enlisting other manufacturers the way Merck is helping to make the J&J
vaccine — so you’re not just relying on Pfizer’s capacity alone.  Have
you considered that at all?  Or is there more steps, you know, the
administration can take to boost the supply?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Yeah.  And I might also have Dr. Fauci talk some about the
synthesis process, which takes months to do.  But we know the Pfizer
team is hard at work, ramping up production.  And everyone agrees this
is a very promising antiviral and, therefore, we want to make sure that
production is ramped up as quickly as possible.  According to the
company, the complex chemistry involved in creating the active
ingredient in the pill means the production takes, as I mentioned, about
six to eight months.   
  
Now that the pill is authorized, we will have discussions to explore how
we can help them improve their manufacturing capacity even further by
providing any resources that they need.  As quickly as Pfizer gets the
pills manufactured and delivered, we will immediately be — we will be
immediately providing them to states and jurisdictions for
distribution.   
  
So, the bottom line is: Today is an exciting development and we applaud
the American company for their innovation.  We do have 10 million doses
ordered, which is the largest amount of any country in the world, and
265,000 treatment regimens will be available to us in January.  
  
Anything you want to add there, Dr. Fauci?  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Well, Jeff, just what you said.  I mean, the very good news
is that we have a product now that has about a 90 percent efficacy in
preventing hospitalization.  
  
But the sobering news is: Unfortunately, it is really a quite
complicated and complex synthetic process, which we will be working with
the company to figure out how we can help alleviate the stress of the
long duration that it takes to make it, and hopefully we’ll be able to
shorten that process by working closely with them.  
  
Mr. ZIENTS:  Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  We’ll go to Tamara Keith at NPR.  
  
Q    Thank you so much for taking my question.  I’m wondering — the WHO
is telling people to curtail their holiday plans.  Why isn’t the U.S.
government doing that also?  
  
And also, where is the CDC on modifying the definition of “fully
vaccinated” to include boosters?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Walensky on holiday and modifying the definition.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, I think that you just heard from Dr. Fauci as to
how we are recommending people modify their holiday plans.  Certainly
we’re not advocating for large events, as — and so I think that this is
a modification.  
  
We also have given clear guidance as to what we believe is a safe way to
gather.  We do want families to be together — to be able to be together
this holiday season.  And so, to do so, we’re really encouraging people
to be vaccinated, to be boosted, and to practice all of those prevention
strategies before they gather so they can maximize the safety of their
holiday gathering as well as that reassurance of a test.  
  
With regard to your second question, our guidance right now is very
clear: CDC recommends — strongly recommends that people who are eligible
for a booster go get a booster.  That is everyone above the ages of 16. 
Boosting at greater than six months if you’re — if you’ve received the
Pfizer or Moderna vaccine, and of course, greater than two months if you
received the J&J vaccine.   
  
We’re looking at the definition right now, and, you know, more to come
there.  But just to be very clear, our recommendations are to get
boosted.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Next question, please.  
  
MODERATOR:  Let’s go to Jeff Zeleny at CNN.  
  
Q    Thank you for taking my question.  I was wondering if Jeff or the
doctors could point to one thing in the last month that you could have
done differently to avoid where the nation is right now on the cusp of
Christmas.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Fauci, anything to add there?  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Well, I don’t think I can pick out one thing that we could
have done.  Any time that you put the effort that we’re putting in, we
always are the strongest self-critics of “could we have done something
better; could we have done something more quickly or more thoroughly.”  
  
And, you know, when you say I can’t think of anything, I don’t want
anyone to think that we think we’ve done everything perfectly.  But I
don’t think I could point one thing out in the last month.   
  
I think we’ve been intensively involved in getting the response to the
Omicron variant.  We jumped all over it.  All of us spent the entire
Thanksgiving weekend getting enough information to be able to respond in
an appropriate way to Omicron.  
  
So, again, admittedly, we can always do better, but I can’t think of
something specifically that we would have done differently.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Let’s go to Meg Tirrell at CNBC.  
  
Q    Well, thanks.  Going back to the Pfizer drug, I’m wondering if you
can walk through how patients should try to get this drug.  The fact
that they have to get a test result quickly and take the drug within
five days of symptoms, a lot of folks don’t have primary care doctors. 
So will there be telemedicine or some way to get it through the
pharmacy?  How do you look at that?  
  
And then, with the sort of limited supply of it at the beginning, it is
indicated just for high-risk people, but should there be prioritization,
even within those groups, like by vaccination status?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Why don’t I talk for a second about the distribution plan
and then over to Dr. Fauci for the medical questions.  
  
As we’ve done with vaccines and monoclonals, we’ll distribute these
treatments, these pills, in a fair and equitable way, now that they’ve
been authorized by the FDA.  
  
The antivirals will be provided to states and jurisdictions at no
charge, on a pro rata basis, to quickly — to get that supply in the
field.  
  
As I mentioned in my comments: As part of the administration’s
commitment to equity, we are also distributing antiviral pills — Pfizer
— directly to federally qualified community health centers across all 50
states.  And that will ensure that these lifesaving antivirals are
available at some of the most vulnerable — in some of the most
vulnerable communities and hard-hit populations across the country.  
  
Over to you, Dr. Fauci, for the medical part of this.  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Yeah, Jeff.  And it is a — obviously, a very difficult
situation when you have a limited supply.  
  
For that reason, we’ve asked the NIH Guidelines Committee to put
together a recommendation of when someone comes in with an acute
infection and is in a risk group, which is what you want this to be for
since we have a limited supply, that we would have a prioritization of
what the best approach would be.  
  
It almost certainly will be a physician writing a prescription for
someone who within the first three days of notable symptoms of COVID and
is in a high-risk group to get it.  
  
But those guidelines — which will not only be limited to what you would
do with paxlovid, but also whether or not it would — might be more
appropriate to recommend remdesivir, which can be given in a three-day
course, or one of the monoclonal antibodies that work.  
  
So, stay tuned.  This will be coming out shortly from the Guidelines
Committee.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Next question, please.  
  
MODERATOR:  Let’s go to Ricardo at the AP.  
  
Q    Can you hear me?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Yes.  
  
Q    Okay.  Thank you for taking my question, and it’s for Dr.
Walensky.  And my question is — the President flagged that we’re going
to see more and more cases involving unvac- — I’m sorry — vaccinated
people in every workplace, he said — even in the White House.  
  
And anecdotally, people are seeing that with various political and
sports celebrities who are vaccinated getting COVID.  
  
Can you tell us what proportion of cases currently are represented by
vaccinated people?  In other words, what proportion of COVID cases are
vaccinated people — how that compares with what proportion on
hospitalized patients and deaths?   
  
And can you give us a timeline for a decision on making the definition
of “fully vaccinated” to mean “boosted” as well?  Because it seems like
that’s an urgent question for the average American.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, thank you for that question, Ricardo.  So, what I
can tell you is that you are 10 times more likely to have a case of
COVID if you are unvaccinated compared to if you are vaccinated and
boosted.  You are 20 times more likely to die of COVID if you are
unvaccinated compared to if you’re vaccinated and boosted.  
  
And, yes, we know with Omicron — that has more mutations and is able to
evade our vaccines better — that we are going to see vaccinated and even
boosted people have breakthrough cases, and they will have breakthrough
cases with mild disease or perhaps even asymptomatic disease.  And what
I would say is: That is those vaccines working and working well, because
those vaccines are working to prevent, really, severe disease and to
prevent hospitalizations and deaths.  
  
As for your second question, that evaluation is currently underway and,
you know, more soon.  But to be very clear: Our recommendations are to
get boosted.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Let’s go to Maureen Groppe at USA Today.  
  
Q    All right.  I want to ask Jeff about the guidance coming out next
month on how insurers will pay for at-home COVID tests.  Does the
administration have the ability to require health plans to work with the
pharmacies to make these tests free to consumers at the counter so that
you don’t have to file for reimbursement after buying the test?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Yeah, so that’s very much — it’s a good question.  That’s
very much work in process, and all ideas — like the idea that you
mentioned — are on the table.  And that’ll be worked through across the
next couple of weeks with clear guidance on how American consumers with
private health insurance can be easily reimbursed for their test.  
  
Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Sheryl Stolberg, New York Times.  
  
Q    Hi, thank you for taking this question.  This is directed at Dr.
Fauci.  Dr. Fauci, I wonder if you could address this idea that somehow
Omicron is a blessing in disguise.  A South Korean health official said,
“Omicron could be viewed as a signal of this pandemic nearing its end if
it is proven to be more contagious, but less deadly.”  And I’m
wondering, in the context of the data that you presented from South
Africa today, what is your view of that?  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Well, I think that’s a supposition that might — I would hate
to say “a blessing in disguise.”  I’ve never thought of a virus ever,
that can infect and kill people, to be a blessing in any way.   
  
But if you’re talking about, would it be preferable to have Omicron be
totally pervasive and be relatively low degree of severity, yes,
obviously, that would be preferable.  But it’s dangerous business to be
able to rely on what you perceive as a lower degree of severity.  
  
Having said that, it is conceivable, Sheryl, that if Omicron takes over
and you get a good immune response to Omicron and you do not wind up
getting severity as much as with Delta — that we can wind up with a
virus that’s pervasive, that does not cause severity, and that people
would get enough immune response to — that you would then wind up having
a lesser degree of morbidity and mortality.  
  
That is conceivable, but you don’t want to count on it.  You can’t count
on anything when you’re dealing with a virus that has fooled us so many
times before.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Last question.  Let’s go to Josh Wingrove at Bloomberg.  
  
Q    Thank you very much.  Jeff, France said today that they’re not
going to use Merck’s pill and are going to wait for Pfizer’s pill.  If
the FDA does authorize Merck, will you use it?  In other words, will you
follow the FDA, or is there any review that would happen afterwards
about whether one pill would be better than the other?   
  
And, Dr. Walensky, we reported on the weekend that the data on vaccine
counts are off nationally because of a range of factors.  But,
essentially, we’re underestimating both the fully vaccinated and boosted
but also the unvaccinated.  I’m wondering if you have any idea how big
the gap is.  In other words, do you know what the true number is?  Thank
you.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Well, you know, obviously, on the Merck antiviral pill, we
will follow the FDA’s lead and, as Dr. Fauci talked about, the NIH
guidance on how the pill would be used if authorized by the FDA.   
  
And as I mentioned earlier, we have purchased 3 million of the Merck
pills.   
  
Over to you, Dr. Walensky.   
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, thank you for that question, Josh.  So, we work
with states, local governments, local jurisdictions, and work to get the
best data that are possible from those local jurisdictions, and compile
the immunization data from many different places — from pharmacies, from
healthcare providers, from large database, large electronic health
records — and do so from all different states and jurisdictions.   
  
We work closely with those states and jurisdictions to update and
provide us the best possible data that they can.  And then we compile it
to give you, the American people, the best reporting that we can.   
  
What I can say is that there’s one better way to get the data better,
and that is: If people can bring in their vaccination cards, that really
does help us to record what dose they are on.  And when they are not
able to provide those vaccination cards, it makes it harder for local
jurisdictions to assess that.   
  
So, we’re working with local jurisdictions and governments and
healthcare providers in order to do so.  And we’d ask the American
people to help us by — improve our data by bringing in their vaccination
cards.   
  
MR. ZIENTS:  The one thing I’d add there, Josh, is, you know, as you
said, there may be some situations where shots are misclassified — a
first shot as a booster shot was, I think, an example you gave.  But I
think the topline number, 475 million total shots in arms administered —
I think it’s actually higher than that at this point, approaching 500
million — that reflects the total, tremendous progress that we’ve
made.   
  
And what we know, most importantly, is getting more and more people
vaccinated, more people boosted is the most important thing to do.   
  
So, I know CDC is making progress on the data.  But that topline number,
approaching 500 million total shots in arms, is very encouraging.  We
need to continue to grow that each and every day.   
  
So, I want to thank everybody.  And I hope everybody has a safe and
happy holiday.  Thank you.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you.  
  
3:39 P.M. EST

To view the COVID Press Briefing slides,
visit: <https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/12/COVID-Press-Briefing_12.22.21-pdf.pdf>
