---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-12-06'
modified_time: 2021-12-06 08:27:57-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/12/06/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-on-the-u-s-government-strategy-on-countering-corruption/
published_time: 2021-12-06 08:30:00-05:00
title: "Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials on the U.S. Government\
  \ Strategy on Countering\_Corruption"
---
 
Via Teleconference

(December 5, 2021)

5:02 P.M. EST

MODERATOR:  Hello, everyone.  On behalf of the NSC team, we’d like to
welcome you to a background call to discuss a forthcoming announcement
by the White House related to the fight against corruption. 

For you reference, today we are joined by \[senior administration
official\] as well as \[senior administration official\] at the Treasury
Department.  They’ll give some initial remarks.  And at this point on
they should be referred to “senior administration officials.”

After initial remarks, we’ll open it up for a question-and-answer
session. 

The call contents and the materials that we’ll circulate this evening
will be embargoed until tomorrow morning at 7:00 a.m.  By participating
in this call, you’re agreeing to the ground rules.

With that, I’ll turn it over to our first senior official.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, \[senior administration
official\].  And hi, everybody. 

Excuse me, got a little bit of a cold this evening.

Thanks for taking the time on a Sunday.  In parallel with all the great
work that we’re about to discuss on our anti-corruption agenda, many of
us in the U.S. government right now are working around the clock in
preparation for the Summit for Democracy.  So, I’ve somewhat lost all
track of time and space, but do realize that others respect weekends. 
So, I really appreciate everybody jumping on the phone to hear it out
from us.

As you know, countering corruption is a longstanding priority of
President Biden and a priority for the Biden-Harris administration. 
That is so because corruption robs citizens of equal access to vital
services like healthcare and education.  It downgrades the business
environment, can exacerbate inequality.  It’s often linked to human
rights violations.  It can drive migration.  It undermines rule of law. 
And in so doing, makes all forms of government less effective and less
trusted. 

And right here at home, the impacts of transnational corruption have
been shown to tilt the economic playing field, in part by raising
housing costs and price out families, in some instances, from
homeownership, as corrupt actors make illicit real estate purchases.

So, accordingly, President Biden was the first President to establish
combatting corruption as a core U.S national security interest via his
first National Security Study Memorandum titled, “on the Fight Against
Corruption.”  It’s NSSM-1 from back in early June. 

And since the release of NSSM-1, the President has continued to elevate
anti-corruption efforts as a focus area through both bilateral
engagements and multilateral fora, including at the G7 and G20. 

And in parallel, pursuant to the direction from the President in NSSM-1,
federal departments and agencies have been conducting and have now
completed a 200-day review to identify how the U.S. government can
amplify, expand, and enhance its ongoing efforts to prevent corruption,
to better hold corrupt actors accountable, to curb illicit finance, and
to strengthen the capacity of investigative journalists and other
members of civil society who are on the frontlines of shining a
spotlight on corrupt acts and actors. 

So, as a result of this review, we’re really pleased to announce that on
this Monday, December 6th, we’ll be releasing the first-ever U.S.
Government Strategy on Countering Corruption. 

And the strategy places particular emphasis on better understanding and
responding to the transnational dimensions of corruption, including by
taking meaningful steps to reduce the ability of corrupt actors to use
the U.S. and international financial systems to launder the proceeds of
their acts. 

To guide implementation, the strategy organizes U.S. government efforts
to fight corruption under five mutually reinforcing pillars.  And I
recently heard Secretary of State Blinken say there’s no good strategy —
U.S. government strategy — that doesn’t have pillars.  So we’ve got five
good ones here for you.  Those are:

-   Modernizing, coordinating, and resourcing U.S. government efforts to
    fight corruption
-   Curbing illicit finance
-   Holding corrupt actors accountable
-   Preserving and strengthening the multilateral anti-corruption
    architecture
-   And improving diplomatic engagement and leveraging our foreign
    assistance resources to achieve our anticorruption policy goals

So, notwithstanding the U.S.’s historical leadership in the global fight
against corruption through tools like the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act,
the strategy identifies a number of areas where the U.S. government can
improve upon its ongoing efforts through this documents implementation. 

And I just want to mention a few highlights that corresponds to the five
pillars I mentioned. 

So, first, we’re going to strive to better understand and respond to the
transnational dimensions of corruption, as I mentioned, including by
increasing intelligence and diplomatic resources that are devoted to the
topic.

Second, the U.S. government is going to take meaningful steps to reduce
the ability of corrupt actors to use the U.S. and international
financial systems to launder the proceeds of their corrupt acts.  And
I’ll come back to that in a second.

Third, the strategy commits to deepening coordination with foreign
partner governments to strengthen their ability to pursue accountability
for corruption where there is political will, while also deepening
support to activists and investigative journalists on the frontlines of
exposing corrupt acts.

Fourth, across the federal government, we’ll be elevating our
anti-corruption work as a cross-cutting priority through the creation of
senior positions and/or coordinating bodies at key departments and
agencies including at the Departments of State, Treasury, and Commerce
and USAID.

And fifth, we’re committed to improving corruption-related risk analysis
in our provision of foreign and security sector assistance. 

So, for example, the Department of Defense is committing, through this
strategy, to strengthening its planning processes to include more
deliberate considerations of security sector governance prior to the
provision of assistance and to conduct more frequent security
cooperation evaluations in countries with significant risks of
corruption to determine the effectiveness of security cooperation
efforts. 

And on the foreign assistance side, in addition to pursuing a
substantial expansion in programming that directly focuses on
anti-corruption work, relevant departments and agencies led by USAID are
going to commit, through the strategy, to better assessing and
addressing corruption risk across all U.S. development and humanitarian
assistance. 

And then, lastly, the strategy is also going to announce major new
investments, as I referenced earlier, in anti-corruption programming,
including a global accountability program focused on strengthening,
again, so-called strategic corruption; a grand challenge that’s focused
on spurring innovation and preventing corruption in high-risk sectors
like construction and transportation and natural resource extraction;
and in Department of State and DOJ — Department of Justice — rapid
response capabilities, which will enable the U.S. government to deploy
expert advisors to consult with, mentor, and assist foreign
anti-corruption partners around the world where there’s demonstrated
political will.

And as I mentioned — just coming back to the second pillar on curbing
illicit finance: With the United States being the world’s largest
economy, we understand that we bear particular responsibility to address
our own regulatory deficiencies, including in our anti-money laundering
and countering the financing of terrorism regime — AML/CFT — in order to
strengthen global efforts to limit the proceeds of corruption and other
illicit financial activity. 

And this includes but isn’t limited to effectively implementing
beneficial ownership legislation transparency and promulgating
regulations to target those closest to real estate transactions.

So, on that last point, I’m also pleased to announce that tomorrow,
following the release of the strategy, the Treasury Department is going
to release an advance notice of proposed rulemaking to solicit public
comment on a potential rule to address the vulnerability of the U.S.
real estate — of the U.S. real estate market to money laundering and
other illicit activity.

And this will eventually lead to regulations targeting those closest to
real estate transactions. 

So, for more on that and other Treasury efforts, I’m glad to be joined
by \[senior administration official\], as was mentioned earlier. 
\[Senior administration official\], over to you. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great, thanks a lot.  And thanks for
the introduction, \[senior administration official\].  Good evening,
everyone.  I’m \[redacted\]. 

Thanks, also, for taking the time this evening to participate in this
discussion. 

FinCEN is a bureau within the Treasury Department and it is a regulator
that works to safeguard the financial system from illicit use and money
laundering, and to promote national security.  FinCEN also provides law
enforcement and policy makers with strategic analyses of domestic and
worldwide trends and patterns around illicit finance. 

FinCEN and all of Treasury are proud to play a role in the
administration’s anti-corruption strategy.

As \[senior administration official\] mentioned, corruption is a global
problem with a financial nexus in the United States.  And our
institution is unique in its position and ability to understand and
attack corruption at its intersection with the financial system.

Treasury is equipped with tools to root out corruption at home and
abroad by targeting the financial systems and flows that allow bad
actors to profit from it.

You’re already probably familiar with Treasury’s tools to expose and
target corrupt actors, for example, by condemning and holding
accountable drug kingpins, kleptocrats, and corrupt officials through
sanctions designations by OFAC, through more robust tax enforcement, and
through the sharing of financial data to advance prosecutions by DOJ.

But our tools also strengthen the rule of law, making it harder for
corruption to occur and for corrupt actors to exploit the financial
system to hide and to benefit from their ill-gotten gains. 

We can do this through international partnerships.  For example,
Treasury provides technical assistance to other countries to improve
their financial governance.  And we work with international institutions
on enhancing their lending and transparency standards.

That can also mean addressing the domestic nexus for corruption.  And as
\[senior administration official\] mentioned, that’s what I’m here to
talk about today.

For too long, the U.S. real estate market has been susceptible to being
manipulated and used as a haven for the laundered proceeds of illicit
activity, including corruption.  Our real estate market is a relatively
stable store of value.  It can be opaque, and there are gaps in industry
regulation.

As a result, criminals and corrupt officials are able to exploit real
estate far too often. 

Take but one example: After corrupt officials and their associates
embezzled more than $4.5 billion belonging to Malaysia’s investment
development fund, 1MDB, these perpetrators used the embezzled funds for,
among other things, purchases of luxury homes in Beverly Hills and New
York through shell companies. 

Increasing transparency in the real estate sector will help curb the
ability of corrupt officials and criminals to launder their proceeds of
their illicit activities.  And it will also strengthen both U.S.
national security and help to protect the integrity of the U.S.
financial system.

Treasury is committed, as \[senior administration official\] mentioned,
to developing solutions to increase transparency in the domestic real
estate market.  And that’s why tomorrow morning, as \[senior
administration official\] mentioned, FinCEN will be announcing a new
advance notice of proposed rulemaking, or ANPRM.  This ANPRM will
solicit public comment on a potential rule to address the vulnerability
in the U.S. real estate market to money laundering and other illicit
activity.

Put another way, FinCEN is launching a regulatory process.  We’re hoping
to close gaps in the real estate reporting by seeking comment on how to
best to craft a new rule.

And more specifically, we’re considering how best to address the
problems created by an all-cash purchases in the commercial and
residential real estate sector.  These types of purchases are often
conducted through opaque shell companies and are vehicles for laundering
illicit funds. 

We’re basically asking for public input on which types of real estate
purchases should be covered in any future regulation, what information
should be reported and retained, the geographic scope of such a
requirement, the appropriate reporting dollar-value threshold, and the
key players who should be subject to the reporting and recordkeeping
requirements. 

Getting that type of input from stakeholders will allow FinCEN to
propose regulations that will obtain information needed to support law
enforcement and national security agencies in their efforts to target
corrupt officials and criminals that exploit our real estate market. 

And at the same time, the input that we get will help us as we seek to
minimize the burdens of those regulations on the real estate industry. 

FinCEN is also seeking comment on any alternative approaches as well. 
For example, promulgating general requirements for persons involved in
real estate closings and settlements to implement broad AML/CFT programs
and report suspicious activity comparable to requirements imposed on
financial institutions.

The ANPRM reflects the administration’s anti-corruption and democratic
priorities and is consistent with the pledges made by G7 and G20 leaders
to curtail the ability of illicit actors to hide wealth, including in
real estate.

It also reflects the concerns highlighted in the anti-corruption
strategy, which addresses the money laundering risks in the U.S. real
estate market as well.

In addition to the real estate ANPRM, throughout the week you will see a
whole-of-Treasury approach to countering corruption at home and abroad,
and proposals to enhance the transparency of our tax system and to
promote economic fairness.

These efforts go hand-in-hand with the tools provided under the
Corporate Transparency Act, which was enacted at the beginning of this
year. 

We will also be announcing additional action regarding beneficial
ownership reporting to address the gaps in our corporate transparency
framework that allow corruption to flourish and illicit proceeds to flow
into the United States.

Finally, over the course of the week, Treasury will take a series of
actions to designate individuals who are engaged in malign activities
that undermine democracy and democratic institutions around the world,
including through corruption, repression, organized crime, and serious
human rights abuses.

Corruption allows bad actors to abuse their authority and extract unfair
gains at the expense of others.  Treasury’s work to combat these illicit
activities will make our economy and the global economy stronger,
fairer, and safer from criminals and national security threats.

So, those are my introductory remarks.  And I’ll hand it back to you,
\[senior administration official\].

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, \[senior administration
official\].  Let me just say — I know we’ve gone a little bit long here
with the introductory remarks, but let me just say in closing that we
are announcing the anti-corruption strategy during the same week that
President Biden will be hosting the Summit for Democracy.  And the
strategy is a major U.S. deliverable for the summit, which is taking
place in this coming Thursday and Friday. 

Through the summit, President Biden is going to bring together a broad
and diverse group of governmental and non-governmental leaders to set
forth an affirmative agenda for democratic renewal; provide those
leaders with a forum to engage, listen, and speak honestly about the
challenges and opportunities facing democratic governments, and how
democracies can better deliver for their people. 

And the summit is also going to serve as a platform for the U.S. and
other governments to announce new commitments, reforms, and initiatives
along the lines of the summit’s three pillars, of which fighting
corruption is one, alongside strengthening democracy and defending
against authoritarianism, and also promoting respect for human rights. 

So, we’re really pleased to be unveiling the strategy in time for the
summit and are looking forward to working on implementing it in parallel
to and in a process that ideally is going to be mutually supportive,
mutually reinforcing of the anti-corruption commitments that other
governments are going to bring to the summit for democracy. 

So, with that, let’s pause.  And happy to take some questions.  Thank
you.

Q    Hello.  Yes.  Thank you so much.  I was just wondering if you guys
could give us an update on the status of FinCEN.  My understanding is
that the center was supposed to get additional staffing and stuff to,
you know, take on these additional corruption issues.  And I was
wondering where that stands. 

I was also curious if you could tell us where the beneficial ownership
rules-making is.  Are you guys pretty much done with that, in terms of
the, you know, ending the anonymous shell company thing?  Yeah, I guess
those two things.  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  Thank you for that question. 
As you know, the AML Act that was enacted earlier this year placed a
number of mandates on FinCEN and the Treasury Department with respect to
enhancing AML/CFT regulations and efforts around beneficial ownership,
but as well as around innovation, around liaisons both domestically and
in other countries, and in improving our regulatory framework, working
with our federal banking regulators for financial institutions as well. 

We are working diligently and expeditiously with the resources that we
have to complete all of those mandates in a timely manner.  We have
sought funding for additional staffing and resources to be able to carry
out the legislation.  We still have not received that funding at this
point, but we’re still pressing forward in terms of getting as much work
done as possible. 

In terms of the question with respect to beneficial ownership and the
status of those regulations, I expect that we’ll have some announcements
coming up this week on beneficial ownership as well.  We have sent this
— and this is a matter of the public record — the beneficial ownership
regulations to OIRA.  And we’ll have more to talk about this week. 

So, thank you.

Q    Hi.  Thanks for doing this call.  I’m not sure if this is quite in
either of your wheelhouses, but will there be any announcement or at
least consideration of stronger internal ethics regulations for current
and former executive branch officials as part of this?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, \[senior administration
official\], I’ll take it if that’s okay.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  That’s fine.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  Thanks.  So, Andrew, the answer
is that the strategy is focused both on international and domestic
elements of the fight against corruption and those transnational
elements that relate to money laundering that \[senior administration
official\] spoke to in depth. 

And President Biden has made clear, including through signing an
executive order on restoring ethics in government on his first day, that
he takes this issue incredibly seriously.  The Office of Government
Ethics was involved in all of the meetings that resulted in this
strategy. 

And so, the answer is, yes, we expect to use the strategy to continue
the President’s push to restore ethics in government.

Q    Thank you for taking my question.  I’m wondering if there are
specific deliverables and a timetable for those.  If you could talk a
little bit about that. 

And then another question I had was: My understanding, at least
historically: FinCEN was a — had a voluntary participation structure at
one point, and I’m hoping that has changed in the meantime.  But I
wonder if someone could — if that could be addressed as well.  Thank
you.  Bye.  I’ll take my answers off air. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks.  So, I’ll speak to the first
part and then \[senior administration official\] can jump in on the
second. 

In terms of deliverables and timetable, at the end of the day, the
strategy is exactly that: It’s a plan for departments and agencies to
implement.  So, effectively, what it does is list a number of
commitments that departments and agencies are going to make in terms of
the prioritization of this issue moving forward. 

And we at the White House, on behalf of the President, will be working
with them, coordinating with them, and, at the end of the day, holding
them accountable for implementing the strategy.

Now, that said, it does include what I would perhaps describe as a “few
deliverables” that include how departments and agencies are going to go
about furthering our ongoing efforts to fight corruption both at home
and abroad. 

So, for instance, you’ll see in the strategy and then also in — as I
mentioned earlier, in and around the summit for democracy — we’re going
to be making a number of new announcements that relate to foreign
assistance.  So these will include new steps we’re going to take to
rapidly deploy Justice sector advisors around the world when foreign
government partners are showing political will to address corruption;
better supporting government partners who demonstrate will to implement
their own anti-corruption reforms; more resources to link investigative
journalists and activists so that they can pursue stories that shine a
spotlight on anti-corruption; new forms of assistance that will allow
our partners to innovate and try and get at otherwise intractable
anti-corruption problems. 

So you’ll see some of those programs referenced in the strategy.  But at
the same time, a lot of the changes that we hope to achieve, in terms of
where we want to go with raising the priority of our anti-corruption
work, are going to take time to unfold.  And so, you’ll see, as part of
the strategy, that it has a fairly extensive appendix that really lists
out the actions that departments and agencies have taken and will be
implementing over the course of the years to come. 

\[Senior administration official\], over to you for the second portion. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great, thank you.  I’m not sure I fully
understand your question, but I will take a shot in terms of answering
what we’ve done with respect to real estate to date. 

You know, FinCEN has imposed transaction reporting requirements in the
form of something called a “geographic targeting order,” which is
authorized under our governing statute, the Bank Secrecy Act.  These
GTOs, or geographic targeting orders, are requirements; they aren’t a
voluntary process.  And they require title insurance companies in
certain parts of the United States to file reports with respect to
all-cash purchases of residential real estate by legal entities.

And essentially what we’re doing with respect to the real estate ANPRM
is looking for a permanent regulatory solution that would provide
information to FinCEN and to law enforcement on a nationwide basis. 

The existing geographic targeting orders are limited to certain
geographic metropolitan areas throughout the United States with respect
to all-cash residential real estate transactions.  And we’re looking at
a nationwide approach and we’re looking at both commercial and
residential real estate transactions in this additional step. 

So, hopefully, I’m answering your question.  And if not, I’m happy to
elaborate on your — on any other element as well.

Q    Hey, guys.  Thanks.  Yeah, I was wondering if maybe you could just
help me wrap my arms around — so what would change under — I understand
that it’s early in the rulemaking process, but how real estate
transactions would look different at the conclusion of this process. 

So, is the idea that more geographic areas would be subject to these
reporting requirements?  Is the idea that in some way that, you know,
corrupt actors could no longer purchase real estate within the United
States?  How is this going to impact the industry? 

I’m just trying to get sort of a tangible sense of how this — how,
ideally, this will function or what tangibly would change both for the
industry and for people who are making the high-value real estate
purchases.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  That’s just an absolutely great
question.  Under the current GTO program, we’re focused on reporting
from title insurance companies.  Title insurance companies in 12
specific metropolitan areas are required to file reports concerning
all-cash purchases of residential real estate by legal entities with a
purchase price exceeding $300,000. 

So, what this real estate ANPRM gets at is: It asks questions around
what the right approach should be with respect to a broader approach
that applies on a nationwide basis.  It asks questions about what the
appropriate approach should be, whether it should be a reporting
requirement approach or whether it should be a broader approach akin to
an AML/CFT program, and suspicious activity reporting requirements akin
to similar requirements that are imposed on financial institutions that
are subject to FinCEN regulation.  It asks questions about what
appropriate sectors should be — should fall within whatever their
reporting requirements are as we think through the ANPRM and an NPRM. 

So, for example, should it apply to residential real estate; it should
apply to commercial real estate as well, which would represent a
broadening of the GTOs. 

And then lastly, there’s sort of a series of questions around: What are
the right players to impose these reporting requirements or additional
requirements on.  Are there particular actors who play a central role in
all-cash real estate transactions that any reporting requirement or
additional requirements should be focused on because of their centrality
in all-cash real estate transactions? 

And, you know, I’d be remiss in noting that we recognize that any
approach that we take is going to have burdens on the real estate
industry and real estate sector.  So we’re very focused on asking a
number of questions around ways that any approach that we take towards
this additional regulation can be used to minimize the regulatory
burdens on the real estate sector, as well, in a way that’s consistent
with our efforts and desire to combat corruption and to get the
information that we need for law enforcement and for national security
agencies to both protect our national security and to protect the
integrity of the global financial system and the U.S. financial system
as well.

MODERATOR:  That was our last question.  With that, I’m going to
conclude this call. 

As a reminder, our speakers should be referred to as “senior
administration officials.”  The call contents and the materials that
I’ll be following up with you all later this evening are embargoed until
tomorrow at 7:00 a.m. 

If you have any questions, feel free to reach out to me.  Otherwise,
have a good evening.  Thanks, everyone.

5:33 P.M. EST
