---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-12-15'
modified_time: 2021-12-15 14:19:51-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/12/15/press-briefing-by-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-public-health-officials-73/
published_time: 2021-12-15 14:45:00-05:00
title: "Press Briefing by White\_House COVID-\u206019 Response Team and Public Health\_\
  Officials"
---
 
Via Teleconference

11:20 A.M. EST  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Good morning, and thanks for joining us.  
  
Today, we’ll start with an update from Dr. Walensky on Omicron cases in
the U.S. and around the world.  
  
Over to you, Dr. Walensky.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Good morning.  Thank you, Jeff.  I’d like to start by
walking you through today’s data.  
  
The current seven-day daily average of cases is about 117,900 cases per
day.  
  
The seven-day average of hospital admissions is about 7,800 per day, an
increase of about 7.7 percent over the prior week.  
  
And the seven-day average of daily deaths are about 1,100 per day, which
is at an increase of about 5 percent over the previous week.  And, of
course, tragically, this week as a nation, we mark 800,000 deaths from
this virus.  
  
Science is emerging about the Omicron variant with each passing day. 
Today, I will walk you through the most recent updates.   
  
At least 36 states and over 75 countries have reported confirmed cases
caused by the Omicron variant.  And yesterday, CDC released data that
estimate the prevalence of the Omicron variant based on our national
genomic sequencing analysis.  
  
Although the vast majority of cases continue to be Delta, representing
about 96 percent of cases across the country, the Omicron variant is now
estimated to represent about 3 percent of the cases in the United
States.  
  
In some areas of the country, the estimates of Omicron are even higher,
including in New York and New Jersey where CDC projects that Omicron
could represent about 13 percent of all cases.  
  
In looking at early data on transmissibility of Omicron from other
countries, we expect to see the proportion of Omicron cases here in the
United States continue to grow in the coming weeks.  Early data suggest
that Omicron is more transmissible than Delta, with a doubling time of
about two days.  
  
What does this mean for individuals and families as we head into the
winter months — a time when families may be gathering with one another
over the holidays?  It means that it is vital for everyone to get
vaccinated and boosted if they are eligible.  
  
Given the increase in transmissibility, this also means continuing to be
vigilant about masking in public indoor settings, in areas of
substantial or high community transmission.  And as of now, this
represents about 90 percent of all counties in the United States.  
  
Vaccination, boosting, and masking are especially critical for those who
are most vulnerable, including seniors, pregnant people, and those who
are immunocompromised.   
  
Tomorrow, we will release data on CDC’s COVID Data Tracker that provide
a snapshot of national- and state-level data on COVID-19 vaccine and
booster effectiveness among residents of CMS-certified long-term care
facilities.  
  
The graph displayed here shows COVID-19 cases among nursing home
residents by vaccination status, including individuals who are
unvaccinated — represented by the top red line; those who are fully
vaccinated — represented by the middle blue line; and those who have
received an additional booster dose — represented by the bottom green
line.   
  
As expected, nursing home residents who are unvaccinated have the
highest weekly COVID-19 case rates, which increased from 3.4 to 8.8 per
thousand nursing home residents between October 31st to December 5th.  
  
For those who are fully vaccinated, we are starting to see cases
increase, which is likely due to the waning of vaccine protection over
time.   
  
But the good news is that these data show that nursing home residents
who are fully vaccinated and have received a booster dose have a 10
times lower rate of getting SARS-CoV-2 in comparison to those residents
who have only received a primary vaccination series or are
unvaccinated.  
  
These data also show that COVID-19 case counts are increasing among
residents who are unvaccinated and those who received a primary series
with a booster — without a booster, while case rates are stable and low
among those who have received an additional or booster dose.  
  
Taken together, these data emphasize the critical importance of boosters
to optimize the protection of vaccines over time, and that when boosters
are used, that protection works.  
  
Throughout the pandemic, we have understood the urgent need to provide
protection to our aging populations.  And CDC has been actively working
to equip nursing homes to best protect their residents and to encourage
older Americans to get boosted.  These efforts have resulted in
approximately 60 percent of eligible seniors receiving a booster
already.  
  
And while we’ve made good progress, we know we have more work to do. 
CDC is working in close partnership with states, localities, and
providers across the country to expand access to boosters and to ensure
that every state has access to the resources and support they need to
protect those at highest risk, including residents of long-term care
facilities.  
  
This includes CDC’s proactive assistance to long-term care facilities
that need help by matching them with a retail pharmacy through the
Federal Retail Pharmacy Program to provide an on-site clinic.  Thousands
of facilities have already been matched through CDC or by requesting
support through their state health department.   
  
Given the data presented today, we urge participation of both residents
and staff in our booster program.  
  
And we are collectively working closely with states at all levels,
including weekly calls with governors, state health official — officers,
and immunization programs.   
  
Just yesterday, we celebrated the one-year anniversary of the first
COVID-19 vaccine in the United States.  And now we have over 200 million
Americans fully vaccinated and more than 55 million boosted.  
  
In this moment, as we continue to learn more and are guided by the
evolving science, it’s important to remember that we have far more tools
to fight this virus than we ever did just one year ago.  
  
Thank you.  And I’ll now turn things over to Dr. Fauci.  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Thank you very much, Dr. Walensky.  I’d like to now spend a
few minutes talking about the Omicron variant in the light of the effect
of boosters — if I could have the first slide.

Clearly, because — first slide please — clearly because we have an
intense interest on the evolving scenario with Omicron, a number of
studies have been done throughout the country and the world to take a
look at how we might prepare in the context of vaccinations.  And I’ll
divide it up into two components.

Next slide.

The first is to look at selected in vitro neutralization studies, namely
the capability of vaccine-induced antibodies to neutralize the new
Omicron variant. 

Next slide. 

This is data from Pfizer BioNTech.  If you look on the left-hand part of
the slide, this is 21 days after the second dose of the Pfizer product. 

Note the purple bar in the middle on the left, which is Omicron —
clearly a substantial diminution in the pseudo virus neutralization
titer, which is measured on the vertical axis.

On the right-hand part of the slide, one month after the third dose,
take a look now again at the purple bar, which has gone up substantially
from the 6, which is circled on the left, to 154.  Again, this is one of
a number of representative studies. 

Next slide. 

Another study from the Rockefeller University in New York, funded by the
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, again, showing
that Omicron exhibits a rather profound degree of neutralization escape
looking at the low levels of the blue triangles on the left part of the
panel. 

However, the two-dose mRNA vaccinated people who received a booster dose
— look — had a substantial increase in neutralizing activity to the tune
of a 38-fold increase. 

Next slide. 

And most recent data from our own Vaccine Research Center, which is the
first in a series of data that will be coming out over the next few days
and be published in a preprint server next week, this is a sampling of
the data.

Again, two weeks post-dose, look at the Omicron ID50 neutralizing
activity: substantially low.  Look at the three dots that are even below
the level of detection. 

However, if you look at two weeks post the third dose, note the
substantial degree of elevation of the neutralizing titer well within
the range of neutralizing Omicron. 

Next slide. 

Now we look at selected clinical studies. 

Next slide. 

As is shown here, this is not looking at booster, it’s looking at the
effectiveness of a two-dose Pfizer vaccine against the Omicron variant.

On the left-hand part, as has been reported in multiple other studies,
the effectiveness against SARS-CoV-2 infection is about 33 percent, down
from 80 percent to the pre-Omicron era. 

But note, on the right-hand part of the slide, that the effectiveness
against hospitalization, which is critical, still maintains a 70 percent
effectiveness. 

Obviously, this is significantly down, but there is the maintaining of a
degree of protection against hospitalization. 

Next slide. 

Now, if you look at the UK Data, if you look at the Delta in the blue
boxes, you see that effectiveness is significantly lower when you look
at the time since the vaccine was given, measured in weeks. 

However, when you get the booster, which is in the red circles, for
Omicron, it increases to 75 percent effectiveness against symptomatic
disease with a booster dose. 

So what is all of this telling us very clearly and very emphatically?   
  
Last slide. 

The Omicron variant undoubtedly compromises the effects of a two-dose
mRNA vaccine-induced antibodies and reduces the overall protection. 
However, as I showed on a prior slide, considerable protection still
maintains against severe disease.

The early in vitro and clinical studies that I mentioned indicate that
boosters reconstitute the antibody titers and enhance the vaccine
protection against Omicron. 

And so, finally, our booster vaccine regimens work against Omicron.  At
this point, there is no need for a variant-specific booster. 

And so the message remains clear: If you are unvaccinated, get
vaccinated.  And particularly in the arena of Omicron, if you are fully
vaccinated, get your booster shot. 

Back to you, Jeff. 

MR. ZIENTS:  Thanks, Dr. Fauci.  
  
So, as we just discussed, as Dr. Fauci presented, each day we are
getting additional data that gives us a clearer understanding of the
Omicron variant.   
  
And as Dr. Fauci just importantly explained, our vaccines work.  They
continue to provide people protection against this new variant.  And
booster shots provide the highest level of protection.  
  
From day one, President Biden has been laser-focused on getting shots in
arms.  He marshaled a whole-of-government effort to make vaccines
readily available and easy to get at more than 80,000 locations
nationwide.  And he empowered local leaders with the tools and resources
they needed to answer people’s questions and get their communities
vaccinated.  
  
Vaccines are the best line of defense against COVID.  Plain and simple. 
They keep people out of the hospital and save lives.  
  
The latest data from CDC shows that an unvaccinated individual is 8
times more likely to be hospitalized due to COVID and 14 times more
likely to die from COVID compared to a fully vaccinated individual.  
  
Just yesterday, a new study from researchers at the Yale University
School of Public Health and the Commonwealth Fund quantified the impact
of our relentless effort to get Americans vaccinated.  
  
Looking at the impact on hospitalizations and death, what you see on
this slide is that the U.S. vaccination program has already prevented
10.3 million hospitalizations.  And it has saved 1.1 million American
lives.  1.1 million American lives saved — that’s the power of
vaccines.   
  
That’s why we have worked so hard to get shots in arms.  And that’s why
getting more Americans vaccinated and boosted is central to the
President’s plan to fight COVID and confront Omicron this winter.  
  
Since the President announced his Winter Plan on December 2nd, we have
been hard at work executing, using every tool at our disposal.  
  
The President’s plan is delivering significant results.  Sixty percent
of all eligible seniors, including about 60 percent of eligible
long-term care residents — those most vulnerable — are now boosted.  And
these numbers increase each day.  
  
Overall, we’re now getting booster shots to millions of Americans each
week.  As I said earlier, it’s really important to emphasize the
importance of everybody getting the booster but particularly eligible
seniors.  And we’re at 60 percent.  And, as Dr. Walensky said, we want
that number to go up each and every day.   
  
Overall, we’re now getting booster shots to millions of Americans each
week.  In fact, across the first two weeks of December, we have gotten
14 million booster shots.  That’s our highest-ever two-week total.  
  
So our booster program is accelerating, and our overall vaccination
program is also on the increase.  
  
In the first two weeks of December, we have gotten 26 million total
shots in arms.  That’s up 40 percent from the last two weeks of
November.  
  
This is significant progress, putting us in a stronger position as we
confront Omicron and head into winter.  
  
Let me close with the message that we want every American to hear: If
you’re eligible for a booster shot, it’s critical that you go get
boosted today.  Don’t wait.  And please get your kids and yourself fully
vaccinated, if you haven’t already.  
  
It’s safe and effective, free and easy.  And it’s the best way to
protect yourself, your loved ones, and your communities this holiday
season and winter.  
  
With that, let’s take some questions.  Over to you, Kevin.  
  
MODERATOR:  Thanks, Jeff.  We have time for a few questions today, so
let’s please keep the questions to one question.   
  
Sabrina Siddiqui at The Wall Street Journal.  
  
Q    Hi, thank you as always for doing the briefing.  So, given that the
Omicron variant compromises the effects of a two-dose mRNA vaccine and
reduces overall protection, I wanted to ask about those who are not
eligible for boosters, namely adolescents aged 12 to 15 who first
started getting the vaccine in May.  How confident are we, since they’re
not eligible for a booster, that that category of adolescents has
protection against Omicron?  And also, is there any cause for concern
that children ages 5 to 11 who are being administered the first round of
vaccines would not have sufficient protection against this new
variant?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Fauci?  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Well, it’s very clear that when you look in general at a
population level, that younger individuals have a much more robust
immune response than adults, particularly among elderly.  So, the
comparison there is that you would expect a rather substantial power of
the immune response.   
  
Having said that, we continually look at the durability of response and
the level of response in the people that have been followed in the
various studies.  So, this is something that we will continue to examine
as to the possibility or necessity of providing boosts for that cohort
of young people.   
  
Thank you.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Let’s go to Katherine Eban at Vanity Fair.  
  
Q    Thank you for the briefing and thank you for taking my question. 
Two weeks ago, the African Union put out a statement calling on donor
countries to no longer send donated COVID vaccine doses that were ad
hoc, provided with little notice, and had short shelf lives.  They also
called on donor countries to include ancillary supplies with those
donations, including specialized syringes for the Pfizer doses.  
  
My question is: Has the White House, in light of this, reconsidered its
policy of not including specialized syringes with the Pfizer donations? 
Or has it made any change to that policy?  
  
Thank you.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Well, thanks for the questions.  I want to start — for the
question.  And I want to start by saying that the doses that we are
sending are not short-lived doses, meaning they have an extended period
of shelf life. So, that might be happening with other countries’
donations, but not with the U.S. donations.  
  
And we’ve sent 320 million doses now to 110 countries, and that’s more
than every other country in the world combined.  And as you know, that’s
part of an overall commitment of a minimum of 1.2 billion doses donated
with no strings attached.  And we plan on building on that total across
time.  
  
I think, importantly, the U.S. State Department and USAID are leading
the administration’s efforts to work to turn vaccines into
vaccinations.  And that does mean that we need to make sure that there
are enough syringes and needles.  And our team has been helping with the
global effort to ensure that there are the syringes and needles.  
  
The AID team and the State team are working to help train health workers
to vaccinate people on the ground, run local media campaigns, and also
to launch what we’ve done here: mobile vaccination clinics.  
  
Just last week, USAID added $400 million.  That brings the total of $1.7
billion for global vaccine readiness.  Administrator Power made that
announcement last week.  And that includes, within that 400, efforts to
bolster the cold chain storage in various countries, set up field
hospitals, train health workers, build data systems, and support
campaigns to increase vaccine confidence.  
  
So, we’ll continue to do all we can to support getting vaccines to
countries and then, importantly, as you point out, taking vaccines and
make sure that they become needles in arms and actual vaccinations.  And
that includes efforts to support with the needles and syringes needed to
do just that.  
  
Next question, please.  
  
MODERATOR:  Let’s go to Jeremy Diamond at CNN.  
  
Q    Hey, thanks very much for doing the briefing.  So, tomorrow, the
Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices is meeting to discuss the
Johnson & Johnson vaccine.  I’m wondering if Dr. Walensky could say why
that meeting was called and whether you believe that the benefits of
getting J&J no longer outweigh the risks.  
  
And then, secondly, given the rapid spread of Omicron and the data on
protection against Omicron from a booster shot versus a two-dose regimen
that Dr. Fauci just presented, isn’t it time to change the definition of
“fully vaccinated” to three doses?  And if not, what more data are you
waiting on to make that decision?  
  
Thank you.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  So, Dr. Walensky, on the ACIP and then on the definition of
“fully vaccinated.”  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, thank you for that question, Jeremy. So, the ACIP
team meets intermittently to review the safety data of all of their
vaccines.  And I will look forward to their discussions tomorrow, to
review of those data, and to any recommendations that come thereafter.  
  
In terms of the definition of “fully vaccinated,” as you know, the
definition right now is two doses of an mRNA vaccine or a single dose of
the J&J vaccine.  
  
Certainly, as Dr. Fauci has demonstrated and even our CDC data have also
demonstrated, we are continuing to follow that science and it is
literally evolving daily.  And as that science evolves, we will continue
to review the data and update our recommendations as necessary.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  All right.  We’ll go through a few more.  Josh Wingrove at
Bloomberg.  
  
Q    Hi, there.  Thank you so much.  Can you give us a sense of what
employers and schools should be doing right now?  We’re seeing a lot of
employers put on hold their “return to office” strategies.  We’re seeing
schools and colleges move to virtual or warn about the need to move to
virtual.  We’re seeing widespread outbreaks in major league sports
leagues, for instance.  
  
Do we think that this is mostly the Delta surge that we’re seeing across
the Midwest and Northeast?  Or is this believed to be that plus
Omicron?  
  
And do you think, overall, that we need to be, in essence, locking down
a little bit again?  Should employers, should schools be taking the
precautions that we’re seeing, or are they overreacting?  
  
Thank you.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Walensky?  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, maybe I’ll start, Josh, and just say, you know, our
guidance from the CDC has actually been very clear as to what we should
be doing in preventing these cases from happening.  
  
Of course, as we’ve been saying, getting vaccinated, getting boosted,
especially with emerging data that the boosts will really be helpful,
both with regard to Delta, but also with regard to Omicron.   
  
But also, our masking guidance has actually not changed in areas of
substantial or high transmission.  We should be having public indoor
masking for everyone, vaccinated or unvaccinated; that is 90 percent of
the counties right now.  Adding ventilation, adding distancing and hand
washing — all of those continue to hold and continue to serve us very
well in preventing disease.  
  
And we would just encourage local jurisdictions to employ the
interventions that we know work.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Yeah, I would just add, consistent with what Dr. Walensky
just said: You know, we have the tools to fight this virus, including
Omicron.  And we’re in a very different and stronger place than we were
a year ago.  And there’s no need to lock down.   
  
We have effective vaccines Dr. Fauci just talked about, including
against Omicron.  We have booster shots for all adults.  We have now a
vaccine for kids age 5 and 11.  That means we now have vaccines for 95
percent of Americans.  
  
We know how to keep our kids in school and our businesses open, and
we’re not going to shut down our economy in any way.  We’re going to
keep our schools and our businesses open.  
  
Next question.  
  
Q    Let’s go to Serena Marshall at NowThis News.  
  
Q    Thank you so much for doing this.  I was wondering —  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Hey, Serena, you’re cutting out.  
  
Q    Can you hear me now?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  We’re having trouble hearing you.  
  
Q    (Inaudible.)  
  
MODERATOR:  Hey, Serena, we’ll just get back to you.  Let’s go ahead and
go to our last question.  Let’s go to Brenda Goodman at WebMD.  
  
Q    Can you hear me now?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Yes.  
  
Q    Americans are really tired, and there’s kind of a feeling of
exhaustion out there from people that I’m talking to.  You know, we’re
heading into our third year, and Omicron is just right around the
corner.  And I think people are trying to read a really confusing set of
tea leaves — you know, it’s more transmissible; the illness it causes
may be less severe, particularly if you have some kind of underlying
immunity.  
  
So given all this complex stew of factors — and I know you’ve been
looking at all of them — how worried should Americans be about Omicron,
which is — you know, could be causing a surge, we’ve heard, around, you
know, January or so?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Fauci?  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Yeah.  Well, again, getting back to the theme that we have
all been underscoring: If you are unvaccinated, you are very vulnerable,
not only to the existing Delta surge that we are experiencing, but also
to Omicron.  
  
And when you hear about Omicron being less severe or not, and you hear
about those other things, it doesn’t matter: If you are unvaccinated,
you need to get vaccinated to diminish your vulnerability, and if you
are vaccinated, to get boostered.  
  
It is very difficult to predict — as you say, to read the “tea leaves.” 
So if you can’t read the tea leaves accurately, then do the things that
we’ve been recommending — all of the recommendations from the CDC about
prudence and wearing masks in indoor crowded places that are public
settings, but also continue to understand the importance for yourselves
and your families and your community of getting vaccinated.  
  
Those are the tools we have.  If we didn’t have these tools, I would be
telling you to really, really be worried.  But we have tools.  
  
So, get vaccinated, get boosted, and the alleviation of the concern,
even though we take all of this very seriously.  
  
Back to you, Jeff.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Good.  Well, thank you, everybody.  We look forward to the
next briefing.  
  
11:49 A.M. EST

To view the COVID Press Briefing slides,
visit: <https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/12/COVID-Press-Briefing_15December2021.pdf>
