---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-12-07'
modified_time: 2021-12-07 18:31:37-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/12/07/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-and-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-december-7-2021/
published_time: 2021-12-07 18:45:00-05:00
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki and National Security Advisor\
  \ Jake Sullivan, December 7,\_2021"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

3:03 P.M. EST  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Hello.  All right.  Good afternoon.  We have our National
Security Advisor, Jake Sullivan, joining us for the briefing, who will
give a brief opening and then take some questions.  And then we’ll
proceed with a briefing after that. 

With that, I’ll turn it over to Jake. 

MR. SULLIVAN:  Thanks, Jen, and good to see everybody here today. 

As you all know, President Biden held a secure video call today with
President Putin.  The call covered a range of issues, but the main topic
was Ukraine. 

President Biden was direct and straightforward with President Putin, as
he always is.  He reiterated America’s support for Ukraine’s sovereignty
and territorial integrity. 

He told President Putin directly that if Russia further invades Ukraine,
the United States and our European allies would respond with strong
economic measures.  We would provide additional defensive materiel to
the Ukrainians above and beyond that which we are already providing. 
And we would fortify our NATO Allies on the eastern flank with
additional capabilities in response to such an escalation. 

He also told President Putin there’s another option: de-escalation and
diplomacy. 

The United States and our European allies would engage in a discussion
that covers larger strategic issues, including our strategic concerns
with Russia and Russia’s strategic concerns. 

We managed to do this at the height of the Cold War, and we developed
mechanisms to help reduce instability and increase transparency. 

We’ve done this in the post-Cold War era through the NATO-Russia
Council, the OSCE, and other mechanisms.  There’s no reason we can’t do
that forward — going forward, provided that we are operating in a
context of de-escalation rather than escalation. 

The United States, as we have been for some time, is also prepared to
support efforts to advance the Minsk Agreement in support of the
Normandy Format.  This could include a ceasefire and confidence-building
measures that helps drive the process forward. 

As I said before, the discussion between President Biden and President
Putin was direct and straightforward.  There was a lot of
give-and-take.  There was no finger-wagging.  But the President was
crystal clear about where the United States stands on all of these
issues. 

We believe, from the beginning of this administration, that there is no
substitute for direct dialogue between leaders, and that is true in
spades when it comes to the U.S.-Russia relationship.  So President
Biden welcomed the opportunity to engage clearly and directly with
President Putin.

Indeed, as President Biden said after his meeting in Geneva in June with
President Putin, “Where we have differences, I want President Putin to
understand why I say what I say and why I do what I do, and how we’ll
respond to specific kinds of actions that harm America’s interests” and
indeed harm our allies’ interests.  That’s exactly what he did today. 

After the call, he spoke with the leaders of France, Germany, Italy, and
the UK to debrief them on the call and to consult on the way forward. 

Our team is presently debriefing the embassies of NATO members, EU
members, and key Indo-Pacific allies. 

The President will be speaking shortly with the leaders of both houses
of Congress and talking to them about ways in which the administration
and the Congress can work together on a bipartisan basis to stand up for
American interests and values and stand behind our friends and
partners. 

And President Biden will be speaking with President Zelenskyy on
Thursday, following on yesterday’s discussion between President
Zelenskyy and Secretary Blinken. 

In terms of next steps, the President and President Putin agreed that
our teams will follow up on the issues discussed today. 

The President and our Europe — his European colleagues agreed that our
teams will work together to ensure that our engagement with Russia going
forward both involves and is closely coordinated with European allies
and partners so that we are all on the same page. 

There’s a lot of work to do in the days ahead.  As we pursue diplomatic
channels, we will also prepare for all contingencies, just as we have
been doing for weeks now, including through the preparation of specific
responses to Russian escalation should they be required — specific,
robust, clear responses should they be required.  That’s where things
stand as we speak.   
And with that, I’d be happy to take your questions.  Yes. 

Q    Thank you, Jake.  Could you elaborate on what you just said about
fortifying allies on the eastern flank there?  Is sending U.S. troops to
the region on the table here? 

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, what I’m referring to there is in the event that
there is a further invasion into Ukraine, a military escalation in
Ukraine, obviously many of our partners on the eastern front, our Baltic
allies — Romania, Poland, other countries — will be increasingly
concerned about the security and territorial integrity of their
countries. 

They will be seeking, we expect, additional capabilities and potentially
additional deployments, and the United States will be looking to respond
positively to those things in the event that there is a further
incursion into Ukraine. 

Q    So, is that something the American public should be bracing for —
the possibility of seeing American troops on the ground in that region
in the coming weeks and months if Vladimir Putin goes through with this?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I don’t know if I would say “bracing for” since we
currently have rotational deployments in the Baltics.  We conduct
exercises on a regular basis in both Poland and Romania.  The presence
of American military service members in rotational fashion in these
countries is not something new. 

The question here is not that — about whether or not the United States
is going to send American service members to the territory of our NATO
Allies; we do that as a matter of course.

The question is: What additional capabilities can we provide to ensure
that they feel strong and confident in their own sovereignty and
territorial integrity?  It is those additional capabilities that are on
the table in those countries should Russia move in Ukraine in a more
decisive way.

Yes.

Q    Jake, thanks so much.  In the days leading up to this call, the
White House and administration officials said repeatedly their
assessment so far was that Putin had not made a decision over whether to
invade Ukraine.  So did President Biden get clarity from him on whether
or not that is his intention? 

MR. SULLIVAN:  We still do not believe that President Putin has made a
decision.  What President Biden did today was lay out very clearly the
consequences if he chooses to move.  He also laid out an alternative
path — an alternative path that is fundamentally in keeping with the
basic principles and propositions that have guided America in the
Euro-Atlantic area for the past 70 years. 

And, ultimately, we will see in the days ahead through actions, not
through words, what course of action Russia chooses to take. 

Q    And one quick follow-up —

MR. SULLIVAN:  Yes.

Q    In your statement — sorry, Jake.  One quick follow-up.  In your
statement of the readout of the call, you said that the United — that
President Biden told him the United States was ready to take strong
economic measures and other actions if needed.  What are those other
measures that the United States is prepared to take?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I just spelled those out in my opening remarks: both the
supply and provision of additional materiel, as well as the additional
deployment of assets and capabilities to —

Q    Okay, so those are the other ones.

MR. SULLIVAN:  — to NATO members in the event that there’s a further
incursion.

Q    Jake, could you tell us what are the “strong economic measures,”
and how are they different from the ones you put on Russia in 2014,
which didn’t deter Russia from taking Crimea?  Why will it — what are
they?  And why do you think they’ll work better this time?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I will look you in the eye and tell you, as President
Biden looked President Putin in the eye and told him today, that things
we did not do in 2014 we are prepared to do now. 

Now, in terms of the specifics, we would prefer to communicate that
directly to the Russians, to not negotiate in public, to not telegraph
our punches.  But we are laying out for the Russians in some detail the
types of measures that we have in mind.  We are also coordinating very
closely with our European allies on that at a level of deep
specificity. 

We have experts from the Treasury Department, the State Department, and
the National Security Council in daily contact with the key capitals and
with Brussels to work through that package of measures.  But I think it
is not profitable for us to lay out the specifics of it standing here at
this podium today. 

Yes.

Q    Thank you.  Did President Putin ask for President Biden to commit
to not allow NATO — or Ukraine to join NATO?  And did President Biden
make any kinds of concessions, such as a reduced U.S. presence, or any
commitment on NATO and Ukraine’s membership?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I’m not going to characterize President Putin’s side of
the conversation and — or go into details in terms of what they
discussed, because I think they need to have that space to be able to
have a robust exchange. 

But I will tell you clearly and directly he made no such commitments or
concessions.  He stands by the proposition that countries should be able
to freely choose who they associate with.

Q    And then, on the materiel that you said that you’re going to send —
following up on Kaitlan’s question — how quickly can that be delivered?

MR. SULLIVAN:  We have an ongoing pipeline that delivers various forms
of defensive assistance to Ukraine.  Indeed there was the delivery of
defensive assistance to Ukraine just very recently, and that will
continue. 

So, it really depends on the type or form, but it should — this should
not be thought of as a circumstance in which you completely turn off the
dial or turn on the dial; there is an ongoing pipeline.  Whether that
pipeline needs additional supplements as we go forward will depend on
how circumstances evolve. 

Yes? 

Q    Jake, thank you so much.  You have said that the administration
will take action if Russia does escalate militarily.  Satellite images
show that hundreds of Russian troops are amassing on the border with
Ukraine.  Isn’t there already a military escalation underway?  Why wait
to take action?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, our view on this is that the fundamental object of
the policy the United States is pursuing in lockstep with our European
allies is to deter a Russian military invasion of further territory of
Ukraine.

And the measures we have put on the table are designed to show the
Russian government that should it choose to engage in such an invasion,
there will be those consequences.  That, for us, is a clear and decisive
laydown.   
  
And we also believe that there should be an alternative pathway by which
we can make progress on diplomacy in the Donbas, through the Minsk
Agreement and the Normandy Format, and by which we can address NATO and
American security concerns and Russian security concerns through a
larger mechanism consistent with the way we’ve operated over the course
of the past 30 years.   
  
Q    And, Jake, some Republicans are accusing President Biden of being
too weak on President Putin.  They cite the fact that sanctions were
eased on Nord Stream 2 and the withdrawal from Afghanistan, which was
widely criticized.  How do you respond to that criticism that President
Biden is being too weak with Mr. Putin?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I make three points.  The first is that Vladimir Putin,
standing behind then-President Medvedev in 2008, invaded Georgia when we
had 150,000 or more troops deployed in Iraq and Afghanistan.  So, the
connection between our deployments in foreign wars and the calculus of
Russian leaders when it comes to the post-Soviet space, there’s not good
evidence to support that.  
  
Number two, when it comes to Nord Stream 2, the fact is that gas is not
currently flowing through the Nord Stream 2 pipeline, which means that
it’s not operating, which means that it’s not leverage for Putin. 
Indeed, it is leverage for the West, because if Vladimir Putin wants to
see gas flow through that pipeline, he may not want to take the risk of
invading Ukraine.   
  
And then, number three, the President has shown over the course of the
past eight months that he will do what he says he’s going to do in
response to Russian actions; so, President Putin can count on that.  He
said he would impose costs for Navalny, he said he would impose costs
for SolarWinds; he did those things.  And if Russia chooses to take
these actions in Ukraine, he will do the same.   
  
He’s not doing this to saber-rattle.  He’s not doing it to make idle
threats.  He’s doing it to be clear and direct with both the Russians
and with our European allies about the best way forward.  And we think
this stands the best chance alongside a pathway to de-escalate, to avert
a potential crisis with respect to an invasion of Ukraine.  
  
Yeah.  
  
Q    Russia suggested in recent days starting talks on a new European
security pact.  Did Putin bring this up?  And did President Biden agree
to start those talks?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Again, I’m not going to get into the details or
characterize what President Putin said.  And I will say that formal
agreements or formal treaties were not on the table in the conversation
today.   
  
But the straightforward notion that the United States, flanked by our
European allies and partners, would be prepared to talk to Russia about
strategic issues in the European theater — that was on the table and we
are prepared to do that, as we’ve been prepared to do that throughout
both the Cold War and post-Cold War eras.  
  
What the right mechanism for that is, what the agenda for that is, and
what comes of that — that is all to be worked out as we see how things
proceed in the coming days.  
  
Yes.  
  
Q    The news of the buildup has been going on since late October.  Why
hasn’t the U.S. given additional materiel to Ukraine yet?  This has been
escalating for weeks.  Why wait?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  As I just pointed out in response to an earlier question,
we are continuing to deliver defensive materiel assistance to Ukraine. 
We have done so just in the past few days.   
  
Yes.  
  
Q    Jake, the Kremlin readout said that President Putin proposed to
President Biden that both lift all restrictions on diplomatic missions
that have been imposed in recent years.  Can you say whether that’s
something President Biden is open to or whether it’s something he spoke
to on the call?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  President Biden is open to creating functioning
diplomatic missions in both countries, but he didn’t make any specific
commitments with respect to the best pathway to do that.  What he said
was that, as leaders, President Biden and President Putin should direct
their teams to figure out how we ensure that the embassy platform in
Moscow is able to function effectively and as we believe the embassy
platform here in Washington is able to operate effectively for the
Russians.  
  
Q    And just to follow up on Nord Stream, have you sent any message or
have any meetings with the incoming German government on this issue? 
Are you urging the new incoming government to essentially threaten to
pull support for this pipeline if there is an incursion — a further
incursion into Ukraine?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  We’ve had intensive discussions with both the outgoing
and incoming German governments on the issue of Nord Stream 2 in the
context of a potential invasion.  I’m not going to characterize it
beyond that, other than it is an object of great priority for the Biden
administration.  
  
Yes.  
  
Q    Would President Biden reverse his waiver on —  
  
Q    Thank you, Jake.  Thanks.  I’m sorry.  So, the — obviously, the
summit is being watched by a number of other adversaries, including
Chinese President Xi Jinping.  Some observers have described a nightmare
scenario where President Putin invades Ukraine and also, simultaneously,
President Xi uses force to reunify Taiwan with China.  Is the U.S.
prepared to deal with such a scenario?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  The United States is going to take every action that we
can take, from the point of view of both deterrence and diplomacy, to
make sure that the Taiwan scenario you just described never happens and
to try to avert the invasion and deter the invasion into Ukraine.  That
is the object of our policy right now.  Those are the steps we are
taking.  That’s what President Biden is doing in the messages that he’s
sending to President Putin.  
  
And with respect to Taiwan, the sum total of the efforts we’ve
undertaken over the course of the past eight months in the Indo-Pacific
have also all been geared towards avoiding any kind of scenario where
China chooses to invade.  
  
Yes.  
  
Q    Was there any promise from the Russian side to use leverage to
change Iran on its position?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  The President and President Putin had a good discussion
on the Iran issue.  It was productive.  Russia and the United States
actually worked well together, even in tense circumstances back in the
2014-2015 period, to produce the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action. 
This is an area where Russia and the United States can continue to
consult closely to ensure that Iran never acquires a nuclear weapon.  
  
Q    Why did Ukrainian officials first deny that there was any troop
buildup when Washington started putting out the information, and then
changed their tune after the meeting with Blinken?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So, I’m not going to characterize the decision making of
the Ukrainian government, only to say that we are in daily contact with
senior officials in the Ukrainian government.  I’m in nearly daily
contact with my counterpart in the Ukrainian government.  And we believe
that we are seeing a common threat picture here.   
  
And our message to our friends in the Ukrainian government, as our
message was today to President Putin, is that the United States supports
the Minsk process, wants to see progress made towards a ceasefire,
towards confidence-building measures.  And that is the best way
forward.  
  
Yeah.  
  
Q    Jake, is the world safer — is the world safe- —  
  
(Cross-talk.)  
  
Q    Hold on a minute.  Is the world safer today after that conversation
between the two leaders or less safe?  And then I have a follow-up as to
your answer.     
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So, all I will say is that the ultimate metric for
whether the world is safer or not is facts on the ground and actions
taken, in this case, by Russia.  Let’s see.  
  
We are prepared to deal with any contingency, as I said at the outset. 
And I’m not going to make predictions or characterizations.  I’m only
going to say that President Biden will continue to do all of the
necessary prudent planning for a variety of different pathways that
could unfold in the weeks ahead.  
  
Yes.  
  
Q    Jake, there is an impression in the Middle East that this
administration is going to redo the Obama deal, lifting sanctions and
freeze millions of dollars to this regime that is going to be spread to
the proxies like Hezbollah.  Hezbollah became stronger and stronger from
the money that Obama gave to this particular militia.  So, is it — this
going to happen?  Are you going to address the proxies of Iran this time
at the table of the negotiation?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So, I’d make three points in response to that.  Since
Donald Trump made the decision to pull the United States out of the Iran
Nuclear Deal in 2018, Hezbollah has continued to menace Lebanon and the
region.  Iran’s proxies in Iraq and Syria and Yemen have continued to
move forward.  So, not being in the nuclear deal has hardly been a
solution to the proxy.   
  
Second, nothing about the nuclear deal stops the United States’ capacity
to deal with those proxies.  And we are prepared to do so.  
  
In fact, in response to attacks on American forces in Iraq, the United
States has twice, under President Biden, taken action — direct military
action in response to those proxies, in addition to undertaking
sanctions.  
  
And third, ultimately, an Iran with a nuclear weapon is going to be a
greater menace in partnerships with its proxies than Iran without one. 
And so it is our determination to ensure they never get a nuclear
weapon, and diplomacy is the best way forward.  
  
Yes.  
  
Q    Can I follow up on Iran, please?  You know, the Iranians announced
they are going back to negotiations on Thursday.  The administration
criticized them last week, and they said they were not serious — in
fact, they reversed the progress.  What makes you think that — apart
from hope — that actually they are serious this time?  And how much of a
time are you willing to do it?  
  
And secondly, your counterpart — you negotiate with your Allies and you
coordinate with them — your counterpart in the UAE is visiting Tehran as
we speak.  So, is this is a unilateral effort from the Emirates to do it
or — to reach Tehran — or do you think this is a coordinated effort with
the United States?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I’ll — I’ll put this quite simply: The more Iran
demonstrates a lack of seriousness at the negotiating table, the more
unity there is among the P5+1 and the more they will be exposed as the
isolated party in this negotiation.  
  
So really, the ball is in Iran’s court as to whether it wants to show up
and demonstrate that it’s going to be serious or not.  
  
Q    Looking forward to the meeting with — or the conversation with
President Zelenskyy later this week, are there any steps or compromises
Ukraine might be able to make to find a way to end this peacefully?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So, again, as I mentioned before, we’re in constant
contact with senior levels of the Ukrainian government.  Secretary
Blinken just spoke with President Zelenskyy yesterday.  
  
I’m not going to characterize the specifics of their proposals, but they
have come forward with constructive ideas for how to move the diplomacy
forward.  We’re encouraging that.  Those are steps they’re taking.  And
they’re asking the United States to support them in trying to get
towards a ceasefire and then, ultimately, get down the track of
diplomatic resolution.  
  
We believe that that is good and positive.  And I believe that President
Biden and President Zelenskyy will discuss that diplomatic pathway when
they speak on Thursday.  
  
Q    Can I just ask you about Nord Stream 2?  You said Putin should —
you know, if he wants to risk the pipeline not being turned on.  Have
you made clear to allies that you will, in fact, sanction the remaining
entities that are involved in that project if there is an invasion?  And
have you received any assurances from Germany?   
  
When Chancellor Merkel was here, there was discussion about what to do
if Russia weaponized those gas supplies.  But nothing came of that, even
though there were some pretty — there was some saber-rattling by the
Russians in recent months.  
  
Have you now received assurances from Germany that they will, in fact,
not proceed with that?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So, in response to an earlier question, I said I wasn’t
going to get into the specific sanctions measures that we intend to
impose, although we will be communicating those directly to our Russian
counterparts and we will be working through them detail-by-detail with
our European counterparts.  
  
What I will tell you is that the subject of the future of Nord Stream 2,
in the context of an invasion of Ukraine by Russia in the coming weeks,
is a topic of utmost priority.  It has been discussed thoroughly.  I’m
going to leave it at that for today.  
  
Q    Mr. Sullivan, how will the tensions between the United States and
Russia can affect African countries?   
  
And my second question is: How do you summarize this meeting?  It was
productive, it was good, or not?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  It was a useful meeting.  It was useful in the sense that
it allowed President Biden to lay out, in clear and direct and candid
terms, where the United States stands on this issue.  And to do so
having coordinated closely with his allies and partners beforehand.  And
also to talk about a potential way forward.  
  
Q    And how —  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Now, on the question of African partners — this is true
the world over: The attempt to change the territories of another country
by force should be vigorously opposed by every country in the world,
including every country in Africa.  
  
I’ll just take one more question.  
  
(Cross-talk.)  
  
Q    What was Putin’s demeanor over the course of the two hours?  Did he
signal any willingness to back down?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Again, I just make it a practice not to characterize the
other side’s position.  He can speak for himself.  I would say that his
demeanor, like President Biden’s demeanor, was direct and
straightforward.   
  
And again, as I said in my opening remarks, this was a real discussion. 
It was give and take.  It was not speeches.  It was back and forth. 
President Putin was deeply engaged.  And I’m going to leave it at that
in terms of trying to characterize where he is.   
  
All I can tell you is: There is a task in coming out of that meeting by
the two Presidents to their teams to start talking about how we might
think about the diplomatic path.   
  
The President made clear throughout that diplomacy has to come in the
context of de-escalation rather than escalation.  And now we will watch
what unfolds in the coming days.  
  
Thank you, guys.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  Thank you, Jake.  You’re welcome back anytime — I
think I can speak for the group.   
  
Okay, I just have a couple of items for all of you at the top.  I wanted
to just preview tomorrow: The President will be headed to Kansas City,
Missouri, where he will continue highlighting how the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law delivers for Missourians by rebuilding roads and
bridges, upgrading public transit, replacing water infrastructure, and
creating good-paying union jobs.  
  
The trip is a part of the President and the administration’s nationwide
tour that demonstrates how the President is following through on his
promise to forge bipartisan consensus and prove our democracy can
deliver big wins for the American people.  
  
And while he’s there, he’s going to be engaging with Governor Mike
Parson, Kansas City Mayor Quinton Lucas, Representative Sharice Davids
and Emanuel Cleaver, and a number of other state and local elected
officials.  
  
He’s going to be visiting the Kansas City Area Transportation Authority,
and he will discuss how the historic investments in the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law will provide more than $670 million in formula
funding for public transportation, making commutes easier so people can
get to work and home faster.   
  
The investments will also hope — also help Kansas City’s ambitious “zero
fare, zero emissions” plan to reduce pollution and increase opportunity
by providing free public transit.  
  
He’ll also discuss how the investments will help repair some of the
2,190 bridges and over 7,570 miles of highway in poor condition — with
Missouri receiving $7 billion for highways and bridges, and nearly 30
percent increase in federal funding.   
  
And finally, he’ll talk about how — the support — this bill will help
support Kansas City’s upgrades to its old and overwhelmed sewer system,
which could cost the city $1.4 billion to complete.  Missouri will
receive more than $860 million to improve water infrastructure that will
help deliver clean drinking water in every community.  
  
I also wanted to note that, today, the U.S. Surgeon General Vivek Murthy
issued a new health advisory calling for immediate action to address the
nation’s youth mental health crisis.  No child should feel like they
have to go through a mental health battle alone.  Students and families
should feel supported, confident, and empowered.  Everyone has a role to
play in protecting and promoting the mental health of our youth.  
  
This Advisory on Protecting Youth Mental Health lays out a series of
recommendations that individuals; families; community organizers —
community organizations — excuse me; social media companies;
governments; and others can take to improve mental health for children
and adults.  
  
I also wanted to note that the Vice President — also she hosted a summit
to mark — today — to mark the first-ever White House Maternal Health Day
of Action.  She issued a nationwide call to action, to both public and
private sector, to help improve mental health — maternal health outcomes
in the United States.   
  
In conjunction with the summit, the Vice President announced a new
Department of Health and Human Services report showing the impact of
pregnancy-related Medicaid coverage and that the Centers for Medicaid —
Medicare and Medicaid Services is proposing the establishment of
Birthing Friendly Hospital Designation and guidance to states on how to
cover Medicaid postpartum services for a year.  
  
Aamer, why don’t you kick us off?  
  
Q    Thanks.  Does the White House have any reaction to a federal judge
in Georgia’s decision to block the administration from enforcing the
COVID-19 mandate — vaccine mandate for employees or federal
contractors?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the reason that we proposed these — these requirements
is that we know they work, and we are confident in our ability legally
to make these happen across the country.  
  
As you know, the federal government — the largest employer in the
country — we have successfully implemented these requirements in a way
that has not only boosted vaccinations in the federal government with
more than 92 percent of people vaccinated but also helps avoid
disruptions and operations.   
  
And our implementation sends a clear message to businesses, including
federal contractors, that similar measures will protect their workforce,
protect their customers, and protect our communities.  
  
I’d also note that a number of businesses across the country have also
implemented these requirements — vaccinating or testing requirements,
depending on the organization.  
  
And the CEO of Lockheed said last week that they’re at — they are at
over 95 percent on track to be compliant and are well on their way to be
able to maintain operations.  
  
So, I would just note, of course, the Department of Justice will
vigorously defend this in court, but we know it works.  That’s why
President and the administration will continue pressing forward.  
  
Q    And how is the AWS outage affecting the government?  And has the
White House had any — gained any insight or understanding of cause?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We have, of course, seen those reports, Aamer, which I know
were just out earlier today.  I don’t have anything new to update you
on, but we can check and see later this afternoon if there is.  
  
Q    And finally, on the arrest in France of the Khashoggi suspect — I’m
just wondering if the White House had any immediate reaction?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We did see the report, but I don’t have any additional
comment from here.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    I just wanted to ask you about the debt ceiling.  It looks like
there was some movement on that.  Can you tell us whether you — whether
the President has spoken with McConnell — Senate Majority Leader
McConnell on that issue?  And if you feel like you’ve kind of gotten
over that hurdle, does that open the door to other compromises and more
bipartisanship?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President has always felt the door is open.  He’s
never closed it.   
  
But I will say, we are heartened to see the progress being made today
and hope for quick consideration so we can focus on the President’s
economic agenda, his Build Back Better Agenda that will lower costs for
Americans across the country as early as next year — childcare,
eldercare, healthcare, et cetera.  And this would leave space to spend
time and focus on that.   
  
We have seen Leader Schumer and Senator McConnell engage in discussions
in good faith to move this forward, to prevent a default.  That
certainly is a good sign, and today was a positive development.  We’ll,
of course, defer to Leader Schumer and Speaker Pelosi on the legislative
mechanics and the path forward.  
Q    Since we’re on the subject of Build Back Better, can you map out
for us what’s going to be happening over the next few weeks?  Like, what
is your sense of a timetable for a decision on that?   
  
And the one issue that seems to have sort of fallen out is paid leave. 
I realize that, you know, there are other priorities that are in the
measure, but can you just say what you will do to worry about paid leave
going down that road then?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me first say that the President absolutely wants
paid leave to be law in the land.  He proposed it in his package.  We
have fought for it in negotiations.  We also fully recognize we need
every single Democrat to support this bill in order to move it
forward.   
  
I would note for the first part of your question, Andrea, in terms of
what will be happening, I would really point you to the “Dear Colleague”
letter that Leader Schumer put out yesterday, which outlined in great
detail what’s happening behind the scenes, whether it is the ongoing
discussions between Senate committees and the “Byrd-proofing” process,
as we call it, to review and consider components of the Build Back
Better Agenda and whether they will pass the “Byrd Bath.”  That is
ongoing; the parliamentarian is clearly reviewing that.   
  
I would note that, as he noted in his letter, that on Friday and
Saturday, 8 of the 12 Senate committees that were given reconciliation
instruction submitted their final Senate texts to the parliamentarian,
the Congressional Budget Office, and the Senate Republicans.   
  
So this is a process that is, behind the scenes, largely — an important
component of moving legislation forward.   
  
But I would also note that Leader Schumer conveyed in this letter, and
has repeatedly conveyed, his intention and objective of moving this
forward in advance of Christmas.  We support that, and we’re encouraged
by that effort and that leadership.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  A few follow-ups on the call today that happened. 
One, when it comes to the calls that the President had last night with
European allies, did he get commitments from them that they would, in
conjunction and coordination with the United States, implement those
economic sanctions?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We’re not going to speak for them, Kaitlan.  Obviously, they
can speak for what they have any intention to do.  But there is
agreement about the need to impose strong and significant economic
consequences if Russia were to invade — invade Ukraine.   
  
Obviously, that may look different from country to country.  And we’re
focused on what our objectives are.  The President laid those out to —
in those calls yesterday and in a follow-up call again today, and we’ll
let them speak for themselves on what they have the intention of
doing.  
  
Q    And Jake just made clear that the President delivered some warnings
to Putin today.  What is, in his view, the timeline that he’s looking at
if Putin does heed those warnings and does deescalate?  What’s the
timeframe for that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  For when Putin might deescalate?  
  
Q    How long does he think that would take?  What’s he — is he looking
at the next several days, the next several weeks?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m not going to give you an assessment for that.  That’s
really up to President Putin.  Our objective is to prevent Russia and
President Putin from invading Ukraine.  So, of course, we want them to
deescalate, but that was the clear bottom line of the message.   
  
Q    And one last question, just logistics: Is the President going to
attend the funeral for Bob Dole?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  He, of course, considered former Senator Bob Dole a friend,
somebody he admired greatly, as you saw in the statement, but I will let
them announce any specifics of the plans for the funeral.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Just quickly, on the call.  Jake said that — characterized it as
“useful.”  Says there’s “more work to do.”  But big picture: Is there a
sense that, as one of the results of this call, that tensions are now
lessened as a — like, sort of what is — what’s the sense of tension?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  The way we see our relationship with Russia is that the
President and leaders in this administration are going to be direct and
clear where we have concerns, as the President was on this call.  There
are also areas where, in the same call, we are going to discuss how we
can work together.   
  
Our objective, a large portion of this call, as Jake Sullivan just
outlined, was on Ukraine and our concerns about the military buildup on
the border and our concerns about the bellicose rhetoric.  
  
But the proof is in the pudding and the eating — I can’t even remember
exactly the President’s statement on that or his saying he likes to
say.   
  
But, really, our objective and our focus is not on the tone; it is on
what their actions are.  And we would like, of course, to see them
deescalate and, most importantly, not to invade.  If they do, part of
this call was to convey clearly there will be consequences and
significant ones.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    What would be a sign to the President that Putin got the message
today?  Would it be for him to start to pull troops back?  And when?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Again, I’m not going to assess that or provide an assessment
of that from here.  We will know if Russia and President Putin decides
to invade Ukraine.  I don’t think that will be a secret.  And so we will
certainly be watching that.   
  
Our preference is, of course, for that not to happen.  And for — and the
President made clear that there is an off-ramp here and that we want to
have a diplomatic pa- — we have a diplomatic path forward to have these
discussions.  But I think that will be clear.  I don’t think it will be
a secret.  That is what we’re working to prevent.  
  
Q    Is the administration starting to put plans in place in case
Americans in Ukraine need to be evacuated quickly?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I know there was some reporting about this.  Of course, the
military does contingency planning for a range of potential scenarios in
order to keep the U.S. personnel safe.  And when a security situation
warrants it, the State Department issues travel notices and security
warnings to U.S. citizens.  That’s how the process broadly works, but
it’s not the standard process for the United States government to
evacuate U.S. citizens.  Typically, when — if a security situation
deteriorates, the State Department issues a travel warning or a travel
advisory.  Obviously, our embassy would provide consular service.  We’re
not even at that point right now.  
  
Q    Are there any lessons that were learned during the mass evacuation
in Afghanistan that are already being — you know, being heeded this time
around as you begin contingency planning?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think it’s really important for people not to compare the
two.  I mean, you — of course, you can ask any question you want.  But
Afghanistan was a war zone; we were at war for 20 years.  What we’re
talking about here is a situation we are trying to work to de-escalate
and move towards a diplomatic path.  But it is not a comparable
situation, in our view.   
  
And also, I would say that it is not standard, as you all know from our
discussions about Ethiopia, for the U.S. government to plan for — I
mean, we plan for everything — but to evacuate on military planes
American citizens.  There is a lengthy process that we undergo,
typically, around the world.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Jake talked a little bit about conversations with
Germany regarding Nord Stream 2.  Can you at all characterize the
process of arriving at some sort of an agreement about what might happen
involving Nord Stream 2 if Russia is to move forward?  And does the
administration have any regrets at this point about not — about waiving
sanctions against North Stream 2 back this spring?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would first note that — and Jake broadly referenced
this — but back in July, there was a joint statement of the United
States and Germany on support for Ukraine energy security and our
climate goals.  And what it conveyed in there is, quote — that it made —
in the joint statement — would — we would take — there would be action
taken if, quote, Russia attempts “to use energy as a weapon or commit
further aggressive acts against Ukraine.”  Obviously, invading Ukraine
would be an aggressive act.  
  
And part of these discussions are what the contingency planning would
look like if they were to take that step.  That is one of the lessons,
and I think Mara asked this very good question yesterday and today
about, “What are the lessons you learned from 2014?” 

<figure>
<img
src="https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/12/image.gif"
title="Anchor" class="wp-image-41093" loading="lazy" width="1"
height="1" />
</figure>

What you can look at, for people who covered this back then, is that
there’s an enormous amount of preparation, contingency planning,
tracking of social media and the use of disinformation tools.  A lot of
that is done because we did learn some lessons post twent- — in 2014,
leading up to it.   
  
I think what’s important to also note is that I know there’s a lot of
members on the Hill — not a lot, some — who are vocal, who are conveying
that Nord Stream 2 is the answer here.  And what — the point Jake was
making — or additional steps on Nord Stream 2 — is that that is actually
— would actually not be an effective deterrent, that that is not
effectively going to change the behavior of President Putin.   
  
So, yes, Germany, in our joint statement, made these commitments.  There
are a range of economic tools and options we have, our European partners
have, should they decide to invade.  Obviously, our preference is that
we not get to that point.  
  
Q    And then referencing — because you brought up the members on the
Hill who often talk about Nord Stream 2 — and Jake’s July statement —
these members say that Russia has taken action, that — you know, using
gas as a geopolitical weapon.  They point to, you know, coercing and
manipulating countries in Europe over the course of the summer; you
know, taking advantage of the energy crisis, for instance, just a couple
months ago.  And Biden and Merkel promised sanctions if those events
were to transpire.  Does the White House believe that what we’ve seen up
until now is not Russia using gas as a geopolitical weapon?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think what we’re talking about here and what we’re trying
to achieve here is a deterrence of actions that would be detrimental
and, of course, hurt the territorial sovereignty and integrity of
Ukraine.  And what I was referencing is the fact that there are some who
are suggesting that this would deter, and our assessment is that it
would not.   
  
Now, again, we’ve been having conversations with a range of partners,
including our important partners in Germany.  And, yes, there is a
reference, as I referenced, in July to this joint statement.  But again,
you know, I would really — I don’t have anything new on Nord Stream 2 at
this point in time.  I just think it’s important to understand what
would be a deterrent and what would not be.  
  
Q    Real quick on crime and another topic.  Chicago Mayor Lori
Lightfoot appeared to pass some blame onto retailers for these
smash-and-grabs, saying that she’s disappointed that these stores are
not putting security officers in place, having working cameras, and
chaining up high-end bags.   
  
Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez — congresswoman — said earlier this week also
that she doubted allegations of organized retail thefts.  She believed
it was a Walgreens in California that cited it, but the data didn’t back
it up.  Does the President believe that organized retail theft is really
happening?  And should it be on the stores themselves to take action to
prevent it?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we don’t agree.  And I think our actions and the work
that we have had in working with the Justice Department, the FBI, and
federal law enforcement show that we take — we’ve seen some of these
extremely video — extremely disturbing videos showing retail thefts in
both major retailers — as well as state and local leaders, like Governor
Newsom, have identified this as a serious concern.   
  
We agree.  That’s the reason why we have sent additional support from
the FBI, providing additional assistance.  It’s one of the reasons why
we have also been — the President and members of our administration have
been longtime advocates for supporting and funding the COPS program,
something where the President proposed almost $300 million in additional
assistance through his budget from what it was last year, and why we
have also provided money to get — provided assis- — provided financial
assistance to get money to hire 50 more police officers through the COPS
program that the President has championed in places like San Francisco
and an additional 20 officers in Los Angeles.   
  
So, I think his record speaks for itself on this.  We are going to
continue to advocate for supporting programs like the COPS program,
ensuring that our law enforcement are good partners as we’re working to
address these retail thefts across the country.  
  
Go ahead, Kristen.  
  
Q    Jen, thank you. I have a foreign policy and a domestic.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Great.  Okay.  
  
Q    I’ll start with the foreign policy.  It’s a big-picture question.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  
  
Q    The withdrawal from Afghanistan over the summer was widely
criticized.  There are increasing tensions with China and Taiwan, and
now you have Russian troops amassing on the border with Ukraine. 
Candidate Biden campaigned on a pledge to restore America’s credibility
on the world stage on his foreign policy experience.  Is he living up to
that pledge?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, Kristen, he also campaigned on a promise to bring an
end to a 20-year war that should have ended 10 years ago and to bring
our troops home, and not to send another son, grandson, granddaughter,
or daughter into a war that the Afghans aren’t willing to fight
themselves.   
  
He also pledged to stand up for democracy and pledged to stand up for
countries like Ukraine and their territorial integrity.  And that’s
something that he is standing up for and vocally doing now, and raising
concerns he has about the bellicose rhetoric and the military
buildup.   
  
And he also pledged to stand up for human rights.  And you saw the
decision we made yesterday that’s — not made yesterday, but the
announcement, I should say, made yesterday about the decision to not
send a diplomatic presence to the Olympics, because he believes it needs
to be more than words; it needs to be actions.  And I think he is
certainly delivering on his values and how he proposed he would be
leading in the world.  
  
Q    Domestic question, Jen.  Jon Tester just told NBC News that he
plans to support the provision to essentially nix the Biden
administration’s vaccine mandate for big businesses — so he, along with
Joe Manchin.  What is your response to that fact that some Democrats are
joining on to that?  And should it make its way through the House —
obviously, facing an uphill battle there — would the President veto
that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me first say that the President has a great
relationship with Senator Tester, one with Senator Manchin.  And he has
always had constructive and open dialogue with both of them.   
  
I think it’s important to remind everyone what this OSHA rule is all
about.  One, it’s based on a 50-year-old law, and we are confident in
our ability to implement it.  It’s about not just requiring vaccination,
but — unvaccinated people to get vaccinated — but the alternative of
testing: so, testing once a week.  
  
And I think our view and the view of many Americans is that if people
aren’t vaccinated, having them test once a week is quite reasonable as
we’re thinking about how to protect our workplaces, how to protect
stores and retail locations as people are out shopping for Christmas and
the holidays, how to protect our children in schools and public places. 
And we also know that more than hundred leading public health experts
have endorsed this rule.   
  
It’s also building on what we’ve already seen businesses do on their
own.  Sixty percent of businesses across the country are implementing
this requirement because they know they work, they know people will feel
confident being in their workplaces, and they know that they will
provide a more stable work environment.   
  
So, we certainly hope the Senate — Congress — will stand up to the
anti-vaccine and testing crowd, and we’re going to continue to work to
implement these.   
  
If it comes to the President’s desk, he will veto it.  And we’ve got a
new variant, and cases are rising.  The President has been clear we’ll
use every tool to protect the American people, and we hope others will
join us in that effort.  
  
Go ahead.

Q    Given the stakes with regard to Ukraine, are there any plans here
for the President to address the American people on the issue?

MS. PSAKI:  We — the President does speak to the American people nearly
every day.  But we will certainly keep you updated if there’s something
more formal to announce.

Q    But specifically on Ukraine, I mean, you’re talking about the
possibility of serious consequences — I mean, economic and otherwise. 
Is this something the President intends to talk to the public about?

MS. PSAKI:  I understand, Steve.  I’m sure the President will certainly
be communicating with all of you and the public about this and many
other issues in the days to come.  I don’t have anything to preview for
you at this point in time. 

Q    Quick follow-up: Late last week, you told us the President took a
COVID test for at least three days.  Have those tests continued?

MS. PSAKI:  He did take another test on Sunday.  He tested negative.

Q    Jen, just —

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead, Alex.

Q    What is the reason for the call with President Zelenskyy happening
on Thursday as opposed to, say, today or tomorrow?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President also had a call with Eur- — his European
partners today.  He is traveling tomorrow.  So, I think it was just a
matter of getting it on the schedule. 

Q    What’s his message going to be that we don’t already know or is not
already public?  I mean, what’s his message to him going to be?

MS. PSAKI:  The President will convey, as we’ve conveyed publicly and as
he has conveyed publicly, that he strongly supports the sovereignty and
the territorial integrity of Ukraine, that we will continue to be a
strong supporter through a range of assistance.  We have provided, I
believe, $400 million in assistance since the beginning of this year,
$60 million as a follow-up to President Zelenskyy’s visit here earlier
this fall.  And that we will continue to be close partners and work in
close coordination with them in the weeks and months ahead. 

Q    A number of Democratic senators are expressing some frustration
over Guantanamo Bay — the detention center there, the prison — and why
it’s not — more progress isn’t made in shutting it down, something the
President has said he wants to do.  How come it’s taking so long?  And
what commitment does he have to seeing that come to fruition?

MS. PSAKI:  He absolutely remains committed to shutting down Guantanamo
Bay — something he has stated many times in the past as Vice President,
running for office, et cetera.  I’m sure I can get you an update from
the Department of Defense on the number of detainees who are still
there.  That’s something that is under constant review, but we can get
that to you after the briefing as well. 

Go ahead.

Q    Can I just ask — the readout referred to these countermeasures
coming in the event of, quote, “military escalation.”  How do you define
“military escalation”?  Is it Russian troops setting foot further into
Ukraine or would other things count?

MS. PSAKI:  What would the oth- — tell me — tell me more. 

Q    Putin has a history of, you know, sowing, you know, discontent or
unrest in regions — you know, supporting indirectly or with, you know,
deniability separatist movements or that kind of thing.

MS. PSAKI:  And we’ve — we’ve already seen this.  We’ve already seen
this happening — right? — over the course in —

Q    Well, this is what the case has been in the Donbas, right?  And he
could, for instance, maybe follow up with troops into the Donbas in a
way that he hasn’t before or similar sort of first-step measures that
aren’t a full military incursion.  Would the U.S. and its allies
consider that a violation and start triggering some of these
countermeasures, counterpunches that you’re threatening here?

MS. PSAKI:  I certainly understand why you’re asking.  I’m just not
going to parse the different scenarios.  I think we have been clear —
Jake Sullivan was clear, the President was clear with President Putin
that — that if they invade Ukraine, we have a range of economic options
to take, and they will be significant and they will be severe. 

But I’m not going to parse what every different element might look
like.  Those are conversations we would have — continue to have with our
European partners, with Congress. 

And beyond that, I’m not going to parse further from here. 

Q    But the line is invading Ukraine?

MS. PSAKI:  I think Jake Sullivan spoke to this pretty clearly just a
few minutes ago.

Q    And can you give us an update on the remaining Fed nominees?  He’s
got a few left to make.

MS. PSAKI:  He does.

Q    Any this month?

MS. PSAKI:  We hope to have those soon.  And we continue to hope to have
those out to you this month.  Yes.

Q    Thank you kindly.  Thank you.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah, absolutely.  Go ahead. 

Q    Thank you.  Following up on the announcement of not sending a
American delegation to Beijing —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — for the Winter Games.  You were just saying this is an example of
action that the President would take.  Would the President support the
IOC moving the games from Beijing altogether?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t — I have not heard that’s an option under
consideration.  I can just speak to what the decisions are we’re making
here from the U.S. government, which we spoke to yesterday.

Q    He believes, though, that the Olympic Games should be played in
Beijing?

MS. PSAKI:  I’m not aware of a consideration of them being moved.

Q    And also, is the President right now engaging with Democrats in
Congress on the current debate over lifting state and local tax cap for
those who make over $400,000?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  The SALT deduction?  
  
Q    Correct.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  That is something — as you know, there is some support for
in Congress.  It’s not something the President proposed, but it is
something that certainly is part of the discussion as some of these
members who support it, they’ve raised — which won’t surprise you —
they’ve also raised it publicly with members of our team.   
  
So, it is part of the discussions and negotiations that are ongoing at a
senior staff level.   
  
Q    Does the President oppose it — SALT?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  He didn’t propose it initially, but we are working to get
this bill done.   
  
Q    But does he oppose it?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Again, he didn’t propose it initially.  We’re working to get
this bill done and across the finish line, but it was not his
proposal.   
  
Our objective continues to be to lower costs for the American people
across the country on childcare, on eldercare, on healthcare.  This bill
will do exactly that: create universal — a universal healthcare sys- — I
mean, a universal pre-K system that has never existed in the past.   
  
There are components that there is support for that are still part of
the discussions, but I think you can note the President didn’t propose
that initially.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Yeah, thanks, Jen.  Yesterday, you seemed to dismiss the idea of
sending COVID-19 tests to all Americans, but other countries have taken
similar aggressive steps to make free test — testing free, available to
all citizens.   
  
Singapore, for example, sent six test kits to all citizens in
September.   
  
In the UK, any citizen can order a pack of several testing kits all at
once.   
  
Is the White House’s position on this simply a cost analysis or are
there other reasons why the administration doesn’t think that sending
tests — COVID-19 tests to all Americans is a good strategy?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me — let me give you an overarching, comprehensive
understanding of how we’re approaching this to give you a sense — and I
appreciate the question.   
  
So, our objective is to continue to scale up our testing program to meet
demand and ensure the people who want tests are getting tests.   
  
And there are a range of ways people want tests.  Some people want to do
it in their homes, certainly, and we’ve seen an increase in demand for
that in recent months, and we’ve quadrupled our capacity in that
regards.  We’ll keep building.   
  
Some people want to go to their — their primary care physician.   
  
Some people want to go to a community health center or a rural health
center.   
  
Some people want to have their kids tested at school — an option that
many public schools have made available — and private schools, I guess,
as well have made available.   
  
So what we’re — our focus is on is ensuring that everyone in America has
access to free testing, whether at a doctor’s office, pharmacy,
community testing site, or, now, at home.   
  
And there’s a couple steps we’ve taken.   From the beginning, we haven’t
always — there’s obviously a lot of interest in testing now, for good
reason.  And one, in February, we wrote new guidance to make insurers
cover asym- — asymptomatic PCR and point-of-care tests critical to
helping the majority of Americans who have private insurance not worry
about burdensome test costs.   
  
So, what that means is: Before that, if you went to get a PCR test — as
we know, which is a test that can certainly track very closely whether
you have components of the virus — you had to pay for it.  Our — our
private insur- — we now ensured, many months ago, that was not the
case.   
  
As I noted, we quadrupled the number of free pharmacy testing sites with
a priority on vulnerable communities in addition to state and local
community sites.  So today, there are 20,000 sites across the country
with free quality tests.  That means you can walk into the pharmacy, get
a free test, get it done, ensure you’re taking that step.  That’s the
preference for some.   
  
We’ve also secured funding from the Rescue Plan, invested it in
hardest-hit areas — $10 billion for schools — to conduct testing, nearly
$1 billion for rural clinics and hospitals.   
  
And toward the summer, we also planned for the school year, ensuring
school districts had the resources to set up a testing program to ensure
kids stayed in school.   
  
We also doubled down our work to get testing to congregate settings that
were more vulnerable and where demand was higher.   
  
As Delta hit in the summer and demand increased for testing, we
immediately jumped into action.  And as we’ve seen at-home tests have
become more in demand, we’ve taken steps on that front to make them
free.   
  
So, if you have private insurance, we’re making sure you’ll get
reimbursed by your insurer for at-home tests if that’s your preference,
if that’s what you would like to do.  And we made sure that the tests
you get from your healthcare provider — like PCR tests — are covered
with no copays.   
  
I also would note that we also announced last week we’re sending 50
million free tests, starting this month, to convenient locations like
health centers and community sites.   
  
So, overarching, our objective here is to make them accessible, to make
sure that people who want to get tested can get tested in any means they
choose to do, and to make sure they’re free for everyone in America.  
  
Q    And I understand all these efforts, but why is — wouldn’t it be a
good idea to just send them to all American homes?  It seems like that
would make it more readily available to just, you know, have it sitting
— knowing that one is just sitting in your kitchen somewhere.  You know,
why isn’t that a way that would be an effective strategy?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, our assessment is that the best way to make these
tests readily available and accessible to people is to make them
available — meet people where they are and make them available at places
where people go — community health centers, rural health centers,
pharmacies, doctors’ offices, schools — and also have a component where
people can have tests for free at their home.   
  
But we — our approach is not to send everyone in the country a test just
to send — to have millions of tests go unused where we know others can
make use of them.   
  
So we’ve made an assessment about how to make them free and available to
Americans across the country.  That’s absolutely our objective, and
we’ll continue to build on it.  
  
Q    And you did seem to reference cost yesterday.  So, is that a
concern with just how — logistically, financially — how hard that would
be to get to all American households?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Again, our objective is to make them readily available to
people where they are across the country.  And we have made the
assessment that doing that is most effective by making them — by
donating these 50 million tests to community health centers and rural
health centers, by making them available at 20,000 pharmacies, by
working with schools and workplaces to make testing available, and also
to have — providing the option for people to get free tests in their
homes.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Two polar opposite questions.  One Ukraine and —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I always — I like the set up today that everybody is doing. 
“Polar opposites.”  “Different topics.”   
  
Go ahead.    
  
Q    Well, they are, really.  Ukraine —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  
  
Q    — Ukraine and the messaging, and the results on the vaccines — not
just being fully vaccinated, but now the boosters as the vaccines are
waning.   
  
On Ukraine, you talked — well, Jake talked about “clarity.”  He talked
about “deescalating.”  He talked about being direct — the President
was.  But is there any room, as the effort is to deescalate — is there
any more room for the President to maybe have another conversation —
another direct conversation with Putin on this and efforts as we seem
like we’re at the 11th hour?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure, I mean — and, April, I will say that the President
certainly values leader-to-leader diplomacy, as you’ve seen evidence of
over the course of the last several weeks.   
  
What they agreed to at the end of the call was that there would be close
coordination and discussion at national — the level of senior national
security staff.  That’s the next natural step here.  It’s really up to
President Putin to determine what the path forward will look like.   
  
So, I don’t have any calls to predict or preview at this point in
time.  
  
Q    But it’s not hypothetical to say, leader to leader, Putin is
someone that this — this country has had some issues with over the
years.  And it’s not about trust; it’s about watching what he does.   
  
So, the question, once again, is: Is there an opening, a possibility if
it needs be — if there needs to be a conversation, would the President
be amenable to talking once again to Putin if —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President just ended a call with him just a couple
of hours ago.  So, I think we’re going to see how this goes here with
conversations and important follow-up.  But I don’t think the President
has ever hesitated to have leader-to-leader conversations if that is
going to be effective and helpful in resolving any circumstances.  
  
Q    And the last piece.  On the booster, with the messaging — what is
the next piece?  What are you getting back from the nation as you’re
asking for boosters?   
  
Dr. Fauci has said that, you know, the two shots are now waning.  We’re
seeing more people who were vaccinated in the hospital from
breakthroughs.  And now it’s boosters.  What are you seeing from
America?  Is there a weariness, or are people responding to the call?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We’ve — we’ve seen people responding to the call, April.  I
mean, our boosters program is off to a very strong start in our
assessment.  Forty-seven million people have already received a
booster.  About 1 million people are getting boosted every single day —
more than ever before.   
  
So, this is in strong demand, which is good news because, as you noted,
it will help protect people further, it will help give another layer of
additional protection.  And we have plenty of supply across the country
— 80,000 sites — and we’re working with governors and FEMA to ensure we
have plenty of easy and convenient locations.  
  
So, there has been an increase in boosting by people over the past
week-plus — 1 million people a day — and we’re continuing to make sure
they’re accessible around the country.  
  
Karen, go ahead.  Okay, I’ll go to Karen because I just called on her. 
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Somewhat of a follow-up on the testing: The CDC is now
urging people to use a rapid test before they go into an indoor
gathering, even if they’re vaccinated or don’t have symptoms.  You
talked about the free tests that will soon be out there for Americans,
but it’s still going to take some time.  Right now, they’re still a
little bit pricey.  The administration has invested billions of dollars
to bring the cost of that down.  When do you anticipate they will be
cheaper for Americans to buy if they wanted to just walk into a
pharmacy?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we do know now that we are donate- — or we are giving
50 million tests now, this month, to community health centers and rural
health centers across the country.  And there are already 20,000
pharmacies across the country where free testing is available.  And you
can also go to your doctor and get a free test.  So, there are
options.   
  
We are working to implement some of these specifics by mid-January, in
terms of how people can get reimbursed for tests — I think is what
you’re asking about.  We’re doing that as rapidly as we can, as people
are looking to get home tests.   
  
They’re about $7 a test, and certainly we’ll continue our objective
here.  Our larger objective is also to create a market so that that cost
continues going down, that there are more tests on the market, and the
costs continue to decrease over time.  
  
Q    Thanks.  And why didn’t we see the CDC make this recommendation
before the Thanksgiving holiday — that people should start doing it —
before people were gathering indoors with family and friends, that they
should consider doing these rapid tests?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, I would — I would really point you to the CDC
because they look at a range of data and science as they make
assessments or make additional recommendations.  And I would encourage
you to ask them that exact question.  
  
Thank you so much, everyone.  
  
4:04 P.M. EST
