---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-12-21'
modified_time: 2021-12-21 17:12:07-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/12/21/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-december-21-2021/
published_time: 2021-12-21 17:30:00-05:00
title: Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen Psaki, December 21, 2021
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:15 P.M. EST  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  You know how we love visual aids here, so we wanted
to have a few for all of you.  I don’t have anything at the top.  And
they’ll pull these up in a moment as we talk about COVID, which I assume
we will talk about during this briefing.  
  
But we — and we will keep you all — make sure you have plenty of time to
get set for the President’s remarks.  He’s running a little bit late
today, so we’ll let you know once we have an update.   
  
But, Colleen, why don’t you kick us off.  
  
Q    Okay.  Thanks, Jen.  So, first off, how is the President feeling,
given close contact?  Is he symptomatic?  Is he doing okay?  I know he’s
getting tested tomorrow, but can you give us an update?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  He’s asymptomatic.  I spent several hours with him this
morning, and he is feeling great.  And you’ll see him at the speech
shortly.  
  
Q    And then, second question is: The 500 million test kits that are
being distributed in January — you know, is that going to be enough? 
How are you guys going to work to get more, given what looks to be a
really serious testing kit shortage right now, especially as Omicron is
cresting?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Absolutely.  So, what the President is annou- — is
announcing today, everyone should see as building on the steps we’ve
taken over the last couple of months.  Over the last couple of months,
we’ve quadrupled our testing capacity.  I’ll talk about that in a
moment.  It’s not related to your question; that would have been very
impressive.   
  
Q    I know.  It would have been amazing.  (Laughter.)  
  
MS. PSAKI:  But it — we’ve quadrupled over the last few months our
testing capacity.   
  
As some have asked, so let me clarify too: The 50 million tests that we
are distributing this month to community health centers and rural health
centers, this is in addition to that — those 50 million tests that are
being distributed.  The 20,000 sites that are already up and running,
this is in addition to that, that the President is announcing today.   
  
So, I reference that, Colleen, because it’s important for the American
people to hear and understand: We’re going to continue to build.  
  
So, the 500 million test kits that will begin to be available in January
is a significant — the largest purchase we have done to date, and it is
building on what we’ve done to date in an effort to make testing more
free — free, accessible to people across the country.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Can I drill down on some specifics on this 500 — half a billion, if
you will?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yes.  
  
Q    We like that big number on TV.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Half a billion.  Okay.  
  
Q    So when can Americans expect to see these tests?  Where are they
coming from?  How many can a family or a person order at once?  Is this
website going to be able to sustain all of these people who will want to
get on and get these tests?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  To answer your last question: Yes, that is our expectation
and we are preparing for that.  We are — we will have more information
as it is available, including what the website looks like. 

We will make the website available as soon as these tests are
available.  They will start to be available in January.   
  
And in terms of the numbers that different families can order: That is —
we are working through all those very important details right now.  
  
Q    So, Dr. Fauci said today that “it’s going to be a matter of a
couple of weeks” when we start to see a decline from Omicron.  Are these
tests — this batch of 500 million — going to actually make a difference
in the surge that we’re seeing right now or are they coming too late for
this?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, our objective here — the President’s objective
has been to build on the steps he has taken over the last couple of
months: again, quadrupling test — quadrupling testing capacity, making
it more available in more communities, opening more testing sites across
the country, and really directing our efforts and our resources toward
the parts of the country where they need help the most. 

So, I know part of the announcement today is obviously testing sites and
opening additional testing sites.  We have — additional testing sites
have been running in New York City.  We will have them up and running in
New York City, for example, by the end of this week.  Additional testing
sites will come online next week, as states we are coordinating with, to
determine logistics, scale, and timing can be finalized.  And part of
our effort now is also to make assessments about where additional
testing sites will be needed.   
  
So, we have teams out on the ground to make that assessment with
governors, state leaders, local health officials who are experiencing
spikes or who anticipate experiencing spikes.   
  
And that’s just the testing center component where people can go and get
them in person.   
  
And again, this is building on the testing capacity we’ve already built
to date and in January.  
  
Q  So you’re still seeing — sorry, last question.  You’re still seeing
these long lines all around the country.  So, at the end of 2021, as we
close out this year, I still have to ask: When can every American who
wants to get an at-home test get one?  Because they can’t get one
today.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, as I just noted, one step we’re taking is really
surging capacity and opening these testing sites in parts of the country
where they have been hardest hit.  New York City is one of them, and
those testing sites will be up and running in New York City by the end
of this week.  
  
And we will continue to surge capacity and open additional testing sites
in other parts of the country.  And that is something that can happen
very rapidly, and our team is ready to deploy those resources.   
  
There are still 20,000 sites across the country where people can go. 
There are still 50 million tests that we are distributing to rural
community health centers.  And we’re doing this as quickly as
possible.   
  
Five hundred million tests in January is the largest order we have ever
made to date, and we’re going to do it as quickly as we can, but they
won’t be available until January.  
  
Q    And where are they coming from — these 500 million tests?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  The eight approved by the FDA — the eight tests approved by
the FDA.  
  
Q    So there’s no holdup in getting those?  There’s — it’ll — I mean,
it’s going to be pretty easy?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, they’ll — they — those final approvals just went
through in November, so that has been part of our ability to expand our
capacity, in addition to using the Defense Production Act and our
investment in $3 billion to do that.  
  
Q    Now, is it possible to reduce the 10-day isolation period?  Is that
something that’s under active consideration?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I know that Dr. Fauci spoke to that briefly.  That would be
a decision made by our health and medical experts and in the CDC.  So, I
would certainly point you to them.  We’re always assessing and looking
at different steps that can be taken.  
  
Go ahead, Jeff.  
  
Q    Is the President satisfied at the speed at which all of this is
happening?  It was nearly four weeks ago, over Thanksgiving vacation in
Nantucket, when he first talked about the Omicron variant.  We’ve known
Christmas, obviously, is coming for a long time, and yet these sites
will not be setup until the end of this week, which is Christmas.  Is he
satisfied at the speed in which this is all happening?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, what the President has promised to the American people
is, Jeff, is to constantly reexamine and improve our COVID response —
including testing and testing access — and always look for a way to do
better.  And the announcement today is an effort to do exactly that.   
  
We have taken a number of steps over the past several months.  And his
view is: We need to do more, and we need to do it more as ambitiously
and aggressively as possible.  And his announcement today is a
reflection of that and should be seen as his own assessment that we
should be doing more.  
  
Q    As you know, a couple weeks ago, you stood here at the podium when
there was a discussion about sending the tests to people’s homes and you
said, “Should we just send <s>them</s> \[one\] to every American?”  As
you’ve reflected on the change in Omicron here, have you reflected on
your tone in that answer?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, Jeff, I would say there’s not a day that goes by that
I don’t leave this podium and wish I would have said something with
greater context or more precision or additional information.   
  
And that day, there was a lot of good questioning on testing.  And
during that briefing, I conveyed a lot of information about our
expansion of testing, about the 50 million tests that we were making
available, about the 20,000 free testing sites.  And should I have
included that additional context again in that answer?  Yes.  Going
back, I wish I would have done that.       
  
To be clear so people have accurate information about how it works out
there, which I know is your objective as well as mine: We’re making
tests free and accessible without the risk of them going to waste in the
home of people who do not want them.   
  
So, people will go to a website — which, again, we will put out there in
January when the information is available — and they will be able to
request free tests.  That’s something that is a reflection of the
President’s commitment to continue re-examining and improving our COVID
response, including as it relates to testing.  
  
Go ahead, Ed.  
  
Q    And on testing, because why not?  There’s more to ask here.  And I
realize you may not have answers yet, but is there any sense of whether
you’ll be able to guarantee that from the moment ordered online, how
long one will have to wait to receive them?  
  
And are you going to be relying on FedEx, UPS, Amazon, or the Postal
Service to help distribute these?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Again, really good questions.  And we, of course, want
people to be able to rapidly receive the tests and people have certainty
to know they can get a test, they can feel safe, go into their
workplace, seeing their family members, sending their kids to school. 
That’s our objective.  The details of how it will be distributed and the
mechanisms will all be coming soon.  
  
Q    And has there been any active discussion, you know, between the
White House and Congress about a possible supplemental now to deal with
Omicron?  I realize mayors and governors are flush with cash thanks to
all the legislation passed this year.  But is there any discussion yet
about possibly another supplemental?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  There’s always, as you know from covering Congress, an open
line of communication with members and leadership about what may be
needed, and we’re always having that conversation.   
  
But right now, we believe we have the resources to get people
vaccinated, to make those available.  And part of what you’ll hear the
President convey today is how important it is for individuals to make
the choice to take that step to protect themselves.  
  
Q    And then one quick, unrelated.  We’re nearing the end of the year,
and in the spirit of the holidays, presidents often will announce
pardons and/or commutations.  Should we be anticipating anybody in 2022
— or 2021?  Sorry.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything to preview at this time.  I would just
reiterate that the President has every intention of using his clemency
power.  And there has been some reporting, which is accurate, out there
about nonviolent — looking at nonviolent drug offenders, but I don’t
have anything to update you on at this point in time.  
  
Go ahead, Jacqui.   
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  These 500 million tests are not getting to people in
time for the holidays.  And I know that you said you wish you’d
rephrased your December 6th answer, but it seemed to discount at the
time, which was only two weeks ago, the idea of sending tests to
Americans at home.  So what made you guys shift gears?  When did that
happen?  And is any sort of lack of urgency in doing that sooner costing
us now?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think it’s important, Jacqui — and I appreciate you asking
the question — for people at home to understand that this has all been a
building process, and that includes the approval of tests.  There are
now eight available as of November.  That’s important because we needed
enough tests to be able to tap into, to get the supply.   
  
It includes quadrupling — not including the President’s speech today —
our testing capacity over the course of the last couple of months.  It
includes the 50 million tests that we made available to rural community
health centers and community health centers — all components that I
talked about exactly on that day in the briefing.  If anything, it was a
lesson to me to always include the context and make sure you use every
opportunity of questions you all ask to do exactly that.   
  
But today, what the President is announcing — and this is, again, to
Jeff’s question and to yours as well — to be clear: We’re not sending a
test to every single home in the country.  We are providing an
opportunity — another opportunity or ability for people to — an
important one — go on a website and request a test if their preference
is to get that test to their home.  Not everybody will do that, but we
want people who want to do that — who want to get tested, who want to
request tests that way — to have that ability to do.  
  
Q    And then, obviously, this, you know, new push for testing is a big
component of the strategy to combat this this winter.  But is there any
concern that there hasn’t been enough focus also on therapeutics, given
that you have vaccines in other parts of the world that don’t offer any
protection against Omicron?  We’re lucky in the U.S. that Pfizer and
Moderna do, but this is a virus that’s spreading in all parts of the
world.  We saw it pop, appear, and then, just in three weeks, it’s the
dominant strain.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  You’re absolutely right, Jacqui, that the vaccine — not the
vaccine, I’m sorry — the virus does not see borders.  And obviously,
fighting the virus, getting the virus under control is going to require
getting it under control globally.   
  
Part of what our objective is and effort from the U.S. government is to
continue to be the global supplier of vaccine doses and also a range of
materials needed to produce vaccines, to treat people who are sick. 
That certainly is a part of our objective.  
  
Q    But would there be a greater push to produce therapeutics — you
know, something like the pill that’s supposed to come out — and get that
out with as much urgency as we’re having for the vaccine?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We will, of course, be focused on that.  But I think it’s
important for people to know the best way to protect yourself is to get
vaccinated and get boosted.  And that is the most effective step that
any person living in United States or around the world can take.  And
that is what our priority is on.   
  
Q    Real quick, one last question.  You had said back in — I think it
was June — that we would hear pet news on a day when it was a tough news
day.  And yesterday —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  It was a light joke.  (Laughter.)  
  
Q    But yesterday, we heard about Major being rehomed, a new puppy, and
a White House cat.  So is this like the worst week ever for the White
House?  (Laughter.)  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Believe it or not, Jacqui, I don’t have time in my schedule
to coordinate with the pet folks, but the pet was a preseden- — a
present from the President’s brother.  I met the pet this morning — the
pet — “Commander.”  We can call him by his name.  And he’s very
adorable.  He’s going to bring joy to the President, the First Family,
to all of us, probably, as well.   
  
And as I think was noted by the First Lady’s team, we can expect to meet
the cat — a “she,” as I’ve learned — in January.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Hey, Jen.  Here in the District — and we’re seeing similar numbers
in a number of other jurisdictions — we’re seeing all-time highs, in
terms of cases not just this year, but for the entirety of the
pandemic.  
  
A number of these are also breakthrough cases.  You used to hear the
administration talk about how rare these were, but there seems to have
been a change in tone around these.  
  
Is it almost inevitable now — is that the view of the administration —
that many Americans, including vaccinated Americans, will see a case — a
positive case — in the next few weeks.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’m going to let our medical doctors give an
assessment of that.  We do expect, though — and I would echo what they
have said — that — there to be increases of cases and increases of
breakthrough cases.  
  
We are still seeing a significant amount of protection from even getting
the virus from the vaccines, from being boosted.  But there are — will
be breakthrough cases.  We have — we have breakthrough cases in the
White House.  I’m sure you will have them in your news organizations. 
And we’re seeing numbers go up in New York City, in D.C., and other
parts of the country.

What we will continue to convey — because we recognize that a lot of
people are sitting at home, many of whom are vaccinated and are scared. 
And we want to convey accurate information to them about the
effectiveness of the vaccines.  
  
And this is a very interesting chart — which is why I love charts, but
this an interesting one — that fully vaccinated — this is looking at
average weekly deaths.  If you look at the number of fully vaccinated
versus unvaccinated, we’ve seen it have peaks and valleys, but it’s 14
times higher for unvaccinated individuals — 14 times more likely to die
of COVID than if you were vaccinated.   
  
I would — you know, no one wants to get COVID, but I think what the
President is conveying is: Get vaccinated.  I mean, you may have some
light symptoms.  You may have most — no symptoms.  That is far
preferable to being hospitalized or even worse.  
  
Q    Can you speak to some of the protocols that are in place here at
the White House?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    Because I think a lot of Americans have questions about if they
were to test positive or are in close contact, what are the protocols
that they should follow. 

What are they in place here at the White House, especially as it relates
to this individual who tested positive who the President was in
proximity to?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  What — what is their protocol or what is the President’s
protocol?  
  
Q    What is the protocol for other White House staff — others who were
interacting with this individual?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well — well, if somebody is a close contact — so, the
guidance of the CDC is: If you’re a close contact, you should be tested
five to seven days — five days and seven days post contact.  We do three
and five days post contact here at the White House through PCR tests.   
  
The President has had his three-day PCR test yesterday.  He will have
his five-day — five-day PCR test tomorrow.   
  
I would also note that as it relates to our own protocols here — because
we, of course, go over and above in a lot of ways here — every time
you’re going to travel with the President or even meet in the Oval
Office with the President, you’re required to be tested that day.  So
there are additional pro- — there are also regular testing protocols for
others who may not be interacting with the President, and we also wear
masks around the building as well.  
  
Q    And I have a question on Build Back Better, as the White House
tries to look at a path forward here.  On the Child Tax Credit, it seems
inevitable at this point — unlikely, at least — that millions of
Americans who benefited from that Child Tax Credit, from that monthly
payment, will not get that in the month of January.  What is the White
House’s message to them?  
  
And Senator Romney has put forward a proposal that he says would be a
bipartisan pathway forward.  Is that something the White House is
looking into?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, most importantly, the President’s message is that his
preference was to get Build Back Better passed in December so that
people could have the Child Tax Credit extended — a benefit that has
contributed to cutting child poverty in half this year and has helped
put money in people’s pockets and food on the table and make sure many,
many families could help make ends meet during an economic downturn that
was tied to the pandemic.  
  
And I would say, on the second piece of your question, we are going to
work with anybody who’s interested in taking steps to lower costs for
the American people, whether it’s on childcare or eldercare or
healthcare.  We want to get Build Back Better done because the
comprehensive package is going to have an enormous impact, according to
dozens of economists across the board.  It would require 60 votes in
order to get individual pieces passed.  
  
Okay, I’m sorry, because I don’t want you to miss the speech.  I’ll try
to go to, like, two more here.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Will certain groups be prioritized on the testing
website?  Or is it just first come, first served?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  It’s a really great question.  We obviously want to do this
in an equitable way; that is how we have approached every element of our
COVID policy.  But that is part of what is being discussed and
determined now.  
  
Q    And what are the procedures that would go into place if the
President did, in fact, test positive for COVID?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  He would follow CDC guidelines.  
  
Q    Would he stay at the White House?  Would he go to Walter Reed?  Or
is that still undecided?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any predictions of that.  I think it depends on
whether he would be symptomatic or not.  But let’s hope that’s not a
challenge we will be facing.  
  
Q    Can you just quickly say whether the staffer that tested positive
tested positive for the Omicron variant?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any additional information.  
  
Go ahead.  Last one, and then people can come see me in my office after
the speech.  
  
Q    There’s a report that you’re considering extending the student loan
relief past the February deadline.  Can you comment on that — whether
that’s on the table or a decision that’s been made?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  The President has not made a decision yet.  
  
Q    Okay.  And can you briefly — you said he’s asymptomatic.  That is
sometimes a phrase used for people who tested positive but don’t have
symptoms.  Do you just mean he’s not symptomatic but hasn’t tested
(inaudible).  
  
MS. PSAKI:  He does not have symptoms.  Yes, correct.  
  
Q    All right.  Okay.  
  
Q    Can you clarify: He has not tested positive, though?  Because this
is causing confusion out there.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yes, he — apologies, he has not tested positive.  He tested
negative yesterday, as we indicated.  And he will be tested against
tomorrow.  He is not — does not have any symptoms either.  
  
Q    And we’re reporting that the FDA will authorize both the Merck and
Pfizer pills.  I would obviously welcome your confirmation of that, if
you could give it.  But more realistically, can you say what role having
those pills will play in the overall response?  How does it change your
view of tackling this with the pills at hand if they are, in fact,
available?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, I’ll just preface that I’m not going to, of
course, get ahead of the FDA or the process — the “gold standard,” as we
like to say.  But certainly, having antivirals available is another
component that will help us fight the virus, address the pandemic, help
people return to a version of normal.  And we will be prepared, like Boy
Scouts and Girl Scouts, to ensure we are making these antivirals
available to the public.  
  
All right, thanks, everyone.  
  
2:35 P.M. EST
