---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-12-08'
modified_time: 2021-12-08 15:46:45-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/12/08/press-gaggle-by-principal-deputy-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-en-route-kansas-city-mo/
published_time: 2021-12-08 15:46:44-05:00
title: Press Gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre En Route
  Kansas City, MO
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Kansas City, Missouri

12:00 P.M. CST  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Good afternoon, everybody.  I hope you’re
all ready for some good, great, amazing barbecue.  That’s a joke.  Ha
ha.  
  
Okay, a quick overview of what we’ll be doing today in Missouri.  As you
all know, the President will visit the Kansas City Area Transport- —
Transportation Authority, where he will be briefed on the Authority’s
operations and how it is benefiting from the Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law.   
  
He will be joined there by the Authority’s president and CEO Robbie
Makinen, Kansas City Mayor Quinton Lucas, and Representatives Sharice
Davids and Emanuel Cleaver.  
  
President Biden will also hear from the president of the local Ama- —
Amalgama- — Amalgamated — sorry — Transit Union, Will Howard, on how
members of his union benefit from the funding in the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Bill.    
  
The historic investment in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will
provide more than $670 million for public transportation, making
commutes easier so people can get to work and home faster.  It will also
help Kansas City’s ambitious “zero fare, zero emissions” plan to reduce
pollution and increase opportunity by providing free public transit and
transitioning its bus fleet to electric buses.   
  
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will also support projects like
replacing the Buck O’Neil Bridge in Kansas City and a new terminal at
Kansas City International Airport.   
  
Today, we’re also — we — we’re also launching the Build Back — I’m
sorry, we’re also launching Build.gov and an accompanying bill — an
accompanying brand “Build a Better America.”  So again, that — we’re
launching Build- — Build.gov and an accompanying brand, “Building a
Better America.”   
  
“Building a Better America” represents the heart of the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law — how these historic investments will bring Americans
together to rebuild our country’s infrastructure better than before and
change people’s lives for the better.   
  
You’ll start to see this at today’s event, listening sessions with
Cabinet members, and across the administration’s digital channels.   
  
In the coming months, Build.gov will grow to serve as a hub for
governors, mayors, Tribal Leaders, businessowners, union members, and
Americans to learn more about the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, how to
help rebuild our country, access resources for their communities, see
progress the administration is delivering, and much more.  
  
With that, Darlene, you want to kick us off?  
  
Q    Thanks.  Two questions to start.  The first one is on Russia.  Is
the President concerned that his credibility may suffer if, despite the
threat of severe consequences to Putin — if Putin goes ahead and invades
Ukraine despite the meeting yesterday and the threat of severe
consequences for foreign invasion?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, let me just first say, the President actually
took a couple of questions right before boarding Marine One.  So, I just
want to give you, from him — directly what he said was, you know, his
conversation was a “straightforward” conversation.  “There were no
minced words.  It was polite.”  But he made clear if, in fact, that
Putin invades Ukraine — Russia invades Ukraine — “there will be severe
consequences” and severe “economic consequences.”   
  
He also made it clear we would provide the defensive capabilities to the
Ukraine — Ukrainians as well.   
  
The “good news” and the “positive news,” the President said, “is that,
thus far, our teams have been in constant contact… We’re having meetings
at a higher level, not just with us but… at least four of our major NATO
Allies and Russia to discuss.”  
  
He was also asked, “Are you confident that \[Putin\] got the message and
knows this is different?”  And he said, “I \[have\] absolute confidence
he got the message.”   
  
So, again, we — the goal here — and as Jake Sullivan said yesterday
during the briefing with Jen Psaki — was that our goal is to make sure
that we head to diplomacy and de-escalate.  That is going to be the
focus.  That’s what the teams are going to be working on.  And that was
what the President said directly and in a straightforward way to
Putin.  
  
Q    And on the Democracy Summit tomorrow and Friday, in addition to
talking about upholding democracy abroad, can you give us a sense of
whether the President will talk about what he’s doing to uphold
democracy here at home?  For example, will he talk about the struggle to
get voting rights legislation passed?  Will he talk about the January
6th insurrection — those kinds of things?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t want to get ahead of what the President is
going to say tomorrow.  But as — all the things that you just mentioned,
Darlene, are clearly things that the President feels are key and
important things that we need to address here in our country.   
  
But I do want to say this: On day zero of the Summit for Democracy, we
are excited to be convening over 100 governments and even more members
of civil society and the private sector to focus on what the President
has called “the challenge of our time,” reversing the ongoing global
democ- — democratic recession and ensuring that democracies deliver for
their people.   
  
So that is kind of the goal, as we all know, of the summit.  And that’s
going to be focus of the summit.  
  
I don’t — again, I don’t want to get ahead of the specifics of what the
President is going to say.  But, clearly, what you just listed out are
things that are critical and key and important for our own democracy.   
  
Q    Karine, so to follow up on Russia briefly: So when the President
was talking about Russia and the U.S. and NATO Allies meeting, when he
said that just before — as he was leaving the White House, what was he
talking about?  Is that — is that something that’s happening at the
leader level?  When is that happening?  Can you tell us more about
that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  So, basically, what the President was talking
about — you know, he said that there are conversations happening at
different levels, as you just said.   
  
Look, the two Presidents tasked their teams to follow up on the issues
discussed yesterday.  And as the President said, you know, his
engagement with Russia will be closely coordinated with our allies and
our partners that we’re constantly having conversations with.   
  
As you know, we put out readouts over the last couple of days.  But we
don’t have anything more to share on specifics at this point, beyond the
President’s comments and what Jake said yesterday during the briefing
yesterday.  
  
Q    Should we expect to see a follow-up face-to-face meeting between
Vladimir Putin and President Biden?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything else to share on that.  As you
know, yesterday’s conversation, as the President said and as Jake said,
was useful.  And they’re just going to continue moving forward with
making sure that — it’s all about de-escalation — right? — and making
sure that we go on a path of diplomacy.  
  
Q    Karine, the President said that that meeting with NATO and Russia
would be about Putin’s security concerns.  Can you can kind of explain
what concerns that the Russian President raised in their conversation
that the President believes is worthy of a potential summit between
those kind of bodies?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Are you talking about —  
  
Q    When the President was departing today, he said that they’re
“having meetings at a higher level” with “at least four… major NATO
Allies and Russia to discuss the future of Russia’s concerns.”  And so,
I’m wondering — and I know you said you couldn’t say what forum that
would be, but what Russia’s concerns were that were worthy of
discussion.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t know if you’re talking about the NATO
component and Ukraine.  Is —  
  
Q    I don’t know what the President was talking about when he said
“Russia” — like what Russia’s concerns were that he believes NATO should
be brought in on.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  So, let me — let me touch first on the NATO
component because that came up.  I think Jake actually talked about this
yesterday.   
  
So, you know, the President told Putin in their call: One nation can’t
force another nation to change its border, one nation cannot tell
another to change its politics, and nations can’t tell others who they
can work — who they can work with.  
  
So, the United States has consistently expressed support for the
principle that every country has a sovereign right to make its own
decisions with respect to its security.  That is written into the
founding documents of the Alliance, and that remains U.S. policy today
and will remain U.S. policy in the future.  
  
You know, whether there will be negotiations — I think that’s the other
part of your question — as we said in the meeting readout, the two
Presidents tasked their teams to follow up, as I just stated, and we’re
going to continue to stay in close coordination with our allies and
partners.   
  
We have found a way to have discussions at the height — at the height of
the Cold War, and we’ve done this in the post-Cold War era through the
NATO-Russia Council, the OSCE, and other mechanisms.  There’s no reason
we can’t do that going forward.  
  
Q    And then yesterday, the President pulled the nomination of Omarova
to be Comptroller of the Currency.  And I’m wondering — you know, Janet
said at the end of November that you strongly support her nomination and
that you weren’t going to pull it.  And so, I’m wondering what changed
between now and then.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, thanks for the question, Justin.  Let me just say
a couple of things because I think this is really important.  So, as you
saw from the news yesterday — as you just stated, Justin — the President
has accepted her request to withdraw her name from nomination for the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.  You can expect — and so we
put out a statement on that.   
  
But the President nominated Saule because of her deep expertise in the
financial regulation and her longstanding, respected career in the
private sector, the public sector, and as a leading academic in the
field.   
  
She has lived the American Dream, escaping her birthplace in the former
Soviet Union and immigrating to America.  She went on to work at the
Department of Treasury under President George W. Bush and currently
works as a professor at Cornell Law School.  
  
As a strong advocate for consumers and a staunch defender of the safety
and soundness of our financial system, she would have brought invaluable
insight and perspective to our important work on behalf of the American
people.   
  
But from the very beginning of her nomination, she was subjected to
inappropriate, often very personal, unfair, and completely unacceptable
attacks.  And so that’s — now she requested to withdraw, and we
respected her decision to do that.  
  
Q    Karine, the President said today, before leaving the White House,
that he was confident that Vladimir Putin “got the message.”  But does
he leave that conversation yesterday more confident that Putin will not
invade Ukraine?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You know, Jake — Jake Sullivan actually addressed
this.  Basically, the ball is in the court of President Putin.   
  
The President, again, was direct.  He was straightforward.  Like, he
made — you know, he made the United States’ positions clear on what was
happening — on what is happening in Ukraine.  And so, now it’s — we’re
going to continue to have those conversations on the staff level. 
That’s the way they left it, as I’ve said before.  
  
And again, the goal here is de-escalation.  The goal here is to go down
a path of diplomacy.  
  
Q    And last night, the House passed a new National Defense
Authorization Act, which has significant reforms to the military justice
system.  Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, who’s  
been a leader on this issue, says that the reforms don’t go far enough,
that this has basically been “gutted…behind closed doors” and “doing a
disservice to our service members and our democracy.”  Does the White
House believe these reforms go far enough, or was more needed?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me just say a couple of things, because it’s —
this is clearly very important.  And it was a –it was a — we reached a
historical point yesterday with meaningful reform of the military
justice system’s handing of — handling of sexual assault cases.  It
includes critical recommendations made by Independent Review Commission
on Sexual Assaults — IRC — called for by the President and Secretary
Austin, including removing investigation and prosecution of sexual
assault from the chain of command and creating dedicated units to handle
these cases and related crimes.  
  
The President believes that this legislation takes groundbreaking steps
to improve the response to and prevent — prevention of sexual assault in
the military and express gratitude to Secretary Austin for his strong
support as we have worked towards this moment.  
  
The President would also like to thank Senator Kirsten Gillibrand,
Senator Joni Ernst, and Congresswoman Jackie Speier for their tireless
work, over many years of it, to advance these important reforms.  
  
The President would also like to thank Senator Jack Reed and Congressman
Smith for their steadfast efforts to find common ground and reach a deal
that implements key recommendations of the Independent Review Commission
on Sexual Assault.   
  
These changes will ensure that any service member who experiences sexual
assault or related crimes — including women, men, LGBTQI+ individuals —
will be able to rely on a military justice system that is independent
from command influence and control and with spec- — specialized
prosecutors who will be equipped to handle these complex cases in a
trauma-informed way.  So, the administration is also pleased to see
that.  
  
Thanks to the tireless advocacy of Senator Gillibrand and others,
military prosecutors will also have independent authority to prosecute
the additional seriousness of crimes of murder, kidnapping, and
manslaughter.  
  
Look, this is — as I said, this is — this a — it takes steps to improve
the system, and so this is a step forward and we welcome it.  
  
Q    Karine, has the White House got a response to this story that came
out saying that President — former President George W. Bush — this is
speculating — might have been a target of a Havana Syndrome-type attack,
based on the symptoms that he and the former First Lady experienced.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, I can’t speak to anything that’s speculated. 
I — this is the first time I’m hearing about this report, and so I would
have to go back and check with our team.  
  
Q    Okay.  And on the Supreme Court, I’m sure you’ve digested the
300-page report, but there’s a recommendation — there’s an idea for an
18-year term that’s called “worthy of consideration” by the commission. 
Where is the President now on a term limit for Supreme Court justices?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Let me — so, the commission unanimously voted to
approve their report yesterday and sent it to the President, as you all
know.  Soon, the White House will post it online and release it to the
press.  
  
Like we said previously, out of respect for the work of this diverse
committee made up of many different viewpoints, the White House will not
comment until the President has reviewed it.   
  
But I’ll say this: That it is absolutely unprecedented in American
history to have a commission with this purpose, at this scale, bringing
this much expertise and so many diverse perspectives to bear, to weigh
in on these important and substantive questions.  And the President is
deeply appreciative of all the experts who have participated in this
process and worked so hard to make their historic contributions.  So, I
don’t have anything to share at this moment.  
  
Q    Will he make his positions known before the big cases come down in
the summer?  I mean, when is he going to — he’ll make his views known
before the big cases come down?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just don’t have a timeline for you right now.  
  
Q    May I ask you a question about Germany?  Germany has a new
chancellor today.  Does the President plan to meet Olaf Scholz, you
know, soon?  And if he does, how confident is the President that Germany
would support strong sanctions against Nord Stream 2?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  So, for the first part of your question,
President Biden thanks former Chancellor Merkel for her many years of
leadership and extends the congratulations to Germany’s new chancellor. 
And the President is looking forward to building on the strong ties
between our two nations and working closely together to make progress on
today’s global challenges.  
  
The President looks forward to speaking with the chancellor, but I don’t
have any specific call to review.  
  
And on your other question — so, we have had extensive conversation with
incoming and outgoing German administrations, as it relates to Nord
Stream 2 — right? — that’s the question you were asking? — in the
context of a potential Russian invasion.  But I’m not going to get into
private diplomatic discussions, other than to say this is an important
priority for the Biden administration, as you all know.  
  
We are continuing to work with Germany to implement the July 21st Joint
Statement of the United States and Germany on Support for Ukraine,
\[European\] Energy Security, and <s>Other</s> \[Our\] Climate Goals.  
  
And I’d point you to the clear commitments our countries made in the
joint statement to take action if Russia attempts to use energy as a
weapon or commit further aggressive acts against Ukraine.

Q    So, the President has ruled out unilateral use of U.S. forces to
help in the Russia-Ukraine conflict, but is there concern amongst White
House officials and larger administration officials about the threat of
a proxy war that could extend for a long time — indirect involvement
that could carry on for years and years and years and could become, as
Chris Murphy has said, the “next Afghanistan”?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me just first say this — and you’re talking
about the sta- — the comment that the President made before getting on
Marine One about the troops — troops in Ukraine — U.S. troops in —
specifically? 

So, as the President has made clear, if Russia chooses to pursue
confrontation, the United States and our European allies will impose
significant and severe economic harm on the Russian economy.  That
includes strong economic measures. 

We would provide additional defensive materiel to Ukraine, which Jake
Sullivan talked about yesterday, above and beyond what we are already
providing, and fortify our NATO Allies on the eastern flank with
additional capabilities in response to such an escalation. 

So, what the President said was that the United States is not currently
considering using unilateral force to confront Russia.  Jake just talked
about it moments ago at an event that he was at.  That’s not our fo- —
our current focus.  But we are preparing for all contingencies, as we
have been doing for weeks now, including preparing specific, robust
responses to Russian escalation should they be required.  
  
The President laid out very clearly to President Putin that there will
be significant and severe consequences if he chooses to further invade
Ukraine.   
  
We have been consistent in our message to Russia: The United States does
not seek conflict.  Diplomacy and de-escalation is the only responsible
way to resolve this potential crisis.  Russia should return to dialogue
through diplomatic avenues, such as the Minsk Agreements.  And that is —
that is our position.

Q    So, Vladimir Putin has also recently said that his appetite is also
for de-escalation to diplomacy.  But it seems to me — and essentially
what I’m wondering is, is there — is there an ability to reconcile the
two positions: the U.S. saying that you cannot tell another country what
alliances to join, et cetera, and Vladimir Putin drawing a red line
saying that Ukraine is not to be a NATO member?  Is there even common
ground possible here?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, here’s the thing: I’m not going to predict or lay
out any potential ways to get a — get to the question that you’re
asking.  All I could say here is that, you know, both teams agreed to
get together — and they have been having constant communication — to
talk about ways to de-escalate and to talk about ways to, you know, go
down the road of diplomacy.  And that is — that is the direction that
we’re trying to go down.

Q    You also mentioned additional contingencies — there’s always the
chance of additional contingencies later down the line.  Do those
additional contingencies, if you can respond to it, include the
potential for offensive capability (inaudible)? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m not going to respond to what our contingency
plans are going to be.  Clearly, that is a conversation that’s going to
have — that (inaudible) with the teams, between Russia and the United
States and our — also our allies.  We’ve been working closely with our
European allies in lockstep.  So, I’m not going to get into what that
could potentially look like. 

Q    Karine, can I ask a couple things that are happening in the House
right now?  One is the potential resolution — the censure resolution and
stripping of committees of Representative Boebert over her Islamic- —
Islamophobic comments that she made towards Representative Omar.  Does
the President support her being stripped from her committees? 

And a second is: Former Chief of Staff Mark Meadows has refused to
further cooperate with the January 6th committee.  Does the President
support a criminal contempt effort from the Justice Department there?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me — on the — on your second question first:
As the President has said before, January 6th was one of the darkest
moments in our country’s history.  And it’s vital that we have a full
accounting of what happened to ensure it never occurs again and never
happens again. 

The position of the White House regarding Meadows’s testimony is clear
and laid out in our letter detailing the President’s discussion not to
assert executive privilege. 

As we wrote, the decision was made in recognition of these unique and
extraordinary circumstances where Congress is investigating an effort to
obstruct the lawful transfer of power under our Constitution.  The
President has full faith in the January 6th Select — Select Committee’s
ability to carry out that work.  And that’s where we are on that.

Q    And on Representative Boebert?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, so I don’t have anything to share on that.  I
haven’t spoken to him about that particular question you just asked me. 

Q    Just two quick ones on today.  You mentioned the launch of
Build.gov — the website and branding.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Build — yeah, Build.gov.

Q    Build.gov.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes.  I want to say “Build Back Better.”

Q    Right.  (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But it’s — we got to get that first — (laughs) — done
and signed.  But build — Build.gov.

Q    And you said something about branding.  Is this in any way
recognition by the White House that BBB — Build Back Better — that
you’re still having trouble — that people are still not understanding
what that is, what it will do?

And then, secondly, you mentioned federal support for the Buck O’Neil
Bridge.  Is there previous federal money going to the replacement bridge
that’s under construction, or is there new —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, those are great questions, Darlene.  So, the
accompanying brand — just to put it out there — is “Build a Better
America.”  And, you know, as you can imagine, we’re constantly
messaging, as you know, to the American people every day, making sure
they know what it is that the President is doing to make their lives
easier, to deliver for them.  And we’re constantly looking for different
avenues and different ways to do that.  And so, this is part of it.   
  
The President has been, you know, traveling the country for the past
several months — certainly for the past several weeks on — specifically
on the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.  And when he even — when he talks
about the Infrastructure Law, he mentions the Build Back Better
framework as well — two pieces of — two pieces of his policy — economic
policies that’s going to make lives of Americans so much better, lower
costs.   
  
And as we know, with the law — the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law — you
know, make sure that we’re dealing with that hard infrastructure, make
sure that we’re dealing with broadband, and make sure we’re taking the
lead out of water.  
  
So, this is all part of what we’re trying to do to continue to message
with the American people.  And so, this is an opportunity to do that in
Kansas City, Missouri, today.  
  
Q    And then, federal support for the Buck O’Neil Bridge?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t any details about that.  So, I would — I
can — I’m happy to check with the team and get more specifics on if
there has been past federal support.  I don’t know.   
  
But I know that this — what we’re saying here is the Infrastructure Law
— the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will help kind of rebuild many of
these builds and high- — highways and tunnels across the country.  
  
Q    Karine, I know the President talked about it at — before he left —
the President talked about the Pfizer data and the Omicron variant.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes, yes.   
  
Q    But could we get a — just a more full response from the White House
—  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, absolutely.  
  
Q    — about your reaction to this news today?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Absolutely, Karen.  No problem.   
  
So, this is encouraging news.  As you said, the President spoke to this
on his way to Air Force One today.  It shows vaccines continue to offer
protection against the variant.  These early studies are helpful to
inform our understanding of Omicron.  And as Dr. Fauci said Tuesday, we
continue to gather data on vaccine effectiveness, as well as
transmission and severity.  And we’ll keep the public informed as we
have scientific updates.   
  
But the news today is an important reminder to get boosted.  It
increases your protection and offers you protection against Omicron.  We
need everyone to get vaccinated and boosted to be ready to face this
threat and to help us end this pandemic.  That is the whole — you know,
the whole goal here is to, you know, get out of this pandemic and make
sure that we get ahead of what’s to come.  
  
Q    Just one on Meadows.  Just one on that.  We’re — so we’ve got
Meadows not cooperating to the extent the committee thought.  The Bannon
trial is set for the summer.  We’ve got people pleading the Fifth.  Is
there a concern that these various events could run this thing out into
the — into a new Congress and therefore stop the committee from doing
what it’s trying to do?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, we have complete trust in the committee and the
July — in the July 6th — January 6th — pardon me — Select Committee’s
ability to do their work, and we’re going to leave it to them to do
that.  
  
Q    Karine, any reaction to — we’re seeing the UK, Australia, Canada
all join the Beijing Olympics diplomatic boycott.  Is that — was that
the goal to get all these countries to follow you guys?  And what’s the
expectation about what that’s going to achieve?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, you know, decisions to — countries’
decisions to boycott the Olympics — that’s their own kind of — their
decisions that they have to make for themselves. 

We made our stance very clear on where we stand with the 2022 Winter
Olympics.  And — but, you know, it’s up to them.  It’s up to them to
decide how they’re going to move forward and if they’re going to boycott
or not.   
  
Q    Another sports question.  Can you say if the President will attend
the Army-Navy game Saturday in New Jersey?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, such a good question.  I don’t have anything to
preview about his weekend — weekend stops and what he’s going to be
doing or if he’s going to be attending events.   
  
But I’ll say this, the President has said this before and it bears
repeating: The United States has the finest military that the world has
ever seen, and the President is so proud to be the Commander-in-Chief of
such an incredible group of warriors.   
  
As the President says at the end of nearly all of his addresses — you
probably will hear it today — “May God protect our troops, current and
future.”  
  
Okay.   
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.   
  
12:28 P.M. CST
