---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-12-03'
modified_time: 2021-12-03 16:38:16-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/12/03/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-on-new-national-action-plan-to-combat-human-trafficking/
published_time: 2021-12-03 16:38:15-05:00
title: "Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials on New National Action\
  \ Plan to Combat Human\_Trafficking"
---
 
Via Teleconference

(December 2, 2021)

5:05 P.M. EST

MODERATOR: Thank you very much.  And good evening, everyone.  And thank
you for joining us for this background briefing on the soon-to-be
released National Action Plan to Combat Human Trafficking.  This call
will be on background, attributable to “senior administration
officials,” and the call will be embargoed until 9:00 a.m. Eastern
tomorrow morning. 

Not for attribution but for everyone’s awareness, for those on the call,
our speakers are going to be \[senior administration officials\].

To start with, I’ll turn it over to my colleague, who will give you a
preview of the revised National Action Plan. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you very much, and good evening
to everyone.  Grateful for your time, grateful to you for joining us for
a preview of the revised National Action Plan to Combat Human
Trafficking. 

Globally, an estimated 25 million people are subjected to human
trafficking and forced labor, which is responsible for an estimated $150
billion annually in illicit profits. 

This is an issue that Joe Biden has a long history (inaudible).  He
supported the passage of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000,
and he continues to be a key supporter of federal anti-trafficking
efforts.  And that is part of why, with this Action Plan, we are
renewing our commitment to keeping the fight to end human trafficking at
the forefront of our national security agenda. 

This plan updates the previous one that was released in October 2020. 
And I’ll come to the process of updating the plan in a moment, but,
first, I want to get straight to what is in it.  
  
The National Action Plan is built around the foundational pillars of
U.S. and, really, global anti-trafficking efforts.  Four pillars:
prevention, protection, prosecution, and partnerships.   
  
The first three “Ps” — prevention, protection, and prosecution — are
reflected in the protocol to prevent, suppress, and punish trafficking
in persons, especially women and children, which supplements the U.N.
Convention against Transnational Organized Crime.  Those same three “Ps”
are also reflected in our own domestic Trafficking Victims Protection
Act of 2000, as amended.   
  
In addition, that fourth “P” — for “partnership” — serves as a
complementary way to achieve progress across the other three “Ps,” and
to do so by enlisting all segments of society in the critical fight
against human trafficking. 

Under the first pillar — the prevention pillar — the National Action
Plan presents 13 priority actions.  They range from strengthening
efforts to identify, prevent, and address human trafficking in global
supply chains to enhancing outreach and community-coordinated responses
to human trafficking.   
  
Moving to the second pillar –- protection — in that part of the Action
Plan, the U.S. government reiterates its commitment to offering a
diversity of interventions, of services, and of support to protect and
to help victims of human trafficking. 

The National Action Plan presents 17 priority actions under this second
pillar that range from identifying and engaging with victims in an
equitable and culturally competent manner to improving our support for
and our assistance to victims of human trafficking. 

The third pillar -– prosecution — is quite appropriately focused on
dismantling human trafficking networks and holding accountable
traffickers.

This pillar presents 12 priority actions — from building the capacity of
law enforcement, to investigate and prosecute human trafficking, to
enhancing efforts to bring traffickers to justice by deploying a broader
range of noncriminal tools.  Those tools can include civil forfeiture
actions, sanctions, export controls, and more. 

Finally, the fourth pillar -– partnerships — notes that in order to
support the first three pillars, we need to work together to improve our
institutional capacity to counter human trafficking. 

So, this pillar — pillar four — presents 19 priority actions organized
under five principles.  Those relate to strengthening our understanding
of human trafficking, enhancing information sharing on human
trafficking, incorporating survivor input, conducting outreach to
external partners, and evaluating our authorities and our resources to
address human trafficking. 

Speaking of pillar four and the importance of partnerships in all of
this work, we heard from survivors and from advocates during the
development of the initial National Action Plan in 2019.  And it is
essential to us and we look forward to continuing to collaborate,
consult, and strengthen our engagement with this community in order to
ensure that survivor input is consistently incorporated into federal
policies and programs.  That doesn’t end with the release of the 2019
Action Plan; it doesn’t end with the release of this updated plan.  That
continues.

Turning to the process of updating the National Action Plan, over the
past eight months, National Security Council staff here at the White
House — in close coordination with our colleagues here at the Gender
Policy Council and the Domestic Policy Council and working closely with
colleagues at over 20 relevant departments and agencies, some of which
you will hear from momentarily — began the process of updating the
National Action Plan to integrate the President’s core commitment to
gender and racial equity.

It’s a commitment reflected in Executive Order 13985, which was signed
on day one of this administration, and reflected in Executive Order
14020, signed on March 8th of this year. 

Updating the plan also involved paying close attention to core
commitments on the part of this administration to workers’ rights; to
fair trade and ending forced labor in global supply chains; to support
for underserved communities; and to ensuring safe, orderly, and humane
migration, including by improving the screening process to more
effectively identify victims of human trafficking. 

Finally — and to emphasize this — we are grateful for the community
leaders, the service providers, the businesses, the grassroots
activists, and the individuals with lived experience of human
trafficking across the United States and around the world who continue
to forge innovative anti-trafficking strategies and to push various
forms of government to improve responses to human trafficking.

We are grateful for the opportunity to speak to this release of the
revised National Action Plan, and we look forward to implementing the 61
priority actions it contains over the years to come. 

And now, it’s my pleasure to turn the conversation over to my
colleague.  Over to you.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you so much.  And thank you to
all of our colleagues at the White House who supported the update of
this National Action Plan and to President Biden for his strong
leadership on this issue.   
  
This plan calls on all of us to strengthen our anti-trafficking efforts
and enhance coordination in key areas.  The State Department plays an
important role in combating human trafficking.  We lead the government’s
bilateral and multilateral diplomacy on this important issue around the
world, provide foreign assistance to build sustainable capacity of
governments and civil society, and serve as one of the four federal law
enforcement agencies with a significant responsibility to investigate
human trafficking. 

The Secretary of State serves as chair of the President’s Interagency
Task Force to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons, a longstanding
Cabinet-level entity composed of 20 federal departments and agencies,
including the State Department.  These agencies are committed to
implementing action items in this plan consistent with their roles and
authorities, individually and in collaboration.

Earlier this year, in accordance with the National Action Plan, we
established two new ad hoc working groups: one to develop best practices
implementing screening forms and protocols to help federal officials who
could encounter a human trafficking victim in the course of their
regular duties, and another to analyze the rights and protections
granted to temporary employment-based visa holders and develop solutions
for addressing gaps.

The plan also calls on agencies to integrate an equity-based approach
into their anti-trafficking work.  And the Senior Policy Operating Group
is in the process of developing a plan for integrating racial equity
throughout interagency anti-trafficking efforts. 

In addition, increasing collaboration between the Department’s
Diplomatic Security Service and other federal and local law enforcement
agencies will help us continue building the U.S. government’s collective
capacity to pursue human trafficking cases and promptly connect victims
to protection services. 

The National Action Plan also reinforces the urgency of the Department’s
ongoing work to engage with the private sector and governments,
including across our own interagency, to prevent and address forced
labor in global supply chains, including those for public procurement.  

Finally, in alignment with the National Action Plan’s principle of
strengthening federal anti-trafficking efforts by incorporating survivor
input, State has continued to increasingly seek input from survivors. 
We are integrating their expertise into our policies, programs, and
products through continuous engagement with our Human Trafficking Expert
Consultant Network that comprises individuals with lived experience of
human trafficking and other subject matter experts.  

For example, network consultants developed resources on trauma-informed
considerations for anti-trafficking efforts in the COVID-19 environment,
which my office was proud to launch a few weeks ago and is now available
on our website.

These are just a few examples of our commitment to improving our federal
responses to human trafficking and how the National Action Plan
underscores the Department’s longstanding work on this important issue. 

As Secretary Blinken reflected this summer on the work ahead of us to
combat human trafficking, the Department will do everything in its power
to revitalize its commitment and strengthen efforts to address the issue
globally.  The Department is proud to be part of drafting, updating and
implementing the National Action Plan, which is a powerful piece of that
commitment.

Thank you. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you so much.  Next, we’ll turn it over to \[senior
administration official\]. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hi.  Good evening, everyone.  And thank
you, \[senior administration officials\].  It’s an honor to be here. 

We at the Department of Justice investigate and prosecute human
trafficking crimes.  We also fund victim services; we’re the largest
funder of victim services in the United States for human trafficking
victims.  And we of course fund and support state and local law
enforcement in a variety of areas, including in their efforts to
identify, investigate, and prosecute human trafficking crimes.

And you know, since the Trafficking Victims Protection Act was enacted
in 2000, combating human trafficking has been a top priority for the
Department of Justice consistently, and we’ve worked tirelessly to bring
traffickers to justice, but also to protect the rights of the vulnerable
victims of this crime. 

We adopt a victim-centered, trauma-informed model in all aspects of our
human trafficking work.  And I think this plan really carries that
forward. 

Since the enactment of the TVPA — the Trafficking Victims Protection Act
— we have charged almost 5,000 traffickers, and we’ve dismantled
transnational trafficking networks, and we funded victim assistance
programs to stabilize and empower survivors as they reclaim their
lives. 

And in those 5,000 prosecutions, what we have learned is that we must
have strong partnerships.  Because this crime, whether it is a case of
sex trafficking on a city corner or transnational sex or labor
trafficking, requires close coordination in partnership with our federal
partners, with our state and locals, with the nongovernmental
organizations and faith-based groups who support victims, with the
private sector, and, of course, with the survivors themselves. 

And one of the reasons I think we at the Department and across the
government are excited by this National Action Plan is that it has
brought together the subject matter experts — who, over these 20 years,
have been doing these cases and have been working in this area — to lift
up and advance what works and identify what we could be doing better,
and to strengthen the partnerships among all of us to do this work. 

The Department of Justice plays a role in all four pillars.  But I’m
going to focus really on the third pillar, which is the prosecution
pillar, and how we work closely with our key detection and enforcement
partners to combat human trafficking. 

And so, as I said, I think this plan is great because it takes what we
know and enhances it.  And some examples of that are: We, over the last
couple years, have piloted these anti-trafficking coordination teams,
which are ACT teams, where we partner with headquarters and with federal
officials across the United States to do training and enhancement and
then co-counsel and co-prosecute cases to develop capacity locally to
identify and prosecute these cases.  That was a pilot program that,
through the National Action Plan, we’re going to look to expand and
enhance. 

We’ve also, in the past, funded task forces, and we’ve learned a lot
about operating task forces and by coming together and working with our
partners across the government.  Part of our mission in implementing
pillar three of this plan is to strengthen our federally funded human
trafficking task forces with what we’ve learned.

We’re also identifying some gaps that we think we could do better.  Some
examples of that are: We have, for the last couple of years, been
prosecuting transnational sex trafficking cases between the United
States and Mexico.  And through the National Action Plan, by
coordinating with people like the Department of Commerce and other
members of the Department of Labor, we’re going to use
intelligence-driven targeting to advance these investigations and
prosecutions in a way we hadn’t been doing before. 

And I’m also very excited — one thing that we’re going to be doing is
we’re going to initiate a coordinated interagency labor trafficking
detection and enforcement effort to look at labor trafficking threats
that are being identified by government agencies across the United
States to try to really get at the problem of labor trafficking in the
United States. 

And finally, as I said at opening, we’re also — we are the largest
funder of services to human trafficking victims in the United States. 
And through the plan, we’re going to work with HUD and HHS to improve
safe housing options for victims of human trafficking so they can have
stability after they are freed from their modern-day slavery. 

So we look forward to working with the partners on the call and across
the government in implementing this plan over the coming months and
years. 

Thank you. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you very much.  And now we’ll turn it over to our
final speaker, \[senior administration official\].

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you.  And thank you to all the
partners on the call. 

Good evening.  I’m here today as \[redacted\].  CCHD mission is to
advance counter human trafficking law enforcement operations, protect
victims, and enhance prevention efforts by aligning DHS’s capabilities
and expertise. 

We are harnessing the vast talent, authorities, and resources of the
entire Department to continuously improve every aspect of DHS’s
anti-human trafficking efforts. 

It is this drive to do better at DHS that makes me proud to be here
today as the Biden-Harris administration releases an updated National
Action Plan to combat human trafficking. 

DHS contributed to the development of the plan and plays a significant
role in leading and supporting many of the priority actions. 

As outlined in the National Action Plan, we will build DHS capacity and
bolster partnerships with industry to prohibit forced labor in supply
chains; develop improvements to prevent human trafficking of foreign
workers and students; strengthen efforts by DHS personnel to identify
and respond to human trafficking they may encounter in daily work;
improve access to and the integrity of immigration relief and assistance
programs for victims of human trafficking; increase coordination with
law enforcement agencies and the social media and technology industry to
hold traffickers accountable and dismantle human trafficking networks;
and enhance initiatives that combat forced labor and traffickers’
illicit use of financial systems.

DHS is already hard at work on these priority actions.  This past year,
CBP made significant strides to prevent merchandise produced with forced
labor abroad from being imported into the United States.

Homeland Security Investigations year-end stats show an increase in
human trafficking investigations, arrests, and victim identification.

New Continued Presence requests increased to the highest they have been
in 10 years, and USCIS is now issuing Bona Fide Determinations for U
visa applicants, which protects them from removal and provides access to
work authorization much sooner.

ICE Enforcement and Removal Operations now has human trafficking points
of contact in every office and has collaborated with Blue Campaign on
posters and materials to distribute.  Additionally, Blue Campaign and
the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center have reached thousands to
ensure we all are better equipped to recognize and respond to human
trafficking.

And last, but certainly not least, Secretary Mayorkas directed DHS
components to incorporate a victim-centered approach into all policies,
programs, and activities governing DHS interactions with victims of
crime. 

DHS is committed to bringing human traffickers to justice, protecting
victims of sex trafficking and forced labor, and preventing these
terrible crimes from occurring.

Thank you.

MODERATOR:  Thank you very much.  And with that, we’ll open it up to
Q&A.

Q    (Inaudible) looking at kind of a new form of human trafficking. 
Like, how concerned is the administration about politicians using human
trafficking for political gain or sometimes called the “weaponizing of
migration,” as Belarus’ Lukashenko has done to — with, you know,
addressing his beef with the EU?  And how is — how’s the United States,
how’s the — how is the Biden administration facing that kind of human
trafficking challenge? 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes, thank you for the question.  I’m
going to let my State Department colleague tackle that in a moment. 

All I would say is that, look, for that which qualifies as trafficking,
the sense that this has just a human cost that is severe, that is
intense is part of what motivated, frankly, the release of this new
action plan. 

And, indeed, one of the primary updates to it is to be really
victim-centric and particularly focused on vulnerable communities in how
it approaches the work — including ensuring that victims are treated
respectfully, don’t suffer the costs for reporting crimes, and get the
treatment, the services, the respect that they deserve — which only
makes those who would somehow contribute to the practice of trafficking
— whether it’s for political gain or, frankly, for any other reason — an
additional part of an already dire problem.

And so, I think we come at this with a focus not so much on particular
forms of manipulating a political benefit or gain, but from the
perspective of wanting to ensure that those who suffer from this — the
victims who pay the cost of it — are identified, are well treated, are
well supported, and, of course, that those who actually engage in the
practice are identified, investigated appropriately, and brought to
justice.

But let me see if my State Department colleague would like to flesh that
out a bit.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, sure.  Thank you. You’ve
definitely touched on, I think, some of the key issues in terms of
keeping the focus on trafficking victims.  One thing that we emphasize
both within the United States and as we engage governments and other
partners around the world is the importance of raising awareness and
educating people about what human trafficking actually is and what it is
not. 

Very often, well-intentioned people — or perhaps, you know, sometimes
less well-intentioned people — conflate and confuse the difference
between migrant smuggling, for example, and human trafficking. 

And we want to make sure that the best information about what is
actually happening is available to policymakers, as well as
practitioners and people who are on the frontlines that can really be
out there helping identify people who are truly suffering from human
trafficking — identify them and get them the care that they need, as
\[senior administration official\] just mentioned. 

And one of the things that we highlighted in this year’s Trafficking in
Persons Report that was released in July is the damage that can be done
when misinformation is out there and leads sometimes to people seeking
information or sharing information that detracts from the victims that
truly need the care that they’re getting and the hotline and other
service providers being able to provide the care that they need to the
victims that deserve it.

So, we definitely believe that sharing good information and raising
awareness are really critical, including in situations like the Belarus
context that you mentioned in your question so that we all can really
focus on the horrible crime that human trafficking is and getting the
care to the victims that need it.

On the question of politicization, I will also just add that we’re very
fortunate in the United States that the issue of human trafficking has
long enjoyed very strong, enduring bipartisan support and has been
critical to the success of the U.S. government’s response to human
trafficking.

Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  And let me just add one thing, which is
— as you, I think, heard from both of us — that the real focus in this
Action Plan, the real focus, in some ways, in this conversation is on
victims and how to build on the tradition we just mentioned of ensuring
that the U.S. government identifies them, supports them, provides them
with services.

But given that the question mentioned specifically Belarus, let me just
add some ways, from more of a foreign policy perspective, that the U.S.
government has condemned the Lukashenko’s regime exploitation of
vulnerable migrants from other countries, as well as the regime’s
orchestration of migrant smuggling into the EU. 

And it’s particularly worth mentioning today that it was this morning
that we unveiled sanctions to hold that regime accountable in
conjunction with European allies and partners. 

Back to you, \[senior administration official\]. 

Q    Well, thank you for doing this and taking my question.  I have two
quick questions on the Southern border.  The first one is, this week,
the administration also announced an agreement with Mexico to
reimplement MPP and also some brand new opportunities and a new
framework for development cooperation to address the root causes of
irregular migration from Northern Central America.  The fact that you
are announcing this today, is it just a coincidence or there’s been
coordination to make all these three announcements this week?

And my second question is: Is Title 42 still in place with expedited
removals of individuals?  Might this play against the efforts of the
administration to investigate cases through the testimony of victims
that end up being removed in an expedited way? 

Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, thanks.  Thank you for the
questions.  I think I’ll probably let my colleagues, here, who focus
more on those issues follow up separately, which might be helpful.

All I would say here is that the focus of this Action Plan, the focus of
the discussion today is really on tackling the scourge of human
trafficking and, in doing so, in the context of this administration’s
approach to issues at the border, which is an approach consistently
grounded in safe, orderly, and humane migration.  And, of course,
identifying those who are made to suffer as victims of human trafficking
is critical to all facets of that.

So, I think for these purposes, I might — I might just leave it there.

Q    Hi, thank you so much for taking my question.  You mentioned that
DHS has made — or, I guess, everybody in administration has made
significant strides to prevent merchandise produced with forced labor
from coming into the country.  Do you have any more concrete numbers on
that?  And specifically, if that’s the — I know there are certain
orders, you know, from different countries regarding forced labor.  Is
that something that you can specify on, you know, for example, how much
merchandise from the area of Xinjiang was being stopped, et cetera? 
Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  \[Senior administration official\], do
you want to chime in on that area?  Do we still have you on the line? 

MODERATOR:  It appears his line has dropped. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Why don’t we let — why don’t we follow
up with you on those good questions.  It is a key piece of this, and
it’s one in which DHS, including CBP, does important work.  And I’m not
sure exactly how granular the details of the statistics might be.  But
I’d like us to be able to follow up with you on that question.

Q    Thank you. 

Q    Hello, I wonder — a couple of questions, if I may, but I’ll just
begin with this: How do faith-based groups play a part in the solution? 
I heard you say they support victims.  What other things do they do?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I’m happy to chime in on this one
before others.  This is \[senior administration official\] from the
State Department.

Faith-based groups can play a very helpful role in a lot of different
ways.  They certainly can be helpful and often do you provide services
to trafficking victims, both in the United States and throughout the
world. 

In their relationships of trust and access that they build with many
trafficking victims and vulnerable populations in communities that might
become trafficking victims, they often play a very helpful role in
identifying trafficking victims and sometimes playing sort of a
connecting role between trafficking victims and government or other
service providers in helping build that trust or make those connections,
referring them to other care that they can’t provide.  That’s certainly,
one, I think, very important role.

Faith-based organizations also can play an important role in helping all
of us better understand the nature and trends of human trafficking, as
well as the challenges that service providers and others face in
tackling the crime. 

So, they certainly play an important informational role and also can
play an important — an important role in helping influence both
governments in calling their attention and urging them to make important
reforms, including tackling some forms of human trafficking that may be
seen as a cultural tradition, for example, forced begging among some
religious students in some parts of Northern Africa and Sub-Saharan
Africa, for example. 

So, they can play an important role in all kinds of ways and are really
an important partner in that fourth pillar of partnership for all of us
as we work to combat this crime and take care of the victims.

Q    And how do you make a difference in countries that are hostile to
the United States? 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  There are two; I think the fourth
pillar of partnership is critically important.  The U.S. government
can’t do this alone, and our ability to urge and prompt other
governments to step up and fulfill their international commitments and
do right by their own citizens and others in their countries, in some
cases, is limited.

And there we work with partners that may be more effective in those
countries — whether that’s the private sector or faith-based
communities, civil society.  International organizations very often have
different relationships with some governments, as do like-minded
partners.  So, we really try to tailor our approaches in a given
country.

Obviously, we are not always successful.  There are some enduring
challenges in some countries, but we certainly try to use the variety of
partnerships, and encourage and arm others so that they too can be
effective advocates on this issue.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  And with that, we have to end the
call.  We’re running out of time.

Thank you, everyone, for joining today.  The factsheet should be in your
email, under embargo until 9:00 a.m. Eastern tomorrow, if you RSVP’d. 
If you did not get it, just send me an email right after this call
ends.  My email addresses in the RSVP link, and we’ll make sure that you
get it, again.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hey, \[senior administration
official\].  Sorry, this is a \[senior administration official\].  My
phone died.  I’m back. 

I’d like to answer that earlier question, if you want, real quick —

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Please.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  — from the outlet that wanted specifics
on statistics. 

So, CBP has issued seven Withhold Release Orders to detain shipments of
goods destined for the U.S. markets on grounds the goods are produced
wholly or in part with forced labor, including the first WRO on an
entire fleet of vessels and silica-based products primarily from
Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region.

They’ve also detained 1,469 shipments and seized 57 shipments with a
combined estimated value of $485 million, a substantial increase in both
the number and value of shipments detained during the previous year,
which means we’re preventing and deterring goods made by forced labor
brought from entering the U.S. commerce.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  Thank you so much, \[senior
administration official\]. 

And with that, we will wrap this press call today.  Feel free to email
me with any follow-up questions.

As a reminder, this call was on background with the speakers
attributable as “senior administration officials,” embargoed until 9:00
a.m. Eastern, tomorrow.

Thank you all, and I hope everyone has a wonderful evening.

5:39 P.M. EST
