---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-12-20'
modified_time: 2021-12-20 19:36:44-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/12/20/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-december-20-2021/
published_time: 2021-12-20 20:00:00-05:00
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, December 20,\_2021"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

3:03 P.M. EST  
  
MS. PSAKI: Hi everyone. Happy Monday.  
  
Q  Happy, happy.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Happy, happy. Okay.  
  
One note for all of you at the top. President Biden has nominated and
the Senate has confirmed the most diverse class of federal judges in
history at a rate not seen since President Reagan.  
  
As you may have seen Friday night and Saturday morning, the Senate
confirmed dozens of historical and critical nominees. This included 9
district court judges, bringing the total for the year to 40 — more than
any President in his first year in office since President Reagan.  
  
But it’s not just the sheer number of people nominated and confirmed. As
the President said at his commencement address last week at South
Carolina State, he is proud to have appointed more Black women to the
circuit courts than any administration in American history. We’ve
confirmed the first LGBTQ woman ever to serve as a federal circuit court
judge. And these 40 judges include people who have previously served as
public defenders, labor lawyers, and civil rights lawyers, as well as
prosecutors and government attorneys.  
  
The Senate also voted to confirm 41 ambassadors to countries around the
world, including critical allies such as — including Japan, France, the
European Union, and more. These qualified, competent leaders can now
finally get to their important work representing America’s interests
abroad.  
  
There’s still a lot of work to be done, and we’ll continue to work with
the Senate to make sure we have the people in place so that we can
continue to serve the American people.   
  
Also wanted to note the Department of Justice announced today that
they’ll be awarding $1.6 billion in grants to support a range of
initiatives to reduce violent crime and make our communities safer.  
  
This money will help address the surge in gun violence that we’ve seen
over the last two years and will bolster steps that the administration
has already taken to crack down on violent crime, including the
President’s Comprehensive Strategy to Prevent and Respond to Gun Crime
in June.  
  
These grants will help advance community violence intervention programs,
they’ll support evidence-based police and prosecution strategies,
they’ll ensure that victims of crime get the resources they need,
they’ll help people returning from prisons and jails transition
successfully back into their communities, and they’ll support responses
to crises like drug overdoses and mental health episodes.  
  
This is just the latest example of the historic levels of funding that
President Biden has made available to cities and states to address
crime, including through the Rescue Plan; through investments in proven
community violence intervention strategies that we announced in April;
through the COPS community policing grants announced last month, which
are helping to put 1,000 more police officers on the beat across 183
police departments this year; and through earlier DOJ awards, including
$1.2 billion for victim assistance and compensation programs and more.  
  
With that — I would say that since there’s space in the back, why don’t
folks who are standing sit in some of the back seats, just because I
know everybody is focused on the spacing of — spacing in these days.  
  
Go ahead, Colleen.  
  
Q  Okay, a couple things. So, on Omicron, cases are rising dramatically
across the country. Americans are still traveling en masse. Biden is
giving a speech that has been labeled “urgent” that the speech is
tomorrow. The Vice President also was saying that scientists were caught
off guard by the variants, and then there’s been pushback from the
scientific community on that.  
  
So, can you help — just talk a little bit about what the White House’s
message on Omicron is. What should the public be thinking? How — should
we be concerned? What should we do?  
  
And then the second one — I’m sorry, I’ll ask you after. Go ahead.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Absolutely, Colleen. Well, let me first say that the
President, as you noted, will be addressing the American people
tomorrow, and he’ll talk about what to expect as we head into the winter
months and detail additional steps that he — we will be taking.  
  
The President has been clear that while vaccinated individuals get COVID
due — he will restate tomorrow, I should say, that while vaccinated
individuals get COVID due to the highly transmissible nature of Omicron,
their cases will likely be mild or asymptomatic.  
  
We continue to see and our health experts assess that you are 14 times
more likely to die of COVID if you have not been vaccinated versus
vaccinated.  
  
Importantly, he’ll restate we’re prepared and that fully vaccinated
individuals have the tools to protect themselves with a booster shot and
masking where CDC recommends.  
  
For those who choose to remain unvaccinated, he’ll issue a stark warning
and make clear unvaccinated individuals will continue to drive
hospitalizations and deaths. That is not trying to scare people — or
maybe it is trying to make clear to people in the country what the risks
are here of not being vaccinated.  
  
What is clear is that we’re not in the same place that we were at — and
this is something he’ll reiterate tomorrow as well — at the beginning of
the pandemic thanks to the President’s extraordinary work to get over
200 million Americans vaccinated.  
  
To be clear: COVID-19 is not the same threat to fully vaccinated
individuals that it was in March 2020, and I outlined some of the
reasons why. And again, as I said at the top, he will also announce
additional steps.  
  
So, he will outline this clearly tomorrow. He has been candid and he has
been direct as he’s provided updates to the American public throughout
on our steps to address what we know is an unpredictable virus and a
once- — in our fight against a once-in-a-generation pandemic. But that’s
what people can expect tomorrow.  
  
Q  Okay. Thank you.  
  
On the negotiations over Build Back Better, we see Senator Manchin’s
version of events sort of differ from the White House’s version of
events in your statement on Sunday — which, I guess, was yesterday;
feels like a long time ago.  
  
I just wanted to know if you could talk a little bit about like where
the — where the gap is — if the negotiations fell apart over the Child
Tax Credit issue, if the White House is prepared to go around
legislation on — on the CTC if necessary. Kind of, where are we with
Manchin?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, I would say I think the lengthy statement that I issued
yesterday outlined pretty specifically the events of the last few weeks.
And it was important to the President and to all of us to make that
clear to the American people — the status and the steps that had been
taken.  
  
But I’m not going to relitigate the tick-tock of yesterday from here
today. I will say that, from the President’s viewpoint — and I saw him
this morning — he’s worked with Senator Manchin over the course of
decades. They share fundamental values, they’re longtime friends — that
has not changed.  
  
And what’s most on the President’s mind is the risk of inaction. And if
we do not act to get this legislation done and the components in it, not
only will costs and prices go up for the American people, but also we
will see a trajectory in economic growth that is not where we want it to
be. And we’ve seen projections from Goldman Sachs and others today on
that front.  
  
So, he’s no stranger to legislative challenges, and we are going to
continue to take steps — work like hell to get it done.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  Does the President feel betrayed by his friend?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I think our statement yesterday made pretty clear what we
feel — what was the factual depiction of events that happened.  
  
But again, the President sees Senator Manchin as somebody who is a
longtime friend, somebody he has worked well together on. And our
objective and our focus now is moving forward.  
  
Q  And where do lines of communication stand at this point between
either the President and Joe Manchin, Joe Manchin and the White House
staff that you spoke about? Is there contact at all?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I’m just not going to assess or give you an update on
specifics from here.  
  
Q  And just quickly, on COVID: Ahead of tomorrow’s speech, should
Americans expect any new restrictions?  
  
MS. PSAKI: This is not a speech about locking the country down. This is
a speech outlining and being direct and clear with the American people
about the benefits of being vaccinated, the steps we’re going to take to
increase access and to increase testing, and the risks posed to
unvaccinated individuals.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  Does the President still trust Senator Manchin?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Again, I understand the questions here, but our focus is on
moving forward. I think our statement yesterday made clear what the
course of events were over the last couple of weeks; it was important
for the American people to know and see that.  
  
But he considers Senator Manchin a longtime friend, and our focus is on
moving forward and getting this done.  
  
Q  Are you confident that all 49 other members of the Democratic Caucus
are still on board with Build Back Better, since —  
  
MS. PSAKI: I think —  
  
Q  — we’re looking ahead?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Sure. I understand, Ed. I can’t, obviously, speak for all of
them. But I think you saw quite a bit of unanimity yesterday in the
response of people and their desire from across the Democratic Party and
the desire to get this legislation done.  
  
Q  What would be his message to progressives who he asked to hang with
him as things moved over to the Senate now that what many of them warned
has happened?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, I would say, one, his message would be: We need to work
together to get this done, and he’s going to work like hell to get it
done. And that would be his message. And January is an opportunity to do
exactly that.  
  
Q  Quickly, on Ukraine —  
  
MS. PSAKI: Yes.  
  
Q  The State Department issued a Level 4 travel warning today, saying,
“U.S. citizens should be aware of reports that Russia is planning for
significant military action against Ukraine.  
  
Jake Sullivan spoke with his Russian counterpart again today.
Apparently, over at the Pentagon, they’ve just said that they’ve
conducted an assessment of air defense needs in the Ukraine.  
  
Obviously, you’ve said you’re monitoring this. Is U.S. intelligence
picking up something new?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, let me first say that the travel advisory for Ukraine
remains a “Level 4: Do not travel” due to COVID-19. The State Department
updated it to include information on Russia’s military buildup on
Ukraine’s border just to provide additional information. But it has been
at a Level 4.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  So nothing new otherwise?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, again, they provided — they — the State Department
provides additional information through travel advisories to make sure
they are being transparent with American citizens who are in different
countries. And that’s exactly what they did in this case.  
  
And we have historically seen large numbers of Americans and others, of
course, traveling to Ukraine during this time of year in the holiday
season, so it was just an effort to provide that information directly.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  Jen, your statement yesterday alluded to working more on Build Back
Better next year. Is your expectation that President Biden and Senator
Manchin will talk at all before the end of the year?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I’m just not going to give you any updates on their
engagements from here — I wouldn’t expect. And we’re going to keep those
private.  
  
Q  Got it. And do you regard his $1.8 trillion proposal as a nonstarter
given that it excludes the Child Tax Credit?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I think the President has been clear about — and I’ll let
Senator Manchin speak to the specifics of his proposal. I’m not going to
confirm those details from here of what — I know I’ve seen — I know
there have been reports out there, but I’ll let him speak to that.  
  
But I would say that the President, of course, wants to extend the Child
Tax Credit. That’s something he has spoken to. We know that it was a
significant contributor to cutting in half the child poverty rate.  
  
I’m obviously not going to negotiate from here. But, you know, he
doesn’t think “compromise” is a dirty word either.

Q  One COVID question. On Sunday, New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio
asked the President to invoke the Defense Production Act because of a
shortage of at-home tests, monoclonal antibody treatments — and he also
said that the Pfizer anti-viral pills should be fast tracked. Are any of
those things under consideration at this moment?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, we’re in touch — I will say first — with the City of
New York and the state, as well as other — all officials across the
country experiencing upticks. We’ve sent 30 ambulances to the state and
an accompanying team of personnel to help balance patient loads among
hospitals across the state.  
  
We’ve already used the Defense Production Act and spent $3 billion to
greatly expand the number of at-home tests. So that’s already something
we have tapped into.  
  
And as I noted earlier, the President will have more to say tomorrow in
his remarks about our efforts to expand access.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  Senator Manchin, this morning, on a radio interview said, “This is
staff. And they drove some things” that they put — and they “put some
things out that were absolutely inexcusable. They know what it is. And
that’s it.” Do you know what he’s referring to there? And do you have a
response to the — his comments about the staff?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I don’t. I would point you to Senator Manchin to outline
further.  
  
Q  And then, can you walk through — and I know you don’t want to talk
about yesterday’s statement — but the cost benefit of — you guys have
been so cautious, I think at the President’s direction, of never
speaking ill or laying out details of negotiations — what the
calculation was by deciding to put out a 700-plus word statement being
very clear about some palpable anger inside the White House related to a
critical vote in the caucus?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, I think Senator Manchin had a strong statement
yesterday, and we had a strong statement as well. And we’re ready to
move forward and get this done, and work like hell to do that with
Senator Manchin, with members of the Democratic Caucus, across the
Democratic Party. And that’s our focus moving forward.  
  
But that was our basis of our calculus yesterday.  
  
Q  And just one more quick one. My understanding is the — what Senator
Manchin put on the table, which you referenced in your statement, wasn’t
a final offer. It hadn’t been rejected. It was kind of a process that
was underway.  
  
What is the process now? Are you working through proposals? Is staff
dealing with policy issues? Where do things go from here in terms of the
actual proposal?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, clearly, the next couple of weeks will be important and
pivotal and certainly involve high-level staff engagements, enga- —
involve the President and his engagements directly with members. And we
have been engaged with leadership, with members of the Senate and their
staff over the course of the 24 — the last 24 hours to talk about the
path forward.  
  
You saw, I’m sure, Leader Schumer’s statement this morning, and we will
stay in close touch and in close coordination with him and his team on
the path forward in January.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  So, two — one on COVID and one on —  
  
MS. PSAKI: Sure.  
  
Q  — on Build Back Better.  
  
On COVID, has there been an outbreak of COVID at the White House, the
NSC, the State Department, and the Treasury? And has the President been
in contact — close contact with a COVID-positive person and thus in need
of quarantine?  
  
MS. PSAKI: The President has a full schedule today and is not in need of
quarantine. We will provide information to all of you, as outlined with
our commitment from just a few months ago about being transparent about
close contacts. I don’t have any updates for you at this mo- — point in
time.  
  
But, again, we expect there to be breakthrough cases across the country
— right? — and certainly in the federal government. And the most
important thing to note for you and for others is that the — 99 percent
of the — of the — or more, at this point, of the White House staff is
vaccinated. Boosters are strongly recommended and distributed. We have a
very thorough process here that people abide by who are going to have
close contact with the President — and even beyond that. And those
protocols go above and beyond CDC guidelines.  
  
Q  But you’re going to say whether or not there’s been a significant
outbreak in the various different parts that I mentioned: NSC, State
Department, Treasury?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Again, I point you to different agencies to give any
additional information. But I would just note that we do expect there to
be breakthrough cases, as there are — as there will be across
government.  
  
Q  Okay. And then on Build Back Better: Did you see the Steve Clemons
article today blaming the White House for “incivility” toward Senator
Manchin — and specifically, the statement that was released on Thursday
— I think, Thursday evening — in which this — the read or the assessment
was that the senator thought that that statement blamed him in a — in a
way that wasn’t in keeping with the approach that he and the President
had been dealing?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I have not yet read his article. It’s been a busy day. But I
will tell you that our intention — I think, if you look back to last
Thursday — was to provide an update on the future of Build Back Better.
And I think it is not a secret where there was opposition to Build Back
Better moving forward and where there is support, which is the vast
majority of the Democratic Caucus. That was not intended to be directive
or hurtful, but to state — be a statement of fact.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  Yeah, thank you, Jen. In a press call this afternoon, Representative
Jayapal, Chairwoman of the House Progressive Caucus, called on President
Biden to pursue executive action to pass components of the Build Back
Better legislation. Is this something that the White House would
consider or even thinks is a realistic possibility to pass some of these
elements?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, I haven’t had a chance to discuss Representative
Jayapal’s call with our legislative team. I’m not aware of that being
under discussion. Obviously, we have used executive authority and
executive action for a range of steps to make a range of progress, and
the President has not hesitated to do that.  
  
The benefit of legislation is, obviously, it makes it permanent. So,
there’s a lot of value in that.  
  
But I can see if that’s something more under active consideration.  
  
Q  And real quick: Regarding communications with Senator Manchin, you’ve
not said much on that. I mean, are you able to confirm that — whether or
not President Biden has reached out to the senator today?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I’m not going to detail contacts further.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  Jen, thanks. Just to drill down a little bit on that: Moving forward,
you’ve already taken Senator Manchin to the woodshed. Are you going to
invite him back into the fold? Are you going to try to reach out to
him?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Of course. And we conveyed, yesterday, that.  
  
Q  And secondly —  
  
MS. PSAKI: And I would also note the — the last sentence of my — two
sentences of the statement was: “But we will not relent in the fight to
help Americans with their child care, health care, prescription drug
costs, and elder care…The fight for Build Back Better is too important
to give up. We will find a way to move forward next year.”  
  
It also made clear that we absolutely want to work with Senator Manchin
and all Democrats to get this done.  
  
Q  And are you going to work with to bring — try to bring GOP members
into the fold?  
  
MS. PSAKI: We would certainly welcome their efforts or — whether their —
their support for lowering cost for the American people and driving up
economic growth. We would.  
  
Q  And then a follow-up, if I may, on COVID. You said 14 times more
likely to die — unvaccinated. Is there a point in time where this
administration — I mean, what you said recently about, “Hey, for those
who are vaccinated, it’s mild or asymptomatic. For those who are not,
death and destruction awaits you.” So, are you pretty much done trying
to be diplomatic on this? Is it over with?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I think our responsibility and the President’s responsibility
is to continue to convey the risks, to continue — continue — excuse me —
to make sure we are increasing access for vaccines, access to
information to the public, and that’s what you’ll hear him talk about
tomorrow.  
  
Go ahead, Jacqui.  
  
Q Thanks, Jen. Did the White House share the Thursday statement with
Senator Manchin before it was put out? And what was his reaction to
that?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I’m not going to detail private discussions or private
sharing of statements in advance.  
  
Q  Okay. And then, on his call-out to Democrats for badgering him,
saying that they believe that he could be moved in his position somehow:
Is there any regret within the White House or within discussions with
Democratic leadership just about how this negotiation went, given that
statement from him? And he feels that he’s been badgered and beaten.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, that certainly is not our objective, never has been our
objective. But our objective is getting this legislation passed and
reminding the American people and all people who could vote for it what
the stakes are.  
  
So, no, we don’t have regrets about aggressively communicating about it
and making sure people understand that if we don’t pass this
legislation, costs for the American people will go up and economic
growth projections will not go in the right direction.  
  
Q  This shows, though, that Democrats just don’t have a large enough
majority to call off this kind of transformational legislation without
these kinds of significant bumps in the road. But the President, you
know, ran as a moderate. Joe Biden is asking for any major policy
changes — or excuse me, Manchin is asking for major policy changes to be
bipartisan. So why are Biden and Manchin seemingly so far apart on this,
where Manchin is wanting to bring Republicans in and the President has,
you know, tried to work this out just within the Democrats?  
  
MS. PSAKI: The President would welcome Republicans joining this effort
to lower the cost of childcare, to make sure that families aren’t paying
thousands of dollars for insulin, to make sure people can afford care
for their parents and loved ones. He would welcome that.  
  
I think it’s not a secret that opposition is driven by the concern by
many in the Republican Party that they don’t want to raise taxes on
corporations and highest income. That’s not a secret. But certainly,
we’d welcome support or engagement from any Republicans in this effort
to get this done.  
  
Q  And then on Omicron and the announcements coming tomorrow, one of the
items that you guys have consistently said is on the table and is being
evaluated is vaccine mandates for domestic air travel. Is that something
that you guys have reached a decision on?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I don’t have anything new on that. I think we’ve said in the
past that masking is something we know is effective and works. I would
expect, tomorrow, you’ll hear more from the President on what we’re
going to do more about making vaccines and testing accessible, and what
the American people can expect over the next couple of months.  
  
Q  And real quick, on this ruling from the Sixth Circuit —  
  
MS. PSAKI: Yeah.  
  
Q  — on the vaccine-or-test mandate. Obviously, this has been, you know,
a bit of back-and-forth between the different circuits, and it’s still
caught up in the, you know, whole process. I understand that the White
House has consistently said, you know, “Look to this deadline. We’re
going to continue pushing toward it.”  
  
But you’re having some businesses — like, you know, Amtrak, last week,
just said that they’re going to have to cut service, and then a few days
later said, “Just kidding, we’re not going to.” This, obviously, might
change that calculus again. So, what’s the message —  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, Amtrak didn’t say that it was related to a vaccine
mandate. They said it — they gave other reasons for it.  
  
Q  I think they (inaudible).  
  
MS. PSAKI: And also, they had 94 percent or higher percentage of their
employees vaccinated.  
  
Q  They did, but they also said on the Hill, in the hearing, that
because they would need to hire qualified employees who met their
vaccine requirements, that they anticipated having to cut service from,
I think, January to March. And I know what you’re referring to — where
they listed off some other concerns. I think it was related to hiring
that was paused during the height of the pandemic. But —  
  
MS. PSAKI: Yeah, they talked about a range of challenges they were
having. But also, I would note that 94 percent — if not higher at this
point — of Amtrak employees are vaccinated. We also know that 60
percent of businesses — if not higher at this point — have put in place
vaccine requirements or testing requirements because they know it’s
effective for the economy and it creates a safe workplace.  
  
So, we are — certainly welcome the Sixth Circuit’s decision. We feel
that the vaccination-or-testing rules will ensure businesses enact
measures that protect employees, create more certainty to the — for the
economy. And we don’t feel that this is a time for organizations to be
backing away from these requirements.  
  
Q  You don’t feel that this is a sort of back-and-forth, like businesses
are getting whiplash, that customers are getting whiplash from
announcements like this?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I think what’s clear is that if you have the vast majority of
companies in this country putting in place restrictions and requirements
— testing requirements — that it’s an indication that this creates
certainty in the workplace, creates — ensures there’s a healthy
workplace. And that is outside of this OSHA requirement.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  Jen, the President’s own medical advisors have suggested that if
people are going to gather with family this holiday, that they try to do
an at-home rapid test beforehand. But we’re seeing such a lack of the
supply at so many different stores. There are very long lines all across
the Northeast.  
  
So, what is the White House doing specifically right now to help
Americans get access to these tests? And will the President speak to the
frustration on that front many are feeling during his remarks
tomorrow?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Absolutely he will. I would note that, to date — and we’ve
always said this would always be a building process — our objective is
to make tests accessible and free for Americans. There are a lot of ways
to do that, and there are different ways that Americans are getting
access to tests.  
  
If you have health insurance, you can go to your doctor. If you —
everyone does not have health insurance; 150 million Americans obviously
do. We’ve also made 50 million tests recently available to community
health centers and rural health sites. There are 20,000 free testing
sites across the country. And we are going to continue to build on that,
and the President will talk about that tomorrow.  
  
Q  Does the White House feel like, right now, the administration is
doing enough to get Americans access to these tests?  
  
MS. PSAKI: We always feel we need to be doing more, and that’s what the
President will talk about tomorrow.  
  
Q  And just some quick housekeeping items. Given this surge and this
spike right now from the variant, how often is the President being
tested for COVID? And when was he last tested?  
  
MS. PSAKI: He is regularly tested. I will get — I will check for you
when the last time he was tested.  
  
Q  And are there any other protocols on campus right now that are
changing to accommodate? For instance, you talked about breakthrough
cases. That’s something you would expect that would be in fully
vaccinated people. Are these staffers who also have been boosted? And is
it the White House policy that if you’re working on campus or in close
proximity with the President, that you have a booster or a third dose?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Our policy — it is heavily recommended to get a booster. If
you are going to be in close proximity with the President, you’re
required to be tested that day. That goes over and above typical
protocols. Given the workplace we work in, that certainly is
appropriate. But — and, of course, we have masking requirements that are
in place as well.  
  
So there hasn’t been a change. Obviously, we will continue to consult
with our health and medical experts if any changes need to be put into
place.  
  
Q  And are there any changes right now to the holiday receptions that
were already altered that are open to some members of the public here at
the White House? Or —  
  
MS. PSAKI: The open houses?  
  
Q  Yes.  
  
MS. PSAKI: There are — individuals who are attending those are required
to be tested in advance.  
  
Q  And any changes to the President’s holiday plans at this time, given
the spike?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Not at this time.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  Thanks, Jen. Back on Build Back Better, just curious: What was the
reaction among senior staffers here when Joe Manchin said that the
President’s aides alienated him and that’s the real reason that he
backed away from the bill?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I think our statement yesterday speaks for itself.  
  
Q  But Joe Manchin said that that statement was a — an example of
retaliation by the White House. What’s your response to that?  
  
MS. PSAKI: The statement was a statement of facts of the events of what
happened over the last few weeks, and it was simply an effort to make
that clear to the American people.  
  
Q  What does this episode teach the White House about the prospects of
voting rights? Joe Manchin has also said that he wants that to be a
bipartisan effort. Is it going to become law by the time that this
Congress is out?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, that is certainly our objective. And you saw, I think,
in Leader Schumer’s “Dear Colleague” that he put out this morning, that
he plans to bring voting rights up when they get back — when the Senate
gets back in January. And we certainly support that, and we’ll stay in
close coordination with him and his team to get that done.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  Jen, in terms of the climate provisions in Build Back Better, does
the President think that he can achieve the goals that he set out to
reach by 2030 without legislation? And as a result of this, is the
administration looking at additional executive actions that could be
taken on climate to try to meet some of those goals?  
  
MS. PSAKI: We’re always looking at additional steps we can take. That
has not changed.  
  
As you know, I think there are multiple paths to reaching the
President’s climate goals. We have every intention of passing Build Back
Better, which includes enormous climate provisions. I would note that
there are a number of steps we have taken without legislation, and
certainly, we’ll continue to build on that, including setting a bold
target to cut greenhouse gas pollution in America 50 to 52 percent below
2005 levels by 2030; tackling super-pollutants; phasing down HFCs and
addressing methane leaks; rallying the world to focus on methane in
Glasgow.  
  
We stood with autoworkers and America’s big car manufacturers to roll
out plans to boost electric vehicles and create opportunities to save
car owners money.  
  
We put America on track for one of every two cars sold to be zero
emissions within the decade. And we jump started offshore wind.

I share all that because that has been done without the benefit — the
vast majority of it — of legislation.

There are also components in the infrastructure package and law that
will also help take steps forward, including the largest investment in
passenger rail; helping reduce GHG emissions; building a national
network of EV chargers; electrifying thousands of EV school buses;
investments in port and airport infrastructure to repair, maintain, and
reduce congestion; largest investment in resilience; replacing America’s
lead pipes and service lines; and the largest investment in tackling
legacy pollution.

So, I would say we are — it is clear from the President’s
accomplishments and agenda to date that climate and the climate crisis
is going to continue to be front and center for him.  
We’re absolutely going to — working to get Build Back Better done. And
we are not going to wait to continue to look at a range of options.

Q  And just one on schools. Prince George’s County, nearby, is going to
virtual learning through mid-January. Does the administration have a
view on whether local districts should revert to virtual learning, you
know, in the next few months as the Omicron variant progresses?

MS. PSAKI: We continue to believe that local school districts will need
to make the decisions that they feel are appropriate for their
communities.

Our objective and the President’s objective is to keep schools open, and
99 percent of them are open, have been open. And we believe we have the
tools to do that.

One of the steps we’ve talked about a little bit is “test to stay,”
which is a proposal that’s been out there by a number of health
officials where if your kid is in school now — and you probably know
this, and I know this — and they have a close contact, typically they
have to quarantine or be out of school.  
And there have been health experts who have recommended that there can
be a contact tracing and testing regimen that can allow kids to stay in
school. And that is very intriguing to the President. And that is what
our focus is on.

Go ahead.

Q  Can I ask, with regards to the speech tomorrow, whether the President
has spoken with his health advisors at the CDC about whether they need
to change their guidance on Omicron? Will this be part of the speech, in
particular?  
For instance, right now, we’re seeing a lot of breakthrough cases right
now with vaccinated people if they’re not boosted. But the guidance
right now says you don’t have to isolate if you’ve been exposed, if
you’re fully vaccinated. Should that change? Should the 10-day timelines
change? Do we need to, like, pretty substantially overhaul these
guidances — guidance for the Omicron variant, given how fast it seems to
replicate?

MS. PSAKI: Look, I think the President’s view is that if that is the
guidance and the belief of his health and medical experts, who he
engages with and is briefed by regularly, then he is looking to them for
that guidance.

As you know, they haven’t changed that guidance to date. But given the
spread of Omicron, given the transmissibility of Omicron, of course,
they’re continuing to look at a range of steps.

Q  But we don’t expect that to be part of tomorrow’s speech (inaudible)?

MS. PSAKI: I don’t have anything more to preview for you. But, again,
the focus of the President’s speech tomorrow is providing expectations
to the American people of what they can look ahead to over the next
couple of months and an understanding — and an update on what he and his
administration are going to do more.

Q  Is the baseline expectation for the President right now that cases
are going to continue to rise? Francis Collins retired and warned on the
way out that we could see a fairly substantial rise in cases, like
hundreds and hundreds of thousands of cases a day.

MS. PSAKI: And I think Dr. Fauci has referred — has discussed that as
well. As you know, Josh, I think some of it depends — as they have both,
I believe, spoken to — on the steps taken by people in this country to
get vaccinated, to take necessary precautions.

But certainly, we continue to believe that based on health — based on
science, that the boosters can protect people, can prevent
hospitalization and death. And that’s why we are going to continue to
echo that out to the public.

Q  And sorry, forgive me — I know you —

MS. PSAKI: Go ahead.

Q  — don’t want to — I know you don’t want —

MS. PSAKI: You’re fine.

Q  — bark too much up the tree of what happened in —

MS. PSAKI: Federal Reserve —

Q  — in the last 24 hours —

MS. PSAKI: — or something else?

Q  Yeah. No, no, no. (Laughter.) I’ll be back tomorrow.

MS. PSAKI: Okay. (Laughter.)

Q  The President, of course, spoke with Senator Manchin many times.
Senator Manchin seems to be, essentially, blaming the White House,
right? He’s referring to comments made by — or staff — or actions taken
by the President’s staff. He hasn’t necessarily specified what those
are; they’re indications that it’s perhaps the statement from
Thursday.  
Do you think that there was a misstep on the part of the administration
here? Because it feels like if you can’t sort out what ticked him off,
then it’s sort of difficult to imagine a path forward on whatever
efforts to salvage this will be undertaken in the next weeks and months.

MS. PSAKI: Well, look, I can’t speak for Senator Manchin on what has
upset him. I’ll let him speak to that himself with more specifics if he
— if he chooses to, and he may or may not choose to, and that’s his
prerogative.

All I can convey is that, you know, we continue to focus on how we’re
going to get this done. The door remains open; the President considers
him a longtime friend, someone he’s worked with on a range of
initiatives and objectives over the course of the last several years
that they’ve known each other. And that’s really where we’re coming at
this from.

Go ahead.

Q  Thanks, Jen. Earlier — I wanted to ask: Is the President’s speech —
will it also talk about life with COVID, beyond a few months?

The President talked in the past about ending COVID, but experts
certainly seem to say that COVID may be here to stay much longer than
that. Does the President share those views? And will that be discussed
tomorrow in any way?

MS. PSAKI: Again, we’re still finalizing the speech, so I can only
really give you a preview of what we know to date, which is what I’ve
already outlined here. I understand that certainly is a question out
there on what it looks like, and we will continue to consult with our
health and medical experts on that.

Q  Does the President still feel like COVID can be ended?

MS. PSAKI: His objective is to continue — continue to make vaccines
available, reduce cases around the co- — reduce hospitalizations and
deaths across the country, and do that through making vaccines, testing,
and a range of utilities available.

Q  On tests: You talked about the Defense Production Act being used to
boost tests —

MS. PSAKI: Yeah.

Q  — and that there is going to be some conversation tomorrow about
increasing use of — increasing availability of tests. Should we expect
an announcement about the DPA being used to help bring more tests to the
country?

MS. PSAKI: We’re already using the DPA, so that’s already happening. But
I’m not going to get ahead more of the President’s — I know he’s been
meeting with his COVID team while I’ve been out here, so I can’t —
there’s not much more I can preview at this point in time.

Go ahead.

Q  Thank you, Jen. I’ve got a question about Build Back Better and then
a question about the coronavirus.

MS. PSAKI: Sure.

Q  On Build Back Better — returning to Josh and Phil’s questions about
Senator Manchin blaming White House staff: Steve Ricchetti was
reportedly a top liaison with Senator Manchin. Is Mr. Ricchetti or any
other West Wing staff being reassigned as a result of Senator Manchin’s
complaints?

MS. PSAKI: No. And Senator Manchin hasn’t even outlined more detail.

Q  Okay. And on the coronavirus: Last week, I asked President Biden, on
the Lawn, about 800,000 American deaths. When I asked him why he hadn’t
done more to press China to be transparent on the origins of the
pandemic, he smiled and walked away without giving a verbal answer. I’m
wondering why was that his reaction. And can you give us an update on
anything he has done to press China for transparency, especially to
ensure that there isn’t another pandemic?

MS. PSAKI: Well, we put out an extensive statement from the President on
the 800,000 deaths, which I’m sure many of you noted.

And again, I would just reiterate — what we’ve said many times is that
we are going to continue to press China to be more transparent, to
participate in the global community’s effort to push them to do more to
get to the origins of the virus.

As you know, we’ve also tapped into all of the resources we have here
through our intelligence community, through working with our partners
and allies, and we will continue to press to do that.

Go ahead.

Q  Does the administration regret the earlier guidance on booster shots
where not everyone was eligible and they weren’t made to look like they
were an essential part of protecting people from the pandemic?

MS. PSAKI: That was a decision made by our health and medical experts,
so I would point you to them.

Go ahead.

Q  Yeah. Hi, Jen. Does the administration have any plans to lift the
travel ban on several Southern African countries, given the fact that
Omicron is clearly already here and is kind of spreading pretty rapidly?

MS. PSAKI: I mean, our objective is to not — this is not a permanent ban
at all; it is temporary. And we are continuing to assess day to day the
decision to lift that ban. But, yes, that is our intention to lift the
ban.

Q  Okay, got it. And then also —

MS. PSAKI: And I don’t have a timeline on that at this point in time, to
conclude my answer there.

Go ahead.

Q  Okay. And then second question for you, just because — a follow-up on
the vaccine mandates for large employers: Those guidelines currently
don’t include anything about booster shots. Is there going to be any
sort of update to those requirements that will include further guidance
on, you know, whether boosters will be included as like a — as a
requirement towards being fully vaccinated, essentially?

MS. PSAKI: Sure, it’s a good question. So, we would — first, the CDC has
not changed their evaluation of what being “fully vaccinated” means. I
think Dr. Fauci has said it’s not a matter of “if” but “when.” And then,
obviously, we base any of our policies from the federal government on
the CDC guidance.

So, that would be the first step if and when they were to change that.

Go ahead.

Q  Can you bring us up to speed — I just have two questions: one on
Russia, one on Afghanistan.

Can you bring us up to speed on conversations between the White House
and the Kremlin over the weekend?  
MS. PSAKI: Sure.  
Q  And can you clarify the administration’s stance on some of the
specific demands that Russia made? For example, most importantly, the
one that Ukraine not be allowed to join NATO.  
MS. PSAKI: Sure. Well, let me first say — I know we put out a readout, I
believe, of — or if not, it will be coming soon. But: “Today, Jake
Sullivan spoke with…” Yuri Shakov \[sic\] — Ushokov \[sic\] — Ushakov
— I’m sure I’m butchering his last name, apologies — “…Foreign Policy
Advisor to President Vladimir Putin of Russia. He indicated U.S.
readiness to engage in diplomacy through multiple channels, including
bilateral engagement, the NATO-Russia Council, and the OSCE. He made
clear that any dialogue must be based on reciprocity and address our
concerns about Russia’s actions, and take place in full coordination
with our European Allies and partners.”  
  
That is consistent with our ongoing outreach and engagement with the
Russians, with the Ukrainians, with the Europeans as well that happened
through the course of last week.  
  
As it relates to NATO membership or joining NATO, as — as we’ve talk- —
said many times but I’ll just reiterate, given I know it was raised
through their proposal: The President’s view, the administration’s view
is that the right of sovereign nations to choose their partnerships and
alliances is a core principle of European security and has been agreed
to and reaffirmed many times over the years. This remains U.S. policy
today, mean- — it is — we support the aspirations of countries to join
NATO and meet specific requirements.  
  
It — NATO’s relationship with Ukraine is a matter only for Ukraine and
30 NATO Allies to determine.  
  
Q  Thank you. And then on Afghanistan: What’s the administration’s take
on this letter from 46 members of Congress asking the Treasury to
unfreeze or ease Afghanistan’s access to foreign reserves, and to do
more to allow financial institutions and aid groups to operate in
Afghanistan?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, there are a number of reasons why the Afghan reserves
remain inaccessible, including, first and most immediate, the status of
the funds is the subject of ongoing litigation brought by certain
victims of 9/11 and other terrorist attacks who hold judgments against
the Taliban. And these letal \[sic\] — legal proceedings obviously
cannot be disregarded.  
  
We also — the second reason is, we continue to face difficult
fundamental questions about how it might be — we might be able to make
reserve funds available to directly benefit the people of Afghanistan
while ensuring that the funds do not benefit the Taliban.  
  
And finally, the Taliban remains sanctioned by the United States as a
“specially designated global terrorist group.” That certainly has not
changed.   
  
But this is, of course, complicated by the ongoing litigation over those
funds.  
  
Go ahead. Hello.  
  
Q  Thanks, Jen. Does the President think Senator Biden is — Senator
Biden — Senator Manchin is going to —  
  
MS. PSAKI: He always thinks of himself as a senator. (Laughter.)  
  
Q  Does the President think Senator Manchin —  
  
MS. PSAKI: There you go. You’re not wrong.    
  
Q  Does the President think Senator Manchin has been negotiating in good
faith?  
  
MS. PSAKI: He has said that from the beginning. He continues to consider
him a friend. And, obviously, our statement yesterday over — about the
events of the last few weeks, I think, speaks for itself.  
  
Q  The reason I ask is that some progressives are alleging — alleging
that Manchin was always going to be a no and, in effect, bamboozled the
White House into believing that he was negotiating in good faith and was
going to pull the plug at the end of the process.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, look, I know there’s a lot of theorizing out there; we
certainly understand that. But the fact remains that we only have 50
votes in the Senate — that has not changed. You need all of those
members to support legislation moving forward.  
  
And I know one of the arguments out there is that we should have waited
on the Bipartisan Infrastructure Bill. Look, the President has said from
the beginning and continues to believe today — and is committed to today
to getting both done — obviously, the Infrastructure bill is now law —
to getting Build Back Better done.  
  
But if the question is whether we should have delayed and not moved
forward with replacing lead pipes for millions of communities — of
people in communities across the country, we disagree with that.  
  
Or if you’re — the argument is that we should have waited and delayed
replacing broadband, we disagree with that.  
  
And if you believe that we should have delayed in putting many, many
union workers to work, creating many, many good-paying union jobs, we
disagree with that. We’re going to get both done.  
  
And we certainly understand there’s a lot of theorizing about what
happened or what’s going to happen moving forward.  
  
Go ahead, in the middle.  
  
Q  Thanks — thank you, Jen.  
  
Q  Thanks, Jen.  
  
Q  I want to ask you — I’m sorry.  
  
MS. PSAKI: We can go to both.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  Oh, thank you so much. I want to ask you about that statement that
you put out yesterday.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Sure.  
  
Q  Very harsh statement. It’s very rare that I see a President, through
a statement, criticizing a member of his own party in the manner in
which that statement was written. And I want to ask you as to whether or
not you believe that harsh rhetoric coming from the White House, the
harsh rhetoric that I’ve seen coming from fellow Democrats, progressives
in particular, may push Senator Manchin out of the Democratic Party.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Senator Manchin has spoken to that. And the President
continues to believe that they share a range of values. They share a
commitment to helping working people, to helping lower costs for the
American people.  
  
Our intention yesterday was to provide specific details to the American
people about the events of the last few weeks.  
  
And our statement followed a statement by Senator Manchin.  
  
Q  The other thing I wanted to ask you about are the comments of Senator
Manchin. Over the course of the past several months, the comments that
I’ve paid a lot of attention to — you have as well; the op-eds that he’s
written for both the Washington Post and his hometown newspapers; the
interviews that he’s done with a West Virginia radio host named Hoppy
Kercheval — all of them, from my perspective, seemed to indicate that he
was not going to support the Build Back Better bill. And yet, your
statement indicated utter surprise, in terms of the statement that he
made on Fox News yesterday. Why were you so surprised?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, I think, as my statement very clearly outlined, because
there were private conversations and private discussions and commitments
made. And so that’s why we were surprised.  
  
Go ahead, in the middle. Sorry, go ahead.  
  
Q  Thanks, Jen. So, given the current state of the pandemic, does the
President anticipate giving an in-person State of the Union next year,
or where are you on those conversations?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Nothing has changed about our intentions or our plans, but we
don’t yet have a date set at this point in time.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  Thank you so much, Jen. Due to the difficulties around testing, do
you think public health officials in the United States are getting a
correct picture of how Omicron is spreading today in the country?  
  
MS. PSAKI: That’s a very good question. I mean, I would say that, you
know, the President — and obviously, as I said, in response to Monica’s
question earlier, you’ll hear the President talk tomorrow about his
commitment to continuing to expand access to free testing for the
American people.  
  
We have taken a lot of steps over the last few weeks and months: We’ve
quadrupled our testing capacity over just a few months.  
  
But really, I think that’s a good question — a very good question that I
think you could ask — you should ask the health and medical experts and
team at the next COVID briefing.  
  
Go ahead, Shelby.  
  
Q  Thanks, Jen. I wanted to ask a follow-up on the COVID testing.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Sure.  
  
Q  I know you’ve detailed what the administration is doing already to
ease some of these problems, but we’re obviously still seeing them
across the country. So, is there anything new that the administration is
considering to ease some of these COVID testing issues?  
  
And then, more broadly, you know, how are we in a position, nearly two
years into a pandemic, where we’re still dealing with issues like a lack
of access to testing?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, I think, Shelby, on the first, we’re dealing with a
once-in-a-lifetime global pandemic that has been very unpredictable, and
I think everybody would acknowledge that. And what we’ve done on testing
is to continue to increase access, make it affordable and accessible.
That’s important morally; it’s important substantively and policy-wise
to the President.  
  
Obviously, there weren’t any \[at-home\] COVID tests available <s>or
approved by the FDA</s> earlier this year, so now there’s eight. And
we’ve taken steps to quadruple our testing capacity over just the last
couple of months. And we’ve also taken steps to make them widely
available at — by sending 50 million to rural health clinics and
community health centers, making sure there are 20,000 pharmacy
locations across the country.  
  
But, obviously, with the transmissibility of this variant, we’re going
to continue to build on that. And that’s what I think the people — the
American people will hear from him on tomorrow.  
  
Q  Thank you, Jen. I have two foreign policy questions.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Sure.  
  
Q  You have seen the review that indicated the killing of 1,300
civilians in the Middle East since 2014 by drones. I know there was
successive administrations, not just the Biden administration. It gives
reasons like “fluid intelligence” and “faulty targeting” and “little
accountability.”  
  
Since the President (inaudible) on these drone attacks, does that mean
that the White House is looking into reviewing the decision itself, in
parallel to what the Pentagon is doing? And I have another question.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Yeah, that’s a great question. I know the Pentagon is doing a
review, as you noted, and I would certainly point you to them. I can
certainly talk to our national security team and see if there’s anything
in addition. Obviously, the Pentagon is part of the administration, as
you well know. But I will see if there’s anything in addition.  
  
Q  Okay, great. And on Iran — the Iranians said that they’re not going
back to the talks. Does that mean that economic sanction is inevitable
now? Do you still hope that there’s another round before the end of the
year?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Yeah, another great question, Nadia. I mean, as we’ve said:
Because of the way that the Iranians approached and participated in the
last round of talks, we — the President — we did take a num- — asked us
— the national security team — to be prepared in the event that
diplomacy fails and to take a look at other options. And that has been
work that has been ongoing, including in consultation with a range of
partners around the world.  
  
In terms of what next steps — it looks like, I don’t think I have
anything at this point to preview for you.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  Rahm Emanuel was just approved as ambassador to Japan. And following
Afghanistan — Japan hosts 50,000 American troops, the largest in the
world. There’s a concern as to the ongoing trust of the Security Treaty.
So, can you — a little bit of assurance to the Japanese people that our
treaty will be honored?  
  
And then also, a follow-up on Afghanistan.  
  
MS. PSAKI: I’m not aware of any planned changes.  
  
Q  And then, on Afghanistan — the situation for the people that worked
with us: Any progress on bringing them back?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, we have put out updates over the course — and I would
really point you to the State Department — and reiterate that our
efforts have continued — to continue to bring American citizens out of
Afghanistan who wish to depart and have wished to depart since August,
as well as our allies and partners. That’s why we’ve been working so
closely in coordination and cooperation with the Qataris. But the State
Department really oversees that effort, so they would have any
up-to-date numbers for you.  
  
I can do one or two more. Why don’t we go all the way to the back? Go to
the middle. Go ahead.  
  
Q  Thank you, Jen. Two questions — one on politics and one on foreign
policy.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Yeah.  
  
Q  Today, two Democratic members of the House of Representatives —
Representatives Murphy of New Jersey and Sires — Murphy of Florida and
Sires of New Jersey — both announced their retirement, bringing to 22
the number of Democrats leaving the House for one reason or another. Is
this something the President talks about? And does he have an opinion on
the exodus of members of his own party?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I have learned my lesson in not talking too much about
politics from here. But it is true that there are retirements. That
happens typically every cycle. The President, as the leader of the
party, obviously, I’m sure, will be out there next year. We’ll have more
to preview for you for that — on that when it’s an appropriate time.  
  
But I would note that as it relates to the Democratic agenda and what
people are going to be talking about out there, we’d rather it be us
than them and have an agenda to talk about and an agenda that is about
putting — creating millions of good-paying union jobs; an agenda that’s
about ensuring we are, you know, lowering the costs of childcare,
healthcare, eldercare; an agenda to address the climate crisis. And
that’s what you’ll hear people talk about next year. But I’ll leave the
politics out of the podium.  
  
Q  Turning to Ukraine —  
  
MS. PSAKI: Yeah.  
  
Q  — the — President Zelenskyy has charged that the wealthiest man in
Ukraine, Rinat Akhmetov, is part of a Russian plot to overthrow him. Is
the U.S. considering Magnitsky-style targeted sanctions against Mr.
Akhmetov?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I don’t have anything in terms of considerations of sanctions
to preview for you. Obviously, we are considering a range of sanctions
as we’re looking at the buildup of Russian troops and bellicose
rhetoric. But beyond that, I don’t have anything to preview.  
  
Let’s go — just Ebony in the middle, and we’ll — then we’ll wrap it
up.  
  
Q  Thank you. Just two quick questions. I know that the White House has
said in the past that they’re — don’t want to go back to a shutdown. But
with the increase of —  
  
MS. PSAKI: Yeah. And we have no intention to.  
  
Q  Okay. Because I was going to ask, with the increase of Omicron —  
  
MS. PSAKI: Great.  
  
Q  — are we going to see that.  
  
The second question is: This morning, Representative Ocasio-Cortez said
that the President hasn’t used the full extent of this presidency, kind
of echoing what many activists on the ground are saying. What is the
response to that in terms of — she’s talking about Build Back Better and
also voting rights. What’s the response to what she said?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I didn’t — well, let me say first, on your first question,
which is a very good one: I think the reason we’re not going back to a
shutdown is because we are now at a very different place we are in — we
were in a year ago, which is important for people. And you’ll hear the
President talk about this tomorrow. Two hundred million Americans are
vaccinated now. That is a stark difference from where we were a year
ago. You’ll hear the President again talk more about that.  
  
I did not see the full context of the congresswoman’s comments, but what
I would say is that if you — as we look back to the last year, what we
know we have accomplished to date is — working with her and a number of
members — is getting the American Rescue Plan done, a step that helped
put in place — extend and increase the size of the Child Tax Credit,
cutting in half child poverty in this country; making sure we could keep
99 percent of schools open in this country.  
  
We also passed the Bipartisan Infrastructure Bill — something that,
again, will make sure that we’re replacing lead pipes across the
country; make sure we’re expanding access to broadband and creating tens
of millions — or not tens of millions — let me remedy that — millions of
good-paying union jobs. And we’ve also vaccinated 200 million
Americans.  
  
Is there more work to do? Absolutely. Of course, there is. We’re not
even a year into the President’s presidency. And voting rights is front
and center at the agenda — on the agenda next year. You heard Leader
Schumer say that. The President reiterated that, I think in his speech
at South Carolina State. And we’ll look forward to continuing to work
with the congresswoman and others to get things done.  
  
All right. Thanks, everyone.  
  
Q  Thanks, Jen.  
  
MS. PSAKI: We’ll do this again. Merry Christmas Week.  
  
Q  Might we hear directly from the President about what happened
yesterday, this week?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I think you will hear from him on how we’re going to get the
agenda done.  
  
Q  Will he take questions on it?  
  
MS. PSAKI: He takes questions multiple times a week. So, depends on what
you ask.  
  
Q  From here? This room?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Depends on what you ask.  
  
3:55 P.M. EST
