---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-12-17'
modified_time: 2021-12-17 17:26:00-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/12/17/press-briefing-by-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-public-health-officials-74/
published_time: 2021-12-17 17:45:00-05:00
title: "Press Briefing by White\_House COVID-\u206019 Response Team and Public Health\_\
  Officials"
---
 
Via Teleconference

11:06 A.M. EST  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Good morning.  And thanks for joining us.  
  
Today, Dr. Walensky will give an overview of the state of the pandemic
and on new practices that will help keep schools open, and Dr. Fauci
will provide an update on the latest science and the importance of
boosters.  
  
But before we start, I want to talk about how we should think about this
moment.  
  
As we’ve explained in prior briefings, the Omicron variant is more
transmissible and our medical experts anticipate it will lead to a rise
in cases.  
  
But unlike last winter, we now have the power to protect ourselves.  
  
Our vaccines work against Omicron, especially for people who get booster
shots when they are eligible.  If you are vaccinated, you could test
positive.  But if you do get COVID, your case will likely be
asymptomatic or mild.  
  
We are intent on not letting Omicron disrupt work and school for the
vaccinated.  You’ve done the right thing, and we will get through
this.  
  
For the unvaccinated, you’re looking at a winter of severe illness and
death for yourselves, your families, and the hospitals you may soon
overwhelm.  
  
So, our message to every American is clear: There is action you can take
to protect yourself and your family.  Wear a mask in public indoor
settings.  Get vaccinated, get your kids vaccinated, and get a booster
shot when you’re eligible.  
  
We are prepared to confront this new challenge.   We have plenty of
vaccines and booster shots available at convenient locations and for no
cost.  There is clear guidance on masking to help slow the spread.  And
we have emergency medical teams to respond to surges as necessary.  
  
So, this is not a moment to panic because we know how to protect people
and we have the tools to do it.  But we need the American people to do
their part to protect themselves, their children, and their
communities.  
  
The more people get vaccinated, the less severe this Omicron outbreak
will be.  One hundred sixty thousand unvaccinated people have already
needlessly lost their lives just since June, and this number will
continue to go up until the unvaccinated take action.  
  
So, I’ll say it once more: Get vaccinated.  
  
With that, I’ll turn it over to Dr. Walensky.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you, Jeff.  And good morning, everyone.  I’d like
to start by walking you through today’s data.  
  
The current seven-day daily average of cases is at about 119,500 per
day.  
  
The seven-day average of hospital admissions is at about 7,800 per day,
an increase of about 4 percent over the previous week.  
  
     And the seven-day average of daily deaths is at about 1,200 per
day, which is an increase of over 8 percent from the prior week.  
  
Now let me bring you up to date on what we know about Omicron.  At least
39 states and over 75 countries have reported confirmed cases of the
Omicron variant.  
  
And although Delta continues to circulate widely in the United States,
Omicron is increasing rapidly and we expect it to become the dominant
strain in the United States, as it has in other countries, in the coming
weeks.  
  
We’ve seen cases of Omicron among those who are both vaccinated and
boosted, and we believe these cases are milder or asymptomatic because
of vaccine protection.  
  
What we do know is we have the tools to protect ourselves against
COVID-19.  
  
We have vaccines, we have boosters, and we know multi-layer prevention
strategies — masks in public indoor settings, practicing physical
distancing, frequent handwashing, improving ventilation, and testing to
slow transmission — are vitally important, especially as we prepare for
more Omicron and even if you are vaccinated and boosted.  
  
This morning, I want to talk with you now about how we can use these
tools to help keep our children in school.  
  
Over the past few months, CDC has collaborated with school districts
across the country to evaluate a new strategy known as “test to stay.”  
  
     Today, we’re releasing CDC science on “test to stay” that allows
unvaccinated children to stay in school even if they have been exposed
to the virus so that they don’t have to miss school while they’re
quarantining at home.  
  
In the test-to-stay protocol, there is increased testing of close
contacts after a COVID-19 exposure, and that testing needs to be at
least twice during the seven-day period after exposure. If exposed
children meet a certain criteria and continue to test negative, they can
stay in school instead of quarantining at home.  
  
CDC is also releasing two MMWR reports with evidence supporting the use
of “test to stay” and how well it worked in two communities: Lake
County, Illinois, and Los Angeles County.  
  
These studies demonstrate that “test to stay” works to keep unvaccinated
children in school safely.  
  
In order for “test to stay” to be implemented safely and correctly, some
key prevention measures need to be included.   
  
In both of these studies, masks were worn consistently and correctly,
close contacts of a positive case were monitored for symptoms and stayed
home if they became ill, and those who did not develop symptoms had
regular testing.    
  
“Test to stay” is an encouraging public health practice to help keep our
children in school.  And CDC is updating our materials to help schools
and parents know how to best implement this promising and now proven
practice, along with our multi-layer prevention strategies that will
help keep our children in the classroom safely.  
  
Importantly, vaccination is another critical piece in our multi-layer
prevention strategies to protect our children from COVID-19.  
  
I’d like to take another moment to encourage parents to get their
children vaccinated.  
  
Just yesterday, CDC’s Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices met
to discuss new safety data following six weeks of COVID-19 vaccinations
in children between the ages of 5 to 11.  
  
We now have experience vaccinating over 20 million children under the
age of 17, and over 5 million of whom are under the age of 11.  
  
Looking specifically at vaccine safety data from over 50,000 children 5-
to 11-year-olds, we found no evidence of serious safety concerns.  
  
The most common reported side effect including pa- — included pain at
the injection site, fever, tiredness, and headaches/muscle aches, which
we know are normal and are all signs of the body — that the body is
building immunity to the virus.  
  
This further adds to the strong evidence of the safety of these vaccines
for children and should be an encouraging reason for those who are
waiting for more data to now feel confident in making the decision to
get your child vaccinated.   
  
In addition to reviewing safety data yesterday, CDC’s advisory committee
on vaccine experts met to evaluate recommendations surrounding the
Johnson & Johnson COVID-19 vaccine, evaluating the benefits of
vaccination, the safety data and rare adverse events, and the COVID-19
vaccine supply.  
  
Following their discussion, ACIP made a recommendation to preferentially
use mRNA vaccines over the Johnson & Johnson vaccine.  
  
And I endorsed their recommendation and agreed with the Advisory
Committee’s emphasis, importantly, that given the current state of the
pandemic both here and around the world, any vaccination is better than
no vaccination.  Individuals who are unable or unwilling to receive an
mRNA vaccine will continue to have access to Johnson & Johnson COVID-19
vaccines.  
  
And, finally, as we head into the holiday season, when many will be
gathering with their loved ones, I want to again encourage everyone to
utilize the proven prevention strategies that keep everyone safe: get
vaccinated and get boosted, mask in public indoor settings, physical
distancing, handwashing, improve ventilation, and testing to slow
transmission.  
  
We know that these strategies work and will help to keep you and your
loved ones safe and healthy this holiday season.   
  
Thank you.  I’ll now turn things over to Dr. Fauci.   
  
DR. FAUCI:  Thank you very much, Dr. Walensky.  I’d like to spend the
next couple of minutes talking about the importance of COVID-19 booster
shots, both in the current Delta surge and in the evitable upcoming
Omicron surge.  
  
So, if I could have the next slide.  
  
Let’s take a look at some of the data that fortifies what I just said. 
This is a recently published study in the New England Journal looking at
individuals 50 years of age or older who received the booster about five
months after a second dose of the Pfizer-BioNTech.  There was a 90
percent lower mortality due to COVID-19 than participants who did not
receive a boost.   
  
Now, albeit, the mortality is low in people who are vaccinated anyway. 
However, it goes down to practically negligible values — if you look at
the blue line, compared to the pink line.  
  
Next slide.  
  
Now let’s take a look at Omicron-specific situations.  In this study,
one looked at three separate vaccines: the mRNA of Moderna, the Pfizer,
and then the Ad26 J&J followed by an mRNA boost.  Again, if you look at
the “times two,” which means a standard vaccination, and then take a
look at the pseudovirus neutralization following the boost, the
increment of that is really rather profound: 19 times for the one on the
left, 27 times for the one in the middle, and 4 times for the one on the
right.  
  
Next slide.  
  
Now, also, if you look at the neutralization of multiple different
variants by pseudovirus analysis and take a look again at two separate
studies — one from the Vaccine Research Center at NIH and one from Duke
University.  Note, on the left panels, four weeks following the second
dose.  Look specifically at the pink bar.  There you see a rather low
level of neutralization with Omicron.   
  
However, if you look at two weeks post the third, or booster dose, note
how much it goes up.  For example, if you look at the Omicron comparing
in the Duke line: You see it is about 2002, whereas after a second dose
it’s only 62 — a dramatic increase.   
  
Next slide.  
  
Another example: if you look at the sensitivity of variants to
neutralization by people who are vaccinated with the Pfizer vaccine.  If
you look again, five months after the second dose, and look under the
Omicron — the red circles — nominal.  In other words, virtually no
degree of neutralization protection.  Again, one month after the third
dose, it goes well within the protective range.  
  
Next slide.  
  
If you look at now convalescent serum, and take a look at each of the
panels.  On the left, you have a convalescent serum six months after
infection.  Again, the level of protection that would be projected from
the antibody levels is very low — as you see with Omicron, pretty low
level with these circles that are red.  Twelve months later, it even
gets worse.   
  
But take a look at what happens if you take a person who’s convalescent
but you boost that person now with a dose of Pfizer and wait one month. 
The red circles go way up into the protective range.  
  
Next slide.  
  
And then if you look at actual clinical issues — take a look in a UK
study about individuals who had a — who had symptomatic infection.  Look
at Delta in the blue boxes.  As you go — the time since the vaccine and
look at the weeks, which are showed on the bottom line, you get a
diminution against Delta but a very profound diminution — below 40
percent effectiveness with Delta.  When you boost, not only do you bring
it up to Delta — in the blue — but also to Omicron.  
  
What does all of this tell us?   
  
Last slide.  
  
We are in the — in a situation where we are now facing a very important
Delta surge and we are looking over our shoulder at an oncoming Omicron
surge.  Clearly, unvaccinated individuals, as Jeff said in the
beginning, are really at a high risk of serious involvement, including
hospitalization.  The fully vaccinated are doing much better off.  But
as I’ve shown you in the previous five or six slides, the optimum
protection is fully vaccinated plus a boost.   
  
So the bottom line of what we’ve been telling you all along: It is
critical to get vaccinated.  If you are vaccinated, it is critical for
optimal protection to get boosted.  
  
Back to you, Jeff.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Well, thank you, Doctors.  
  
With that, let’s open it up for some questions.  Over to you, Kevin.   
  
MODERATOR:  Thanks, Jeff.  Let’s go back to Serena Marshall from
NowThis.  
  
Q    Thank you. I appreciate you doing this and coming back to me right
away.  So, I just wanted to — for some clarity:  Are we seeing Delta at
— would seem to be more infectious, but is there evidence with the
breakthrough infections that they’re more severe in any way?   
  
Is there any evidence to — that you could talk about with long COVID? 
We’ve seen some new data that roughly 30 to 40 percent of anyone who
tests positive have resulted in long COVID as well.  And there’s a lot
of unknowns when it comes to how that’s going to play out.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Why don’t we start with you, Dr. Fauci.  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Well, I think you meant to say “Omicron.”  Yes, Omicron is
more transmissible.  Everything we know about it, from what we’re seeing
not only in South Africa, but its distribution throughout the world and
as well as in our own country — we see what’s going on in New York City,
when we’re getting beyond double digits of Omicron being the primary
variant there in that percentage.  
  
With regard to the seriousness of infection: Really, it’s still up in
the air right now because there are a lot of confounding issues as to
whether or not it is less severe.  Certainly, looking at what we see, it
does not look like it is more severe, but we have to hold with —
withhold judgment about the severity being less.  
  
With regard to long COVID: We don’t have enough information on Omicron
with regard to long COVID.  I would not expect it’s going to be any
different than we have with Delta, but we’ll have to wait to see until
we get more experience.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Next question, please.  
  
Moderator:  Let’s go to Cheyenne Haslett at ABC News.  
  
Q    Thanks, guys.  My first question, for Dr. Fauci, you showed data
showing how little protection people have after two doses a few months
after getting it.  So, should Americans who are not eligible for their
booster yet — not six months past their last shot — be concerned that
they’re not well protected against Omicron and get boosted sooner than
six months?  
  
And then, my second question on our booster rate still being very low —
only 30 percent of the fully vaccinated — how concerning is that as we
head into this larger surge?  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Well, let me answer the second one first, and that is the
concern.  I mean, obviously that’s the reason why I have spent
essentially my entire brief presentation on urging people to get
boosted: for the simple reason that we do get optimal protection from a
boost.  
  
You mentioned the lowering of protection.  And if you look at some of
the slides I showed — a, quote, “fully vaccinated” person, after a
period of time, clearly has a diminution.  
  
You still get protection that’s reasonably good against
hospitalization.  We want to make that better with the booster. Whether
or not we’re going to change what the time interval between your last
vaccination and your boost, we always have these on the table for
discussion, but, right now, there has not been a decision on that.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  The right way to think about the percent boosted is those
eligible, and we’ve now boosted about 60 million Americans.  That’s
about 40 percent — 4-0 percent — of the eligible Americans.  
  
Importantly, of those over 65, we’re now more than 60 percent, and
that’s important because they are the most vulnerable.  
  
We are boosting about a million people a day.  So, booster shots are
running at a million per day.  And that is accelerated from where we
were, as Dr. Fauci said, stressing the importance of getting the boost
when people are eligible.  
  
And the President’s Winter Plan really builds momentum here.  Pharmacies
are expanding appointments and hours and walk-in availability.  We’re
launching, as you know, family vaccination sites where parents can get
boosted at the same time that their 5- to 11-year-old might get their
first or second shot.   
  
Medicare is reaching out to tens of millions of seniors, encouraging
them to get boosters.   
  
So, our message is very clear.  Clinically, the docs have said: As soon
as you’re eligible for a booster, get a booster.  We have plenty of
supply.  We now have 90,000 sites — up another 10,000 from a few weeks
ago — 90,000 sites that are convenient.  And, as you know, getting a
booster shot is free and everyone should get their booster shot as soon
as possible.  
  
Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Let’s go to Elizabeth Weise at USA Today.  
  
Q    Okay.  This would be a question for Dr. Walensky.  In light of
Omicron’s higher transmissibility rate, potentially including people who
are vaccinated, is the CDC reconsidering its recommendations that
vaccinated people don’t need to self-isolate after an exposure to
someone who has COVID?  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you for that question.  We are actively following
the science in that area with regard to how the viral burden is, both
among vaccinated people and unvaccinated people, and the natural history
of that viral burden with regard to isolation.  And as that science
emerges, we will update our evidence if need be.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Let’s go to Weijia Jiang at CBS News.  
  
Q    Thank you, Kevin.  First, I have a question for Dr. Fauci.  I
wonder if Omicron is more transmissible just because the nature of the
variant or because the booster and vaccine offer less protection against
contracting Omicron compared to other variants — or a mix of both?  
  
And for Dr. Walensky, given your new recommendation for students to test
to stay, does that extend to adults who are exposed too — that a 14-day
quarantine is no longer necessary as long as you test negative?   
  
And when you say “continue to test negative,” how often should kids be
getting tested to stay in school after exposure?   
  
Thanks.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Fauci?  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Well, with regard to the first question, if you look at the
configuration and the constellation of amino acid substitutions which
result from mutations on the spike proteins, you would have predicted
that this would be a more transmissible virus because of its ability to
bind to the receptors on the cell.  
  
So, you need only look at the virus itself to determine why it is more
transmissible — what it actually is.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Walensky?  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, with regard to test to stay, so this was a strategy
that looked at unvaccinated children because vaccines were not
available.  Of course, in our school setting, we would encourage that
all of our teachers who would be eligible would both be vaccinated as
well as boosted.   
  
With regard to the protocols, there are numerous jurisdictions that are
looking at test-to-stay strategies.  Some of them are — were testing
every day; some of them, every other day; and some of them, twice a
week.   
  
So, we would say no less frequent than twice a week, in order to employ
the test-to-stay protocols.   
  
And these were limited to schools, to be clear, so we don’t yet have
evidence about test-to-stay protocols in other settings.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Kevin, next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Let’s go to a last question.  Sabrina Siddiqui at The Wall
Street Journal.  
  
Q    Thank you so much.  Just two quick questions.  France has imposed
travel restrictions on the UK, and several other EU countries are also
strengthening their border controls.  Are you reconsidering travel from
either the UK or the EU, given the COVID outbreaks there?  
  
And then, secondly, I know we’re in a very different place with vaccines
and boosters than we were last year, but how would you characterize your
message to the American people going into the holidays?  Is it safe for
families and friends to get together before Christmas?  And what is your
message to people as we approach the holiday season?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  So, why I don’t take the first question, and then I’ll hand
it over to Dr. Walensky about the holiday season.   
  
Let me start with the fact that the U.S. has strict protocols in place
to help protect the American people and stop the spread of the disease,
as it relates to international travel.  
  
Foreign nationals — all foreign nationals coming into the U.S. from a
part of the world where the travel is not restricted due to Omicron must
be fully vaccinated and show proof of a negative test.  And we’ve
tightened that deadline for the timeframe for the negative test to be
within one day of boarding a flight.  
  
The CDC also strongly recommends that everyone get tested three to five
days after they arrive in the U.S.   
  
But as we’ve done throughout the pandemic, we will continue to follow
the science and evaluate the best protocols for international travel,
and we’ll keep people up to date and, most importantly, the American
people safe.  
  
Dr. Walensky?  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah.  As you know, Sabrina, I think we’re in a very
different place this year than we were last year, and we really do want
people to be able to gather and gather safely.  We have the tools now to
do it.  And what we’re really saying is: Please, rely on those tools.   
  
Get vaccinated.  If you’re eligible for a boost, get boosted.   
  
And importantly, a week before the holidays, indoor mask in these areas
that have — 90 percent of our counties have substantial or high
transmission.  Use the next week to make sure you’re practicing those
safe prevention/mitigation strategies so that when you come together for
the holidays that people have been not exposed to the virus because, in
fact, they’ve been vaccinated, boosted, and masked.  
  
And for that extra reassurance as we have more disease in this country
right now, do a test and make sure that you’re negative before you mix
and gather in different households.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Okay.  Well, thank you.  We look forward to speaking next
week.  But I hope everybody has a safe and relaxing weekend.   
  
Thank you.  
  
11:38 A.M. EST

To view the COVID Press Briefing slides,
visit: <https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/12/COVID-Press-Briefing_12.17-pdf.pdf>
