---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-12-06'
modified_time: 2021-12-06 16:35:07-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/12/06/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-on-president-bidens-upcoming-call-with-president-putin-of-the-russian-federation/
published_time: 2021-12-06 16:35:06-05:00
title: "Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials on President\_Biden\u2019\
  s Upcoming Call with President Putin of the Russian\_Federation"
---
 
Via Teleconference

11:56 A.M. EST

MODERATOR:  Good morning, everyone.  And thanks for joining today.  A
friendly reminder that today’s call is going to be on background,
attributed to a “senior administration official.”  And contents will be
embargoed until the conclusion of the call.

With that, we’ll turn it over to our speaker, and then we’ll be happy to
take some questions.

Over to you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks.  And thanks, everybody, for
joining. 

As you all know, President Biden and President Putin will hold a secure
video call tomorrow.  In advance of that call, the President will be
speaking later today with key European allies to coordinate his message
and ensure that he goes into that conversation with President Putin with
allied unity and strong transatlantic solidarity on the way forward. 
And this follows days and weeks of intense diplomacy with European
allies and partners, as well as discussions with the Russians and the
Ukrainians at multiple levels.

Secretary Blinken will also be speaking with President Zelenskyy in
advance of the secure video call.  And President Biden will talk to
President Zelenskyy in the days following the call to be sure that he’s
able to read it out and also consult closely with the President of
Ukraine.

President Biden will obviously raise our concerns with Russia’s military
buildup and plans, with respect to Ukraine.  The agenda will also cover
a number of other critical issues including strategic stability, cyber,
and Iran’s nuclear program. 

And, you know, we have believed from the beginning of this
administration that there is no substitute for direct dialogue for
leaders, and that is true in spades when it comes to the U.S.-Russia
relationship.  So, President Biden welcomes the opportunity to engage
clearly and directly with President Putin.

Indeed, as President Biden said after their meeting in Geneva in June,
“Where we have differences, I wanted President Putin to understand why I
say what I say and why I do what I do, and how we’ll respond to specific
kinds of actions that harm America’s interests.”  That statement then
remains true today. And that’s going to be the spirit with which
President Biden conducts this discussion.

Fundamentally, President Biden has been consistent all along in his
basic message to the Russian President and the Russian Federation: The
United States does not seek conflict.  We can work together on issues
like strategic stability and arms control.  But whenever necessary, the
United States has and will continue to impose meaningful consequences
for harmful and destabilizing actions.

When it comes to Ukraine, we have made clear our deep concern by
evidence that Russia is stepping up its planning for significant
military action against Ukraine.  Secretary Blinken discussed this in
detail.  He talked about what the United States has learned of Russia’s
plans with our NATO Allies at this week’s — last week’s NATO foreign
ministerial.

To be clear, we do not know whether President Putin has made a decision
about further military escalation in Ukraine, but we do know that he is
putting in place the capacity to engage in such escalation should he
decide to do so.

We’ve seen this Russian playbook before, in 2014, when Russia last
invaded Ukraine.  Then, as now, they intensified disinformation in an
effort to portray Ukraine as the aggressor and use that in an effort to
justify what was a preplanned military offensive.

Obviously, President Biden will raise these concerns.  He will make
clear that there will be very real costs should Russia choose to
proceed, but he will also make clear that there is an effective way
forward with respect to diplomacy. 

We have had extensive interactions with our European allies and partners
in recent weeks, including with Ukraine, about the need to respond
together and resolutely to any further aggression in Ukraine, and
fundamentally have also aligned with them around diplomacy being the
responsible way to resolve this potential crisis.

We’re encouraging Russia to return to dialogue through diplomatic
avenues, including the fulfillment of the Minsk Agreement.

As I said, the call will not be confined to this subject matter because
there are other topics that are critical to America’s national security,
including the continuing challenge in cyberspace, including the need to
make progress on fundamental questions of strategic stability in the
nuclear and space domains, and our concerns about the advances that Iran
is making with its nuclear program and the threat that those pose to
regional peace and security, as well as international peace and
security.  So, all of this will be on the agenda in the conversation. 

The President will conduct this discussion the same way he has with past
discussions with Putin, in a professional, candid, straightforward
manner, where he will make clear — without any kind of rhetorical
flourish or finger-wagging — what the United States is prepared to do,
both in respect to deterrence and in respect to diplomacy.

And that is his intention, and he’s looking forward to the opportunity
to engage.

And I’ll stop there and would be happy to take some questions.

Q    Thanks so much for doing this.  I wanted you to — I was hoping you
could respond to Russia’s demands for legal agreement regarding
expanding NATO.  Is there anything even near that that is on the table? 
And, you know, does the United States see that as an opening negotiating
tactic or a pretext to invasion? 

And, if I could, I wanted to ask: In regards to financial sanctions, how
do you impose enough financial sanctions to hurt Russia enough to change
its behavior or encourage a change of behavior but not, in the process,
hurt Western democracies who are intertwined with Russia oil, gas and
need Russia for their own economic benefits?  Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  The United States has consistently
expressed support for the principle that every country has the sovereign
right to make its own decisions with respect to its security.  That is
written into the founding documents of the Alliance, and that remains
U.S. policy today and will remain U.S. policy in the future.  So, that
much is straightforward and clear. 

We will, of course, support discussions between NATO and Russia to
address larger issues of concern on both sides — Russia’s concerns with
NATO activities, and NATO and American concerns with Russian
activities.  We did this in the Cold War and developed a mechanism to
help reduce instability and increase transparency.  We’ve done this in
the post-Cold War era through the NATO-Russia Council, the OSCE, and
other mechanisms.  There’s no reason we can’t do that going forward. 

But we don’t think talk of red lines is helpful.  And, as the President
has said, we’re not going to operate according to that logic of
accepting other — anyone’s red lines. 

With respect to financial sanctions, we have had intensive discussions
with our European partners about what we would do collectively in the
event of a major Russian military escalation in Ukraine.  And we believe
that we have a path forward that would involve substantial economic
countermeasures by both the Europeans and the United States that would
impose significant and severe economic harm on the Russian economy,
should they choose to proceed. 

I’m not going to get into the specific details of that, but we believe
that there is a way forward here that will allow us to send a clear
message to Russia that there will be genuine and meaningful and enduring
costs to choosing to go forward, should they choose to go forward, with
a military escalation in Ukraine.

Q    Thanks very much for doing this.  I apologize for the background
noise.  Can you tell us what you have seen in terms of how the troops
are positioned around Ukraine and what you have seen in terms of — more
detail of what you’ve seen in terms of both disinformation and potential
cyber action?  It’s entirely possible, I could imagine, given the past
record, that Putin could decide not to send in (inaudible) but just try
to destabilize the country on a much larger scale than we’ve seen so
far.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, first, I should start by saying, as
I did at the outset, that we do not know or have a clear indication that
President Putin has actually made an affirm- — given an affirmative
order here.  It is more about planning intentions and then the kinds of
movements that we have seen. 

And, in this regard, there — the planning, from our

perspective, is clear.  The troop movements have involved the addition
of battalion tactical groups around Ukraine in multiple, different
geographies around those borders — to the south, the west, and to the
northeast as well. 

And we have also seen, as Secretary Blinken said last week, a
significant spike in social media activity pushing anti-Ukrainian
propaganda, which is approaching levels that we last saw in the leadup
to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine in 2014. 

In terms of more specific details on what exactly the nature of those
deployments are, I’m going to defer to my military intelligence
colleagues to talk through, in part because, you know, I don’t want to
tread on sensitive information.  But what we can share in an
unclassified format is that we have seen the movement of additional
capabilities and forces to the vicinity of Ukraine in multiple different
areas.  And these movements are consistent with the planning that we see
underway for a military escalation in Ukraine.

But again, to the end of your question, could this — could the Russian
government choose a different course here — one in which they rely more
heavily on information operation, cyber, and destabilization activities
inside Ukraine?  Yes, they certainly could do that.  That also has
historically been part of the Russian playbook and could be part of the
playbook going forward.

And part of the engagement we will have with the Russian government at
multiple levels, including the presidential level, will be to talk
through those elements, as well as the direct application of Russian
military forces across the sovereign frontier of Ukraine.

Q    Hi, thank you.  I’m wondering, just very clearly, will President
Biden tell Vladimir Putin that if the Russian military moves into
Ukraine, the U.S. military could be used in response?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  President Biden is not going to — in
the — well, let me say this: I don’t want to use a public press call to
talk about the particular sensitive challenges that President Biden will
lay out for President Putin. 

But I would say that the United States is not seeking to end up in a
circumstance in which the focus of our countermeasures is the direct use
of American military force, as opposed to a combination of support for
the Ukrainian military, strong economic countermeasures, and the
substantial increase in support and capability to our NATO Allies to
ensure that they remain safe. 

But on the specific question you ask, I am not prepared to say in a
public format like this, even on background, exactly what the President
is going to say to Putin on the question of under what circumstances the
U.S. military could get involved.  I think that would be precipitous
public saber-rattling, and we’d prefer to keep those communications with
the Russians private.

Q    Thanks for doing this.  You spoke a little bit about economic
countermeasures, but can you talk a little bit about sort of what has
been, if anything — have you had discussions with NATO Allies about what
defense would look like if this were to go forward?  You know, Vladimir
Putin has been pretty clear on not wanting — not wanting some of the
military exercises that NATO Allies have been doing with Ukraine. 

And, you know, would this — would a renewed invasion of Ukraine, in
fact, have the opposite effect, where some of the hardware that the
Russians are talking about — been talking about that they don’t want in
Europe would end up in Europe, there would be an increased defense
posture in NATO that would — that might sort of serve opposite ends?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  After 2014, in the invasion of Crimea
and Eastern Ukraine, the United States helped lead what we call the
“European Reassurance Initiative” through NATO, which involved the
increasing deployment of U.S. forces and capabilities on NATO territory,
including in the Eastern Flank allies’ territory. 

And it would certainly be the case that if Putin moved in, there would
be an increasing request from Eastern Flank allies and a positive
response from the United States for additional forces and capabilities
and exercises to take place there to ensure the safety and security of
our Eastern Flank allies in the face of that kind of aggression in
Ukraine. 

That — so, the consequence of the 2014 invasion was increased activity
and capability, and that would be the consequence for further military
action (inaudible).

Q    Hi, thanks very much for doing this call.  Two questions; one is a
quick factual question.  I believe Presidents Putin and Biden had a call
in July, the month after the Geneva Summit, to discuss other cyber
issues.  Could you clarify that or confirm that?  Just — it’s a
fact-check question. 

My second question is a follow-up to what you just were saying about a
positive response for additional U.S. forces and capabilities for NATO
Allies if Putin does go in.  Are you saying that the U.S. will deploy
additional forces to NATO Allies in Eastern Europe if there is an
invasion or some sort of military incursion? 

And also, there’s a report out in the Financial Times today that talks
about how many European allies were — have come around to the U.S.
position because of unusual intelligence that was shared by the United
States with them, particularly in Germany.  Can you talk about that? 
Has the U.S. shared unusual intelligence or unusually candid
intelligence with European allies in the buildup of these forces?  Thank
you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  The U.S. has shared intelligence. 
We’ve had senior-level intelligence officials of the U.S. government
brief partners at NATO and in capitals that characterize the nature of
the intelligence only to say that that has been a substantial and
sustained effort over the course of the past few weeks.

On your factual question: To be completely honest with you, I’m not sure
if it was the month of July.  I’ve got to go look.  The months all tend
to bleed together.  So we’ll try to get you an answer on that.

And then, on the capabilities question, I guess I’d just go back to what
I said because I don’t — I don’t, you know, want people overstating or
overhyping it: After 2014, we had the European Reassurance Initiative,
which did involve increased rotational deployments, for example, to NATO
Allies on the Eastern Flank.   
  
Obviously, they would be seeking, you know, a further increase in that
if they were dealing with a circumstance in which Russian forces
occupied a greater portion of Ukraine. 

So, my saying that we’d respond positively would be I think you could
anticipate that in the event of an invasion, the need to reinforce the
confidence and reassurance of our NATO Allies and our Eastern Flank
allies would be real, and the United States would be prepared to provide
that kind of reassurance. 

That’s just sort of applying the lessons of 2014 to 2021.  I’m not
suggesting that today we have a particular, you know, tick-tock on that
— only to say that we are working through the prudent planning of what
we would have to do in the event of such an escalation and how we would
have to ensure the security of our NATO Allies in that context.  I would
not go — I’m not saying anything further than that.   
  
I have just had handed to me — yes, it was July 9th that they spoke by
phone.

MODERATOR:  All right.  Thanks, everyone.  That is all the questions
that we have time for.

Friendly reminder that this call is on background, attributed to a
“senior administration official.”  And with that, the embargo is
lifted.   
  
Thanks all.

12:16 P.M. EST
