---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-12-10'
modified_time: 2021-12-11 13:32:47-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/12/10/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-december-10-2021/
published_time: 2021-12-10 20:00:00-05:00
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, December 10,\_2021"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:27 P.M. EST

MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.  Okay.  Just a few things going on
today.  Okay, so we continue to make further progress on the President’s
Port Action Plan which will lower the cost of goods for American
families by strengthening supply chains and modernizing port
operations.  
  
And today I wanted to highlight that the Department of Transportation
awarded $12.6 million in grants to nine marine highway projects across
the country in Delaware, Hawaii, Indiana, Kentucky, Louisiana, North
Carolina, New York, New Jersey, Tennessee, Texas, and Virginia.  These
investments through Amer- — the America’s Marine Highway Program will
help us move more goods more quickly and more efficiently, and help our
agricultural exports get goods to market.  
  
The announcement follows the successful first stop — step of the Port
Action Plan, which provided the Port of Savannah $8 million to set up
container yards in Georgia and North Carolina, freeing up dock space and
speeding up the flow of goods in and out of the port.   
  
Three container sites are already in operation in Savannah, Statesboro,
and Atlanta, and are already supporting Georgia businesses such as Home
Depot, Carter, and agricultural exporters.  
  
And one more piece of good news for shipping costs: New data, today,
confirms the cost of shipping a container between Asia and the West
Coast is more than 25 percent lower than it was three months ago.  So
about fourth — or, sorry, $6,000 — I was not a math major — $6,000 lower
than it was three months ago, as this chart shows you.  
  
And that’s important for the American people to understand and know,
because if the cost of shipping a container is less expensive, it means
that more goods can be shiffed \[sic\] — shipped, that there should be
more on the shelves stocked, and that the cost of goods also will come
down.  We’ve seen that play out, but this is definitely a positive
sign.   
  
Also wanted to give you a bit of a sense of the week ahead.  We’ll have
more to come in the coming days, I promise.  But I can confirm for you
that on Thursday, the President will award the Medal of Honor to three
Army soldiers for acts of gallantry and intrepidity above and beyond the
call of duty.   
  
And their stories are so amazing.  I just wanted to take a brief moment
to highlight a couple of them.   
  
Sergeant First Class Alwyn Cashe will receive the Medal of Honor
posthumously for his service as a platoon sergeant in Iraq.  On October
17th, 2005, Cashe was conducting a nighttime mounted patrol when the
Bradley fighting vehicle he was in charge of was attacked by enemy small
arms fire.  An improvised explosive device disabled the vehicle, causing
it to become engulfed in flames.  After extracting himself, he set about
extracting the driver and his peers trapped in the troop compartment.   
  
Despite the severe second- and third-degree burns covering the majority
of his body, he repeatedly entered the burning <s>building</s>
\[vehicle\] to retrieve his fellow soldiers.  He selflessly refused
evacuation until all of the other wounded soldiers were evacuated.  
  
His heroic actions at the cost of his life saved the lives of his
teammates.   
  
Also being awarded a Medal of Honor is Sergeant First Class Christopher
Celiz, who will receive the Medal of Honor, also posthumously, for
service as the leader of special op — of a special operations unit in
Afghanistan on July 12th, 2018.  Sergeant Celiz led an operation to
clear an area of enemy forces.  When a large enemy force attacked,
Sergeant First Class Celiz voluntarily exposed himself to intense enemy
fire multiple times to retrieve and employ a heavy weapon system; direct
and lead a medical evacuation via helicopter; and act as a physical
shield for his team, the aircraft, and its crew.  
  
After being hit by enemy fire, he motioned to the aircraft to depart
rather than remain to load himself — load him.  His selfless actions
saved the life of the evacuated partner — partnered force member and
almost certainly prevented further casualties.  He died of the wounds he
received in combat.  
  
And finally, <s>Major</s> \[Master\] Sergeant Earl Plumlee will receive
the Medal of Honor for his service as a weapons sergeant in Afghanistan
on August 28th, 2013.  Then-Staff Sergeant Plumlee — Plumlee responded
to a complex enemy attack when a massive explosion tore a 60-foot breach
in the base’s perimeter wall and 10 insurgents wearing suicide vests
poured through.  Staff Sergeant Plumlee and five special operations
members mounted two vehicles and raced toward the site of the
detonation.  
  
Without cover and with complete disregard for his own safety, Staff
Sergeant Plumlee repeatedly advanced on the enemy force, engaging
multiple insurgents with only his pistol, killing two insurgents and
engaging combatants at close range, including an insurgent whose suicide
vest exploded a mere seven meters from his position.   
  
Undeterred, he joined a small group of American and Polish soldiers who
moved to counterattack the infiltrators, and carried a wounded soldier
to safety.   
  
So, the President looks forward to honoring two of those individuals
posthumously, and one — on next Thursday when he awards the Medal of
Honor.   
  
With that, Colleen, why don’t you kick us off?  
  
Q    Okay.  Thanks, Jen.  I wanted to ask two questions.  One is: Can
you talk a little bit about the, you know, White House outreach to
Senator Manchin and other senators on the Build Back Better Act, in
relation to the recent CPI Index reports today?   
  
And then the second question is: I wondered what else the White House
can do or should be doing with regards to women’s reproductive rights,
given everything that’s happening?  Specifically today, there was a
ruling out of Texas that keeps the restrictions intact while the court —
sorry, while the lawsuits play out.  So, I just wondered what else —
aside from the codification of Roe in Congress — can and should the
administration be doing.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Absolutely.  Well, let me take the first one, first.  Let me
first say that, as it relates to the CPI — or the Consumer Price Index
data this morning, let me start with the data.  The data was taken in
November.  Even since that time, over the course of the last nearly two
weeks, we’ve seen a decrease in costs in some of the areas that account
for a big percentage of the rise in inflation.   
  
So, about 50 percent of this — of this inflation — these inflations
number — of the inflation numbers, excuse me, is attributed to the rise
in gas prices and the rise in car prices.  
  
On gas prices — and we had a chart, and maybe they’ll pull it up again —
that Brian Deese, our NEC director, talked about just yesterday, what
we’ve seen in recent days are gas prices are coming down from their
peak.  And this obviously isn’t — is not captured in the data since the
data was through the course of November.   
  
So, in 20 states, gas is below their 20-year average in real terms, and
natural gas is down 25 percent from its November average.   
  
We attribute this to a range of factors, including the President tapping
the Strategic Petroleum Reserve in coordination with partners around the
world.  But more broadly, we’re seeing positive signs of supply chain
bottlenecks being addressed — that are helping address this as well. 
And we expect those numbers to continue to decrease across the
country.   
  
The other piece that — and gas, I should also note — sorry — the
wholesale market is down over 30 cents per gallon since its peak, which
is, again, a good sign.  
  
The other piece, as we’re seeing, as it relates to cars, is that
wholesale car prices are down as well — or used car prices are down as
well.  So, when car dealers are purchasing cars, they are at a lower
cost than they were before for a range of reasons, including the
availability of chips, because we’ve helped solve some issues in supply
chain.  That means that as we look to the first quarter of next year or
the first couple of months of next year, those car prices are going to
keep coming down.   
  
One other — third note — let me just note — in the data: One of, of
course, the factors as it relates to cost that consumers are
experiencing — or the American people are experiencing — is, of course,
the cost of food, when you go to the grocery store.  Twenty-five percent
of that, our economists — our economic experts estimate is related to
meat prices.  You go, you buy a pound of burger, or you buy a poultry —
whatever it may be.   
  
And our assessment here — and we’ve taken steps as it relates to our
competition agenda — is that dominant corporations in these industries
are taking advantage of their market power to raise prices while
increasing their own profit margins.  Meat prices are a very good
example of that — something we’re working to crack down on.  
  
And just to give you a sense: Gross profit margins for big meat
processes are up 50 percent, and net margins are up over 300 percent;
that should not be the case.  That is not all attributed to supply chain
issues, et cetera.   
  
So, I just wanted to dig into some of the data things there first.  But
I will note, as it relates to how this — how we have these conversations
now with this data out — our argument is that this makes passing Build
Back Better even more imperative, even more important.  Because what
Build Back Better will do is it will start cutting costs early next
year, including for childcare ca- — cost, cutting them in half in 2022;
making preschool free for many families, starting in 2022; saving
families — saving families the eight hu- — $8,600 a typical family
currently spends on preschool; leading to the construction of additional
housing units, starting in 2022.  
  
These are all areas — the way people — and the President just talked
about this too — experience inflation, as you all know, is not through
the data or graphs — as much as we love graphs in here — but it’s about
the cost on their family budgets.  And so that’s why, in our view and
the President’s view, the argument is even stronger to get it done
now.   
  
The last thing I would note on this — and then I’ll get to the other
question you had — is that the President just noted — and I don’t know
if you saw — that he would be speaking with Senator Manchin early next
week.  Obviously, we’re in touch at a staff level.  But I will leave it,
of course, to Senator Manchin to speak to that further.   
  
As it relates to the question about the Supreme Court ruling this
morning, one, you can — the President has obviously been at former
Senator Dole’s funeral for the majority of the day, but we will be
issuing a statement in his name.  We, naturally, wanted him to see and
review and edit first, so you will all be getting that shortly.   
  
But let me just note that we are — the President is very concerned by
the Supreme Court’s decision allowing S.B. 8 to remain in effect, given
the consequences the law has for women in Texas and around the country
and for the rule of law.  
  
I know you noted this, but I would just like to reiterate that the
President is deeply committed to the constitutional right recognizing
Roe v. Wade.  And he has argued and advocated in the past for codifying
Roe through passing the Women’s Health Protection Act.  And the ruling
this morning is a reminder of how much these rights are at risk and how
women across the country who have now — in Texas, especially, it’s been
101 days since this was put in place; 101 days where their health, their
access to what has been law of the land for many decades now has been
questioned and put — and challenged.  
  
And so, this is just a reiteration of how much — a reinforcement, I
should say — of how important it is to codify Roe and move forward with
the Women’s Health Protection Act.  And he’s certainly hopeful that they
will move forward with that.  It’s already passed the House — so, in the
Senate.  
  
I would note, in terms of additional administration actions, HHS
announced a department-wide response to protect patients and providers
in response to Texas law S.B. 8.  These actions include — and they will
continue to be built upon in coordination with the Gender Policy Council
here — issuing Title 10 grant support for health service providers, with
Title 10 grantees receiving significant funding to support expansion of
family planning services, as well as plan to expand access to emergency
contraception and family planning services to any eligible applicant.  
  
These are steps that have already been underway, but we will continue to
explore what more can be done.  
  
All right.  Go ahead, Jeff.  
  
Q    Hi, Jen.  What are the next steps in the U.S. process to extradite
Julian Assange after the latest UK court decision?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, this is really a case for — it’s an ongoing criminal
case, so I’d refer you to the Department of Justice and their
statement.  The President is committed to an independent Department of
Justice, and so we’d really let them speak to any next steps.  
  
Q    Okay.  And on another topic, Russia spelled out some specific
demands for NATO today, including that NATO should rescind its promises
that Ukraine and Georgia may eventually join the Alliance and that NATO
not deploy weapons in countries that border Russia.  What’s the U.S.
response to that?  Have you seen those?  And can you give us an update
on when that meeting between the other NATO countries, the U.S., and
Russia will take place?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, this list — which we have certainly seen  but should
not come as a surprise — it’s the same list of demands that the Russians
have been advocating for and voicing for several months, if not years. 
And that is their prerogative to have — to have their views and
demands.  We have our own, and we have our own concerns about security
circumstances around the world, including, of course, on the border of
Russia and Ukraine.  
  
Russia can raise their concerns; we can raise ours.  Europeans can raise
their concerns.  That’s the whole point of having a dialogue and a
discussion.  
  
While I don’t have an update on what format that may take, which I think
is the second part of your question, it’s important to note that there
have been formats for conversations about European security with Russia
for 70 years, approximately.  And many of those are formats that could
work and we are open to being the format, moving forward.   
  
I would note, also, that even as we’re determining what that looks like,
we have been engaged on a daily basis with all of the players here — our
European partners — at a range of levels.  Obviously, you saw the
President have the call with the B9 leaders yesterday, as well as the
Ukrainians.  But we are in touch with — through senior officials at the
State Department, in the White House, and we will continue to be.  But I
don’t have any update at this point on the format.  
  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  The President said, just a few moments ago, that he
thought that inflation may be at its peak right now.  Is that the
determination of your economic team when they look — when they analyze,
kind of, the state of play in the market right now?  Or where is he kind
of basing — what’s he basing that on?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think if the President were standing here — I know
he’s always invited, which may be the next thing someone says, but —
which is okay — you’re invited if you’re listening — is that — would be
that we, of course, defer to the Federal Reserve and their assessments
that they make, as they make predictions about inflation.  They are
predicting, as outside economists are, that inflation will come down
next year.  So, we would really defer to them, as would the President.  
  
I think — I have not obviously had a chance to speak to him, post his
comments, because it was just shortly — not so long ago.  But I think
what he is — in his mind, as he went on to articulate, is what we’re
doing to lower costs for the American people.  And that’s how he sees
it.  It is — of course, “inflation” is a term we use here, we use at the
Federal Reserve — a very important economic term.   
  
The way the American people experience this at home is costs and what
things cost.  Whether it is the cost of gas or natural gas, heating your
home or putting gas in your car, we’re seeing those prices come down; or
whether it is buying a car, again, we’re projecting those prices will
come down.  We’re obviously working to bring the cost of food down.   
  
So, we are seeing those move in a good trajectory and in a good
direction.  And I think that’s how he was articulating it.  
  
Q    And then, you guys have been consistent on your argument, as it
relates to Build Back Better and inflation, now for weeks, if not
months.  Senator Manchin has been consistent in his position for weeks,
and not months.  Obviously, something is going to need to change in that
dynamic on the Senator’s side of things for him, I presume, to support
Build Back Better.  What changes in your argument that resonates with
the Senator, given his long-held positions here on inflation?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we will certainly let the Senator speak for himself. 
He will, of course, be speaking with the President, as the President
alluded to, early next week.  And I would expect the President will
convey much of which we’ve — what we’ve conveyed publicly: that while
we’ve seen costs increase in some areas and we’ve seen a good direct- —
them move in a good direction in some areas as well, what we need to do
now is think about what we’re going to do about rising costs, what is
our plan to address rising costs.   
  
You know, you saw every single Republican in the House vote against
Build Back Better.  What were they voting against?  Yes, they were
voting against the President’s agenda.  They were also voting against
lowering costs.  They were voting against lowering costs for childcare,
lowering costs for eldercare, lowering costs for healthcare.  
  
And I think the — not argument, because he has a very good working
relationship with Senator Manchin — but I think the case he will make is
that this is exactly the time to pass this bill and move it forward so
that we can lower costs for the American people on all of those topics,
including insulin, in areas that really pinch — force American families
to pinch pennies.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    On that same point though, just politically, do these numbers make
it more challenging, you think, to pass Build Back Better, given the
fact that opponents and even Manchin argue that pouring more money into
the economy will only make things worse?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, what we know is what 17 Nobel economists — laureate
economists have conveyed, which is that this will help address
inflation.  We know that economists across the board — many, many across
the board — have conveyed that this will help address what we see as
rising costs.   
  
And we also know that for American families sitting at home, they don’t
necessarily think of it as what the data and what the economists are
saying; they think of it as what their daily — what their weekly budgets
are, what their monthly budgets are, and who — which leader has a plan
to address that.  
  
So, actually, for us, politically, arguing we’re going to bring down the
cost of childcare, we’re going to bring down the cost of preschool,
we’re going to make affordable housing a reality — and on the other side
of the aisle, you have people who are opposed to lowering that cost — is
a pretty viable argument.  
  
Q    And on the timeline here — just to put a finer point on it — you
know, you noted some — the costs are already going down that may not be
reflected in this report and that you may see changes next year.  But
if, you know, you’re an American at home worried about these rising
prices, how long do you think Americans should be prepared for these
increased prices to persist?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think the way Amer- — the American people look at it
is not through data.  Right?  They look at it through how things are
impacting their lives.  So, what they can know is that gas prices are
coming down in about 20 states across the country.  We expect that to
happen in more.  
  
Natural gas prices are coming down.  That means if they’re looking to
heat their homes — it was a very cold day here yesterday; other cold
days around the country — those prices are coming down.  
  
If they’re looking to buy a used car, those prices should come down
early next year.  And also, there are steps we’re taking to address
areas of — where we see prices increasing, like when they go to the
store to buy some, you know, burgers for a barbecue — that we’re working
to go after meat conglomerates for raising prices and jacking prices
up.   
  
So, it’s area to area.  But what we can tell them is where we’re seeing
progress, where we’re still going after the problem.  And what we would
also convey to them is: You should look closely at who has a plan here
and who’s just shouting from a megaphone about it being a problem.  We
all agree it’s a problem; it’s who’s going to do something about it.  
  
Q    And how worried are you that the Fed may have to raise interest
rates?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We really, of course, defer to the independence of the
Federal Reserve in making those decisions and what they feel is right
for the economy.  So, I wouldn’t say we’re worried.  We leave them to
their independent assessment of what’s needed.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Is the Manchin conversation happening here at the
White House in person or by phone?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything on the format.  And, obviously, we’ve
been in close touch with Senator Manchin, but I just was echoing what
the President said just a few minutes ago.  
  
Q    Got it.  And then on Assange, the High Court issued its ruling in
part because of assurances from the administration that Assange would
not be kept under the harsh conditions that are typically reserved for
high-security prisoners.  Can you talk about what assurances those were
and where he might be held?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, Weijia, it’s really all through the Department of
Justice, which is where those discussions would happen, so I’d really
point you to them.  
  
Q    Okay.  And then one more on COVID, because the President received a
briefing yesterday: Is there anything you can share about what the
doctors told him?  Especially because it’s been about two weeks since
Dr. Fauci said it would be two weeks until we had more definitive
information about Omicron.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, he said it would be two weeks — a few weeks. 
Obviously, we want to wait until there’s an assessment that the doctors
feel comfortable and confident in providing to the American people.  I
don’t have an update for you here today, but as soon as they have an
assessment to make, they will make it.  There’s also a briefing this
afternoon with the COVID team as well.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Republicans are circulating a modified version of the
CBO score for Build Back Better.  In their version, it included
extensions of programs without being paid for, which we understand is
not how the President put forward this legislation.  But the reason that
they’re saying they did that is because — Lindsey Graham says, “If you
believe these programs \[are going to\] go away \[after\] one, \[or\]
two…years, you shouldn’t have a driver’s license.”  We all know Child
Tax Credits are not going to go away after a year.  What does the White
House say to that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, to quote, of all people, Norm Ornstein at the American
Enterprise Institute who put this quite well — quote, “You can’t assume
programs will be extended just because Lindsey Graham wants to assure
that.  An estimate based on what’s not in the bill is bogus and
fundamentally dishonest.”  
  
I mean, this is not a CBO score.  This is a fake CBO score.  It’s not
about the existing bill anybody is debating or voting on.  This is about
proposing the extension of programs that has not been agreed to without
the commitment of the President — which he’s made repeatedly, publicly,
that he would never support extending these programs if they weren’t
paid for, period.  That has been his commitment.  That is his
commitment.   
  
I would also note that there’s a particular irony here that it shouldn’t
be lost on Senator Graham — maybe it is lost on Senator Graham; I don’t
know — that the plan they proposed and passed for and passed into law,
the 2017 tax cuts, were $2 trillion, which were not paid for in any way,
shape, or form.  That didn’t seem to upset them at all.   
  
And I will say — and they can thank us in any way they would like for
this — that what our projections and the projections of our economists
predict is that, for our plan, if — as this plan continues in the second
decade, it would actually reduce the deficit by $2 trillion.   
  
So, we’re actually covering their irresponsible tax cuts to corporations
and high-wealth net worth individuals.  They’re very welcome for
that.   
  
Q    Thank you.  And then on crime: The National Sheriffs Association
alleged that they haven’t seen the kinds of federal support to crack
down on crime that we talked about here in the briefing room earlier
this week.  I already have lengthy statements from the White House and
the DOJ detailing and countering some of the points that they made.   
  
But more broadly, if the feeling among communities and law enforcement
groups is that things are getting worse and not better, and that they’re
not visibly enough seeing results from what the White House is doing,
how can the White House project a stronger image that they’re tough on
crime and crack down on  
this?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, Jacqui, I would first say that we recognize, and let
me just reiterate, that we agree that violent crime is a serious
problem.  We have concerns about what we’ve seen — serious concerns —
about retail theft in a range of communities across the country.   
  
And I know you are aware of this, but we have actually taken some, what
we would consider, serious steps to help work with these communities,
whether it’s plussing up police forces in San Francisco and LA, or
having the FBI work directly with the LA Police Department to address
areas where we have seen an increase in retail theft.   
  
I would also note that what the President has proposed — and obviously
we’re on the CR short-term budget right now — is an increase and a
plus-up in funding for the COPS program of almost $300 billion more than
what was proposed by the former President, because he believes that
police departments and law enforcement should be properly funded and
supported.  That is something he’s been a believer in his entire
career.   
  
So, I would say, we are committed to — but we are working — we have
proposed additional funding.  We are working directly now.  And,
obviously, this work is ongoing.  
  
Q    And then one real quick one on the Jussie Smollett verdict.  Both
the President and Vice President tweeted at the time of the attack.  The
President tweeted: “What happened to @JussieSmollett must never be
tolerated in this country.”  “We are with you, Jussie.”  The Vice
President called it an “attempted modern-day lynching.”   
  
Since the guilty verdict, are there any lessons learned here on rushing
to judgment when a crime is alleged?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think there are lessons learned perhaps for everybody who
commented at the time, including former President Trump.  I wish April
Ryan was here because I think she asked him the question.  Do I see her
somewhere, or no?  Okay.   
  
Q    She just left.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  She just left!  
  
Where he said, “I can tell you that it’s horrible.  It’s doesn’t get
worse,” in response to her question about the trial — about the — about
Jussie Smollett at the time.   
  
I would say that we respect the jury’s decision.  Lying to the police,
particularly about something as heinous as a hate crime, is shameful. 
Instances of that need to be investigated fully.  And those found guilty
need to be punished.  And false accusations divert valuable police
resources away from important investigations.  They make it harder for
real victims to come forward and be believed.   
  
You know, if you look back at the time — it’s also true and important to
note that accusations of hate crimes should be taken seriously, and they
need to be fully investigated.   
  
But that’s where everybody was looking at it at the time.  But certainly
knowing what we know now, it’s important to also note the danger of
lying to police and lying about hate crimes and the fact that it diverts
important resources.    
  
Go ahead, Kristen.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  I know you’ve gotten some questions about the
timeline of inflation, but let me just try again in this context.   
  
I think it bears repeating, because now we have the numbers: Fed Chair
Jerome Powell said that “transitory” is no longer the right way to
describe inflation.  He said it “now appears that factors pushing
inflation upward will linger well into next year.”   
  
I asked Brian Deese this question yesterday, so let me put it to you
today.  Given that — given what Jerome Powell is now saying, does the
administration, does the President acknowledge that inflation is more
entrenched and not transitory?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, Kristen, I would say that — I can’t speak, obviously,
for Jerome Powell.  But I think part of the point here is that it
doesn’t really matter what you call it.  Our view, but more importantly,
the view of the Federal Reserve — which he oversees — private sector
forecasters in the markets has been and remains — and has been for
months — that inflation will ease over time.  That is the projections of
the Federal Reserve, that is the projections of outside forecasters —
and that it will — it will ease next year, and that our supply chain
issues and higher prices are rooted in the pandemic, which will subi- —
subside as it gets under control.   
  
So, I can’t parse for him his comments, but they make projections on a
regular basis, on a predictable basis, which is important for the
markets, important for people to look to, as do we — which I think is
the most important thing to watch.   
  
They are predicting, as they have for months — which hasn’t changed even
when he made those comments — that it will subside next year.   
  
Q    And I think when people hear the term “well into next year,” though
— I interviewed a business owner today, some families who say it’s this
piling up of prices that’s causing the suffering.  What do you say to
those families who are suffering and they hear a term like “well into
next year” and they feel panicked?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I would say that we take the rise in prices — and that
impacts individual families, small businesses, anyone across this
country — incredibly seriously, Kristen.  And that’s why it’s so
important to note and to detail, as I did at the beginning — but I can
highlight a little bit more — what the President is doing and what this
administration is doing to lower prices.  And that includes using every
lever at our disposal to lower gas prices — something that’s impacting
people across this country.   
  
We’ve seen some progress: Twenty states across the country, we’ve seen
it go down.  We expect that to increase.   
  
Another key driver in these inflation numbers is the price of cars. 
We’re seeing wholesale car prices come down.  That means when families
go to a lot to buy a used car — first quarter of next year, the prices
will be lower.  
  
And we’re also using tools at the President’s disposal to go after meat
conglomerates, where we’re seeing — when people go to the grocery store
and a pound of meat is more expensive than it should be.  We agree. 
That’s less related to supply chain issues.  A lot of that is related to
the actions these conglomerates are taking to take advantage of the
American people in the industry.  
  
So what people should understand is that the President is focused on
bringing down costs in all of these industries, how they’re impacting
their daily lives — which is what’s most important to him — and that
also getting the Build Back Better Agenda and Bill passed will help
lower a range of costs that impact people’s bottom lines, their
pocketbooks, their budgets.  
  
Q    And, obviously, the Child Tax Credit is a part of the Build Back
Better plan.  I asked you about this yesterday, if there’s any
discussion about pulling it out as a standalone piece for the families
who rely on that tax credit.  Will the President say to Congress, “Don’t
leave until we get this done” to make sure that that Child Tax Credit
does get extended?  What’s his plan for that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think it’s important to note that there’s not a single
Republican who supports extending the Child Tax Credit, as I — unless
they want to speak out, and, if they do, they’re welcome to join us in
supporting the extension of that.   
  
We believe that the full package — the entirety of the package has key
components that will lower costs for American families.  That’s what
we’re advocating to push to pass.  That’s what Leader Schumer would like
to do and see passed.  And that’s what our focus is on at this point in
time.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Jen, thanks.  Going back to abortion: What path does this White
House see for the Women’s Health Protection Act, given the current
balance in the Senate?  Would you advocate for a filibuster carveout in
order to pass that bill and protect access to abortion?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I would say that we would like to see that bill come up for
a vote in the Senate.  We would like to see that bill move forward.  But
in terms of the mechanisms for that, I don’t have anything new on that;
we will defer to leaders in the Senate.  
  
Q    And then, also, there’s some reports today about conversations
among senators about potentially exploring a rules change to expedite
ambassador nominations.  Is the White House involved in this
conversation at all?  And how worried are you about a scenario where,
you know, tensions are escalating at the border of Ukraine and you don’t
have ambassadors in some of these key European cities?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We’re deeply worried about it.  You know, it is true, let me
first state, having worked at the State Department for quite — for a few
years — that we have a very talented Foreign Service — Foreign Service
team and officials around the countr- — around the world, and career
officials that are around the world.  
  
But it should be that if there are qualified, talented, experienced
nominees who have been nominated by a President to serve in key
positions around the world, they should move forward through the
Senate.  And what we’re seeing now is that there is a delay in
process.   
  
A number of these nominees will end up with a majority of votes — not
everyone — not everyone, but a vast majority of votes, Democrats and
Republicans.  Yet there’s an insistence on hours and hours of debate
that’s slowing the process.   
  
And you’re absolutely right, there are key countries in the world where
we have not had ambassadors.  The President has been in office for
almost a year now, and they’re still not confirmed.  So, it is an area
of serious concern.  
  
In terms of the process piece, I’d have to check on that.  And our
engagement, I’ll talk to the legislative team about that.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    The CENTCOM commander did an interview this week in which he
indicated that the 2,500 troops in Iraq might come under increased
pressure from Iranian-backed militias that want the U.S. out of Iraq. 
One of the reasons the President pulled out of Afghanistan was because
he was afraid that American troops there would come under increased risk
if the Taliban took over the country.  Can you explain why the U.S.
presence in Iraq will remain if the President was so interested for that
reason in getting out of Afghanistan?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’d have to talk to our national security team about their
specific view on this, and probably the Department of Defense and their
team about it.  I would say that Afghanistan was, of course, a war that
we fought for 20 years, where we had troops on the ground and — who were
fighting a war on behalf of the Afghans they were unwilling to fight for
themselves.  I know it’s tempting to compare different warzones; they’re
always a little different and have different circumstances.  But I can
check with them on this specific case.  
  
Q    And one other question.  We understand the mother of Austin Tice —
the journalist who’s been captive in Syria for so long — was going to be
meeting with the National Security Advisor.  Do you have an update on
that meeting?  And does the U.S. government have hope that Austin Tice
might soon be returned to this family?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I can confirm that Debra Tice met with Jake Sullivan,
our National Security Advisor, today.  I would also note that she has
been, and her family have been, in touch and have met a number of times
with members of our national security team and been on phone calls, as
we have been with all families of individuals who are held overseas.   
  
It’s our standard practice not to share specific details about any
potential meetings or specific cases, out of respect for the families
and to preserve confidentiality.   
  
Our team, of course, will remain in close contact, but I can’t give you
an assessment.   
  
Obviously, we’re going to do everything we can to bring Austin Tice and
any individual and any American who’s being held overseas.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  First, I just wanted to ask quickly — the Chinese
firm Evergrande has slipped into default.  You were asked about this a
couple months ago and said that the U.S. was monitoring.  But now that
it’s actually happened, I’m wondering, sort of, what the level of
concern is and if the administration or the White House has undertaken
any action in response.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the vast majority of their business and, of course,
market impact is in China, not in the United States, as I think you well
know.  Obviously, any potential impact would be monitored by the
Department of Treasury.   
  
I have not heard any additional or new assessment on that.  But, of
course, we certainly — they monitor not only domestic but also global
markets.   
  
Q    And I just wanted to sort of diagram a sentence that you said
earlier.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Oh, okay.  (Laughter.)  It’s a Friday.  Give me a break.  
  
Q    I know.   
  
Well, I’ll explain.  You said —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  
  
Q    — you were talking about —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  You need a chalkboard or something.  
  
Q    — yeah — the CBO —  
  
Q    Charts.  Charts.  
  
Q    — the CBO report of the —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    — non-existent bill.  And you, in explaining why you didn’t think
it was valid, said that the President would never support extending
these programs if they weren’t paid for, period.   
  
And the reason I’m asking this question is —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — I envision a scenario where in, like, two or three years I’m
still sitting here, maybe you’re not — but a press — (laughter) —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Wow.  
  
Q    — but a new press secretary —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  This is like a real harsh line of questioning. 
(Laughter.)  
  
Q    You might be done with us.  But a Biden press secretary is sitting
here and you’re trying to extend some element of Build Back Better,
because, as we all know, the package is not going to move — or the
elements of the package wouldn’t all move together in a “we’re just
renewing Build Back Better.”  So, I want to be extremely specific.  If
there’s an element of Build Back Better that expires, the President will
never support renewing that element unless it is fully paid for and
deficit-neutral?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  He wants to — he would only support extending these programs
if they were paid for, period.  I’m not going to parse all individual
moments.  But that is what he has stated publicly.  That is his
commitment.  He is a person who is fiscally responsible, unlike the
person who asked for the fake CBO score.  And that is his commitment as
long as he is President.  
  
Q    So if it’s Child Tax Credit or, you know, payments for childcare
comes up — you know, it’s expiring, it’s on its own, you don’t have a
way for to pay for it if you —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m not going to get ahead of a hypothetical.  But, again,
what this fake CBO score was about was extending all of the programs
that would expire without paying for them.  The President would pay for
them.   
  
There’s no bill that exists on this front.  And we —  
  
Q    Okay, I understand, but it’s more like a —   
  
MS. PSAKI:  — don’t even know what the vehicle would be.  
  
But, again, the President has been clear about his intention to pay for
these programs.  And so, that’s one of the reasons why this is so
disingenuous.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    You’re saying that Americans aren’t focused on big-picture data
lines.  But, yesterday, Brian talked to us for 40 minutes about lots of
data points that are moving in the right direction.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    So, I’m wondering, given all of those things and given what you’re
talking about — prices, month to month, moving in the right direction —
what’s the White House’s big-picture view on why so many Americans are
so pessimistic about the economy and about the direction of the
country?  Because another data point is: More and more Americans are
saying “wrong track,” on monthly polling, on that key question.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, what I was — there may be — there are certainly
Americans who look at data; I’m not suggesting that.  Many of them work
in New York and other places.  I’m conveying that the way people
experience it — I think you know what I’m saying.  But the way people
experience it — and the President just said this as well — is not by
looking at charts in the paper, right?  As much as we love charts,
because they’re — it’s important for us to note — it’s about their
monthly budget and how much it takes to fill up their ca- — their tank
of gas, how much it takes to buy meat to have burgers for a barbecue. 
That’s — that’s what I was saying.   
  
Why are people experiencing things or why — because — and I — we’ve
talked about this a little bit before.  But, you know, a lot of it —
what we’re seeing in our data is people’s psychology on the economy, on
how they’re experiencing things in the country right now is related to
COVID and the fact that COVID — we’re still in a fight against this
virus.  People expected it to be over sooner.  We have new variants that
have come up.  And people are looking to get back to a normal version of
life.   
  
And so that’s our best assessment.   
  
Obviously, Americans will experience things different ways, and we
certainly understand that.  But broadly, when you look at data, that’s
what we see.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  I wanted to ask you something in light of this
week’s Democracy Summit.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.   
  
Q    Former President Trump has been undermining the 2020 election
result for most of this year; you know, he puts out statements, various
releases.  And I wonder why President Biden has not used his bully
pulpit to push back on the misinformation coming from former President
Trump, just given that democracy is such a top concern?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Why does President Bid- — sorry, just so I understand your
question: Why does President Biden not debate or lift up President Trump
and his statements?  
  
Q    I don’t think that — no, I don’t think that’s what I was saying.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  
  
Q    Why isn’t President Biden pushing back on the misinformation that
the former President is putting out?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Look, I think the President is doing what the American
people elected him to do, which is to govern the country, to make
people’s lives better, to solve COVID, to put people back to work, and,
certainly, to fight for protections that will protect — save our
democracy and — moving forward, not to continue the 2020 election.  So
that’s what he’s focused on.  
  
Q    But don’t you think it would be effective in some way to — you
know, this is the most powerful possible podium that exists in the
United States from a political leader.  Therefore, has there have been
any discussion of the President giving some kind of address to the
country and speaking clearly about what did and did not happen, and
clearing up misinformation?  And particularly as democracy is very
fragile, as —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think the President has spoken very clearly — and facts
back this up — about the fact that the majority of the American people
voted for Joe Biden to govern this country, that it went through dozens
of courts who threw out attempts to change the outcome of the
election.   
  
But we’ve made an assessment, which hasn’t been the assessment made by
everybody, that elevating and giving more fire to the conspiracy
theory-laden arguments of the former President isn’t constructive nor is
it what the American people elected him to do.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  First, President Bukele of El Salvador posted some
apparent screenshots alleging that Jean Manes of SOUTHCOM intervened to
try and free another politician in El Salvador.  And he alleges that she
was intervening to try and free another politician who was allegedly
assisting gangs in the area of El Salvador.  Is the President aware of
this interaction between Manes and President Bukele?   
  
And also, posting WhatsApp screenshots of a U.S. diplomat — what does
this say about the U.S.’s relationship with what was once an intended
partner to curb irregular migration north?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Zolan, it’s a great question.  I don’t have all the
details on the specific case — not case, but the specific details of
this — this incident that you’re referring to, so I can’t speak to
whether the President is aware of it.  Obviously, he’s regularly briefed
by his national security team.  But I’ll talk to them and see if there’s
more details on it.  
  
Q    Okay, great.  And then on MPP: The Homeland Security Secretary was
asked about the expansion of MPP yesterday —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — of including Haitians.  I know you were asked about this earlier
this week.  But when asked about expanding it, he said, “We felt the
good-faith implementation of this program required us to act.”  Why —
why is it that expanding a policy to include more migrants — a policy
that the President has referred to as “inhumane” — is acting in good
faith?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think as the Secretary has also stated, and I’ve
stated too: We don’t agree with this program.  We find it has endemic
flaws, it’s imposed unjustifile \[sic\] human costs — unjustifiable
human costs, pulled resources and personnel away from other priority
efforts, and failed to address the root causes of irregular migration.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/12/image-1.gif"
title="Anchor" class="wp-image-41619" loading="lazy" width="1"
height="1" />
</figure>

I’d also note that they made some changes to the program to attempt to
instill some more humane components, even of a program that we are
opposed to.   
  
In terms of how we’re implementing it, I mean, my understanding — but
I’d really point you to the Department of Homeland Security — is that we
are abiding by this Court order and working to implement that as we see
the requirement.  
  
But beyond that, I would really point you to them for more details.  
  
Q    But the Court order didn’t specify expanding it to other
nationalities, including Haitians.  So, I mean, with everything you just
said, given that the administration has, in court documents, criticized
this policy — I mean, why then expand it for this other population that
the Trump administration did not include either?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say, first of all, the Trump administration
allowed this program to continue, separated families and mothers from
their children, and had an absolutely inhumane and horrific approach to
immigration.  So, I don’t think there’s any point of comparison there. 
I will check and see if there’s more details on this to share with
you.  
  
Q    The last one —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah, go ahead.  
  
Q    — I have is just with this tragedy involving a truck crash with
more than 50 migrants that were killed.  That’s the initial reports. 
Just initial reports from people on the ground say that that truck was
intending to come to the U.S. border, that those folks were trying to
come to the U.S.  Is the President, is the administration reaching out
to Mexico, to partners in Central America this morning?  Does this cause
for a certain reevaluation of the strategy to deter migration north?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  It would really come through the Department of Homeland
Security — that kind of outreach.  So, I would point you to them for any
more detail about a connection with the Mexican government.  
  
Q    Or the Vice President at this point, since this is —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I can check and see, but I suspect that conversation would
first happen through the Department of Homeland Security.  
  
Go ahead.  Oh, go ahead, Karen.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Retail sales recently have been strong, even with
prices increasing.  Does the White House think that will continue, or is
there concern about consumers starting to scale back due to higher
prices?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We have seen retail sales up.  I mean, it is the holiday
season right now.  So, without being an economist, I suspect that retail
sales are often up around the holiday season as people are engaging in
retail therapy, or what have you, this time of year.  
  
In terms of whether it will come down and be — I think — I would assume
you mean below what the typical trends would be — we haven’t seen that
to date, but I don’t have any economic projections of what we expect on
that front — or I have not heard an expectation from our economic team
that we expect them to come down.  
  
Q    And on a different topic: Manuel Oliver lost his son in the
Parkland, Florida, high school shooting in 2018.  He’s been here in
Washington this week.  He spoke to us –- ABC — and said he wants to meet
with the President to talk about gun control in the wake of another
school shooting.  
  
I know that he’s met with the President in the past, and some White
House officials in the past have spoken with him, but is there a plan
for the President to meet with Mr. Oliver while he’s here in
Washington?  And then I just have one quick one after that about
this.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Sure.  Well, let me first say that we have been in
touch with Mr. Oliver.  Cedric Richmond has been in touch with him.  And
he was also offered a meeting with Cedric Richmond and members of our
senior team.   
  
I don’t have anything to preview in terms of a meeting with the
President, but certainly he is somebody, as you noted, that the — who
the President has met with in the past.  We certainly respect and honor,
one, his loss, but also his activism — as a follow-up to that — on
behalf of gun safety.  But I don’t have anything to predict at this
point for a meeting with the President.  
  
Q    And I think you were asked this earlier this week, but just to
circle back on that: Has the President spoken with any of the families
who lost a child in the Michigan school shooting last week?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have an update on that either at this point in
time.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    So, the Los Angeles school district — 85 percent of its eligible
students vaccinated, 12 years older and up, but they’re pushing back the
deadline for the rest of those students because, you know, tens of
thousands were not going to meet that deadline.  How does the White
House view that experience?  Is it viewed that this has been a
successful use of a mandate on students?  Is this a warning sign that
not enough students are getting vaccinated?  How would you characterize
and look at that situation?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  You know, I don’t have any specific — excuse me — grade of
the — their implementation.  Obviously, school districts across the
country are going to implement, or not, different requirements to keep
their schools safe.   
  
What I would note is that that is a vast majority that is in compliance
with what the requirements are — they put in place — by a large
population of the school community.  And that is something — they have
made the decision — will make their community and their school safer,
make parents feel more comfortable and confident in sending their kids
to school.  That’s ultimately a good thing.  But different schools are
going to implement it differently.  
  
I think the President’s principle is, ultimately, that there should not
be a cliff, that there should be efforts to find accommodation to ensure
there is counseling, that there is communication and education about the
efficacy of vaccines or alternatives like testing.  And that is
certainly something that we’ve conveyed to entities across the
country.  
  
Q    And one more question on schools.  Obviously, the White House wants
schools to be open, been encouraging schools to open.  Many schools are
fully open.  But inside schools, there are often very strict rules.  For
example, sometimes students are required to eat outside or eat distanced
from each other or not talk to each other while they’re eating.  Does
the White House want to see those rules lifted, as well, to get back to
a little more normal school experience?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, schools are taking steps — especially since we’ve only
recently approved, through the CDC and FDA, vaccines for 5- to
11-year-olds; they’re not approved for kids younger than that — to keep
their kids safe and keep students safe.  
  
I will tell you, I have a three-year-old who goes to school, sits
outside for snacks and lunch, wears a mask inside, and it’s no big deal
to him.  I’m not saying that’s the case for everybody, but these are
steps that schools are taking to keep kids safe.  And I think the vast
majority of parents appreciate that.  
  
Obviously, we want to get to a point where we’re turning to a version of
normalcy for everybody, right?  Where you’re not sending your kid’s
backpack with seven extra masks, right?  Where you’re not adding two
hats so that they’re warm outside for a snack.  There’s no question
that’s the case.  But we also think the most important thing should be
safety — the safety of kids; keeping kids in school, which the President
is very focused on.  And some of these steps — creative steps that
schools have taken have enabled that to be possible.  
  
Go ahead, Tina.  
  
Q    Is the Biden administration considering extending that student loan
payment pause?  I know there’s — if not, besides legislation that
probably won’t pass, what are some of the options that would help these
people?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  You’re talking about the student loan payment pause that
expires in February, just for clarity?   
  
Q    Yes.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  So, in the coming weeks, we will release more details about
our plans and will engage directly with federal student loan borrowers
to ensure they have the resources they need and are in the appropriate
repayment plan.  
  
We’re still assessing the impact of the Omicron variant.  But a smooth
transition back into repayment is a high priority for the
administration.  The Department of Education is already communicating
with borrowers to help them to prepare for return to repayment on
February 1st and has secured contract extensions with loan servicers.  
  
So, we are preparing for a range of steps here.  These steps have
provided, I would just note, more than $12.5 billion in discharges to
nearly 640,000 borrowers, plus tens of billions more saved by the 41
million borrowers who have benefited from the extended student loan
payment pause.  But it expires February 1, so, right now, we’re just
making a range of preparations.  
  
Q    Okay.  And then on the Olympics: China earlier this week said, when
they learned of the diplomatic boycott, that there might be some
retaliation.  Are there counter actions that have been discussed within
the administration?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We would certainly let China speak for themselves, as we
noted when we made this announcement.  We felt — the President felt that
we could not proceed with business as usual and send a diplomatic
delegation to the Olympics.  
  
But obviously, we work with China on issues where there is agreement and
we make clear where we have concerns, and that includes our strong
concerns about human rights abuses, specifically in Xinjiang.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Just following up on Zeke’s question on Austin Tice:
You mentioned that the administration is doing everything it can to free
him.  Does “everything” include direct engagement with the Assad
government in Syria?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m not going to detail anything further.  Our objective is,
of course, bringing people home.  
  
Q    And not just the Tice family, but other families of those who have
been held captive have criticized the President that they haven’t seen
direct, personal engagement on their family cases.  Maybe you could
explain what the President has done directly to help free some of these
Americans abroad.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m not going to detail the President’s engagement because
it’s not advantageous to our objective of bringing people home.   
  
What I can tell you is that Austin Tice’s mother and all of the families
of Americans who are being held overseas have been in touch with our
national security team, have been in touch with Jake Sullivan and other
senior officials in a range of departments, at the State Department and
others, multiple times.  And we are absolutely committed to closely
coordinating with them, to doing everything we can from here in the
United States government to bring their loved ones home.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  Following on that UK court ruling on Assange, has
the President ever given any consideration at all to a pardon?  And
also, what is your response to the message in some quarters that
prosecuting Assange is an assault on freedom of speech, freedom of the
press, information, et cetera?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would again reiterate that this is a case that is
still ongoing.  It’s really under the purview of the Department of
Justice.  They’ve put out a statement.  I’d point you to that for any
further comment.  
  
I would say, broadly speaking, outside of this case, that the President
has been an advocate for freedom of speech, freedom of press.  He’s
holding a two-day Democracy Summit that’s wrapping up today.   
  
The freedom of media and press is a central component of that.  He
announced an additional tranche of funding to ensure we’re advocating
for that, and he is somebody who’s going to continue to advocate that,
domestically and internationally, through the course of his
presidency.  
  
Go ahead, Nadia.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  You said you’re expecting the price oil to go down
soon.  What do you base that on?  And will the President reach out to
OPEC Plus producer countries again?  And then I have another question.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’ve already seen the price go down some.  So I was
basing it on what we’ve seen in the data, in the oil markets.  
  
Q    And yesterday you talked elaborately about possible sanctions –-
economic sanction on Iraq — on Iran, sorry –- on Iran.  And you said
that you would send delegations perhaps to the UAE —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — and talk to your allies, like Japan and South Korea and the
rest.  Two questions.  Number one is: Are you going back to the maximum
pressure campaign that the previous administration used to convince Iran
to come back to the negotiation?  And second, what kind of leverage do
you have on China to stop importing Iranian oil?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say: First, we’re not using the last
administration’s approach as a model.  They pulled out of the Iran
nuclear deal, which meant that we — they’ve been able to proceed and
progress in their nuclear program without visibility from the United
States or the global community in a way that it leads to a reduction in
everyone’s security and is — ultimately, has enormously negative impacts
globally.  
  
As it relates to what our leverage is on China: China was a constructive
member of the P5+1, has continued to be, and obviously there are certain
restrictions and requirements everybody would have to implement in order
for this to move forward.  That’s all a part of the negotiations.  I
don’t think anyone wants to see Iran acquire a nuclear weapon.  I’m not
sure if you would call that leverage as much as something that is
important to the security of the global community.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks.  On China, U.S. Trade Representative Katherine Tai has
previously said there’s this range of enforcement mechanisms on the
table to hold China accountable to the phase one trade deal.  But China
is on track to fall short of the goals, primarily boosting imports of
U.S. agricultural goods.  How confident is the President he can hold
China accountable to those commitments in time since those obligations
are expiring?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I know they’re expiring at the end of the year. 
Right?  Am I remembering this correctly?  So we have a couple more
weeks.  Ambassador Tai is, of course, running point for the
administration on the implementation on these phase one negotiations and
discussions.  I don’t have an update from here, but I can certainly
check and see if there’s more to report.  
  
Q    All right.  But what message does it send to American farmers who
were, you know, hoping for a boost from these export obligations if they
aren’t met?  And should we expect the President to take action if that
is the case?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, as you know, there’s an ongoing review and assessment
— and maybe this is what I shorthanded — was referencing — that is over
— being overseen by Ambassador Tai about these tariffs and how they
impact negatively, unintentionally, certain industries in the United
States.  I don’t have anything to preview on that front, but that is
also an ongoing process that’s happening right now.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  A follow-up on that question about El Salvador. 
What’s the White House response to the President of El Salvador
accusations against the U.S.?  He says, and I quote, “The interests of
the United States has nothing to do with democracy in any country.”  End
quote.   
  
And any comment on the decision of Nicaragua to break relations with
Taiwan and return (inaudible) to China?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure, let me start with Nicaragua.  The decision deprives
Nicaragua’s people of a reliable and democratic partner in Taiwan. 
Taiwan is a like-minded democratic partner, a steadfast partner and
friend to countries throughout the region.  We encourage all countries
that care about democratic institutions, transparency, the rule of law,
and promoting economic prosperity for their citizens to expand
engagement with Taiwan.  We refer you to the State Department for
anything further, but I would note that they put out an extensive
statement on that.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    And the point on El Salvador —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  On –-  
  
Q    — on the quote of the President of El Salvador saying that the U.S.
government has nothing to do with democracy in any country.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  It’s hard for me to even know the context of that
statement.  The United States just hosted a two-day Democracy Summit,
where we announced an extensive financial commitment to contribute to
the preservation of democracy around the world.   
  
The President — as the President conveyed, democracy “works best with
consensus and cooperation.”  And he’s also noted that we all need to
continue to work harder to preserve our own democracy.  I don’t have an
exact reaction to them.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Two quick foreign policy questions for you.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    One is on Afghanistan.  Yesterday, as was mentioned earlier, the
head of Central Command did an interview, and during that interview, he
said that the number of al Qaeda members in Afghanistan has, in his
words, “probably slightly increased.”  Does that surprise the
President?  Is that a concern for the President?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say first that President Biden made clear from
the start of the Afghanistan withdrawal process that it’s critical for
us to retain our over-the-horizon with- — counterterrorism abilities,
our ability to prevent, detect, and disrupt terrorism threats without
having a permanent military presence on the ground that could be a
target.   
  
And that is something he is committed to ensuring.  Our national
security team is working to ensure we have the capabilities, working
with partner countries in the region who share that concern, who do not
want terrorism to have a birthplace or rebirth place in the region.   
  
And we have also been clear that we will not allow terrorists to
threaten the homeland from Afghanistan, and we will hold the Taliban
accountable.   
  
I know we obviously do regular assessments for our — from our
intelligence team on this — from the CIA Director, from our Director of
the National Intelligence Agency.  I’d really point you to them on our —
on their assessments.  But the President takes his commitment to
ensuring they do not rebuild, they do not gather, and they do not threat
— pose a threat to the Homeland quite seriously.  
  
Q    And then on Russia: Just a few days after President Biden’s
conversation with President Putin, is it fair to say that the ball is
now in President Putin’s court in the sense that the next step is up to
him as to whether or not he pulls back his troops from the
Russian-Ukrainian border or he moves into Ukraine?  What’s your
assessment there?  Is that a fair and accurate assessment?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say first that our objective continues to be
diplomatic discussions.  And to go back to Jeff’s earlier question,
those could take a range of formats.  There’s decades of precedent on
this and a lot of formats that exist where those could continue.  And
those could — and that is really our objective and our focus.  Those
would not, of course, involve just the Russians.   
  
Our overarching approach here is that we’re not going to have
conversations without the key players involved, whether that is
conversations about Ukraine without Ukraine or conversations about NATO
without NATO.  Those are our principles.   
  
So, that’s really what our focus is on at this point.  Obviously, all of
this effort — diplomatic effort to date, coordination with our European
partners, the President’s very direct conversation with President Putin
— was meant to convey very clearly that if he were to choose to invade,
there would be severe and significant economic consequences.  
  
Obviously, you know, he is the one who has control over the military
troops of Russia, not other countries.  But, certainly, our effort and
our focus is to have those diplomatic discussions and have the ball move
forward through that channel.  
  
I think I’m going to have to wrap it up here in just a moment.   
  
Let’s go.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  I have two quick follow-ups.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    The first is: You’ve been consistent on this, and so has the
President, about your support for codifying Roe v. Wade.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    What’s more, Speaker Pelosi and Majority Leader Schumer have also
voiced their support.  Has the White House been doing outreach on this? 
And do you think that you would have the votes to be successful?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I can’t give an assessment of the vote count at this point. 
What I will tell you is that we have been engaged with leaders on
Capitol Hill — many of whom have been quite outspoken about their
concern and the need to move forward with the Women’s Health Protection
Act — today, in light of the fact that women in Texas have been — for
101 days, they’ve had their basic access to women’s healthcare, to their
fundamental right that’s been the law of the land for decades be put
into question and at risk.  
  
In terms of what our engagement will be, we will continue to be
engaged.  And the ruling this morning reinforces that there is more work
to be done, reinforces that need to engage on Capitol Hill and with
localities around the country.  
  
Q    And then my second follow-up: Moments ago, you were pretty
definitive when you said that President Biden “would only support
extending these programs if they were paid for, period.”  Does that
necessarily mean that, sometime in the future, President Biden would be
prepared to raise taxes?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think President Biden has been pretty clear about
his protection of keeping taxes low for the middle class and lowering
them, but we don’t have any hypothetical bill we’re talking about
here.   
  
I think you’ve seen him convey that pretty clearly, and all of the bills
he’s supported have been consistent.  But we’ll have hypothetical –-
we’ll have real conversations when real bills exist.   
  
Edward, why don’t you do the last one.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Thank you, Jen.  So you talked about inflation here in
the room — the highest we haven’t seen since 1982.  The President has
been in office about 11 months.  What grade does the President give
himself on his handling of the economy?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think every President I’ve ever worked for — I’ve only
worked for two — but they try not to grade themselves.  But I will tell
you what the President is proud of working on with Congress, with
governors, with leaders across the country is his effort to lower prices
for people across the country — whether it’s the steps he took to lower
the price of gas; whether it’s the steps he took from the beginning to
address bottlenecks in the supply chain that we’re seeing play out now
positively in terms of improvements; or whether it’s his effort — his
proposal to introduce Build Back Better, which will cut costs for people
across the country.   
  
All right, happy Friday, everyone.  Thank you, everyone.  Have a good
day.  
  
3:29 P.M. EST
