---
date: '2022-08-02'
published_time: 2022-08-02 19:59:23-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/02/statement-by-president-joe-biden-on-senate-passage-of-the-bipartisan-pact-act/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement by President Joe\_Biden on Senate Passage of the Bipartisan PACT\_\
  Act"
---
 
While we can never fully repay the enormous debt we owe to those who
have worn the uniform, today, the United States Congress took important
action to meet this sacred obligation. The bipartisan *Sergeant First
Class Heath Robinson Honoring Our PACT Act of* 2022­ is the biggest
expansion of benefits for service-connected health issues in 30 years
and the largest single bill ever to comprehensively address exposure to
burn pits.

I called for this legislation in my State of the Union address, as part
of my Unity Agenda to help bring together our nation. Congress has
delivered a decisive and bipartisan win for America’s veterans. I want
to thank Chair Tester and Ranking Member Moran as well as Chair Takano
and Ranking Member Bost for their tireless work to pass this major
reform, and the courageous veterans and advocates whose tenacity and
heart ensured this legislation got done.

For the millions of veterans who may have been exposed to harmful
toxins, this bill means quicker access to health care services and other
benefits. This could be the difference between life and death for many
suffering from toxic related illnesses. For the spouse or child of a
servicemember who died from toxic exposure, struggling to put their
lives back together, this bill will be a lifeline. It means a monthly
stipend for a surviving spouse and kids, and access to tuition benefits
to help cover the cost of college. It means access to life insurance,
home loan assistance, and help with health care. It matters.

I have long said we have a lot of obligations as a nation, but we have
only one sacred obligation – to prepare and equip those we send to war
and to take care of them and their families when they come home.

I look forward to signing this bill, so that veterans and their families
and caregivers impacted by toxic exposures finally get the benefits and
comprehensive health care they earned and deserve.

\###
