---
date: '2022-08-04'
modified_time: 2022-08-04 17:20:35-04:00
published_time: 2022-08-04 17:20:34-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/04/remarks-by-president-biden-in-roundtable-with-business-and-labor-leaders-on-the-inflation-reduction-act/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden in Roundtable with Business and Labor Leaders\
  \ on the Inflation Reduction\_Act"
---
 
Via Teleconference

1:53 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, folks.  I’m here with leaders from some
of the — America’s largest companies and labor organizations: Kaiser
Permanente, General Motors, Cummins, Carrier, Ameren, you know, the
United Auto Workers, the AFL-CIO.

They’re all here because they believe that the Inflation Reduction Act
meets the needs of working families now and what our economy needs now
for stronger, sustained economic growth in the years ahead. 

Let me tell you a few things about what this bill does.

First, it will lower healthcare costs for millions of Americans who buy
coverage from the Affordable Care Act, locking in the healthcare
premiums that save 13 million people an average of $800 a year.

This comes on top the news that we have the lowest percentage of
Americans who are uninsured than ever before in our history thanks to
the Affordable Care Act, as well as the American Rescue Plan that I
signed into law last year that saved families an average of $240 \[sic\]
— $2,400 in premiums.  $2,400 in premiums.

  
The Inflation Reduction Act is also going to deliver on a promise
Washington has made for years: give Medicare the power to negotiate
prescription drug prices.

This bill will save the American people and Medicare hundreds of
billions of dollars.  It’s going to cap the amount of money seniors pay
for prescription drugs at $2,000 a year — period — whether it’s for
cancer or for other diseases and the treatments they need.  Maximum
$2,000 a year.

That’s a Godsend for so many families.

Second, we’re going to invest $369 billion to address the climate crisis
and bring down family energy bills by an average of $500 a year.  We’re
going to do this providing — by providing working families rebates to
buy new and efficient appliances, weatherize their homes, and tax
credits for everything from heat pumps to rooftop solar to wind
energy.  
  
  

It also provides tax credits to spur the construction of energy projects
all across America — projects that will deliver new, clean energy and
strengthen our country’s grid.

We also — it’s going to — there are also manufacturing tax credits as
well in this bi- — in this bill to make products like solar panels, wind
turbines, battery storage — make it right here in the United States of
America.  

And this is going to create thousands of good-paying jobs,
apprenticeship opportunities, and manufacturing jobs for clean energy
construction projects, solar projects, wind projects, clean hydrogen
projects, carbon capture projects, and so much more. 

And along with the CHIPS and Science Act that I’ll be signing into law
next week, the Inflation Reduction Act will mean we are making the
largest investment ever in clean energy and American energy security —
the largest in our history.  It will be the largest investment in
American manufacturing — in American manufacturing as well.

Joining me today are the CEOs of some of the most iconic American
manufacturing companies and the union leaders who represent America’s
manufacturing workers.

They see — they see how, already, because of our work over the last 18
months, American manufacturing is coming back stronger than ever.  Where
is it written that America can’t lead in manufacturing in the world? 
Six hundred and thirteen thousand manufacturing jobs created just since
I took office — the most created in three decades.

And with the investments in this bill, we are going to supercharge that
recovery; make sure that the manufacturing, innovation, and jobs that
come from this bill are made in America. 

And third, this bill is going to reduce the deficit by another $300
billion.  That’s beyond the record $1.7 trillion we’re on track to cut
the deficit by just this year — this fiscal year.

And we’re going to help pay for those critical needs from working
families and our economy by asking corporations earning more than $1
billion a year to pay a minimum tax of 15 percent.  That’s less than a
school teacher and a — and a autoworker pay.

Let me be clear: Despite what some folks are saying, the Inflation
Reduction Act makes sure that no one earning less than $400,000 will pay
a penny more in federal taxes, notwithstanding all these ads you see on
television.

But don’t take my word for it.  Nearly 130 economists, 7 Nobel laureates
in economics, former — former Treasury Secretaries, the Federal Reserve
Vice Chair, former director of the Congressional Budget Office wrote
that this bill will, quote, “fight inflation and lower costs for
American families while setting the stage for strong, stable, and
broadly-shared long-term economic growth.”  End of quote.

So, you know, look at the facts.  
  
So let me close with this: The Inflation Reduction Act lowers
prescription drug prices, lowers health insurance premiums, invests in
clean energy that will create jobs and economic opportunity for business
and labor.  It reduces the deficit and makes commonsense reforms to our
corporate tax code.  These are the facts.

  
One more thing.  The Inflation Reduction Act has bipartisan support
among the people of this country.

Look at the polling data: The vast majority of people in America support
what’s in the Inflation Reduction Act.

So my message to Congress is this: Listen to the American people. 

This is the strongest bill you can pass to lower inflation, continue to
cut the deficit, reduce healthcare costs, tackle the climate crisis, and
promote America’s energy security, all while reducing the burdens facing
working-class and middle-class families.

Pass it.  Pass it and get it to my desk.  Pass it for the American
people.  Pass it for businesses and workers.  Pass it for America.

I’m going to stop here and turn this over to Brian Deese to start the
meeting.

  
But thank you.  And thank you all for participating in this meeting.  I
really appreciate it.

MR. DEESE:  Thank you, Mr. President.  And let me echo my thanks to all
of you for joining us and for offering your perspective today.  I just
want to — we’ll start right in and ask Jennifer, you, to start us off. 

First of all, congratulations on the — the new role, and would really
appreciate your perspective on — on the — from the manufacturing lens. 
Cummins, obviously iconic and long-serving American manufacturing
company.  And I’m told — you can confirm if this is true — that half of
the diesel trucks on U.S. highways today are powered by Cummins —
Cummins engines.

And so we’d really just love to start off with your perspective on how
this legislation, as well as the other efforts that we’re working on
together, affects your thinking about how to grow American manufacturing
and, importantly, stay on the cutting edge of manufacturing innovation
here.

MS. RUMSEY:  Great.  Well, thank — thank you, Brian.  And thank you, Mr.
President, for the opportunity to be here today and speak in support of
the Inflation Reduction Act and, in particular, the clean technology
focus within that — that bill.

As you know, Cummins is a global power leader.  We’re headquartered in
Columbus, Indiana, and we employ more than 26,000 employees across the
United States.  In fact, we increased that number by several thousand
yesterday when we completed our acquisition of Meritor.

And we provide power solutions for a wide range of applications.  As you
said, Brian, we’re best known for providing diesel engines and trucks. 
And almost every truck on the road has either a Cummins engine or a
Cummins component on another engine. 

We also provide a wide range of other power solutions, including
construction, agricultural equipment; power generation, including backup
power for hospitals, data centers, even the Statue of Liberty. 

And, Mr. President, I thought you might be interested to know that we
provide the locomotive engines for Amtrak’s Northeast Corridor as well. 

We have a long history of ensuring that everything we do leads to a
cleaner, healthier, and safer environment.  We’ve set an environmental
sustainability goals that, by 2050, all of Cummins products, our
operations, and facilities will achieve carbon neutrality.  And that’s
aligned with the Paris Climate Agreement and the United States’ own
carbon reduction goals. 

And we truly believe that we can do things that are good for the
environment and for our customers and our business.  Decarbonization is
critical.  
  
I read the news now almost every day that talks about record
temperatures, fires in the west, flooding in Kentucky.  Climate change
is real, and we have a responsibility to deal with it.  And we have an
opportunity to leverage that for growth in our business and for
strengthening — strengthening America innovation and competitiveness. 

To do that and to have the biggest impact and help our customers as we
make this transition, create good-paying American jobs, we need the
right policies and incentives for infrastructure development and
deployment of new and improved technologies.  And many of those
market-based incentives that we think are needed are included in the
Inflation Reduction Act.

We think that the comprehensive scope of energy provisions — from power
generation to transportation to hydrogen production — are all important
pieces of the decarbonization puzzle, and they’re important to ensure we
have wells-to-wheels decarbonization in hard-to-abate — hard-to-abate
sectors like those that we serve.

The tax credits for low-carbon fuel production, including renewable
natural gas and renewable diesel fuel, are needed.  These alternative
fuels can lower NOx and carbon emissions in many vehicles that are
already in use.

For new trucks, the 30 percent investment tax credit included for low-
and no-carbon trucks and their respective charging and fueling
infrastructure are critical to help fleets afford newer technologies,
like hybrid and battery and fuel-cell powered vehicles, as we continue
to advance and scale up these technologies and make them more cost
competitive, and ensure our customers are successful in their businesses
as well. 

The clean hydrogen production credit is essential to creating a robust
domestic hydrogen economy so we can compete with Europe and East Asia
that are focused on doing that today.

And finally, we think that tax incentives for fuel cells, energy
storage, and microgrids will help accelerate more efficient solutions
for stationary power. 

So we think these provisions make these new and low-carbon technologies
more affordable, accelerating infrastructure development and deployment
throughout the economy.  And by reducing some of the cost gap between
traditional power and these newer solutions, we can advance their viabl-
— viability and make them a reality. 

So thank you again for the opportunity to be here and to support the
Inflation Reduction Act, which is good for the economy and the
environment.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, thank you.  Is it all right if I ask a question,
Brian?  (Laughs.)

MR. DEESE:  Of course, Mr. President.

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, first of all, you got me back and forth to
Wilmington, Delaware, to Washington, D.C., for a long time on Amtrak. 
Thank you.

MS. RUMSEY:  You’re welcome.

THE PRESIDENT:  Look, where we’re going to make a big investment in
clean technology manufacturing facilities, like the facilities that make
electric vehicles — how important will this investment be in building
out the electric vehicle supply chains?  Because it seems to me that’s —
that’s one of the — I mean, everybody is looking at doing that.  We seem
to — I think we have enormous opportunity here.

MS. RUMSEY:  Yeah, I agree, Mr. — Mr. President.  There’s a lot of work
to build out those supply chains, to build out the infrastructure, to
move to these new and a variety of different fuel and technology types. 
And we see a significant opportunity to increase U.S. manufacturing
capacity and grow jobs here in all these different technologies that
support our strategy — Destination Zero — to decarbonize our industry. 

So we’re excited for the opportunity to bring some of those solutions
here to the U.S., export those technologies globally, increase America’s
economic competitiveness, as we — as we focus on this.

And Cummins has done this before.  We actually made diesel technology
viable for commercial trucking applications.  And we see the Inflation
Reduction Act as one key piece of accelerating our journey and really
transitioning our applications to technologies of the future like
battery, fuel cell, electric, and green hydrogen.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I think you can do it.  I really do.  And I hope
this is as helpful as we think it is, because you’ve always been in the
forefront here. 

And, you know, the idea — and it just — we — I keep trying to remind
people, and I don’t think I have to remind anybody on this — on the Zoom
— that there’s not a damn thing we can’t do when we set our mind to it. 
We have never failed in trying to break through, no matter what — I
mean, over the last hundred years. 

And I think this presents an enormous opportunity for a healthier
environment, a cleaner environment, a cheaper environment for people to
ha- — get by on. 

And — at any rate, I — I am really optimistic.  And I want to thank you
very much, Jennifer, for being willing to come and talk to us about it. 
Because we’ll be talking —

MS. RUMSEY:  My pleasure.

THE PRESIDENT:  If this passes, we’ll be talking a lot more.  (Laughs.)

MS. RUMSEY:  Yeah.  Thank you, Mr. President. 

MR. DEESE:  So, Mr. President, I was going to ask — we’ll go from
heavy-duty commercial to light-duty vehicles. 

And, Mary, thank you for being here.  And just wanted to get your
perspective on, you know, broadly, the automotive sector and the
manufacturing opportunity that you see here, and how this bill and the
other things we’re working on will — will affect your perspective on
where we can take the sector in this country.

THE PRESIDENT:  Am I on mute? 

MS. BARRA:  Great.  Well, Brian, thank you.  And, Mr. President, thank
you as well.  I, today, am at one of —

THE PRESIDENT:  Hey, Mary, by the way —

MS. BARRA:  — our manufacturing facil- —

THE PRESIDENT:  — we owe you big.  You started all this.  I remember our
conversation.

MS. BARRA:  (Laughs.)

THE PRESIDENT:  No, I’m serious.  I am serious.

MS. BARRA:  Yeah, well — well, we’re working hard.  And I’m actually at
one of our manufacturing facilities in Ohio today.  And I’m very pleased
to participate on behalf of GM and to have the opportunity to add GM’s
voice in support of the Inflation Reduction Act as currently proposed. 

And, Mr. President, I also want to thank you for your leadership.  Your
engagement with congressional leaders and a broad set of stakeholders
over the last year, I believe, has really helped us get to this point. 

At GM, we believe we are at an inflection point and one that, as we take
these steps, we could create a much brighter future for America. 

You know, as we talked about the transition to an all-electric future,
Mr. President, you saw what General Motors saw and continues to see. 
And it’s the opportunity to create and maintain good-paying American
jobs and the opportunity for America to lead in electrification and
innovation.

General Motors is (inaudible) — we’ve already announced historic
investments in the United States.  This bill will help drive further
investments in American manufacturing and sustainable, scalable, and
secure supply chains.  And all that — all that comes with that is a
stronger economy and job growth.

So we deeply appreciate also the inclusion of the EV provisions in the
Inflation Reduction Act.  While some of the goals cannot be achieved
overnight, we are confident that the significant investments GM is
making in manufacturing, in the workforce, in our infrastructure, in
supply chains, and in clean energy will establish the U.S. as a global
leader today and in the future.

So, once again, thank you for the opportunity to voice our support for
the Inflation — Inflation Reduction Act.

MR. DEESE:  Thank you, Mary. 

And I wanted to just bring Liz, you, in here too.  You said recently
that this bill was — your — your focus here was on real solutions for
working families, and I’m hoping you could give us your perspective from
the — kind of, the ground-level view, from the families and workers that
you’re talking to and engaging with, how you see this piece of
legislation intersecting with their needs and their priorities.

MS. SHULER:  Absolutely.  Thank you, Brian.

Hello, everyone.  I, too, want to start by thanking President Biden and
the administration for your commitment to American manufacturing and, of
course, for inviting us to be a part of this conversation today.

I think it’s a great mix of labor and business leaders, and it shows how
important and historic the Inflation Reduction Act is. 

And I’m bringing the voice of our 57 unions, 12.5 million members who
believe this bill is going to help us reshape the future and deliver
real help to working families by reducing rising energy and healthcare
costs.

And when I’m on the road talking to working people, they’re worried
about making ends meet.  And so these steps to lower healthcare costs,
you know, especially the high cost of prescription drugs; investing in
our clean energy future; addressing our broken tax code — this is going
to deliver fundamental economic change across America.

And, by the way, asking the top 150 or so companies to start paying
their fair share of taxes is music to our ears. 

And let’s just be clear: Asking 150 of the largest, most profitable
companies to pay a minimum of 15 percent in taxes is not going to harm
manufacturing investment in the U.S.  In fact, much of the revenue
created by this tax would be from companies who have historically dodged
taxes by manufacturing overseas.

So, our members are especially excited about the historic clean energy
investment that this bill would make because, as was said, it’s going to
create millions of good jobs for working people and cut climate
pollution by 40 percent. 

So this is what we need to jumpstart the clean energy transition,
address the climate crisis, make clean energy more accessible and
affordable.  And these investments would actually decrease the cost of
domestic clean energy by over one third.  And so that’s going to be a
game changer for consumers.

But we have to look at the other side of the coin too, and — and this
bill does that by keeping the working people, who are going to make that
future possible, front and center.  And not only will it direct
investments to underserved communities, it will also make sure that high
working standards and high environmental standards can go hand in hand,
and it shows that.  It’s not a choice; we can do both.

And so including the labor standards, domestic content requirements on
the tax incentives, that’s going to create good-paying jobs in
construction, manufacturing, right here in America. 

Of course, the prevailing wage and apprenticeship provisions will make
sure that these investments not only help strengthen the environment,
but are strengthening our economy and that pathway to the middle class.

And so that’s how we create lasting change that working families need. 
So, I’d just say this is a — we see this bill as a major step forward. 
It’s going to improve the lives of working people.  It’s going to
improve lives for seniors who are trying to pay for their prescriptions,
kids who are going to have a healthier planet to live on. 

So we are united in support for this legislation.  We urge Congress to
move it quickly, get it passed, and signed into law.  Get it to the
President to sign.

Thank you.

THE PRESIDENT:  Hey, Liz, thanks.  And Mary.  You guys are a hell of a
team — what’s going on. 

You know, one of the things that — and you heard me say this before: My
dad used to have an expression.  He’d say, “A job is about a lot more
than a paycheck.  It’s about your dignity.  It’s being able to look your
kid in the eye and say, ‘It’s going to be okay.  It’s going to be
okay.’”

The only way we’re going to be able to do that for American workers is
to make sure that we continue to grow and create good-paying jobs.  And
that’s what you’re doing, and that’s what the AFL-CIO is doing with Liz,
making sure that we can talk about the impact this relief is going to
have on American workers.

In addition to — and, by the way, I’m looking at a card here, reminding
myself that it’s going to cut energy costs and unlock $500 on average
annually for energy savings; 30 percent tax credit for home energy
systems like rooftop and solar and efficient windows; $7,500 tax credit
for new electric vehicles and $4,000 tax credit for used ones; $14,000
for consumer rebate for high-efficiency appliances, like electric heat
pumps. 

It’s going to do an awful lot beyond what is the overall piece here
about lowering inflation. 

And, you know, in addition to the new jobs it’s going to create in this
bill, the Inflation Reduction Act is also going to bring down energy and
healthcare costs for all Americans, and that’s going to impact on — on —
this relief it will have on the American workers is real.

Liz, do your folks talk about that?  Do we talk about how it’s going to
actually, you know, reduce healthcare costs, prescription drug costs, et
cetera?

MS. SHULER:  Absolutely, Mr. President.  I would say that that is what’s
most on people’s mind, is, you know, can they afford to pay their
healthcare premiums; can they afford to put food on the table for their
families. 

And so bringing down costs for workers is exactly what we need in this
moment, and that’s what this bill does.

And so I know Ray Curry is on here with me.  That’s exactly what we’re
trying to do, is get the message out there.  Because as you know,
there’s often a disconnect in what happens in Washington to what happens
at the grassroots and community level.  So that’s our job as, you know,
leaders in the labor movement and working with our members and working
people every single day to make sure people recognize what this bill is
going to do and — so that they see the impact in their — in their
communities and in their wallets.

THE PRESIDENT:  And, Mary, what General Motors is doing I find
absolutely amazing.  Your commitment to moving toward — toward clean
energy and commitment to electric vehicles, about being able to meet the
2050 international standard, et cetera.  And you’re going do it before
then.

And I just think that General Motors is — can play a gigantic role, and
other companies around the world are going to follow, because you’re
going to be leading the world.

One of the things that I did, I must admit in total disclosure: I’ve
spoken to the Chairwoman about the possibility of my being able to buy
one of those Corvettes that are electric vehicles that — you know, when
they come out.  And I’m not going to be able to do it because I can’t
drive a vehicle while I’m Vice President — while I’m President any more
than I could when I was Vice President.

But I think we can change the face of the country with this legislation
and reduce inflation, not increase it.

Mary, do you have any closing comment you want to make?

MS. BARRA:  Just that, Mr. President, I completely agree with you.  I
couldn’t be more excited about the EV portfolio that General Motors is
in the midst of launching.  Our first battery plant is coming online in
a matter of weeks in Ohio.  We have another plant next year and the
following year, both in the U.S. — and we’re about ready to announce our
fourth — as well as converting plants and making sure that we maintain
and grow the jobs that we have in this country.

So, you know, it is happening.  We’re at this critical juncture right
now.  And I think this Inflation Reduct- — Reduction Act will be part of
the catalyst that helps us move forward. 

So, thank you.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, you guys are doing a heck of a job.  I really mean
it.  I want to thank you very, very much. 

I know there’s — more people that want to speak, and we’re going to have
more.  But I — I just can’t tell you how much I think you have
collectively moved — this whole movement of getting to clean energy,
creating jobs — jobs that are increasing environmental protection, and
reducing everything from drug prices on, matters. 

This is one of those inflection points in history.  And you all are at
the — at the forefront of it, all of you on the screen.  We haven’t
gotten even to most of you yet. 

But again, thank you both very, very much.  Appreciate it.

MR. DEESE:  And, Mr. President, on the topic of drug prices and
healthcare prices as well, I wanted to bring Greg Adams in. 

And you’re serving, actively now, I think, 12 million patients and — and
close to 2 million Medicare beneficiaries.  And so, we’d love your
perspective on the healthcare elements of this, particularly in light of
what both the President and Liz Shuler said about it being top of mind
to people — healthcare premiums, drug pricing.  And — and I want to get
your perspective. 

MR. ADAMS:  Thank you, Brian.  And thank you, Mr. President.  I join my
colleagues in saying it’s a pleasure to be here today, to have the
opportunity to discuss the importance and the urgency of the Inflation
Reduction Act. 

We see this important piece of legislation as being critical to helping
millions of Americans continue to have access to affordable healthcare
coverage.  And it begins to curb the unsustainable drug prices.  And, of
course, as you’ve heard, it addresses climate change. 

At the heart of Kaiser Permanente’s mission is a belief that all people
deserve access to high-quality, affordable healthcare.  Millions of
Americans will benefit from the extension of the expanded Affordable
Care Act’s subsidies through 2025, which will continue to make
healthcare and coverage more available and affordable for our people. 

Since the enactment of the expanded subsidies, marketplace enrollment
has reached an all-time high of 14.5 million people nationwide.  And
premiums became more affordable — or as premiums became more affordable,
millions of Americans saw increased access to zero-dollar plans and
low-cost plans or premiums of less than $50 per month. 

These expanded subsidies were set to expire, so this legislation is just
in time for millions of Americans. 

At Kaiser Permanente, we’re deeply concerned about the burden high drug
prices impose on our members, on whose behalf we buy over $10 billion of
drugs every year and we prescribe more than 90 million prescriptions
annually. 

So while we believe it’s essential to ensure that drug manufacturers are
rewarded appropriately for providing real innovation, it has to be done
at a — in a sustainable manner and not just allowing the highest
possible price. 

The target approach here achieves an appropriate balance of those
concerns.  And the Medicare Part D changes protect seniors from the risk
of very high drug costs and ensures that more seniors have the ability
to access and are actually taking the drugs prescribed. 

Finally, I, too, note that — the tremendous impact on climate change. 
Climate change is real.  It’s here.  And it is an issue for us, as
healthcare providers, as it disproportionately affects socially
disadvantaged communities. 

So as one of the nation’s largest not-for-profit health plans and care
delivery systems, each of these issues have a direct impact on our
members, our patients, and our communities, and are critical to our
ability to carry out our mission to provide high-quality, affordable
care, and to ensure that we’re helping improve the health of the
communities that we — with which we’re in and we serve. 

So we join our colleagues in encouraging Congress to act without delay
to bring the benefits of this important legislation to the American
people. 

Thank you, Mr. President.

THE PRESIDENT:  Brian, you’re going to —

MR. DEESE:  Yes.

THE PRESIDENT:  I’ve got a question, unless you — why don’t you go ahead
first? 

MR. DEESE:  Well, Mr. President, I was going to — I was going to just
turn briefly, before we get to our other speakers, to just ask Secretary
Yellen to offer —

THE PRESIDENT:  Before you do, can I ask a question?

MR. DEESE:  Sure, of course.

THE PRESIDENT:  I’d like to ask a question.  First of all, Greg, thank
you very much.  You — it’s astounding the number of people you service
every day.  And one of the goals of this bill is to keep drug prices and
— while still allowing drug manufacturers to be rewarded appropriately
and for providing real innovation. 

Do you think it — do you think this meets that balance of both? 
Because, look, the last thing I want to do is — I don’t want to see
there be a disincentive by drug companies to not seek answers to some of
the diseases that they’re trying to deal with.  And so they have to be
compensated, but they’re being incredibly well compensated now.  And —
and from my perspective, I don’t think that this upsets the balance of
making significant profit, at the same time providing breakthroughs and
innovation.  What’s your sense of it?

MR. ADAMS:  Yeah, thank you, Mr. President.  I do — I think it does
maintain the balance.  The bill looks at the high costs of specialty
drugs.  Specialty drugs are a key component of the high drug costs. 
They actually account for a small percentage of prescriptions, but they
are now at a point where they make up over half of our pharmacy costs,
impacting the whole population. 

So the bill looks at a limited number of specialty drugs, actually calls
for a negotiation of prices at a point after these drugs have been on
the market. 

I, as the CEO of Kaiser Permanente, will still be responsible and
committed to using market forces to help keep the majority of other
drugs affordable and accessible.  So I don’t see this as interfering.  I
think it carefully frames the balance that’s needed. 

So I think the answer to your question is: Yes, I think the balance is
here, and I think there’s plenty of room for innovation and for market
forces to be at play.

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much.  Brian, back to you.

MR. DEESE:  Great.  Thank you, Mr. President. 

And before we get to Ray and David and Warner, I just wanted to ask
Secretary Yellen to just zoom out for a minute and give us your — your
take of the overall economics, particularly at the moment we find
ourselves in the — in the recovery. 

SECRETARY YELLEN:  Thank you, Brian.  And thank you, Mr.  President. 
I’m really excited to be here today to talk with leaders from both
business and labor about how important it is for Congress to pass the
Inflation Reduction Act. 

Actually, I convened business leaders myself yesterday to discuss this
important legislation.  It will address the cost of prescription drugs
and healthcare for millions of Americans, lower energy costs, bolster
our energy security so we don’t have to rely on autocrats like Putin. 

This would be the biggest investment in fighting climate change in our
country’s history.  And this isn’t just going to protect us from global
energy shocks, like we’ve seen from Russia’s illegal invasion.  It’s
also going to create good-paying jobs across our country to power that
work. 

I also think it’s important to talk about the revenue streams that make
these investments possible.  And that means adequately funding the
Internal Revenue Service so they can enforce our existing tax laws. 

The vast majority of businesses and workers are play- — are playing by
the rules, but some aren’t.  And estimates show that the tax gap from
the top 1 percent of earners alone is as much as $160 billion each
year.  Making sure we have the resources to ensure the wealthiest among
us can’t avoid paying the taxes they owe, that’s about restoring basic
fairness and ending a two-tiered system.  It’s about making sure we can
invest in addressing those key household expenses and making our economy
stronger. 

I think it’s important to underscore that this legislation is fiscally
responsible.  It will actually reduce the deficit by hundreds of
billions of dollars over time.  And by reducing deficits, we’ll be
complementing the work the Federal Reserve and the administration is
doing to combat inflation, even as we address these cost pressures like
healthcare, prescription drugs, and energy. 

So that’s why I hope Congress will pass this bill as soon as possible. 
And it’s why you saw five of my predecessors of the Treasury Department
— Secretaries who served under Democrats and under Republicans — call
for the same this week. 

Thank you, Mr. President.

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Janet.

MR. DEESE:  Thank you.  Thank you, Janet. 

And, Mr. President, we’re going to conclude the open press portion of
this event and shift into the next section here. 

(Press departs.)

2:29 P.M. EDT
