---
date: '2022-08-26'
modified_time: 2022-08-26 11:58:55-04:00
published_time: 2022-08-26 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/26/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-boards-and-commissions-6/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to Boards and\_Commissions"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint the
following individuals to serve in key roles:  

-   Everett Bernard Kelley, Member, Federal Salary Council
-   David Jeffrey Holway, Member, Federal Salary Council
-   Patrick J. Yoes, Member, Federal Salary Council
-   Jeremy B. Bash, Member, President’s Intelligence Advisory Board
-   Blair W. Effron, Member, President’s Intelligence Advisory Board
-   Raymond M. Jefferson, Member, President’s Commission on White House
    Fellowships

<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Federal Salary Council**  
</span>The Federal Salary Council is an advisory body of the executive
branch that provides recommendations on pay differentials for federal
employees. The Council submits recommendations to the Secretary of
Labor, Director of the Office of Management and Budget, and the Director
of the Office of Personnel Management.  
  
**Everett Bernard Kelley, Member, Federal Salary Council**  
Dr. Everett Bernard Kelley is an anointed preacher, teacher, and
community leader who currently serves as President of the American
Federation of Government Employees (AFGE), a position he has held since
2020. Previously, Kelley was elected to the position of National
Secretary Treasurer of AFGE in 2018. Prior to this, Kelley served as
National Vice President of AFGE District 5 for seven years where he grew
the membership from 38,000 members to over 51,000 members. Kelley
rededicated himself to ministry at Greater New Hope Baptist Church in
Sylacauga, Alabama where he served from 1982 to 1987. In 1987, Kelley
was appointed pastor of St. Mary Missionary Baptist Church in Lincoln,
Alabama, a position he held for over 31 years before retiring in 2019
and being appointed Pastor Emeritus. Kelley is an instructor at Rushing
Springs School of Theology and Birmingham Estonian Bible College. With a
passion for people and a desire to make a difference, Kelley founded
Project Hope Outreach Ministries Inc., an organization designed to
provide direct services to the underserved, and is also the President &
CEO of E. B. Kelley Ministries LLC, which has extended subsidiaries.  
  
Rooted in an obligation to community service that extends over three
decades, Kelley currently holds board memberships with Habitat for
Humanity, Coalition of Black Trade Unionist, and is a present member of
the Labor Roundtable. As a military veteran, Kelley served in the United
States Army for three years. Kelley attended Central Alabama Community
College, Selma University, and earned a Bachelor of Theology and Master
of Theology from Rushing Spring School of Theology. He also earned a
Doctor of Philosophy in Christian Counseling and received an honorary
Doctor of Divinity at St. Thomas Christian University in Jacksonville,
Florida. Kelley resides in Maryland with his very supportive wife of 39
years, Elizabeth Kelley. The two are the proud parents of four adult
children, and the grandparents of six.  
  
**David Jeffrey Holway, Member, Federal Salary Council**  
David Jeffrey Holway is National President of the National Association
of Government Employees (NAGE). After graduating from Rindge Technical
High School in Cambridge, Massachusetts, Holway attended evening classes
at Boston State College so that he could work full-time for the
Massachusetts state legislature. Holway was elected as a delegate to
several state and national Democratic Conventions, and in 1976, became
the youngest person in Massachusetts history to be elected to the
Democratic National Committee. Also in 1976, Holway was a member of the
Electoral College and voted for the Carter/Mondale ticket.

In the 1980s, Holway became legislative director for the National
Association of Government Employees, which is the largest state-employee
union in Massachusetts. In 1995 he became the lead negotiator for the
union, successfully negotiating contracts with the Commonwealth that
guaranteed annual across-the-board pay increases while protecting and
expanding the interests and benefits for over 22,000 members across the
state. In 2002, Holway was elected President of NAGE and is in his fifth
term.  
  
**Patrick J. Yoes, Member, Federal Salary Council**  
Patrick J. Yoes was elected National President at the 64<sup>th</sup>
Biennial Conference of the Fraternal Order of Police (FOP) in 2019 and
represents more than 364,000 law enforcement officers nationwide. Yoes
has since made it his mission to lead the FOP in these changing and
dynamic times to find solutions to the real issues facing the law
enforcement profession.  
  
After nearly 36 years as an active law enforcement officer, Yoes retired
in 2020 from the St. Charles Sheriff’s Office. During his career with
the agency, Yoes worked as a patrol deputy, patrol sergeant, school
resource officer, and detective in the criminal investigation division,
becoming commander of the Special Services Division.  
  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**President’s Intelligence
Advisory Board**  
</span>The President’s Intelligence Advisory Board is an independent
element within the Executive Office of the President. The President’s
Intelligence Advisory Board exists exclusively to assist the President
by providing the President with an independent source of advice on the
effectiveness with which the Intelligence Community is meeting the
nation’s intelligence needs and the vigor and insight with which the
community plans for the future. The President is able to appoint up to
16 members of the Board.  
  
**Jeremy B. Bash, Member, President’s Intelligence Advisory Board**  
Jeremy Bash served as Chief of Staff at the CIA and the U.S. Department
of Defense, in both roles for Secretary Leon Panetta. Bash held multiple
roles on Capitol Hill, including as Chief Counsel of the House Permanent
Select Committee on Intelligence and as Counsel to Congresswoman Jane
Harman. He is the recipient of the Distinguished Intelligence Medal, the
Clandestine Service’s Donovan Award, the CIA Director’s Award, and the
Department of Defense Distinguished Public Service Medal. He is a *magna
cum laude* graduate of Georgetown University and Harvard Law School,
where he was an editor of the Harvard Law Review. Mr. Bash is currently
a Managing Director of Beacon Global Strategies, an advisory firm he
co-founded in 2013, and he serves on the boards of directors for two
technology companies, as well as the board of directors for the Truman
Center for National Policy and the International Spy Museum.   
  
**Blair W. Effron, Member, President’s Intelligence Advisory Board**  
Blair W. Effron is cofounder of Centerview Partners, a leading
independent investment banking and advisory firm with offices in New
York, London, Los Angeles, Palo Alto, Paris, and San Francisco. The firm
has over five hundred professionals and provides assistance on mergers
and acquisitions, financial restructurings, general advisory, valuation,
and capital structure to companies, institutions, and governments. Since
its founding in 2006, the firm has advised in over $3 trillion in
transactions and ranks among the most active banking firms globally in
strategic advisory. The firm works with public and private companies
across a range of sectors including the consumer, energy, financial,
general industrial, health care, media, retail, technology, and
telecommunications industries.   
  
Effron serves on the boards of trustees of the Council on Foreign
Relations as vice chairman, Lincoln Center, the Metropolitan Museum of
Art, New Visions for Public Schools, the Partnership for New York City,
and Princeton University. He also sits on the advisory board of the
Hamilton Project, an economic policy initiative affiliated with the
Brookings Institution. Effron holds a BA from Princeton University and
an MBA from Columbia Business School.  He resides in New York with his
wife Cheryl and has three children.  
  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**President’s Commission on
White House Fellowships**  
</span>The President’s Commission on White House Fellowships is composed
of outstanding citizens who reflect the diversity and strength of
America while representing a broad range of backgrounds, experiences,
and professions. Commissioners are responsible for recommending a group
of candidates to the President for selection as White House Fellows, a
prestigious program for leadership and public service that provides
young Americans experience working at the highest levels of the federal
government.   
  
**Raymond M. Jefferson, Member, President’s Commission on White House
Fellowships**  
Ray Jefferson is the President of Jefferson Group, a global leadership
development consultancy, as well as the Chair and Co-Founder of the
Service Academies Global Summit. Earlier in his career, Jefferson served
as a White House Fellow and worked as a Special Assistant to the U.S.
Secretary of Commerce. Additionally, he served as a Fulbright Fellow in
Singapore; as the Deputy Director for Hawaii’s Department of Business,
Economic Development and Tourism; and as a Leadership Consultant with
McKinsey & Company based in Singapore. In 2009, President Barack Obama
appointed Jefferson as the Senate-confirmed U.S. Assistant Secretary for
Veterans’ Employment and Training at the U.S. Department of Labor.    
  
Jefferson graduated from the U.S. Military Academy at West Point in 1988
and served as an Army Officer with the infantry, Rangers, and Special
Forces. Jefferson lost all five fingers on his left hand while
attempting to protect his teammates from a hand grenade detonating
prematurely during training. He attended Harvard’s Kennedy School of
Government, earning an MPA in Strategic Management, and went on to earn
an MBA from Harvard Business School. Jefferson’s commitment to service
has been recognized throughout his career, including when he was
selected by then-Secretary of State Colin Powell as one of the two
inaugural recipients of the Harrison H. Schmitt Fulbright Alumni
Leadership Award for dedication to public service. Jefferson is a member
of the Asia Society, Council on Foreign Relations (life member),
Fulbright Association, HBS African-American Alumni Association, NAACP,
Special Forces Association, 75th Ranger Regiment Association, and Young
Presidents’ Organization. Born and raised in Guilderland, New York, he
now considers home to be Honolulu, Hawaii. 

\###
