---
date: '2022-08-08'
published_time: 2022-08-08 22:38:20-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/08/press-gaggle-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-en-route-lexington-ky/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Press Gaggle by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre En Route Lexington,\_KY"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Lexington, Kentucky

10:18 A.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  How’s everyone doing?  Okay.  Before I get to what we
have done to assist those in Kentucky affected by the devastating
flooding and what the President will do on the ground today, I want to
take a moment to reflect on the tremendous victory for American families
over special — over special interests yesterday.

As you all know, Democrats in the Senate passed historic legislation
yesterday that will allow — that will lower the cost of prescription
drugs, health insurance, and everyday energy costs and reduce the
deficit while making the wealthiest corporations finally pay their fair
share.  This is another promise made, promise kept.

This bill will cap seniors’ out-of-pocket spending for prescription
drugs at $2,000 per year.  No matter what their drug bills would
otherwise be, seniors will not have to spend more than $2,000.

In addition, 13 million Americans covered under the Affordable Care Act
will see their health insurance premiums reduced by $800.

This bill tackles inflation by lowering the deficit, lowering costs for
regular families. 

This bill also makes the largest investments ever in combating the
existential crisis of climate change.  It addresses the climate crisis
and strengthens our energy security, creating jobs manufacturing solar
panels, wind turbines, and electric vehicles in America with American
workers.

It lowers families’ energy costs by hundreds of dollars each year. 

Finally, it pays for all this by establishing a minimum corporate tax so
that our richest corporations start to pay their fair share.  It does
not raise on those making under $400,000 a year, not one cent.

Every Republican voted against the Inflation Reduction Act, siding with
tax welfare for big corporations and the rich over lowering costs for
families and fighting inflation.  Forty-three of them even voted against
capping the price of insulin at $35.  And remember that many of them
have proposed putting Medicare itself on the chopping blocks. 

Many thought this legislation could never come to be, but the President
was not — was not one of them.  He proposed these policies in 2019 and
2020, including when he fundamentally shifted the party’s approach to
climate action from one cap — one of cap and trade, which couldn’t get
through the 60- and then 59-seat Senate — majority Senate in 2009, let
alone the 50-50 Senate of 2021, to a plan that achieved our climate
goals through incentives for clean energy development.

He knew this was the framework that could unite labor groups, industry,
environmentalists, our caucuses, and more.  And he was right.

We worked for more than a year with lawmakers to get to this moment.  He
has traveled the nation to urge action, and he directed the team here at
the White House to work closely with senators for months to get over
this line while staying in touch with key members himself.

The President looks forward to the House taking action later this week
and looks forward to signing this vital piece of legislation into law. 
It will build upon the American Rec- — Recovery plan, the infrastructure
plan, the CHIPS Act, the gun reform bill, the veterans healthcare bill
that — that comes from the Unity Agenda he proposed in the Senate of the
— of the Union — in the State of the Union, pardon me, and delivering
results for American families.

And now, on to our trip to Kentucky: Today, The President and the First
Lady will join Governor Andy Beshear and First Lady Britainy Beshear to
survey the damage caused by catastrophic flooding in Eastern Kentucky. 
They will receive an update on the disaster response, thank those on the
frontlines, and share in the community — community’s grief.

As you know, devastating floods in Eastern Kentucky tragically took the
lives of 37 people and washed away the roads, bridges, and homes.

President Biden immediately reached out to Senator McConnell, Governor
Beshear to make clear that the people of Kentucky have the support of
this administration.

The President quickly surged federal resources to the region, and
already we have delivered over $10.4 million in assistance, with more on
the way.  These funds will help families and businesses with temporary
housing and home repairs and lower loans for property losses and — and
more.

Following the elementary school visit, the President and the First Lady
will survey flooding damage in a neighborhood in Lost Creek, Kentucky.

The floods in Kentucky and extreme weather all around the country are
yet another reminder of the intensifying and accelerating impacts of
climate change and the urgent need to invest in making our communities
more resilient to it.  That’s why President Biden secured billions of
dollars for climate resilience through the Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law.  And that’s why the infla- — Inflation Reduction Act the Senate
passed yesterday is so vital.

Over the long term, these investments will save lives, reduce costs,
protect communities like the one we are visiting today.

With that, Seung Min, you want to kick us off?

Q    Did the President play any direct role in the Gaza ceasefire?  Can
you talk to us about that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I’ll tell — I’ll just give you what he shared with
all you yesterday.  So, as the President said:

“\[We\] welcome the announcement… of a ceasefire between Israel and
Gaza-based militants after three days of hostilities.

\[Throughout this period\], the United States… worked with officials
from Israel, the Palestinian Authority, Egypt, Qatar, Jordan, and others
throughout the region to encourage a shift \[sic\] res-” — “a swift
resolution to the conflict.

\[U.S.\] support \[of\] Israel’s security is longstanding and
unwavering, including its right to defend itself against attacks.  Over
these recent days, Israel has defended its people from indiscriminate
rocket attacks launched by the terrorist group Palestinian Islamic
Jihad, and the United States is proud of our support for Israel’s
Iron-Dome, which intercepted hundreds of rockets and saved…lives.

The report of the civilian casualties in Gaza are a tragedy, whether by
Israeli strikes against Islamic Jihad position or the dozens of Islamic
Jihad rockets that reportedly fell inside Gaza.  \[We\] support a timely
and thorough investigation into all of these reports…we also call on all
parties to fully implement the ceasefire, and to ensure fuel and
humanitarian supplies are flowing into Gaza as the fighting subsidy
\[sic\] — subsides.”

The President made clear during his recent trip to Israel and the West
Bank, Israelis and Palestinians both deserve to live safely and securely
and enjoy equal measures of freedom, prosperity, and democracy.  The
United States will remain engaged with Israeli and Palestinian leaders
to support that vision and to implement the initiatives launched during
the President’s visit to improve the quality of life for Palestinians
and Israelis alike.

Q    Karine, I just had a quick question on what the President said
about the impact from the inflation bill.  Most of it will not be right
away.  Could you talk a little bit about how soon Americans can actually
expect to see an impact, even on prescription drug prices and other
items, once the bill passes?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, so, as you know, the ACA provisions and lowering
premiums, that’s going to have an effect right away, and that’s
incredibly important.  And there will be parts of — there will be parts
of the legislation that we’ll see next year.

But, example: ACA policy will be felt with continuing to lower costs —
lowering healthcare costs.  This immediately — this will immediately act
to lower energy costs, for example, with tax rebates being felt right
away.  And the prescription drug benef- — benefits will start kicking in
next year.

Q    And a quick question on China.  Sorry.  He said he is concerned
about, you know, how fast — the fact that China is moving in, you know,
around — around Taiwan after the Speaker’s visit.  What was he
specifically referring to when he said he was “concerned”?  And what —
you know, how is the U.S. planning to respond?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we condemn these actions.  We have.  We’ve
been condemning them since they’ve started escalating.  And we have also
said we anticipated China might take this step.  They are pro- — they
are provocative, responsible, and raise the risk of miscalculation.  And
that’s what he was — the President was referring to when you guys were
talking to him at the — at the wing of the plane.

They are also at odds with our longstanding goal of maintaining peace
and stability across the Taiwan Strait, which is what the world
expects. 

You’ve seen a strong statements from the G7, including Japan, ASEAN,
Australia, and the European Union’s foreign policy chief, Josep Borrell.

Taiwan, the U.S., and the world do not want to see an escalation here. 
The United States is prepared for what Beijing chooses to do.

Q    Can I follow up on China real quick? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  Yeah.

Q    So, first of all, does the U.S. expect or fear, perhaps, that this
enhanced Chinese military presence in the Taiwan Strait is permanent —
that they’re trying to normalize that status?

And then, secondly, you’ve said time and time again the administration
policy on China hasn’t changed, but, A, does Beijing believe that?  And,
B, you know, how are you — what are you doing to convince them?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, we’ve said time and time again — you’ve heard me
say it; you’ve heard the National Security Advisor, Jake Sullivan, say
it; you heard the President say it — nothing has changed.  The China —
the China One policy is — is long — is longstanding, and nothing is
going to change there.

So, look, we knew that the Chinese were going to react this way.  We’re
going to communicate closely with our allies and partners, and we’re
going to communicate directly with Beijing.

Again, the trip — the Speaker’s trip, it was her right to take.  It was
— it — there was precedent for it. 

And — and so, again, I just repeat what the President said: There’s no
need for escalation here — what we have said — and we’re going to
continue to keep those lines of communication open.

Q    Karine, in Ukraine, is the White House concerned by the situation
around this nuclear power station, Zaporizhzhia?  And — and if it’s — if
you’re watching that, do you have a sense of, like, you know, who’s to
blame here?  Because, obviously, the Russians are accusing the
Ukrainians of shelling it, but the Russians are the ones who are dug in
there.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  As you know, that’s part of their playbook, when it
comes to the Russians. 

But, look, we continue to closely monitor the activity at ZNPP.  The
Department of Energy and the National Nuclear Security Administration
report that the radiation sensors are continuing to provide data.  And,
thankfully, we have seen no indications of increased or abnormal
radiation levels.

We are also aware of the reports of mistreatment of ZNPP staff and the —
and we — and applaud the Ukrainian authorities and operators for their
commitment to — to nuclear safety and security under trying
circumstances.

Fighting near a nuclear plant is dangerous, and we continue to call on
Russia to cease all military operations at or near Ukrainian nuclear
facilities and return full control to Ukraine.

For our part, we continue to support the efforts of the International
Atomic Energy Agency to fulfill its technical safeguards mandate and to
assist Ukraine with nuclear safety and security measures across its
nuclear facilities.

Q    But what are you trying to do to (inaudible)?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  I’m going — we just got to — we got to get
around.  Go ahead.

Q    Karine, there’s been two Republican criticisms of the IRA.  One is
that the stock buyback provision will hurt Americans’ 401(k)s.  The
other is that the increased funding for the IRS will not just hit
tax-cheat millionaires and corporations but dramatically increase the
investigations of ordinary Americans who don’t have accountants and
lawyers to deal with audits.  So, could you address both of those
criticisms?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  So the first thing is: It’s like dishonest
water that the Republicans are carrying for tax welfare for the rich and
the big corporations that we’ve seen all — all week, last week.  So,
nothing new here.

This is not a tax on the middle class or retirement savings though. 
That 1 percent surcharge — as you know well, Justin — on stock buybacks,
which is when corporations purchase their own stock, is paid by large
publicly traded corporations.  A number of experts have argued that CEOs
use stock buybacks to enrich themselves to the detriment of the
long-term growth of the company.

The truth has been recognized by both Republicans and Democrats, both
sides of the aisles, that companies can do two things with cash
holdings: invest in the growth of their businesses, which helps lead to
more jobs, higher salaries, and other prices; or use it to buy back
stock just to pad the finances of their wealthiest shareholders.

So, again, the claims from Republicans is just purely false.  That is
not what it does.  And we know that because we’ve heard that from both
sides of the aisle.

On the IRS piece, look, this is just the latest example, again, of those
who do nothing to protect tax welfare for the rich at the expense of
everything else.  Their blatant lies — congressional Republicans came to
the defense of corporations earning more than $1 billion per year who —
who use loopholes to pay zero dollars in taxes.  The American people
don’t think that’s fair, and we know that.  That is a popular thing that
we know Americans think, but apparently congressional Republicans think
it’s a hill to die on.  And so, again, it’s another false claim from
them.

Q    Karine, can I —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And I think we have —

AIR FORCE ONE CREW:  We’ll be on the ground in 10 minutes.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, no problem.

Q    Karine, New York Mayor Eric Adams was complaining yesterday about a
lack of federal assistance for the migrants that Texas is sending up to
New York.  Why isn’t the federal government stopping Governor Abbott
and/or helping D.C. and New York more?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  First of all, the question is to Governor Abbott: Why
is he using migrants as a political pawn in doing what he’s doing?  And
he is — there’s a legal process here, and he’s not using that legal
process.  Instead, he’s using politics for his own benefit and sending
these migrants who are here — who are desperately here — to putting them
on buses and sending them to cities because of his — of what he feels is
the poli- — it’s politically right for him. 

It’s costing Texans, as you might know, $1.5 million — what he’s doing —
$1.5 million by busing migrants into different cities.

And so, look, this is — this is what he does.  I’ve talked about this in
the briefing room before.  This is what Governor Abbott has done in the
past.  There’s the Operation Lone Star — put National Guardsmen and law
enforcement in dangerous situations and resulted in logistic nightmare.

Q    But, I’m sorry, my question is: Why isn’t the federal government
doing more for New York?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, you asked me two questions.

Q    I did.  Yes.  But (inaudible).

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You did.  Yes, I know, but — no, but I’m just
answering the questions.  And so, the first one I answered was: You
should ask Governor Abbott why he’s doing what he’s doing.  And it’s not
good for his constituents.

And the second question is: FEMA has been involved; I said this last
week.  It makes grant funding available to local NGOs assisting
migrants.  We have been in close, regular touch with Mayor Adams and his
team, and are committed to working with them as we do effectively with
other local leaders.

But again, this is on Governor Abbott.  This is what he is doing. 

Okay, I’ll take one more.

Q    Karine, when you were at NABJxNAHJ over the —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I want to make sure — I didn’t — did I take
everybody’s question?

Q    (Inaudible.)

Q    Karine, I meant: When does the administration actually expect
Americans to see an impact of the Inflation Reduction Act?  And do you
think that it will be before the midterms?

AIR FORCE ONE CREW:  We have to sit down. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Sorry, guys.  I just answered that question. 
Okay, sorry, guys.  I’m so sorry, guys.
