---
date: '2022-08-02'
modified_time: 2022-08-01 23:25:10-04:00
published_time: 2022-08-02 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/02/president-biden-announces-team-to-lead-monkeypox-response/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Team to Lead Monkeypox\_Response"
---
 
Today, President Biden named FEMA’s Robert Fenton as the White House
National Monkeypox Response Coordinator and Dr. Demetre Daskalakis as
the White House National Monkeypox Response Deputy Coordinator. Fenton
and Daskalakis will lead the Administration’s strategy and operations to
combat the current monkeypox outbreak, including equitably increasing
the availability of tests, vaccinations and treatments.

Robert Fenton currently serves as Regional Administrator for FEMA Region
9 in the American West, with nearly 50 million people in his area of
responsibility. One of the Nation’s most experienced and effective
emergency management leaders, Robert Fenton has twice served as Acting
Administrator of FEMA and led multiple challenging prevention, response
and recovery operations throughout his long and distinguished career,
including for natural disasters, disease outbreaks, and complex
humanitarian operations. 

Demetre Daskalakis, a leading public health expert, is currently
Director of the CDC Division of HIV Prevention. Widely known as a
national expert on health issues affecting the LGBGQIA+ communities, his
clinical practice has focused on providing care for the underserved
LGBTQIA+ communities. He previously oversaw management of infectious
diseases for the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene,
one of the largest departments in the nation – including in serving as
incident commander for the City’s COVID-19 response.

Fenton and Daskalakis combined have over four decades of experience in
Federal emergency response and public health leadership, including
overseeing the operations and implementation of key components of the
Biden Administration’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and leading
local and Federal public health emergency efforts such as infectious
disease control and HIV prevention. Both played critical roles in making
COVID vaccines more accessible for underserved communities and closing
the equity gap in adult vaccination rates, through the implementation
and execution of FEMA mass vaccination sites in some of the country’s
most underserved communities, and working with trusted members of local
communities to build vaccine confidence.

“We look forward to partnering with Bob Fenton and Demetre Dasklalakis
as we work to end the monkeypox outbreak in America,” said U.S.
Secretary of Health and Human Services Xavier Becerra. “Bob’s experience
in federal and regional response coordination, and Demetre’s vast
knowledge of our public health systems’ strengths and limits will be
instrumental as we work to stay ahead of the virus and advance a
whole-of-government response.”

“Bob Fenton and Dr. Daskalakis are proven, effective leaders that will
lead a whole of government effort to implement President Biden’s
comprehensive monkeypox response strategy with the urgency that this
outbreak warrants,” said Anthony Fauci, Chief Medical Advisor to the
President. “From Bob’s work at FEMA leading COVID-19 mass vaccination
efforts and getting vaccines to underserved communities to Demetre’s
extensive experience and leadership on health equity and STD and HIV
prevention, this team will allow the Biden Administration to further
accelerate and strengthen its monkeypox response.”

Fenton and Daskalakis will coordinate and manage response efforts across
the White House and all Federal departments and agencies. They will work
with local, state, national, and international stakeholders on tracking
and fighting the spread of monkeypox, with state and local partners to
ensure they have adequate supplies to test, treat and vaccinate at-risk
individuals, with clinicians and providers on available testing,
treatment and vaccination options, and with stakeholder communities on
building public understanding of the virus and how to address it most
effectively.

Since the first case of monkeypox was confirmed in the United States on
May 18, the Biden-Harris Administration has had a comprehensive and
aggressive strategy to combat the virus and protect individuals most at
risk.  The Administration has made over 1.1 million doses of vaccine
available to states and cities across the country to control the spread
of the virus, has expanded testing capacity from 6,000 tests per week to
over 80,000 tests per week, and has communicated regularly with
providers and local health departments encouraging them to utilize tests
more often. The Administration has also made treatments more accessible
for patients and providers, and has launched a robust outreach strategy
to communicate with public health officials, providers, and members of
the LGBTQIA+ community to increase awareness about the virus, as well as
prevention, response, and treatment strategies. The Administration also
recently launched its monkeypox research agenda, aiming to galvanize the
international community to identify and address gaps in information on
the virus to accelerate and [strengthen the global
response](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/28/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administrations-monkeypox-outbreak-response/).

Over the coming weeks, under the leadership of Fenton and Daskalakis,
the Administration will advance and accelerate the United States’
monkeypox response to mitigate the spread of the virus, protect
individuals most at risk of contracting the virus, and care for those
who have been afflicted with it.  

More information about Robert Fenton and Dr. Demetre Daskalakis is
below:

**Robert Fenton, White House National Monkeypox Response Coordinator**

Robert Fenton serves as Regional Administrator for FEMA Region 9 in the
American West, with nearly 50 million people in his area of
responsibility. He has over 25 years’ experience in Federal emergency
response, including serving twice as Acting Administrator of FEMA, most
recently during the first months of the Biden-Harris Administration. As
Acting Administrator during at the beginning of the Biden
Administration, Fenton oversaw FEMA’s mass vaccination operations,
bringing vaccination sites to some of the country’s most underserved
communities. Fenton also served as Senior Response Official for
Operation Allies Welcome, where he led efforts to resettle 76,000 Afghan
evacuees on an unprecedented timeline.  

**Dr. Demetre Daskalakis, White House National Monkeypox Response Deputy
Coordinator**

Dr. Demetre Daskalakis serves as Director of the Division of HIV
Prevention at the Centers for Disease Control, where he oversees HIV
prevention efforts. Dr. Daskalakis worked in the CDC COVID-19 response
as a lead in health equity as well as the head of the vaccine task
force. Prior to joining the CDC, Dr. Daskalakis served as New York City
Department of Health’s Deputy Commissioner for the Division of Disease
Control. In that role, Dr. Daskalakis oversaw many of New York City’s
HIV and STD education and response programs, which helped drive HIV
incidence to an historic low and also served as Incident Commander
during the COVID-19 and Measles outbreaks. He has authored over 60
scholarly articles and has been widely recognized for his expertise and
advocacy for the health issues affecting the LGBTQIA+ communities.
