---
date: '2022-08-09'
published_time: 2022-08-09 16:07:42-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/09/fact-sheet-biden-administration-announces-key-actions-and-implementation-plan-to-increase-vaccine-supply/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden Administration Announces Key Actions and Implementation\
  \ Plan to Increase Vaccine\_Supply"
---
 
*FDA Emergency Use Authorization allows for alternative dosing regimen;
increases JYNNEOS supply by up to five-fold* 

Combatting the monkeypox outbreak is a top priority of the Biden-Harris
Administration. Today, as part of the Administration’s comprehensive
effort to mitigate the spread of monkeypox, the Administration announced
that it has taken action to increase the number of vaccine doses
available by up to five times through an alternative dosing regimen. The
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) today announced it is granting
Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) for the JYNNEOS vaccine to be
administered intradermally. Because intradermal administration requires
a smaller dose, this change allows the number of available doses to
increase by as much as five-fold while continuing to ensure the vaccine
meets high standards for safety and quality.  
  
The White House National Monkeypox Response team today outlined its plan
to implement this approach and ensure providers and public health
officials put the alternative dosing regimen into practice.  
  
Today’s announcements include:  
  
**The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) announced a Section
564 declaration, allowing FDA to use its authority to allow health care
providers to administer up to five times the number of vaccine doses per
vial of JYNNEOS vaccine.**  
Following last week’s public health emergency declaration, today HHS
Secretary Xavier Becerra issued a determination under the Section 564
declaration of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act that allows for
emergency use authorization of vaccines to prevent monkeypox and prevent
severe disease from the virus. This action paves the way for the federal
government to get up to five times the amount of doses administered out
of a single vial of the JYNNEOS vaccine.   
  
HHS Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response Dawn O’Connell
requested that the Secretary issue the Section 564 determination and
last week’s public health emergency declaration. This declaration allows
HHS to take emergency measures based on the information currently
available about the monkeypox virus.  
  
**FDA subsequently granted Emergency Use Authorization for the JYNNEOS
vaccine to be administered intradermally – enabling the current vaccine
supply to increase five-fold without sacrificing safety and quality.**  
Today, the FDA issued an Emergency Use Authorization allowing healthcare
providers to use an alternative dosing regimen of the JYNNEOS Vaccine to
expand the total number of doses available for use by up to five-fold.
The EUA now allows for 0.1ml of the JYNNEOS vaccine to be administered
between layers of the skin (intradermally), as opposed to 0.5ml of the
vaccine that is administered under the skin (subcutaneously). Data from
a 2015 clinical study of the JYNNEOS vaccine prior to its approval,
published in a peer-reviewed journal, demonstrated that a fifth of the
dose, when given intradermally on the same two-dose schedule as
currently administered, produced an immune response that was similar to
subcutaneous dosing – meaning individuals in both groups responded to
vaccination in a similar way.  Additionally, data shows the intradermal
administration of other vaccines such as influenza and hepatitis B, is
safe and effective for immunocompromised individuals, such as people
with HIV. JYNNEOS has been tested in individuals with immunocompromising
conditions and has found to be safe and effective in the trials that
were performed to support approval. Two doses of the vaccine given 28
days apart will still be needed. Individuals who received their first
dose subcutaneously can receive their second dose intradermally or
subcutaneously.  
  
The administration requires a different type of needle than the current
vaccine administration, similar to the administration for a tuberculin
skin tests (or PPD) or intradermal allergy tests. As part of the
Administration’s comprehensive monkeypox response effort, the Centers
for Disease Control (CDC) will conduct trainings and outreach to
clinicians, public health officials, providers, and patients to make
sure jurisdictions can effectively administer the vaccine using this
alternative dosing regimen.  
  
The FDA also authorized use of the vaccine, using the standard dosing
route, in individuals younger than 18 years of age determined to be at
high risk of monkeypox infection.  
  
**The White House National Monkeypox Outbreak Response team will oversee
the prompt and coordinated implementation of this strategy by HHS, CDC,
FDA, and state and local health officials.**  
Since the start of the outbreak, HHS has distributed more than 670,000
JYNNEOS vaccines to states and jurisdictions from the Strategic National
Stockpile (SNS).  In addition, the SNS is preparing to distribute
approximately 400,000 additional vials to states and jurisdictions as
part of the next phase of the national vaccine strategy. Jurisdictions
that administer 90% of their current vaccine supply may request
additional doses sooner. Because of today’s announcement, the 400,000
vials of vaccine in the SNS’s inventory that have been allocated but not
yet distributed hold the potential to provide up to 2 million doses
using intradermal administration. Additionally, vaccines that have been
received by jurisdictions, but not yet administered, are eligible for
intradermal administration.   
  
In order to quickly and effectively implement this approach to increase
JYNNEOS vaccine dose supply five-fold, the Biden-Harris Administration
is launching a robust effort to train health care workers and providers
on how to administer the JYNNEOS vaccine intradermally.  
  
Intradermal administration of vaccine is currently used by providers
across the country, particularly when administering tuberculosis skin
tests (in the forearm) and intradermal allergy tests, and providers
currently have the supplies needed to administer the vaccine in this
way. Nonetheless, the Administration will actively engage providers and
clinicians to ensure they are prepared to use this approach for most
adults who need JYNNEOS vaccine.  
  
***CDC is releasing interim clinical guidance and a Dear Colleague
Letter from FDA to public health officials, and will be hosting
trainings and webinars to support the transition to intradermal
administration.***  
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is launching a robust
plan to communicate with and train public health professionals and
providers to quickly implement the intradermal vaccine administration
strategy.  
  
Beginning today, the CDC is releasing:

-   **Interim clinical considerations** on its website, with relevant
    guidance on how to administer the JYNNEOS vaccine intradermally. The
    “Interim Clinical Considerations for Use of JYNNEOS and ACAM2000
    Vaccines during the 2022 U.S. Monkeypox Outbreak” document includes
    an overview of monkeypox vaccines, vaccination strategies and
    post-exposure prophylaxis, and planning considerations for health
    departments including health equity. In addition, it provides
    interim guidance for use of JYNNEOS or ACAM2000 vaccines, including
    the schedule and dosing regimens that can be considered, dosing
    intervals, vaccine administration, evidence quality, pre- and
    post-vaccination counseling, and contraindications and
    precautions.  
-   **Supporting documents including** **FAQs** for providers and the
    general public about monkeypox vaccines  
-   **Related resources for providers**, including template standing
    orders and preparation and administration summary documents.  
-   **A video to help train health care providers and medical
    professionals** immediately on intradermal vaccine administration.  
-   **CDC is making experts and clinicians available** this afternoon to
    answer questions on intradermal administration.  
-   **CDC also plans to communicate with tens of thousands of public
    health officials and healthcare providers** through a Clinical
    Outreach and Communications Activity (COCA), and will hold webinars
    and training sessions online and on the ground in communities where
    the outbreak is most severe.

***Vaccines will continue to be shipped as 0.5ml vials, and HHS will be
reviewing existing allocations and future vaccine distribution timelines
to reflect the increased number of doses now available.***  
Vaccine vials shipped from the supplier, the SNS, and jurisdictions will
continue to be shipped as 0.5ml vials, from which healthcare providers
can withdraw 0.5ml for a single subcutaneous dose or 0.1ml for an
intradermal dose.  
  
Currently, the SNS has approximately 400,000 vials of JYNNEOS ready for
distribution, totaling up to 2 million doses if administered by the
intradermal route. Jurisdictions can order additional vaccine supply
starting on August 15<sup>th</sup> or when they have used 90% of their
current vaccine allotment. Jurisdictions can also continue to administer
the vaccine subcutaneously while they are training medical professionals
on the alternative dosing regimen for administration of the vaccine, and
for individuals who still need the standard subcutaneous regimen, like
children and adolescents.  
  
In light of today’s announcements and the anticipated increase in
JYNNEOS vaccine supply, CDC and ASPR are reviewing the current
allocation and distribution timeline for vaccines. The goal of revised
allocation or distribution strategies will be to ensure jurisdictions
have sufficient vaccine supply to implement a two-dose strategy using
intradermal application, and to ensure that jurisdictions aren’t
receiving more vaccine than they can store or use in a given time
period.  
  
***ASPR will proceed with procurement of 5.5 million vials of vaccine,
totaling over 25 million additional doses that will be available in the
United States.***  
Even with the alternative vaccine administration, the Administration for
Strategic Preparedness and Response (ASPR) will proceed with its
procurement of 5.5 million vials of vaccine, which, factoring in the
alternative dosing regimen, represents as much as 25 million doses that
will become in the United States, in addition to current vaccine
supply.  
  
The Biden-Harris Administration will also continue to work to accelerate
vaccine production and distribution. Last week, the Administration
announced that 150,000 vials – totaling up to 750,000 doses administered
intradermally – will arrive in the United States and be available for
distribution in September, two months earlier than originally planned.  
  
Today’s announcement is part of the Biden-Harris Administration’s
comprehensive strategy to combat the monkeypox outbreak and protect
those at risk of contracting the virus. Since the first known cases in
the United States, the Administration has developed a robust and agile
strategy to expand and accelerate the production and distribution of
vaccines, increased testing capacity from 6,000 tests per week to 80,000
tests per week, made treatments more accessible, and communicated on an
ongoing basis with public health officials, state and local leaders, and
individuals most impacted by the virus to date, including the LGBTQI+
community.

\###
