---
date: '2022-08-03'
modified_time: 2022-08-03 11:17:13-04:00
published_time: 2022-08-03 11:01:55-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/03/fact-sheet-white-house-takes-action-on-climate-by-accelerating-energy-efficiency-projects-across-federal-government/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: White\_House Takes Action on Climate by Accelerating Energy Efficiency\
  \ Projects Across Federal\_Government"
---
 
*New Government-Wide Initiative Will Reduce Federal Energy Costs, Create
Jobs, and Cut Emissions*

Today, the Biden-Harris Administration announced the ***Climate Smart
Buildings Initiative***, which will leverage public-private partnerships
to modernize Federal buildings to better meet agencies’ missions, create
good-paying jobs, and cut greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Through this
initiative, the government will dramatically expand its partnership with
the private sector to upgrade existing Federal buildings — paying for
today’s needed renovations with tomorrow’s energy savings without
requiring upfront taxpayer funding.

By setting and meeting emissions reduction targets for buildings, the
*Climate Smart Buildings Initiative* is expected to catalyze over $8
billion of private sector investment by 2030 to modernize facilities
through energy savings performance contracts. The initiative is expected
to create and support nearly 80,000 good-paying American jobs and
achieve up to 2.8 million metric tons of GHG reductions annually by
2030, which is the equivalent of removing 600,000 gas-powered cars from
the road. Further, the *Climate Smart Buildings Initiative* is expected
to increase investments from performance contracts from a low of $251
million in FY2021 to a sustained $1.2 billion per year by 2030, a
fivefold increase.  

The initiative advances Administration efforts to grow our clean energy
industry by developing the next generation of products and materials for
a net-zero economy. These modernization efforts include actions such as
increasing on-site clean electricity generation, adding the latest clean
energy technology, such as heat pumps, installing efficient lighting and
insulation, and installing and integrating electric vehicle supply
equipment. These efforts will also help improve public health by
reducing pollutants that disproportionately harm low-income households
and communities of color.

<u>The **Climate Smart Buildings Initiative** includes:</u>

-   **Establishing agency emissions reductions targets delivered through
    performance contracting.** The Administration will provide sustained
    leadership between today and 2030 to support Federal agencies to
    set, track, and deliver on targets for cutting building emissions.

<!-- -->

-   **Building on a foundation of agency leadership and expertise to
    drive progress.** The Department of Energy’s (DOE) [Federal Energy
    Management
    Program](https://www.energy.gov/eere/femp/energy-savings-performance-contracts-federal-agencies),
    General Services Administration’s (GSA) National Deep Energy
    Retrofit Program, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ [Huntsville
    Center](https://www.hnc.usace.army.mil/Media/Fact-Sheets/Fact-Sheet-Article-View/Article/484226/energy-division-energy-savings-performance-contracting-espc-program/),
    and other agency experts will serve as hubs for best practice
    resources and solutions for performance contracting across the
    Federal government.

<!-- -->

-   **Leveraging $250 million in funding from the Infrastructure
    Investment and Jobs Act.** The DOE Assisting Federal Facilities with
    Energy Conservation Technologies (AFFECT) program will provide
    additional funding to promote innovative decarbonization strategies
    through performance contracting.

<!-- -->

-   **Continuing to raise the bar through collaboration and capacity
    building.** The White House Council on Environmental Quality, DOE,
    and GSA will coordinate a whole-of-government effort to scale these
    efforts and turn best practices into business-as-usual by increasing
    collaboration across government and with the private sector.

The ***Climate Smart Buildings Initiative*** is an integral part of the
President’s Federal Sustainability Plan, which aims to reduce emissions
from Federal buildings by 50 percent by 2032 and achieve net-zero
emissions by 2045. These actions build on the Administration’s efforts
to improve the Nation’s building energy and climate performance by
[updating energy codes for Federal
buildings](https://www.energy.gov/articles/doe-releases-energy-saving-rules-federal-buildings-and-proposes-new-standards-consumer),
[building better school
infrastructure](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/04/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-action-plan-for-building-better-school-infrastructure/),
spurring ambition among [major U.S.
companies](https://www.energy.gov/articles/doe-announces-pledges-90-organizations-slash-emissions-50-within-decade)
and [health sector
leaders](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/30/fact-sheet-health-sector-leaders-join-biden-administrations-pledge-to-reduce-greenhouse-gas-emissions-50-by-2030/)
through commitments to slash buildings emissions by 50 percent by 2030,
and launching of the first-ever [Building Performance Standards
Coalition](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/01/21/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-launches-coalition-of-states-and-local-governments-to-strengthen-building-performance-standards/)
of more than 35 states and cities.

**<u>How Agencies Are Taking the Lead to Leverage Public-Private
Partnerships for Building Decarbonization</u>**

Federal agencies have continued to take a leadership role in utilizing
performance contracting to achieve President Biden’s Federal net-zero
operations goal, consistent with the Administration’s December 2021
[Executive Order
14057](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/12/08/executive-order-on-catalyzing-clean-energy-industries-and-jobs-through-federal-sustainability/)
and the historic [Federal Sustainability
Plan](http://www.sustainability.gov). Highlights include the following
projects:

-   In August 2022, **GSA** announced an $117 million utility energy
    service contract that improves energy efficiency and reduces
    emissions from 12 Federal buildings across Georgia. The contract is
    expected to reduce costs by $3.3 million annually, bring over 500
    good-paying new jobs to Georgia and prevent more than 18,600 metric
    tons of carbon pollution each year, which is equal to removing 4,000
    gas-powered cars from the road.

<!-- -->

-   In 2022, the **Department of Treasury** will complete an Energy
    Savings Performance Contract to replace critical infrastructure at
    its IRS Service Center in New York. The $14 million, 17-year
    contract will provide efficiency upgrades that will reduce
    electricity consumption by 60%, cut water consumption by 25%, reduce
    annual energy and water costs by $2.2 million, and eliminate 8,300
    metric tons of annual GHG emissions.

<!-- -->

-   In 2021, **GSA** awarded an Energy Savings Performance Contract to
    modernize six landmark Federal buildings in Washington, DC. The
    project, which leveraged $91 million in investment from industry,
    will reduce energy consumption by 42%, reduce water consumption by
    50%, create more than 100 jobs, and cut 20,000 metric tons of annual
    GHG emissions.

<!-- -->

-   In 2019, the **Department of Defense’s** U.S. Marine Corps Recruit
    Depot Parris Island completed an Energy Savings Performance Contract
    to replace an outdated central steam plant and modernize power
    generation. Encompassing over 120 buildings, the project reduced
    energy use by 75%, reduced water use by 25%, eliminated 40,000
    metric tons of annual GHG emissions, and reduced annual energy costs
    by $6 million.

<!-- -->

-   In 2016, **GSA** completed an energy efficiency retrofit of the [IRS
    New Carrollton Financial Service
    Center](https://www.gsa.gov/about-us/newsroom/news-releases/gsa-gets-green-in-new-carrollton)
    through an Energy Savings Performance Contract. Upgrades included a
    new all-electric HVAC system, an upgraded chilled water plant, and
    other measures. The energy efficiency and electrification upgrades
    reduced energy use by 60%, reduced water use by 56%, eliminated
    20,000 metric tons of annual GHG emissions, and reduced annual
    energy costs by $3 million.

For additional examples of Federal utilization of performance
contracting, a searchable database of case studies is available on
[Federal Energy Management Program Case
Studies](https://www.energy.gov/eere/femp/federal-energy-management-program-case-studies)
website.

\###
