---
date: '2022-08-19'
modified_time: 2022-08-19 12:45:31-04:00
published_time: 2022-08-19 15:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/19/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-boards-and-commissions-5/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to Boards and\_Commissions"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint the
following individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Nancy D. Berman, Commission Member, United States Commission for the
    Preservation of America’s Heritage Abroad
-   Herbert Block, Commission Member, United States Commission for the
    Preservation of America’s Heritage Abroad
-   Harley Lippman, Commission Member, United States Commission for the
    Preservation of America’s Heritage Abroad
-   Hershel Wein, Commission Member, United States Commission for the
    Preservation of America’s Heritage Abroad
-   Alexandra Jones, Chair, Cultural Property Advisory Committee
-   Alex W. Barker, Member, Cultural Property Advisory Committee
-   Andrew Lamarche Connors, Member, Cultural Property Advisory
    Committee
-   Michael Findlay, Member, Cultural Property Advisory Committee
-   Cynthia Denise Herbert, Member, Cultural Property Advisory Committee
-   Nii Otokunor Quarcoopome, Member, Cultural Property Advisory
    Committee
-   Miriam T. Stark, Member, Cultural Property Advisory Committee
-   William A. K. Titelman, Member, Cultural Property Advisory Committee
-   James R. Berman, Member, J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship
    Board
-   Michael Trager, Member, J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship
    Board

<span style="text-decoration: underline">**United States Commission for
the Preservation of America’s Heritage Abroad**  
</span>The U.S. Commission for the Preservation of America’s Heritage
Abroad was established in 1985 to ensure that sites important to
populations impacted by Nazism, communism, and the Cold War would be
preserved for future generations. The Commission’s mission is to
identify, protect, and preserve cemeteries, monuments, and historic
buildings in Eastern and Central Europe that are associated with U.S.
heritage. The work recognizes that the population of the United States
is mostly comprised of immigrants and their descendants, and that the
United States has an interest in the preservation of sites in other
countries related to the heritage of these Americans.  
  
**Nancy D. Berman, Commission Member, United States Commission for the
Preservation of America’s Heritage Abroad**  
Nancy D. Berman is a community leader with a demonstrated record of
service through volunteerism, board and committee memberships, and
philanthropic leadership with a variety of affiliations and nonprofit
organizations. Berman’s professional background is in marketing and her
most recent endeavor is as the CEO and Founder of NANDANIE, a luxury
fashion brand whose mission is to inspire confidence, build community,
and empower women. Prior to launching NANDANIE, Berman applied her
creativity as owner of an artisanal cakery.

Berman has served as the President of Yad Ezra, an organization that
provides kosher food to vulnerable Jewish families in Southeast Michigan
and was their 2021 dinner honoree along with her three children. She is
also involved with Asra Kedisha, an organization for the preservation of
Jewish cemeteries and gravesites throughout the world and has travelled
to Cairo, Egypt to survey the restoration of the largest Jewish cemetery
in the world. She currently serves on the Executive Board of the Frankel
Jewish Academy, is a founding member of Kehillat Etz Chayim in Detroit,
and is a member of The International Society of Female Professionals,
the Accessories Council, BasBlue Detroit, Hadassah, The Women’s Zionist
Organization of America, the American Jewish Committee, AIPAC, and FIDF.
Berman lives in Huntington Woods, Michigan.  
  
**Herbert Block, Commission Member, United States Commission for the
Preservation of America’s Heritage Abroad**  
Herbert Block is the Executive Director of the American Zionist
Movement, a role he has served in since 2017. Block is the former
Assistant Executive Vice President of the American Jewish Joint
Distribution Committee, where he was responsible for the Government
Affairs and Property Restitution portfolios at the world’s leading
Jewish humanitarian organization. He has served on boards addressing
Holocaust-era assets, property restitution, compensation for Shoah
survivors, and the preservation of Jewish heritage sites and cemeteries
in Europe and the United States. He was previously Assistant to the
Mayor of the City of New York, Assistant Director of the New York City
Independent Budget Office, and a Deputy Director at the Federal
Corporation for National and Community Service (AmeriCorps). Block
previously served as a Member of the U.S. Commission for the
Preservation of America’s Heritage Abroad from 2011 to 2019, to which he
was appointed for three terms by President Obama. He received a BA from
Columbia University and a JD from Brooklyn Law School.  
  
**Harley Lippman, Commission Member, United States Commission for the
Preservation of America’s Heritage Abroad**  
Harley Lippman is the Founder and CEO of Genesis10. Since its inception
in 1999, Lippman has grown the company into one of the largest IT
consulting firms in the United States and is consistently named among
the top 50 “Best CEOs” by USA Today. A dedicated philanthropist, Lippman
has been the sole financial supporter of a Cambodian orphanage for more
than 17 years and has funded efforts to explore an overlooked aspect of
the Holocaust since 2009. Specifically, he works to find mass graves
where Jews were murdered and buried and hosts memorials to honor and
preserve their memory throughout the year. Lippman executive produced
*Safeguarding Memory*, an award-winning documentary on mass graves in
Poland, which appeared on PBS. Additionally, Lippman is a regular
commentator on national and international television on issues related
to the Middle East, workforce development, U.S. politics, and the
economy.  
  
Lippman received a MA in International Affairs at Columbia University,
studied abroad in Poland on a Fulbright Fellowship, and received a
scholarship to study at the Ukrainian Institute at Harvard University.  
  
**Hershel Wein, Commission Member, United States Commission for the
Preservation of America’s Heritage Abroad**  
Hershel Wein, an active member of the New York Jewish community, is an
attorney who has practiced law for over 36 years. He is currently a
partner and member of the Energy and Infrastructure group of Wilson
Sonsini, with a specialty in tax law and renewable energy. Previously,
he was a partner and member of the Washington National Tax practice of
KPMG and a partner at the law firm Dewey Ballantine. Among his communal
activities, Wein is a founder of one of the largest Jewish religious
private schools in Long Island, NY, where he served on the board of
directors. Wein graduated from the Columbia Law School in 1985 after
attending Brooklyn College for his undergraduate studies. He currently
resides in Long Island with his wife and children.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Cultural Property Advisory
Committee**  
</span>The Cultural Property Advisory Committee reviews requests for
import restrictions submitted to the United States by foreign
governments, considers proposals to extend existing agreements and
emergency actions, carries out ongoing review of current import
restrictions, and provides reports of its findings and recommendations
to the Department of State.  
  
The Convention on Cultural Property Implementation Act established the
11-member presidentially appointed Committee to ensure that the U.S.
government receives advice from diverse public interests in cultural
property matters. The Committee includes two members who represent the
interests of museums; three members who are expert in archaeology,
anthropology, ethnology, or related fields; three members who are expert
in the international sale of cultural property; and three members who
represent the interest of the general public. The Cultural Heritage
Center serves as the secretariat for Committee and convenes and
facilitates the Committee’s quarterly meetings.  
  
**Alexandra Jones, Chair, Cultural Property Advisory Committee**  
Dr. Alexandra Jones, Founder and Chief Executive Officer of Archaeology
in the Community, is an education leader focused on community outreach
and service. Jones is currently Professor of Practice in History and
Archaeology at Goucher College. She worked for PBS’s television show
“Time Team America” as the Archaeology Field School Director, where she
directed field schools for junior high and high school students at each
of the sites for the 2013 season. She obtained dual Bachelor of Arts
degrees from Howard University in History and Anthropology in 2001 and a
Master of Arts degree in History from Howard University in 2003. She
then attended University of California, Berkeley for a Master of Arts
and Ph.D. in Anthropology with a concentration in Historical Archaeology
in 2010. Jones serves on the Board for the Society of Black
Archaeologists, the District of Columbia’s Historic Preservation Review
Board, the Board of Directors of the St. Croix Archaeological Society,
and is an Academic Trustee for the Archaeological Institute of
America.  
  
**Alex W. Barker, Member, Cultural Property Advisory Committee**  
Alex W. Barker is a museum anthropologist and archaeologist focusing on
issues of cultural heritage, iconography, and the rise of social
complexity. A graduate of the Getty Museum Leadership Institute, Barker
serves as Director of the Arkansas Archeological Survey, and has
previously held leadership positions at the University of Missouri
Museum of Art and Archaeology, the Milwaukee Public Museum, and the
Dallas Museum of Natural History. He has experience in both domestic and
international cultural property issues, served on the national Native
American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act Review Committee from
2011-2015, and coordinated an international antiquities documentation
project in collaboration with the Capitoline Museum in Rome. He is a
peer-elected Expert Member of the International Council on Monuments and
Sites International Scientific Committee on Archaeology and Heritage
Management and the International Scientific Committee on Earthen
Architectural Heritage. He has received national awards for research
from the Society for American Archaeology and for service from the
Society for American Archaeology and the American Alliance of Museums.
Barker is a former President of both the Council for Museum Anthropology
and the American Anthropological Association. Barker received a BA from
Marquette University, MA from Wichita State University, and PhD from the
University of Michigan.  
  
**Andrew Lamarche Connors, Member, Cultural Property Advisory
Committee**  
Andrew Connors is currently the Director of the Albuquerque Museum,
where he previously served as Curator of Art from 2009 through 2018.
Connors’ former roles include Chair of the Visual Arts Department at
Albuquerque Academy (2006-2009), Senior Curator at the National Hispanic
Cultural Center in Albuquerque (1999-2006), and Associate Curator at the
Smithsonian American Art Museum (1984-1999) where he developed
collections and exhibitions on Hispanic, Latino, Native American, and
Folk Art. He studied Art History and Architecture at Yale University and
did his graduate work in Folklore and American Studies at George
Washington University.  He has curated dozens of exhibitions, primarily
in the areas of United States Latino Art, Colonial Art from Puerto Rico,
Contemporary Art, and Graffiti. He recently completed an exhibition and
book on the history of jewelry in New Mexico from prehistory to the
present, the first exhibition in a series of medium-focused historical
survey exhibitions on New Mexican art that will include ceramics and
textiles. As a lecturer, guest teacher, and consultant, he has worked
with numerous organizations including the National Gallery of Art,
Smithsonian Office of Folklife Programs, Institute for Latino Studies at
the University of Notre Dame, Chicano Studies Department at the
University of California Los Angeles, Getty Center for Education in the
Arts, and the Royal Government of Bhutan.  
  
**Michael Findlay, Member, Cultural Property Advisory Committee**  
Michael Findlay is a Director of Acquavella Galleries which specializes
in Impressionist, Modern, and Post-War Contemporary Art and presents
major exhibitions of artists such as Pablo Picasso, Joan Miró, James
Rosenquist, Lucian Freud, and Wayne Thiebaud. Findlay directed one of
the first galleries in SoHo in Manhattan in the 1960s, which pioneered
the work of artists like John Baldessari, Hannah Wilke, and Sean Scully
and secured portrait commissions for Andy Warhol. He was a Senior
Director at Christie’s auction house and sat on the Board of Directors
from 1984 to 2000. He has served on the Art Advisory Panel for the
Internal Revenue Service since 2001, serves on the Board of the New York
Foundation for the Arts and the British Schools and Universities
Foundation, and is on the Advisory Council of the Appraisers Association
of America. Findlay frequently lectures at museums and universities in
the U.S. and overseas. He has published poetry and essays in journals,
periodicals, and exhibition catalogues, as well as two best-selling
books, *Seeing Slowly—Looking at Modern Art* and *The Value of Art*. He
is married to the contemporary quilt artist Victoria Findlay Wolfe and
has two children.  
  
**Cynthia Denise Herbert, Member, Cultural Property Advisory
Committee**  
Cynthia D. Herbert, AAA, President of Appretium Appraisal Services LLC,
is a Certified Member and past President of the Board of the Appraisers
Association of America. She has appraised an extensive range of fine and
decorative art, antiques, and residential contents/personal property.
Herbert is an instructor at the Appraisal Institute of America and the
Appraisers Association of America. Additionally, through The Appraisal
Foundation, she is an AQB Certified USPAP Instructor (Uniform Standards
of Professional Appraisal Practice). Herbert graduated with a BA from
Georgetown University and an MA from New York University.  
  
**Nii Otokunor Quarcoopome, Member, Cultural Property Advisory
Committee**  
Nii Quarcoopome is the curator of African art and department head of
Africa, Oceania, and Indigenous Americas at the Detroit Institute of
Arts. He received his doctorate in African art history in 1993 from the
University of California, Los Angeles. After years of college teaching,
he entered the museum field in 2000, beginning at Newark Museum before
joining Detroit Institute of Arts in 2002. Between 2012 and 2016,
Quarcoopome’s concurrent appointment at the Nelson-Atkins Museum and the
Detroit Institute of Arts made him the first shared curator in American
history. His exhibition, “Through African Eyes: The European in African
Art, 1500-Present,” earned a National Endowment of the Humanities
implementation grant and the American Association of Museums’
recognition for excellence. His academic record boasts several
prestigious postdoctoral fellowships, including the Fulbright and J.
Paul Getty.  
  
**Miriam T. Stark, Member, Cultural Property Advisory Committee**  
Dr. Miriam Stark, an anthropological archeologist, is a Professor of
Anthropology at the University of Hawai’i at Mānoa and has worked in
Cambodia since 1996. With field experience in North America, the
Philippines, Thailand, and Cambodia, Stark has published more than 100
articles and chapters on Southeast Asian and North American archaeology.
A specialist in ancient ceramics, salient themes in her research include
urbanization, ceramic production and distribution, and power relations
in premodern Cambodia. Stark’s Cambodian archaeological research program
integrates research with capacity-building in collaboration with
Cambodia’s Ministry of Culture and Fine Arts and its various units. She
has worked with nearly 100 Cambodian students, interns, and
archaeological professionals since launching her first field-based
project in the country, and continues to mentor early career
archaeologists in Cambodia.  Stark became the Director for the
University of Hawai’i at Mānoa’s Center for Southeast Asian Studies in
2018 and is currently a Fulbright Senior Specialist and an Honorary
Research Associate with the University of Sydney. Stark earned her
doctorate in Anthropological Archaeology at the University of Arizona
and held a postdoctoral fellowship in materials analysis at the
Smithsonian. She has served as a board member for the Society for
American Archaeology and currently serves on 13 editorial boards for
archaeology and Southeast Asia-focused journals.  
  
**William A. K. Titelman, Member, Cultural Property Advisory
Committee**  
William Titelman has had a highly varied career, while maintaining a
lifelong passion for art, history, archeology, anthropology, and
antiquities. He received his J.D. from The Dickinson School of Law over
a decade after his B.A. in philosophy and art history from Washington
and Jefferson College and Brown University. In between degrees, he
worked in senior executive capacities in Pennsylvania Governor Milton
Shapp’s Administration and served as a civilian volunteer in Israel
during the Yom Kippur War. Titelman has always championed the rights of
injured victims, consumers, workers, and shareholders. He served for a
decade as Legislative Counsel to the PA Trial Lawyers Association, never
losing a legislative battle. Titelman joined a business and commercial
law firm, starting its Harrisburg office and its government affairs,
legislative, and administrative law practices. He has spearheaded
numerous legislative accomplishments, including the enactment of
Pennsylvania’s Business Corporation Law, brownfields legislation,
electric utility deregulation, and the state’s seatbelt law. He led a
national campaign opposing a notorious anti-takeover bill. Titelman was
a principal in developing the Commonwealth Riverfront Center in
Harrisburg, served as Executive Vice President at one of the nation’s
largest drugstore chains, and established the public pension fund and
labor union practice for a plaintiffs securities litigation firm. He
founded Pennsylvanians for Gun Control to support passage of the Brady
Bill, was a founding board member of the Israel Policy Forum, and has
served on numerous non-profit boards.  
  
A Pennsylvanian, Titelman was born in Altoona, grew up in Pittsburgh,
lived in Harrisburg for 30 years, then moved to Washington, DC, before
retiring in Florida. During the last nine years he has also spent much
of his time living and learning in Greece.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**J. William Fulbright Foreign
Scholarship Board**  
</span>The J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board supervises the
Fulbright Program and certain programs authorized by the Fulbright-Hays
Act and for the purpose of selecting students, scholars, teachers,
trainees, and other persons to participate in the educational exchange
programs. Appointed by the President, the 12-member Board meets
quarterly in Washington, DC. The Board establishes worldwide policies
and procedures for the Program and issues an annual report on the state
of the Program.  
  
**James R. Berman, Member, J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship
Board**  
James Berman was most recently a Principal at Select Equity Group, L.P.,
a global investment advisor managing more than $50 billion across public
and private market strategies. Over the course of more than two decades
at the firm, Berman held senior leadership positions as General Counsel,
Chief Operating Officer, and the Executive Vice President, roles that
included responsibility for global operations, legal and regulatory
affairs, and long-term firm strategy. He served on the Management
Committee, the Investment Committee, the Astor Place Holdings Investment
Committee, and the boards of several portfolio and not-for-profit
entities controlled by the firm. Berman also helped develop Aventine, a
research institute that supports scholarship on how rapid technological
advancements affect the ways we’ll live and work in the future. Prior to
joining Select Equity, Berman was an attorney with White & Case, LLP
concentrating on sovereign and corporate transactions in post-Communist
countries. Before White & Case, Berman was a Program Officer at the
Twentieth Century Fund, coordinating the think tank’s first projects in
Russia and East/Central Europe.  
  
Berman holds a Bachelor of Arts from the University of Pennsylvania, a
Master of International Affairs from Columbia University, and a Juris
Doctor from New York University School of Law. In addition to serving as
a director of a number of private companies in the U.S. and abroad,
Berman also serves on the boards of several non-profit, educational, and
cultural institutions. He lives in New York City with his wife, Lisa
Rechsteiner, and their two children, Thea and Oliver.  
  
**Michael Trager, Member, J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship
Board**  
Michael Trager, a Washington lawyer for 35 years, began his career as a
United States government attorney. He is actively involved in the
Washington community and has been an advocate and supporter of the
rights of refugees and at-risk children, the survivors of DEA fallen
agents, and the arts. Trager is the founding Co-Chair of the Securities
Enforcement and Litigation Practice at the international law firm of
Arnold & Porter, and he served in that position for approximately two
decades as well as in other firmwide leadership roles while a senior
partner. He is recognized and ranked nationally as a leading lawyer in
his field. Prior to entering private practice, Trager served in the
Division of Enforcement of the United States Securities and Exchange
Commission in the Washington, DC Headquarters, and he has written and
spoken on securities issues and governmental investigations.  
  
Trager’s outside activities have included The Economic Club of
Washington, Distinguished Practitioners Council and Board of Advisors of
the SEC Historical Society, Board of Directors of the Middleburg Film
Festival, Board of Directors of The Washington Ballet, The Phillips
Collection, Refugees International, and Children’s Law Center. Trager
earned a Bachelor of Arts degree from Wesleyan University and a Juris
Doctor from Boston University School of Law. While at Wesleyan, he
studied abroad at the London School of Economics and Political Science.
He resides in Washington, DC and has been married to Mariella Trager for
35 years. They have two adult children, Nicholas and Alexander Trager.

\###
