---
date: '2022-08-09'
modified_time: 2022-08-09 16:39:20-04:00
published_time: 2022-08-09 15:05:55-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/09/president-biden-announces-three-to-serve-as-u-s-marshals/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Three to Serve as\_U.S.\_Marshals"
---
 
President Biden is announcing his intent to nominate three individuals
to serve as U.S. Marshals. These are officials who will be indispensable
to upholding the rule of law.

These individuals were chosen for their devotion to enforcing the law,
their professionalism, their experience and credentials, and their
dedication to pursuing equal justice for all.

The President has now announced 15 nominees to serve as U.S. Marshals.

**<u>U.S. Marshal Announcements</u>**

1.  **<u>Terry J. Burgin: Nominee for U.S. Marshal Western District of
    North Carolina</u>**

Terry J. Burgin has served as the District Security Officer for the
United States Marshals Service for the Western District of North
Carolina since 2018. Mr. Burgin also serves as the Sergeant of the
Police Reserves for the Lincolnton, North Carolina Police Department.
From 2005 to 2016, Mr. Burgin was a Court Security Officer with the
United States Marshals Service. Mr. Burgin was Chief of the Lincolnton
Police Department from 1989 to 2005. Prior to becoming Chief, he served
in several roles with the Lincolnton Police Department from 1973 to
1989.  Mr. Burgin received his A.A. from Gaston College in 1987.

1.  **<span style="text-decoration: underline">Glenn McNeill: Nominee
    for U.S. Marshal for the Eastern District of North Carolina</span>**

Glenn McNeill was Commander of the North Carolina State Highway Patrol
from 2017 to 2021.  Mr. McNeill held several other roles since 1993,
when he first joined the North Carolina State Highway Patrol as a
Trooper.  Mr. McNeill was a Major and Director of Training from 2014 to
2017, a Captain and Troop Commander from 2012 to 2014, and assigned
within the Special Operations Section from 2004 to 2012.  Mr. McNeill
received his B.S. from the University of Mount Olive in 2001. Mr.
McNeill is a veteran of the United States Army.

1.  **<span style="text-decoration: underline">Catrina Thompson: Nominee
    for U.S. Marshal for the Middle District of North Carolina</span>**

Catrina Thompson has served as the Chief of the Winston-Salem, North
Carolina Police Department since 2017.  Ms. Thompson has held various
other roles with the Winston-Salem Police Department, since joining as a
Police Officer in 1994. She served as the Assistant Chief from 2016 to
2017, Captain from 2014 to 2016, Lieutenant from 2006 to 2014, Sergeant
from 2003 to 2006, and Corporal from 1998 to 2003. Ms. Thompson received
her M.P.A. from Appalachian State University in 2009 and her B.S. from
Wayne State University in 1992.
