---
date: '2022-08-08'
published_time: 2022-08-08 21:05:06-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/08/readout-of-vice-president-harriss-call-with-prime-minister-holness-of-jamaica/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of Vice President Harris\u2019s Call with Prime Minister Holness of\
  \ Jamaica"
---
 
Vice President Kamala Harris today spoke with Prime Minister Andrew
Holness of Jamaica to congratulate him and the people of Jamaica upon
the 60th anniversary of its independence.    
  
The Vice President informed Prime Minister Holness that the United
States will provide $2 million in support of the creation of a Cyber
Center of Excellence to be located in Jamaica for the benefit of the
region, and they discussed the importance of greater investment in
cybersecurity.  
  
The Vice President and Prime Minister Holness welcomed progress made on
three short-term joint U.S.-Caribbean committees that President Biden
and the Vice President launched in June to produce concrete, near-term
solutions to urgently address food security, energy security, and
finance challenges confronting the region.  
  
This call is part of the Biden-Harris Administration’s ongoing efforts
to elevate engagement with Caribbean leaders given our shared interests
and common bonds. The Vice President met with Prime Minister Holness
on [March
30](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=0ae7f75ebacfaef55ba39fcdb&id=ab87b737db&e=0ca263633c),
where they discussed a range of issues including security, COVID
recovery, and economic growth. On [April
29](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=0ae7f75ebacfaef55ba39fcdb&id=ae151af912&e=0ca263633c),
the Vice President convened Caribbean leaders virtually and on [June
9](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=0ae7f75ebacfaef55ba39fcdb&id=3f48fc5559&e=0ca263633c),
President Biden and the Vice President convened Caribbean leaders at the
Summit of the Americas in Los Angeles. In today’s call and throughout
these engagements, the Vice President made clear the United States, as a
neighbor in the Western Hemisphere, values our partnerships with
Caribbean nations and that we are committed to addressing the region’s
most pressing issues together.
