---
date: '2022-08-07'
published_time: 2022-08-07 20:28:43-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/07/statement-by-president-biden-on-the-ceasefire-in-gaza/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement by President\_Biden on the Ceasefire in\_Gaza"
---
 
I welcome the announcement tonight of a ceasefire between Israel and
Gaza-based militants after three days of hostilities. 

Over these last 72-hours, the United States has worked with officials
from Israel, the Palestinian Authority, Egypt, Qatar, Jordan, and others
throughout the region to encourage a swift resolution to the conflict. I
thank President Abdel Fattah Al Sisi and the senior Egyptian officials
who played a central role in this diplomacy as well as Amir Sheikh Tamim
Bin Hamad Al Thani of Qatar and his team for helping to bring these
hostilities to an end.  

My support for Israel’s security is long-standing and
unwavering—including its right to defend itself against attacks.  Over
these recent days, Israel has defended its people from indiscriminate
rocket attacks launched by the terrorist group Palestinian Islamic
Jihad, and the United States is proud of our support for
Israel’s Iron-Dome, which intercepted hundreds of rockets and saved
countless lives.  I commend Prime Minister Yair Lapid and his
government’s steady leadership throughout the crisis. 

The reports of civilian casualties in Gaza are a tragedy, whether by
Israeli strikes against Islamic Jihad positions or the dozens of Islamic
Jihad rockets that reportedly fell inside Gaza.  My
Administration supports a timely and thorough investigation into all of
these reports, and we also call on all parties to fully implement the
ceasefire, and to ensure fuel and humanitarian supplies are flowing into
Gaza as the fighting subsides.

As I made clear during my recent trip to Israel and the West Bank,
Israelis and Palestinians both deserve to live safely and securely and
to enjoy equal measures of freedom, prosperity, and democracy.  My
Administration will remain engaged with Israeli and Palestinian leaders
to support that vision and to implement the initiatives launched during
my visit to improve the quality of life for Palestinians and Israelis
alike.

\###
