---
date: '2022-08-02'
published_time: 2022-08-02 17:22:06-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/02/statement-by-president-biden-on-the-extension-of-the-un-mediated-truce-in-yemen/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement by President\_Biden on the Extension of the UN-Mediated Truce in\_\
  Yemen"
---
 
I welcome today’s announcement of an extension of the truce in the Yemen
conflict.  This truce, now going on five months, has brought a period of
unprecedented calm in Yemen, saving thousands of lives and bringing
tangible relief for countless Yemenis.  I want to recognize the hard
work of my Special Envoy for Yemen Tim Lenderking, who – working hand in
hand with UN Special Envoy for Yemen Hans Grundberg – played a major
role in this achievement.

Extending the truce in Yemen and reaching an ultimate resolution to the
conflict was also a main topic of discussion during my recent visit
to Saudi Arabia.  The King and Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia confirmed to
me their full commitment to extending the truce. They and their team
demonstrated that commitment over the course of discussions in recent
weeks.  I thank them for that.

Oman also played a central role in securing this extension of the truce,
and we’re grateful for the role played by Sultan Haytham as a mediator
and for his team as an interlocutor between all the parties to the
conflict.  My Secretary of State, Tony Blinken, has also helped advance
the truce, including calls this weekend with his Omani counterpart, and
with the President of the Yemeni Presidential Leadership
Council, Rashad Alimi.  We are grateful for their cooperation and
commitment to the truce process.

As I stated last time the truce was extended, however, I recognize that
a truce, while an important step and essential to saving lives, is not
enough in the long run.  Thus, we urge the Yemeni parties to seize this
opportunity to work constructively under UN auspices to reach an
inclusive, comprehensive agreement that includes steps to improve
freedom of movement and expanded salary payments and that paves the way
for a durable, Yemeni-led resolution to the conflict.  

It is now critical that all parties uphold their commitments under the
UN-brokered truce and work towards peace.  The Yemeni Government must
continue to support flights to more destinations to and from Sana’a, and
to facilitate the flow of goods thorough Hudaydah port, as agreed under
the terms of the truce.  Advancing the peace process will require
courage and dedication from all sides.  The United
States will remain committed and engaged in efforts to advance peace in
Yemen and to bring relief to the Yemeni people.

\###
