---
date: '2022-08-19'
modified_time: 2022-08-18 17:12:18-04:00
published_time: 2022-08-19 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/19/president-biden-announces-key-nominees-29/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Nominees"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve as key leaders in his
administration: 

-   Arthur W. Brown, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Ecuador
-   Karen Sasahara, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the State of Kuwait

<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Arthur W. Brown, Nominee for
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to the Republic of
Ecuador**  
</span>  
Arthur W. Brown, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service with the
rank of Minister-Counselor, has served as Deputy Chief of Mission at the
U.S. Embassy in Harare, Zimbabwe since 2021. He was the USAID Mission
Director at Embassy Harare from 2020 to 2021. Prior to that, Brown was
USAID Director in the Dominican Republic from for four years, 20 months
of which he was on detail to the Department of State as Deputy Chief of
Mission at the U.S. Embassy in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic. Before
that, Brown was USAID Director at the U.S. Embassy in Managua,
Nicaragua. Additionally, Brown has served in Kabul, Afghanistan and in
Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of the Congo as USAID Deputy
Director. Other assignments include Botswana, Guinea, Nigeria, and
regional activities in Sierra Leone, Haiti, Jamaica, Barbados, and
Namibia. Brown is the recipient of numerous USAID performance awards and
the USAID Administrator’s Management Improvement Award. He is a
distinguished recipient of the Franklin H. Williams award for
Outstanding Community Leaders. A Pennsylvania resident, Brown has an
M.B.A. degree from Johns Hopkins University, a B.A. degree from the
University of Virginia, and an M.S. degree in National Security Strategy
from the National War College. Prior to joining USAID, Brown worked for
Johns Hopkins University’s JHPIEGO Corporation, a nonprofit organization
for international health, on international maternal and child health
programs, and his international development career began when Brown
served as a Rural Community Development Extension Agent in the Republic
of Bénin,West Africa, where he was a Peace Corps Volunteer. He speaks
French and Spanish.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Karen Sasahara, Nominee for
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to the State of Kuwait**  
</span>  
Karen Sasahara, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service with the
rank of Minister-Counselor, most recently served as Deputy Assistant
Secretary of State for North Africa. Prior to that she served as Chargé
d’Affaires, ad interim of the U.S. Embassy in Amman, Jordan. Before
that, she was Consul General in Jerusalem, Senior Advisor in the Bureau
of Intelligence and Research, served on the Foreign Service Board of
Examiners, Deputy Chief of Mission in Sana’a, Yemen, and Foreign Policy
Advisor to the Commanding General of Special Operations Command
Central. Earlier assignments include Baghdad, Beirut, Mexico City,
London, Jeddah, and Washington, D.C. Sasahara is the recipient of
numerous State Department performance awards, including five Senior
Foreign Service Performance Awards. A native of Massachusetts, she holds
an M.A. in Near East Studies from the George Washington University, and
a B.A. in International Relations from the University of
Wisconsin-Milwaukee. She speaks Arabic, Spanish, French and Russian.

\###
