---
date: '2022-08-25'
published_time: 2022-08-25 18:35:13-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/25/president-biden-announces-20th-fly-formula-mission/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces 20th Fly Formula\_Mission"
---
 
*Biden Administration will facilitate air shipment of over 862,000
8-ounce bottle equivalents of Nestlé Health Science Alfamino<sup>®</sup>
Infant and Alfamino<sup>®</sup> Junior formulaand SMA Nutrition Althéra
specialty formula on August 26, following over 8 million 8-ounce bottle
equivalents of Nestlé product coming through truck shipment earlier in
August*

Today, President Biden is announcing that his Administration is sourcing
one flight, facilitated by the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services (HHS), for Operation Fly Formula to transport Nestlé Health
Science Alfamino<sup>®</sup> Infant and Alfamino<sup>®</sup> Junior
formula and SMA Nutrition Althéra specialty formula products from
Switzerland and the Netherlands to New York, NY on August 26, and then
trucked to Plainfield, IN. These deliveries will include approximately
68,000 pounds of Nestlé specialty formula product, the equivalent of
over 862,000 8-ounce bottles. These products will be distributed through
retail, hospitals and home health care providers and are intended for
use under medical supervision. 

Between August 1 and 15, the Biden Administration also sourced several
truck shipments from Mexico to Fort Worth, TX of Nestlé Gerber Good
Start Gentle formula. These deliveries included approximately 566,000
pounds of Nestlé product, the equivalent of over 8.4 million 8-ounce
bottles.

Beginning in May, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) announced that
the agency is exercising enforcement discretion so that Nestlé can
export additional infant formula into the U.S. Nestlé will import both
standard and specialty infant formulas including Nestlé NAN<sup>®</sup>
SupremePro 1 and NAN<sup>®</sup> SupremePro 2, Nestlé NAN® EXPERTpro
SensiPro, Nestlé Health Science Alfamino<sup>®</sup> Infant and
Alfamino<sup>®</sup> Junior, Vitaflo PKU start<sup>™</sup>, Gerber® Good
Start<sup>®</sup> Gentle and Gerber<sup>®</sup> Good Start® Extensive
HA<sup>®</sup>, and Nestlé SMA Nutrition Althéra. Over time Nestlé plans
to bring approximately more than 42 million 8-ounce bottle equivalents
into the U.S. market.

President Biden launched Operation Fly Formula to speed up the import of
infant formula and start getting more formula to stores as soon as
possible. Under Operation Fly Formula, the Department of Health and
Human Services (HHS), the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), the
General Services Administration (GSA), and the Department of Defense
(DOD) are partnering to pick up overseas infant formula that meets U.S.
health and safety standards, so it can get to store shelves, hospitals
and home health care providers faster. To date, Operation Fly Formula
has transported nearly 79 million 8-ounce bottle equivalents to the U.S.

In addition, the Biden Administration has taken a number of other
important actions to ensure there is enough safe infant formula for
families, including invoking the Defense Production Act, entering into a
consent agreement between the FDA and Abbott Nutrition to reopen the
company’s Sturgis facility, and issuing FDA guidance so that major
formula manufacturers can safely import formula that is not currently
being produced for the U.S. market. Details of our actions can be found
at whitehouse.gov/formula.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/08/Picture1.jpg"
class="wp-image-60230" loading="lazy" width="298" height="178" />
</figure>

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/08/Picture2.png"
class="wp-image-60231" loading="lazy"
sizes="(max-width: 220px) 100vw, 220px"
srcset="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/08/Picture2.png 413w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/08/Picture2.png?resize=150,150 150w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/08/Picture2.png?resize=300,300 300w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/08/Picture2.png?resize=600,600 600w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/08/Picture2.png?resize=1200,1200 1200w"
width="220" height="220" />
</figure>

\###
