---
date: '2022-08-03'
modified_time: 2022-08-03 13:37:15-04:00
published_time: 2022-08-03 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/03/president-biden-announces-key-nominees-28/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Nominees"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve as key leaders in his
administration:   

-   David Crane, Nominee for Under Secretary for Infrastructure, U.S.
    Department of Energy
-   Richard Weiner, Nominee for Director of the European Bank for
    Reconstruction and Development
-   Colleen Joy Shogan, Nominee for Archivist of the United States
-   Robert Harley Shriver, Nominee for Deputy Director of the Office of
    Personnel Management
-   Bijan Sabet, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Czech Republic
-   Eric W. Kneedler, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Rwanda
-   Elizabeth Rood, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to Turkmenistan
-   Alvin Brown, Nominee for Member of the National Transportation
    Safety Board

<span style="text-decoration: underline">**David Crane, Nominee for
Under Secretary for Infrastructure, U.S. Department of Energy**  
</span>  
David Crane is currently the CEO at Climate Real Impact Solutions and
serves on the boards of Heliogen, an AI-driven concentrated solar energy
company, and Source Global, a privately-held sustainable water
technology company. He also serves on the boards of directors of JERA, a
power generation joint venture between Tokyo Electric, Chubu Electric,
and Tata Steel, the global steel company headquartered in Mumbai. Crane
is a leading business voice in the field of sustainability, clean
energy, and climate change. He serves on the not-for-profit boards of
Elemental Excelerator, The Climate Group NA, as well as being a B Team
Leader, where he chairs the B Team’s Net Zero Initiative. Previously,
Crane was CEO of NRG. During his 12-year tenure, he took NRG from
chapter 11 bankruptcy to a Fortune 200 company. Crane pioneered the
yieldco asset class with the initial public offering of NRG Yield in
July 2013. Crane also led NRG to the forefront of next-generation clean
energy development through large scale initiatives in utility scale
renewables (now Clearway), residential solar, post combustion carbon
capture (Petra Nova), and DC fast charging (EVGO). Prior to NRG, Crane
was CEO of International Power Plc, a UK-domiciled FTSE-100 company.
Through his public advocacy and writings, including his seminal 2014
Letter to Shareholders, Crane has set forth the case for the leading
role to be played by the private sector and transformational capitalism
more generally in combating climate change, which he calls the “moral
imperative of our time”. Crane is a graduate of Harvard Law School and
Princeton University.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Richard Weiner, Nominee for
Director of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development**  
</span>  
Richard Weiner is a Senior Partner in the Washington and Brussels
offices of the international law firm of Sidley Austin LLP. A member of
the law firm’s Global Arbitration, Trade, and Advocacy Group, he is one
of the nation’s leading international trade and investment lawyers. Dual
qualified to practice law in both the European Union (EU) and the United
States, Weiner has spent more than 30 years working on U.S.-E.U. trade
and investment policy and market access issues, including ten years
based in Brussels, where he was the founding managing partner of the
Sidley Brussels office. Active in a variety of community, religious, and
philanthropic organizations, Weiner is a first-generation American who
is fluent in French.  
  
Weiner served as national Co-Chair of Lawyers for Biden and as a member
of the international economics working group during the 2020 Biden
presidential campaign. He received a J.D. from Columbia Law School, a
Masters of Philosophy from the University of Cambridge (UK), and an A.B.
magna cum laude from Harvard College, where he was the student chairman
of the John F. Kennedy Institute of Politics. He and his wife, Joann, a
professor of economics at The George Washington University, have three
adult children and reside in Washington, D.C.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Colleen Joy Shogan, Nominee
for Archivist of the United States**  
</span>  
Colleen Shogan is the Senior Vice President and Director of the David M.
Rubenstein Center for White House History at the White House Historical
Association. For the past decade,  Shogan has taught a graduate course
on politics and American history at Georgetown University as an Adjunct
Lecturer in the Government Department. She also moderates the Emerging
Governance Leaders seminar at the Aspen Institute. She served as the
Vice Chair of the Women’s Suffrage Centennial Commission, the bipartisan
commission designated by Congress to commemorate the Nineteenth
Amendment. Before her current position, Shogan worked for over a decade
at the Library of Congress, serving in senior roles as the Assistant
Deputy Librarian for Collections and Services and the Deputy Director of
the Congressional Research Service. As a Library employee, she completed
the Stennis Congressional Fellowship Program for the 112th Congress.
Earlier in her career, Shogan worked as a Senate policy staffer,
beginning her service through the American Political Science Association
(APSA) Congressional Fellowship Program. Shogan served as the President
of the National Capitol Area Political Science Association and was an
elected member of the APSA Council.  
  
Prior to her federal service, Shogan was an Assistant Professor of
Government and Politics at George Mason University. Her research areas
of focus include the American presidency, American political
development, women in politics, and Congress. Shogan’s *Moral Rhetoric
of American Presidents* was named by the Wall Street Journal as one of
the top five books written on presidential rhetoric. She received her
Ph.D. in Political Science from Yale University. A first-generation
college graduate in her family, Shogan received her Bachelor of Arts
degree from Boston College. Born and raised near Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, she is a public-school graduate of Norwin Senior High
School. Shogan currently resides in Arlington, Virginia.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Robert Harley Shriver, III,
Nominee for Deputy Director of the Office of Personnel Management**  
</span>  
Robert Harley Shriver, III, is currently the Associate Director for
Employee Services at the U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM). In
this role, he leads OPM’s government-wide workforce policy team. His
portfolio includes recruiting and hiring, pay and leave, strategic
workforce planning, labor and employee relations, performance
management, the Senior Executive Service, work-life, and the future of
work. Shriver previously served at OPM during the Obama-Biden
Administration as Deputy General Counsel for Policy, leading development
and implementation of a number of government-wide initiatives, including
expanding equality for LGBTQ+ Federal employees, improving Federal
sector labor relations, and reforming the Federal hiring process.
Shriver also served as OPM’s Assistant Director for National Healthcare
Operations, where he led the implementation of the Multi-State Plan
program under the Affordable Care Act (ACA).  
  
In the years between his OPM stints, Shriver continued to work on ACA
policy, operations, and IT. Rob served as the Director of Marketplace
Innovation, Policy, and Operations at the District of Columbia Health
Benefit Exchange Authority (HBX). He oversaw the complete rebuild of the
Marketplace IT system and led the transition of all small business
health coverage in the District to the HBX platform. He also negotiated
and implemented a first-in-the-nation agreement with the Massachusetts
Health Connector to share the HBX small business platform with
Massachusetts small businesses. Shriver then worked for IdeaCrew, Inc.,
as the Vice President for Business Development, working with states to
improve their health benefit exchange IT platforms. Shriver began his
career as an Assistant Counsel for the National Treasury Employees
Union, litigating cases on behalf of federal employees in the Federal
judiciary. Shriver earned his B.A. in International Studies from
Virginia Tech and his J.D. from George Washington University Law
School.   
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Bijan Sabet, Nominee for
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to the Czech Republic**  
</span>  
Bijan Sabet is Cofounder and a General Partner of Spark Capital, a
venture capital firm that seeks out exceptional founders and the
products they design. It manages in excess of six billion dollars across
venture and venture growth funds. Throughout his career, Sabet has
focused on helping technology entrepreneurs reach their potential and
build important global companies. Prior to co-founding Spark Capital in
2005, he worked as a senior executive in numerous technology startup
companies in Silicon Valley, California, and Massachusetts. In his role
at Spark Capital, Sabet has led investments and served on the board of
directors of early-stage startup companies that have transformed into
global leaders. He led Spark’s investment in Twitter in 2007 when there
were just ten employees at the San Francisco based startup. His firm led
early-stage investments in other iconic companies including Wayfair,
Cruise Automotive, Oculus, Slack, Tumblr, Warby Parker, Discord, Stack
Overflow, and others that have led to the creation of tens of thousands
of new jobs. He serves on the Board of Trustees of Boston College, from
which he earned a Bachelor of Science degree.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Eric W. Kneedler, Nominee for
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to the Republic of
Rwanda**  
</span>  
Eric Kneedler is a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of
Minister-Counselor. He currently serves as the Deputy Chief of Mission
at the U.S. Embassy in Nairobi, Kenya, including formerly as Chargé
d’Affaires, ad interim. Earlier, Kneedler was the Counselor for
Political Affairs at the Embassy in Nairobi, Kenya, and before that he
served in the same role at the U.S. Embassy in Manila, Philippines.
Previously, he served as the Deputy Political Counselor at the U.S
Embassy in Bangkok, Thailand, and as a Political Officer at the U.S.
Embassy in Jakarta, Indonesia. Among his other assignments, Kneedler was
a Staff Assistant in the Bureau of European Affairs, a Senior Watch
Officer in the State Department’s Operations Center, and he also held
positions at the U.S. Embassy in Port Louis, Mauritius, and at the U.S.
Consulate in Hong Kong. Kneedler earned his Bachelor’s degree from
Pomona College, and his Master’s degree from the Johns Hopkins School of
Advanced International Studies. His foreign languages include Thai,
Indonesian, and French.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Elizabeth Rood, Nominee for
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to Turkmenistan**  
</span>  
Elizabeth Rood, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service with the
rank of Minister-Counselor, is currently the Deputy Chief of Mission at
the U.S. Embassy in Moscow, Russia. Before that, she served as a Faculty
Advisor at the U.S. Army War College. Previously, she served as Deputy
Chief of Mission at the U.S. Embassy in Tbilisi, Georgia, much of that
time as Chargé d’Affaires, ad interim. Prior to that, she was Political
Counselor at the U.S. Embassy in Kabul, Afghanistan. Earlier, Rood
directed the State Department’s Office of Export Control Cooperation in
the Bureau of International Security and Nonproliferation, the Office of
Caucasus Affairs and Regional Conflicts in the Bureau of European and
Eurasian Affairs, and the Foreign Service Institute’s Stability
Operations Division. Additionally, she served as Principal Officer at
the U.S. Consulate General in Peshawar, Pakistan. In earlier
assignments, she served as the State Department’s representative on the
U.S. Provincial Reconstruction Team in Paktika Province in southeastern
Afghanistan, as well as Deputy to the U.S. Special Negotiator for the
Nagorno-Karabakh, Abkhazia, South Ossetia, and Transnistria
conflicts. Previous assignments include the Nonproliferation Bureau; the
U.S. Mission to the International Organizations in Vienna, Austria; the
U.S. Consulate General in Duesseldorf, Germany; and U.S. Embassies in
Vienna, Austria, and Moscow, Russia. Rood is the recipient of numerous
State Department performance awards, including three Senior Foreign
Service Performance Awards. A native of North Carolina, she holds an
M.A. from the University of Maryland and an A.B. from Randolph-Macon
Woman’s College. She speaks French, Russian, German, Pashto, Dari, and
Georgian.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Alvin Brown, Nominee for
Member of the National Transportation Safety Board**  
</span>  
Alvin Brown served as Mayor of Jacksonville, Florida. Brown was the
first-ever African-American elected Mayor of Jacksonville. Under his
leadership, Jacksonville became one of America’s leading cities for
innovation and improving quality of life. Brown achieved numerous
successes in Jacksonville with bold and collaborative approaches to many
modern challenges. Brown began his career as a senior member of the
White House leadership team under President Bill Clinton and Vice
President Al Gore. As Vice President Al Gore’s Senior Advisor for Urban
Policy, and Vice Chair of the White House Community Empowerment Board,
Brown advised President Clinton and Vice President Gore on a wide range
of domestic issues, including community revitalization, job creation,
new business development, and affordable housing. As Executive Director
of the White House Community Empowerment Board, Brown led the
Administration’s $4 billion community empowerment initiatives, including
the Empowerment Zone/Enterprise Community programs. Brown also served as
Senior Advisor to the late Commerce Secretary Ron Brown.  
  
Brown was appointed President and CEO of The Willie Gary Classic, a
foundation established to provide forums and scholarships to students.
Brown served as Executive Director of the Bush/Clinton Katrina
Interfaith Fund, a philanthropic $20 million fund to rebuild houses of
worship throughout the Gulf Coast. Brown also served as an Executive in
Residence at Jacksonville University’s Davis School of Business,
connecting students and faculty with best practices for building
public-private partnerships. Brown worked as a meat-cutter at Winn-Dixie
to become the first member of his family to graduate from college. Brown
earned a Bachelor of Science degree and a Master’s degree in Business
Administration from Jacksonville University, and completed postgraduate
work at Harvard University’s Kennedy School of Government. He has
received honorary doctorate degrees from Edward Waters College and
Jacksonville University. Brown resides in Jacksonville with his wife and
two sons.

\###
