---
date: '2022-08-10'
modified_time: 2022-08-09 17:09:41-04:00
published_time: 2022-08-10 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/10/fact-sheet-president-biden-signs-the-pact-act-and-delivers-on-his-promise-to-americas-veterans/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Signs the PACT Act and Delivers on His Promise\
  \ to America\u2019s\_Veterans"
---
 
*PACT Act Marks Most Significant Expansion of VA Health Care in 30
Years*

Today, President Biden is delivering on his promise to strengthen health
care and benefits for America’s veterans and their survivors by signing
the bipartisan Sergeant First Class Heath Robinson Honoring our Promise
to Address Comprehensive Toxics (PACT) Act. The PACT Act is the most
significant expansion of benefits and services for toxic exposed
veterans in more than 30 years.

In his first State of the Union address, President Biden called on
Congress to send a bill to his desk that would comprehensively address
toxic exposures that have impacted veterans, as well as their families
and caregivers, and provide them with the health care and benefits they
have earned and deserve. Thanks to the bipartisan leaders of the House
and Senate Veterans Committees, the PACT Act does just that.

President Biden believes that our nation has a sacred obligation to
properly prepare and equip the troops we send into harm’s way – and to
care for them and their families when they return home. Sometimes
military service can result in increased health risks for our veterans,
and some injuries and illnesses like asthma, cancer, and others can take
years to manifest. These realities can make it difficult for veterans to
establish a direct connection between their service and disabilities
resulting from military environmental exposures such as burn pits – a
necessary step to ensure they receive the health care they earned.

President Biden made clear that supporting those who wear the uniform is
a commitment that unites all Americans – Democrats, Republicans, and
Independents – and why he made supporting our veterans a core element of
his Unity Agenda. And, the legislation supports President Biden’s
reignited Cancer Moonshot to help end cancer as we know it.

By signing the bipartisan PACT Act, President Biden is delivering for
America’s veterans and their families, and demonstrating that we can –
and will – come together where we agree to get big things done for our
country.

**<u>The PACT Act: Delivering Critical Health Care and Other Benefits
for Veterans</u>**

Named in honor of Sergeant First Class Heath Robinson, a decorated
combat medic who died from a rare form of lung cancer, this historic
legislation will help deliver more timely benefits and services to more
than 5 million veterans—across all generations—who may have been
impacted by toxic exposures while serving our country. Danielle
Robinson, the widow of Sergeant First Class Robinson, was a guest of the
First Lady at President Biden’s [first State of the Union
address](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/03/01/remarks-of-president-joe-biden-state-of-the-union-address-as-delivered/)
when he called on Congress to pass a law to make sure veterans
devastated by toxic exposures – like her husband – finally get the
health care and benefits they deserve.

The PACT Act will:

-   To ensure veterans can receive high-quality health care screenings
    and services related to potential toxic exposures, the PACT Act
    expands access to VA health care services for veterans exposed
    during their military service. For post-9/11 combat veterans, the
    bill extends the period of time they have to enroll in VA health
    care from five to ten years post-discharge. For those combat
    veterans who do not fall within that window, the bill also creates a
    one-year open enrollment period. These expansions mean that more
    veterans can enroll in VA health care without having to demonstrate
    a service connected disability.

<!-- -->

-   The PACT Act codifies VA’s new process for evaluating and
    determining presumption of exposure and service connection for
    various chronic conditions when the evidence of a military
    environmental exposure and the associated health risks are strong in
    the aggregate but hard to prove on an individual basis. PACT
    requires VA to seek independent evaluation of this process as well
    as external input on the conditions it will review using this
    framework. The new process is evidence-based, transparent, and
    allows VA to make faster policy decisions on crucial exposure
    issues. This new process has already fundamentally changed how VA
    makes decisions on environmental exposures and ensures more veterans
    have access to the care they need.

<!-- -->

-   The legislation removes the need for certain veterans and their
    survivors to prove service connection if they are diagnosed with one
    of 23 specific conditions. This greatly reduces the amount of
    paperwork and need for exams that veterans diagnosed with one of
    these conditions must complete before being granted access to health
    care and disability compensation, thereby speeding up their receipt
    of the benefits they have earned. This list includes 11 respiratory
    related conditions, along with several forms of cancer, including
    reproductive cancers, melanoma, pancreatic cancer, kidney cancer,
    and brain cancers such as glioblastoma. Survivors of veterans who
    died due to one of these conditions may now also be eligible for
    benefits.

<!-- -->

-   To better understand the impact of toxic exposures, the PACT Act
    requires VA to conduct new studies of veterans who served in
    Southwest Asia during the Gulf War and analyses of post-9/11
    veterans’ health trends. The new law also directs the Secretary of
    Veterans Affairs to convene a new interagency working group to
    develop a five-year strategic plan on toxic exposure research.

<!-- -->

-   Ensuring veterans get the care they need includes ensuring that they
    are screened for toxic exposure and that VA personnel have the
    appropriate education and training. The PACT Act requires that
    veterans enrolled in VA health care be screened regularly for toxic
    exposure related concerns. This new law also requires VA to
    establish an outreach program for veterans regarding toxic exposure
    related benefits and supports, and to require additional toxic
    exposure related education and training for VA personnel.

<!-- -->

-   This bill also delivers critical resources to VA to ensure it can
    deliver timely access to services and benefits for all veterans
    eligible – including those already enrolled. The PACT Act provides
    VA with mechanisms to enhance claims processing and to increase the
    workforce. The bill also invests in VA health care facilities by
    authorizing 31 major medical health clinics and research facilities
    in 19 states.

**<u>Biden-Harris Administration Record of Action on Military Toxic
Exposures</u>**

This historic legislation builds on the Biden-Harris Administration’s
existing efforts to address the harmful effects of environmental
exposures affecting service men and women:

-   **Established Presumption for Rare Respiratory Cancers:** In April
    2022, VA defined presumptive service connection for several rare
    respiratory cancers for certain veterans – a step that marked
    progress toward President Biden’s commitment to end cancer as we
    know it. Since this change, VA has been able to complete more claims
    for veterans and survivors involving a possible presumption of rare
    respiratory cancer. With VA taking steps to raise awareness of these
    benefits, we expect the number of claims to rise in the months
    ahead.

<!-- -->

-   **Processing Claims for New Presumptive Respiratory Conditions:** In
    August 2021, VA began processing disability claims for asthma,
    rhinitis, and sinusitis based on presumed exposure to particulate
    matter. Veterans who served in the Southwest Asia theater of
    operations and other areas and who developed these conditions within
    ten years of military service are now eligible to apply for
    disability benefits and access to VA health care. Since August, VA
    has completed 33,276 claims, granting over 25,000 veterans and their
    survivors benefits for one or more conditions, leading to over $93
    million in retroactive benefit payments.  

<!-- -->

-   **Raising Awareness of VA Benefits Related to Military
    Exposures: **Many veterans remain unaware of their eligibility for
    benefits and services related to potential military exposures.
    Beginning in November 2021, VA launched a proactive campaign to
    inform and encourage veterans to file claims related to military
    environmental exposures.

<!-- -->

-   **Requiring Training for VA and Non-VA Providers:** Health care
    providers and compensation and pension examiners sometimes do not
    have the training to understand or treat veterans’ exposure
    concerns. To address this challenge, VA directed compensation and
    pension providers and Veterans Health Administration clinicians to
    complete a training module on assessing deployment related to
    environmental exposures. VA is also encouraging all providers who
    care for veterans outside of VA through the Community Care Network
    contract to complete training on the [TRAIN Learning
    Network](https://www.va.gov/COMMUNITYCARE/docs/providers/VHA_TRAIN.pdf),
    VA’s publicly available training site. Furthermore, VA employees and
    community care providers have been directed to utilize the Exposure
    Ed App to help providers provide information to veterans on health
    effects associated with certain exposures during military service.
    More information on the app is available
    [here](https://mobile.va.gov/app/exposure-ed).

<!-- -->

-   **Implementing a Network of Specialized Providers and Call Center:**
    Veterans with concerns about the health outcomes of military
    exposures experience inconsistent care to address these specific
    issues, especially outside of VA. Earlier this year, VA launched
    VET-HOME, The Veterans Exposure Team-Health Outcomes of Military
    Exposures. VA plans to hire health professionals, including
    physicians, nurse practitioners, and physician assistants who will
    specialize in conducting patient assessments regarding the health
    effects of military exposures. By January 2023, VA expects to have a
    fully operational call center and network of experts to help
    veterans concerned about environmental exposure and provide
    consultative services to veterans in primary care clinics.  
      
