---
date: '2022-08-01'
published_time: 2022-08-01 09:20:54-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/01/readout-of-first-convening-of-lawyers-in-defense-of-reproductive-rights-and-justice/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of\_First\_Convening of Lawyers in Defense of Reproductive Rights\_\
  and\_Justice"
---
 
On Friday, White House Counsel Stuart Delery and Attorney General
Merrick Garland, joined by Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff and Associate
Attorney General Vanita Gupta, convened the first meeting of private law
firms, bar associations, law professors, and public interest
organizations to encourage robust legal representation of patients,
providers, and third parties lawfully seeking or offering reproductive
health care services throughout the country.  The convening is part of
President Biden’s July 8, 2022 Executive Order Protecting Access to
Reproductive Health Care Services. 

The Supreme Court’s decision in *Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health
Organization*, which reversed nearly 50 years of constitutional
protection of the right to abortion,has already had devastating
consequences. Since *Dobbs*, multiple states have made abortion illegal
or severely restricted. And access to reproductive healthcare services
is now threatened for millions of Americans.  Patients seeking
reproductive care, as well as the providers who treat them, face an
uncertain landscape of laws.  

Friday’s event connected the pro bono legal community to the
reproductive rights, health, and justice community, who have been
leading the fight for decades.  Attorney General Garland, White House
Counsel Delery, and Associate Attorney General Vanita Gupta opened the
event with remarks highlighting the Administration’s deep commitment to
protecting reproductive rights and emphasized the unique role of lawyers
in times of crisis. 

Attorney General Garland stressed that the Department of Justice is
“working relentlessly to protect access to reproductive services” in
recognition of “the crisis that it is.” He reaffirmed that the Justice
Department “will consider every tool at our disposal to affirm those
protections.”   

Associate Attorney General Gupta, who leads the Department of Justice’s
Reproductive Rights Task Force,emphasized the need for action.  “It will
take all of us — government lawyers, private pro bono attorneys, bar
associations, public interest organizations — to do all we can to
protect access to reproductive health care and to provide vigorous
legal representation of patients, providers and third parties in need.”

White House Counsel Delery also underscored the importance of the
legal community in the face of the *Dobbs* decision. He noted, similar
to at the time of lawyers convening in 1963 during the civil rights
movement, again “the collective talent and training of lawyers across
the country can help to turn the tide.”

The Second Gentleman closed the events with a call for lawyers to join
the fight to defend reproductive rights and pursue justice for women.

\###
