---
date: '2022-08-28'
modified_time: 2022-08-28 05:15:25-04:00
published_time: 2022-08-28 09:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/28/fact-sheet-white-house-announces-president-biden-will-host-the-global-funds-seventh-replenishment-conference-on-september-19-2022/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: White\_House Announces President\_Biden Will Host the Global Fund\u2019\
  s Seventh Replenishment Conference on September 19,\_2022"
---
 
The White House is proud to announce that President Biden will host the
Global Fund’s Seventh Replenishment Conference on September 19, 2022 in
New York City.  The United States is proud to be a founding contributor
of, and the largest single donor to, the Global Fund, having contributed
nearly $20 billion since 2002.

Founded in 2002, the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria
(Global Fund) is a unique financing mechanism that relies on a dynamic
partnership among governments, the private sector, and civil society to
fight HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis (TB), and malaria in ways that contribute
to strengthening health systems.

Over the past 20 years, the Global Fund has invested more than $53
billion, saving 44 million lives and reducing the combined death rate
from HIV, TB, and malaria by more than half in the low- and
middle-income countries where the Global Fund invests.

The Global Fund rose to the challenge of the COVID-19 pandemic and
mounted a rapid and innovative response to mitigate the impact of
COVID-19 on HIV, TB and malaria programs, and to fill urgent response
gaps in community health systems. Through its COVID-19 Response
Mechanism (C19RM), the Global Fund is the primary channel for providing
grants to low- and middle-income countries for COVID-19 tests,
treatments (including medical oxygen and new therapeutics), personal
protective equipment, and other critical elements for health systems to
respond to COVID-19. In 2021, Congress provided $3.5 billion above
regular appropriations for a U.S. contribution to the Global Fund for
COVID-19-related needs, as part of the broader U.S. response to the
pandemic.  

**The Global Fund’s Seventh Replenishment Conference  
**  
The Global Fund’s Seventh Replenishment Conference will bring together
governments, civil society, and the private sector to take bold action
toward the fight against HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria.  The Global
Fund’s Seventh Replenishment investment case calls for at least $18
billion from donors to support low- and middle-income countries to get
back on track to end HIV/AIDS, TB, and malaria as public health threats
by 2030 given the devastating impact of COVID-19.  
  
President Biden’s FY 2023 budget includes a request for $2 billion for
the Global Fund intended be a first part of a total U.S. $6 billion
three-year Seventh Replenishment pledge, to save lives and continue the
fight against HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria.   
  
The Global Fund raises funds ahead of each three-year grant cycle at
replenishment conferences when donors formally pledge their intended
contributions. The Seventh Replenishment Conference will raise funds to
be used in the 2023-2025 grant cycle.

*The Role of Government Donors*  
  
The United States encourages all government donors to support the Global
Fund Replenishment and contribute robustly to the Seventh Replenishment
in 2022. Global Fund grants reach over 120 low- and middle-income
countries, and the Global Fund is the largest multilateral provider of
grants for health systems. It is therefore critical, now more than ever,
that we ensure it is fully replenished.

The United States looks to all donors to increase support to the Global
Fund in order to reach the ambitious Replenishment target.

*The Role of the Private Sector  
*  
The private sector is at the core of the Global Fund partnership, and it
has been a key contributor ever since the Global Fund’s creation. The
Global Fund takes private sector innovations and rapidly scales them up
to fast-track progress against HIV/AIDS, TB, and malaria in priority
areas. Since 2002, private sector partners (including corporations,
foundations, and philanthropists) have committed over $3.6 billion to
the Global Fund. At the Sixth Replenishment Conference in 2019, the
Global Fund’s private sector partners committed a total of $1.13
billion.

The year 2022 represents an important inflection point: COVID-19 has
brought global health to the fore for corporations, foundations, and
philanthropists. The private sector, along with governments, civil
society, and communities, will continue to be central to the Global Fund
partnership. By contributing to the Seventh Replenishment, these
stakeholders will support frontline health workers, improve disease
surveillance capabilities, build stronger and more resilient supply
chains, and increase innovations to reach those most in need and
affected by HIV/AIDS, TB, and malaria. These activities will enhance
global capacity to fight against these existing pandemics and contribute
to efforts to prepare for future ones.

**A Smart Investment That Saves Lives  
**  
A successful Global Fund Replenishment is projected to save 20 million
lives between 2024 and 2026 and reduce the mortality rate by 64% across
the three diseases by 2026, relative to 2020 levels. It would, through
our collective efforts, avert more than 450 million infections between
2024 and 2026, reducing the incidence rate by 58% across the three
diseases by 2026, relative to 2020 levels.

Global Fund Replenishment pledges will also catalyze a scale-up of
domestic investments of up to $59 billion toward ending the three
diseases and strengthening health systems through co-financing
requirements and technical assistance on health financing.

A successful Global Fund Replenishment is expected to yield a return on
investment of 1:31 – for every $1 invested in fighting the three
diseases, there is $31 in health gains and economic returns, further
contributing to the achievement of the overall United Nations
Sustainable Development Agenda.

Through our shared commitment to the Global Fund, we will reduce
inequities and inequalities in health services by addressing gender and
human rights-related barriers to accessing health services and work with
partners, including civil society and affected communities, to build
more inclusive health systems that leave no one behind.

\###
