---
date: '2022-08-16'
modified_time: 2022-08-16 09:44:32-04:00
published_time: 2022-08-16 10:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/16/fact-sheet-back-to-school-2022-giving-every-school-the-tools-to-prevent-covid-19-spread-and-stay-safely-open-all-year-long/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET:\_BACK TO SCHOOL 2022: Giving Every School the Tools to Prevent\
  \ COVID-\u206019 Spread and Stay Safely Open All Year\_Long"
---
 
When President Biden took office, less than half of K-12 schools were
open for in-person learning. The President made getting schools safely
reopened and our children back in the classroom a top priority. Over the
past 18 months, driven by the President’s American Rescue Plan and a
comprehensive COVID-19 response, the Biden-Harris Administration has
provided schools with unprecedented resources to reopen safely, while
keeping students and workers safe. As a result, all schools were open
this past school year. Now, as students, educators, and school staff get
ready for another school year, every school in America has the tools it
needs to minimize the spread of COVID-19 and its impact, to open safely,
to stay open all year long, and to ensure that students are back in the
classroom full-time.

Because of the investments the Administration has made — including $122
billion in American Rescue Plan funding to keep schools open safely,
combat learning loss, and address student mental health — and because of
the tools we now have in place, we can prevent school closures, even as
COVID-19 cases in a community fluctuate.

Today, as we start another school year, the Administration is laying out
key supports and guidance for protecting students, teachers, and school
communities this upcoming school year, and managing and mitigating the
risks of COVID-19 spread. This includes making an abundance of federal
resources available to schools to implement these strategies.

These resources and guidance include:

**<u>Using COVID-19 vaccines and boosters as the first line of defense
to protect in-person learning.</u>** Every American age 6 months and
over is eligible to get vaccinated, and everyone age 5 and over is
eligible for a booster shot after completing their primary series.
Getting vaccinated and staying up to date with COVID-19 vaccinations are
the most important ways that we can minimize the most serious impacts
that COVID-19 can have on our children, their teachers, and their school
communities. Schools, early care and education programs, and health
departments can promote vaccination in many ways:

-   The Administration will work with the American Federation of
    Teachers (AFT) and the National Education Association (NEA) – which
    collectively represent more than 5 million teachers and school staff
    – to encourage members to get a COVID-19 booster as they return to
    school and during the fall. The Administration will provide
    materials that the organizations can use, such as the Centers for
    Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) [Stay Up to Date with Your
    COVID-19
    Vaccines](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/vaccines/stay-up-to-date.html)
    page and [Booster
    tool](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/vaccines/booster-shot.html?s_cid=11709:cdc%20covid%20booster:sem.ga:p:RG:GM:gen:PTN.Grants:FY22),
    as well as information about where and how they can get a COVID-19
    booster in their communities using
    [Vaccines.gov](https://www.vaccines.gov/). AFT and NEA will
    highlight the opportunity to get a second booster for their members
    age 50 and over who have not gotten a booster shot this calendar
    year, with an additional focus on communicating with their retirees.

<!-- -->

-   The Administration is once again calling on all school districts to
    host at least one school-located vaccine clinic at the start of the
    school year, and it is providing resources to help schools do so.
    The CDC has made information and recommendations for hosting clinics
    available in its [guide for planning school vaccination
    clinics](https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/covid-19/planning/school-located-clinics.html),
    and American Rescue Plan and Federal Emergency Management Agency
    (FEMA) funds are available to help cover the costs of hosting a
    vaccine clinic. Throughout the last school year, pharmacies in the
    federal pharmacy program supported schools nationwide in hosting
    thousands of school-located vaccine clinics.

<!-- -->

-   **Encouraging children to catch up on routine childhood vaccines:**
    CDC is working with providers and the public to encourage families
    to catch up on routine childhood vaccinations that protect them
    against preventable diseases such as polio, measles, and whooping
    cough. As part of these efforts, CDC will apply lessons learned and
    focus on rebuilding and reconnecting with communities and partners
    to encourage routine vaccinations.

**<u>Providing robust access to COVID-19 testing at schools to help
detect infection early.</u>** Diagnostic testing is a helpful strategy
that all schools can use to understand whether students, staff, or
family members have COVID-19 when they are symptomatic or have been
exposed to the virus. Additionally, CDC advises in its latest
[Operational Guidance for K-12 Schools and Early Care and Education
Programs](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/schools-childcare/k-12-childcare-guidance.html?CDC_AA_refVal=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cdc.gov%2Fcoronavirus%2F2019-ncov%2Fcommunity%2Fschools-childcare%2Fk-12-guidance.html)
that schools in areas with high COVID-19 Community Levels can consider
screening testing strategies for their students and staff for high-risk
activities and for key events and times of the year. Last year, the
Administration made millions of COVID-19 tests and supports available
for free to schools, and will continue to do so in the school year
ahead:

-   **Providing free access to COVID-19 tests:** The Administration will
    extend the efforts it launched last January in making millions of
    COVID-19 tests freely available to schools each month. This will
    include 5 million over-the-counter rapid tests, 5 million
    swab-and-send PCR tests, and additional point-of-care rapid tests,
    all of which will now be available to order through January 2023.
    During the last half of the 2021-22 school year, schools requested
    and received more than 30 million tests through this program. In
    addition, schools may supplement their test supplies through
    extended use of the $10 billion allocated to K-12 school testing
    through the CDC Epidemiology and Laboratory Capacity program, which
    states are now authorized to use through the upcoming 2022-23 school
    year.

<!-- -->

-   **Expanding access to COVID-19 testing to child care and early
    learning programs:** COVID-19 tests will also now be available to
    early childhood care and education sites through the same
    distribution channel available to K-12 schools. Early care and
    education centers are invaluable community institutions that help
    keep our economy running, help parents stay at work, and help
    businesses remain strong. Child care programs have been essential in
    our fight against COVID-19.

**<u>Improving indoor air quality across America’s school
buildings.</u>** Effective ventilation and air filtration are important
parts of COVID-19 prevention. In addition to other layered prevention
strategies, taking actions to improve indoor air quality can reduce the
risk of exposure to particles, aerosols, and other contaminants, reduce
the spread of COVID-19, and improve the health of building occupants.
The American Rescue Plan and other federal dollars may be used to make
indoor air quality improvements, and the Administration will continue to
provide supports to schools to help in making these improvements:

-   **Helping schools plan and implement indoor air quality
    improvements, including through use of federal funds:** Schools can
    use funding provided through the American Rescue Plan to [improve
    ventilation in
    schools](https://www.ed.gov/coronavirus/improving-ventilation) by
    making inspections, repairs, upgrades, and replacements in Heating,
    Ventilation, and Air Conditioning systems; purchasing and installing
    air conditioners, fans, portable air cleaners, and germicidal UV
    light systems; repairing windows, doors, and dampers that let fresh
    air into school buildings; and more. To support this work, the
    Environmental Protection Agency’s  [Clean Air in Buildings
    Challenge](https://www.epa.gov/indoor-air-quality-iaq/clean-air-buildings-challenge)
    and its [Indoor Air Quality Tools for
    Schools](https://www.epa.gov/iaq-schools) provides specific steps
    schools can take to improve indoor air quality and reduce the risk
    of airborne spread of viruses and other contaminants. CDC has
    published guidance on [Ventilation in Schools and Childcare
    Programs,](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/schools-childcare/ventilation.html)
    including an [Interactive School Ventilation
    Tool](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/schools-childcare/interactive-ventilation-tool.html)
    that shows how particle levels change as you adjust ventilation
    settings. The Department of Energy (DOE) has launched the [Efficient
    and Healthy Schools
    campaign](https://www.energy.gov/eere/buildings/efficient-and-healthy-schools)
    to support investments and improvements for healthy school
    facilities, including through recognition, training, technical
    assistance, and 1-1 consultations on indoor air quality with
    individual schools and districts.

<!-- -->

-   **:** The Administration is collaborating with organizations that
    provide expert guidance and technical support from skilled, trained,
    and qualified technicians to help make indoor air quality
    improvements easier for schools to navigate. HVAC professional
    associations, including the [American Society of Heating,
    Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning
    Engineers](https://www.ashrae.org/technical-resources/schools),
    [International Association of Sheet Metal, Air, Rail, and
    Transportation
    Workers](https://smart-union.org/better-air-in-buildings/),
    [National Energy Management
    Institute](https://www.nemionline.org/teachers-school-boards-parents-administrators/),
    and the [Sheet Metal and Air Conditioning Contractors’ National
    Association](https://www.smacna.org/resources/industry-resources/how-to-get-a-school-iaq-project-started),
    are committed to working with schools to help them develop and
    implement plans to improve ventilation and can help schools get
    connected to local technical experts.

<!-- -->

-   **Recognizing champion schools and districts who are leading the way
    on indoor air quality:** Over the coming months, the Administration
    will highlight school districts excelling in efforts to improve
    indoor air quality. This includes efforts through the DOE and
    Department of Education (ED) to support and uplift schools and
    districts undertaking critical work in indoor air quality.
    DOE’s Efficient and Healthy Schools Campaign will be announcing
    criteria for recognition for the upcoming school year in the coming
    weeks, with a continued priority on projects that accelerate indoor
    air quality improvements. ED’s [Green Ribbon
    Schools](https://www2.ed.gov/programs/green-ribbon-schools/index.html)
    program allows schools to earn federal accolades for their
    sustainability work that exhibits indoor air quality, resource
    efficiency and conservation, and environmental learning. 

Additionally, ED will continue to work with CDC to help ensure that K-12
schools and early care and education centers know and understand the
latest guidance on COVID-19 mitigation and how they can remain safely
open for full-time in-person learning throughout the upcoming school
year. CDC’s latest [Operational Guidance for K-12 Schools and Early Care
and Education Programs to Support Safe In-Person
Learning](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/schools-childcare/k-12-childcare-guidance.html?CDC_AA_refVal=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cdc.gov%2Fcoronavirus%2F2019-ncov%2Fcommunity%2Fschools-childcare%2Fk-12-guidance.html)
includes updated recommendations aligned with COVID-19 Community Levels,
including information on when to mask, how to manage cases and
exposures, and best practices for responding to outbreaks. Some students
may need additional protections to ensure that they can remain safe in
the classroom – including students who are immunocompromised, with
complex medical conditions, or with other disabilities that may put them
at higher risk of severe outcomes from COVID-19. ED will continue to
work with schools on
[strategies](https://www.ed.gov/coronavirus/factsheets/disability-rights)
to ensure all students can access safe, in-person instruction.

*\###*
