---
date: '2022-08-24'
modified_time: 2022-08-24 14:29:39-04:00
published_time: 2022-08-24 11:56:55-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/24/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-student-loan-relief-for-borrowers-who-need-it-most/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET:  President\_Biden Announces Student Loan Relief for Borrowers\
  \ Who Need It\_Most"
---
 
*A three-part plan delivers on President Biden’s promise to cancel
$10,000 of student debt for low- to middle-income borrowers*

President Biden believes that a post-high school education should be a
ticket to a middle-class life, but for too many, the cost of borrowing
for college is a lifelong burden that deprives them of that opportunity.
During the campaign, he promised to provide student debt relief. Today,
the Biden Administration is following through on that promise and
providing families breathing room as they prepare to start re-paying
loans after the economic crisis brought on by the pandemic.  
  
Since 1980, the total cost of both four-year public and four-year
private college has [nearly
tripled](https://research.collegeboard.org/trends/college-pricing), even
after accounting for inflation. Federal support has not kept up: Pell
Grants once covered [nearly 80
percent](https://www.cbpp.org/research/federal-budget/pell-grants-a-key-tool-for-expanding-college-access-and-economic)
of the cost of a four-year public college degree for students from
working families, but now only cover a third. That has left many
students from low- and middle-income families with no choice but to
borrow if they want to get a degree. According to a Department of
Education analysis, the typical undergraduate student with loans now
graduates with nearly $25,000 in debt. 

![](https://mcusercontent.com/c97630621baff8c44fe607661/images/10912075-cc6b-ca34-80cb-792760d4ab4f.png)

The skyrocketing cumulative federal student loan debt—$1.6 trillion and
rising for more than 45 million borrowers—is a significant burden on
America’s middle class. Middle-class borrowers struggle with high
monthly payments and ballooning balances that make it harder for them to
build wealth, like [buying
homes](https://www.journals.uchicago.edu/doi/full/10.1086/704609?mobileUi=0),
[putting away money for
retirement](https://crr.bc.edu/working-papers/how-does-student-debt-affect-early-career-retirement-saving/),
and [starting
small](https://www.philadelphiafed.org/the-economy/the-impact-of-student-loan-debt-on-small-business-formation)
[businesses](https://pubsonline.informs.org/doi/abs/10.1287/mnsc.2017.2995?journalCode=mnsc).  
  
For the most vulnerable borrowers, the effects of debt are even more
crushing. Nearly one-third of borrowers have debt but no degree,
according to an analysis by the Department of Education of a recent
cohort of undergraduates. Many of these students could not complete
their degree because the [cost of
attendance](https://educationdata.org/college-dropout-rates) was too
high. About
[16%](https://fsapartners.ed.gov/knowledge-center/library/electronic-announcements/2022-07-13/federal-student-aid-posts-quarterly-portfolio-reports-fsa-data-center#:~:text=Impact%20on%20Direct%20Loan%20Defaults&text=In%20fact%2C%20the%20number%20of,3.4%20million%20in%20March%202022.)
of borrowers are in default – including nearly a third of senior
citizens with student debt – which can result in the government
garnishing a borrower’s wages or lowering a borrower’s credit score. The
student debt burden also falls disproportionately on Black borrowers.
Twenty years after first enrolling in school, the typical Black borrower
who started college in the 1995-96 school year still owed
[95%](https://heller.brandeis.edu/iere/pdfs/racial-wealth-equity/racial-wealth-gap/stallingdreams-how-student-debt-is-disrupting-lifechances.pdf)
of their original student debt.  
  
**Today, President Biden is announcing a three-part plan to provide more
breathing room to America’s working families as they continue to recover
from the strains associated with the COVID-19 pandemic**. This plan
offers targeted debt relief as part of a comprehensive effort to address
the burden of growing college costs and make the student loan system
more manageable for working families. The President is announcing that
the Department of Education will:   

-   **Provide targeted debt relief to address the financial harms of the
    pandemic, fulfilling the President’s campaign commitment.** The
    Department of Education will provide up to $20,000 in debt
    cancellation to Pell Grant recipients with loans held by the
    Department of Education, and up to $10,000 in debt cancellation to
    non-Pell Grant recipients. Borrowers are eligible for this relief if
    their individual income is less than $125,000 ($250,000 for married
    couples). No high-income individual or high-income household – in
    the top 5% of incomes – will benefit from this action. To ensure a
    smooth transition to repayment and prevent unnecessary defaults,
    **the pause on federal student loan repayment will be extended one
    final time through December 31, 2022.** Borrowers should expect to
    resume payment in January 2023.  
-   **Make the student loan system more manageable for current and
    future borrowers by:  
    **
    -   **Cutting monthly payments in half for undergraduate loans.**
        The Department of Education is proposing a new income-driven
        repayment plan that protects more low-income borrowers from
        making any payments and caps monthly payments for undergraduate
        loans at 5% of a borrower’s discretionary income—half of the
        rate that borrowers must pay now under most existing plans. This
        means that the average annual student loan payment will be
        lowered by more than $1,000 for both current and future
        borrowers.   
    -   **Fixing the broken Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF)
        program by proposing a rule that borrowers who have worked at a
        nonprofit, in the military, or in federal, state, tribal, or
        local government, receive appropriate credit toward loan
        forgiveness.** These improvements will build on temporary
        changes the Department of Education has already made to PSLF,
        under which more than 175,000 public servants have already had
        more than $10 billion in loan forgiveness approved.  
-   **Protect future students and taxpayers by reducing the cost of
    college and holding schools accountable when they hike up prices.**
    The President championed the largest increase to Pell Grants in over
    a decade and one of the largest one-time influxes to colleges and
    universities. To further reduce the cost of college, the President
    will continue to fight to double the maximum Pell Grant and make
    community college free. Meanwhile, colleges have an obligation to
    keep prices reasonable and ensure borrowers get value for their
    investments, not debt they cannot afford. This Administration has
    already taken key steps to strengthen accountability, including in
    areas where the previous Administration weakened rules. The
    Department of Education is announcing new efforts to ensure student
    borrowers get value for their college costs.

**<u>Provide Targeted Debt Relief, Fulfilling the President’s Campaign
Commitment  
</u>**  
To address the financial harms of the pandemic for low- and
middle-income borrowers and avoid defaults as loan repayment restarts
next year, the Department of Education will provide up to $20,000 in
loan relief to borrowers with loans held by the Department of Education
whose individual income is less than $125,000 ($250,000 for married
couples) and who received a Pell Grant. [Nearly every Pell Grant
recipient](https://studentaid.gov/data-center/student/title-iv) came
from a family that made less than $60,000 a year, and Pell Grant
recipients typically experience more challenges repaying their debt than
other borrowers. Borrowers who meet those income standards but did not
receive a Pell Grant in college can receive up to $10,000 in loan
relief.

![](https://mcusercontent.com/c97630621baff8c44fe607661/images/dacc4336-701a-1f0d-43d9-c650c5b7bbfc.png)

The Pell Grant program is one of America’s most effective financial aid
programs—but its value has been eroded over time. Pell Grant recipients
are more than 60% of the borrower population. The Department of
Education estimates that roughly 27 million borrowers will be eligible
to receive up to $20,000 in relief, helping these borrowers meet their
economic potential and avoid economic harm from the COVID-19 pandemic.  
  
Current students with loans are eligible for this debt relief. Borrowers
who are dependent students will be eligible for relief based on parental
income, rather than their own income.  
  
If all borrowers claim the relief they are entitled to, these actions
will:

-   **Provide relief to up to 43 million borrowers,** including
    cancelling the full remaining balance for roughly 20 million
    borrowers.

<!-- -->

-   **Target relief dollars to low- and middle-income borrowers.** The
    Department of Education estimates that, among borrowers who are no
    longer in school, nearly 90% of relief dollars will go to those
    earning less than $75,000 a year. No individual making more than
    $125,000 or household making more than $250,000 – the top
    [5%](https://www.census.gov/content/dam/Census/library/publications/2021/demo/p60-273.pdf)
    of incomes in the United States – will receive relief.  
-   **Help borrowers of all ages.** The Department of Education
    estimates that, among borrowers who are eligible for relief, 21% are
    25 years and under and 44% are ages 26-39. More than a third are
    borrowers age 40 and up, including 5% of borrowers who are senior
    citizens.  
-   **Advance racial equity.** By targeting relief to borrowers with the
    highest economic need, the Administration’s actions are likely to
    help narrow the racial wealth gap. Black students are more likely to
    have to borrow for school and more likely to take out larger loans.
    Black borrowers are
    [twice](%20Selected%20Years,%202003–04%20to%202015–16) as likely to
    have received Pell Grants compared to their white peers. Other
    borrowers of color are also more likely than their peers to receive
    Pell Grants. That is why an [Urban Institute
    study](https://www.urban.org/urban-wire/more-targeted-approach-student-loan-forgiveness)
    found that debt forgiveness programs targeting those who received
    Pell Grants while in college will advance racial equity.

![](https://mcusercontent.com/c97630621baff8c44fe607661/images/8f833362-e2af-2445-1d30-f68c0dfa36ba.png)

The Department of Education will work quickly and efficiently to set up
a simple application process for borrowers to claim relief. The
application will be available no later than when the pause on federal
student loan repayments terminates at the end of the year. Nearly 8
million borrowers may be eligible to receive relief automatically
because their relevant income data is already available to the
Department.    
  
Thanks to the American Rescue Plan, this debt relief will not be treated
as taxable income for the federal income tax purposes.  
  
To help ensure a smooth transition back to repayment, the Department of
Education is extending the student loan pause a final time through
December 31, 2022. No one with federally-held loans has had to pay a
single dollar in loan payments since President Biden took office.  
  
**<u>Make the Student Loan System More Manageable for Current and Future
Borrowers</u>**  
  
*Fixing Existing Loan Repayment to Lower Monthly Payments*  
  
The Administration is reforming student loan repayment plans so both
current and future low- and middle-income borrowers will have smaller
and more manageable monthly payments.  
  
The Department of Education has the authority to create income-driven
repayment plans, which cap what borrowers pay each month based on a
percentage of their discretionary income. Most of these plans cancel a
borrower’s remaining debt once they make 20 years of monthly payments.
But the existing versions of these plans are too complex and too
limited. As a result, millions of borrowers who might benefit from them
do not sign up, and the millions who do sign up are still often left
with unmanageable monthly payments.  
  
To address these concerns and follow through on Congress’ original
vision for income-driven repayment, the Department of Education is
proposing a rule to do the following:  

-   **For undergraduate loans, cut in half the amount that borrowers
    have to pay each month** from 10% to 5% of discretionary income.  
-   **Raise the amount of income that is considered non-discretionary
    income and therefore is protected from repayment,** guaranteeing
    that no borrower earning under 225% of the federal poverty
    level—about the annual equivalent of a $15 minimum wage for a single
    borrower—will have to make a monthly payment.  
-   **Forgive loan balances after 10 years of payments,** instead of 20
    years, for borrowers with original loan balances of $12,000 or less.
    The Department of Education estimates that this reform will allow
    nearly all community college borrowers to be debt-free within 10
    years.  
-   **Cover the borrower’s unpaid monthly interest,** so that unlike
    other existing income-driven repayment plans, no borrower’s loan
    balance will grow as long as they make their monthly payments—even
    when that monthly payment is $0 because their income is low.

These reforms would simplify loan repayment and deliver significant
savings to low- and middle-income borrowers. For example:  

-   A typical single construction worker (making $38,000 a year) with a
    construction management credential would pay only $31 a month,
    compared to the $147 they pay now under the most recent
    income-driven repayment plan, for annual savings of nearly $1,400.  

<!-- -->

-   A typical single public school teacher with an undergraduate degree
    (making $44,000 a year) would pay only $56 a month on their loans,
    compared to the $197 they pay now under the most recent
    income-driven repayment plan, for annual savings of nearly $1,700.  
-   A typical nurse (making $77,000 a year) who is married with two kids
    would pay only $61 a month on their undergraduate loans, compared to
    the $295 they pay now under the most recent income-driven repayment
    plan, for annual savings of more than $2,800.

![](https://mcusercontent.com/c97630621baff8c44fe607661/images/cda1784f-72e1-d016-c8ac-5226e9f9e3f4.png)

For each of these borrowers, their balances would not grow as long as
they are making their monthly payments, and their remaining debt would
be forgiven after they make the required number of qualifying
payments.  
  
Further, the Department of Education will make it easier for borrowers
who enroll in this new plan to stay enrolled. Starting in the summer of
2023, borrowers will be able to allow the Department of Education to
automatically pull their income information year after year, avoiding
the hassle of needing to recertify their income annually.  
  
*Ensuring Public Servants Receive Credit Toward Loan Forgiveness*  
  
Borrowers working in public service are entitled to earn credit toward
debt relief under the Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) program.
But because of complex eligibility restrictions, historic implementation
failures, and poor counseling given to borrowers, many borrowers have
not received the credit they deserve for their public service.  
  
The Department of Education has announced time-limited changes to PSLF
that provide an easier path to forgiveness of all outstanding debt for
eligible federal student loan borrowers who have served at a non-profit,
in the military, or in federal, state, Tribal, or local government for
at least 10 years, including non-consecutively. Those who have served
less than 10 years may now more easily get credit for their service to
date toward eventual forgiveness. These changes allow eligible borrowers
to gain additional credit toward forgiveness, even if they had been told
previously that they had the wrong loan type.  
  
The Department of Education also has proposed regulatory changes to
ensure more effective implementation of the PSLF program moving forward.
Specifically, the Department of Education has proposed allowing more
payments to qualify for PSLF including partial, lump sum, and late
payments, and allowing certain kinds of deferments and forbearances,
such as those for Peace Corps and AmeriCorps service, National Guard
duty, and military service, to count toward PSLF. The Department of
Education also proposed to ensure the rules work better for non-tenured
instructors whose colleges need to calculate their full-time
employment.  
  
To ensure borrowers are aware of the temporary changes, the White House
has launched four PSLF Days of Action dedicated to borrowers in specific
sectors: government employees, educators, healthcare workers and first
responders, and non-profit employees. You can find out other information
about the temporary changes on
[PSLF.gov.](https://www.whitehouse.gov/publicserviceloanforgiveness/)
You must apply to PSLF before the temporary changes end on October 31,
2022.  
  
**<u>Protecting Borrowers and Taxpayers from Steep Increases in College
Costs</u>**  
  
While providing this relief to low- and middle-income borrowers, the
President is focused on keeping college costs under control. Under this
Administration, students have had more money in their pockets to pay for
college. The President signed the largest increase to the maximum Pell
Grant in over a decade and provided nearly $40 billion to colleges and
universities through the American Rescue Plan, much of which was used
for emergency student financial aid, allowing students to breathe a
little easier.  
  
Additionally, the Department of Education has already taken significant
steps to strengthen accountability, so that students are not left with
mountains of debt with little payoff. The agency has re-established the
enforcement unit in the Office of Federal Student Aid and it is holding
accreditors’ feet to the fire. In fact, the Department just withdrew
authorization for the accreditor that oversaw schools responsible for
some of the worst for-profit scandals. The agency will also propose a
rule to hold career programs accountable for leaving their graduates
with mountains of debt they cannot repay, a rule the previous
Administration repealed.  
  
Building off of these efforts, the Department of Education is announcing
new actions to hold accountable colleges that have contributed to the
student debt crisis. These include publishing an annual watch list of
the programs with the worst debt levels in the country, so that students
registering for the next academic year can steer clear of programs with
poor outcomes. They also include requesting institutional improvement
plans from the worst actors that outline how the colleges with the most
concerning debt outcomes intend to bring down debt levels.  
 

\*\*\*   

More information on claiming relief will be available to borrowers in
the coming weeks.  
  
Borrowers can sign up to be notified when this information is available
at
[StudentAid.gov/debtrelief](https://studentaid.gov/debt-relief-announcement/).  

\###
