---
date: '2022-08-01'
modified_time: 2022-08-01 12:24:51-04:00
published_time: 2022-08-01 14:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/01/fact-sheet-president-bidens-safer-america-plan-2/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden\u2019s Safer America\_Plan"
---
 
President Biden knows what works to make our communities safer:
investing in community policing andcrime prevention. We need to fund
police who walk the beat, know the neighborhood, are accountable to
those they are sworn to serve, and build community trust and safety. We
need to invest in mental health and substance use treatment services,
crisis responders, and social workers to reduce the burden on police
officers, connect people with community resources, and prevent violent
crime. We need to expand community violence interventions – led by
trusted messengers breaking the cycle of violence and trauma. We need to
enforce our commonsense gun laws, require background checks for all gun
sales in order to keep firearms out of the hands of felons and domestic
abusers, and ban assault weapons and high-capacity magazines – weapons
of war that have no place in our communities.

President Biden has taken action to make our communities safer during
his first 18 months in office. He has funded the police and issued an
[Executive
Order](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/25/fact-sheet-president-biden-to-sign-historic-executive-order-to-advance-effective-accountable-policing-and-strengthen-public-safety/)
to improve police accountability. President Biden has taken more
executive action to tackle gun violence than any other president at this
point in their Administration, including by reining in the proliferation
of ghost guns and cracking down on gun traffickers and rogue gun
dealers. President Biden is the first president in nearly 30 years to
bring together Members of Congress from both parties to take action on
gun violence, signing the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act. The
President also secured Senate confirmation of career prosecutor Steve
Dettelbach to serve as Director of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,
Firearms and Explosives (ATF), empowering this law enforcement agency
with its first confirmed leader since 2015. And, the President has made
unprecedented investments in community-led crime prevention and
intervention.

The President believes we can and must do more to reduce crime and save
lives. On July 21, President Biden announced his Safer America Plan to
build on the progress he has made to reduce gun violence.

Today, the President is providing greater details regarding the Safer
America Plan. President Biden’s fiscal year 2023 budget requests a fully
paid-for new investment of approximately $35 billion to support law
enforcement and crime prevention – in addition to the President’s $2
billion discretionary request for these same programs. The Safer America
Plan details how this $37 billion will be used to save lives and make
communities safer.

Specifically, the Plan:

1.  **Funds the police and promotes effective prosecution of crimes
    affecting families today**, including by funding 100,000 additional
    police officers who will be recruited, trained, hired, and
    supervised consistent with the standards in the President’s
    Executive Order to advance effective, accountable community policing
    in order to enhance trust and public safety;
2.  **Invests in crime prevention and a fairer criminal justice
    system**, including by investing $20 billion in services that
    address the causes of crime and reduce the burdens on police so they
    can focus on violent crime, and by incentivizing the reform of laws
    that increase incarceration without redressing public safety;
3.  **Takes additional commonsense steps on guns to keep dangerous
    firearms out of dangerous hands**, including by calling on Congress
    to require background checks for all gun sales and ban assault
    weapons and high-capacity magazines.  
      
      
    **<span style="text-decoration: underline">1. <u>Fund the Police and
    Promote Effective Prosecution of Crimes Affecting Families
    Today</u></span>**

*Fund the Police with the Resources They Need For Effective, Accountable
Community Policing*

As President Biden said during his State of the Union Address, “We
should all agree the answer is not to defund the police. It’s to fund
the police. Fund them with the resources and training they need to
protect our communities.” We cannot abandon our streets, and we should
not have to choose between safety, public trust, and equal justice.
Instead, we can protect our communities and restore trust by investing
in accountable, equitable, evidence-based, constitutional policing and
other law enforcement practices. In May 2022 President Biden signed an
[*Executive Order on Advancing Effective, Accountable Policing and
Criminal Justice Practices to Enhance Public Trust and Public*
Safety](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/25/fact-sheet-president-biden-to-sign-historic-executive-order-to-advance-effective-accountable-policing-and-strengthen-public-safety/)
(Executive Order 14074), which advances effective, accountable community
policing in order to enhance trust and public safety. Through the
Executive Order, the President mandated policing reforms and best
practices for federal law enforcement officials. President Biden’s Safer
America Plan would not only increase funding for police across the
country—it would also extend the Executive Order’s reforms and best
practices to state and local law enforcement. The Plan will:

**Put 100,000 additional officers for effective accountable, community
policing on our streets.** ** **The Safer America Plan will provide the
investment necessary to recruit, train, support, and manage 100,000
additional police officers for effective, accountable community policing
over the next five years. Specifically, the Plan calls on Congress to
appropriate $10.877 billion in mandatory funding over five years for the
COPS Hiring Program, which, combined with the President’s discretionary
funding proposal for this program, will fully fund this goal with
$12.817 billion in total. These funds will be used to get officers out
of their stations and squad cars and into the community, walking the
beat on foot patrols that have been shown to enhance officer morale,
improve community relations, and have a deterrent effect on crime.

These new funds will incentivize state and local police departments to
undertake commonsense reforms the President required of federal law
enforcement agencies in May in Executive Order 14074. These reforms
include banning chokeholds and carotid holds except where deadly force
is authorized; training officers in de-escalation tactics to prevent the
unnecessary use of force; restricting the use of no-knock warrants;
requiring that body cameras be activated when conducting arrests and
searches and when on patrol; submitting data to the new National Law
Enforcement Accountability Database that the Justice Department will
create; and undertaking other consensus reforms. We will also prioritize
funding for officers that are representative of the communities they are
sworn to serve (including recruits who live in or are from the
community), and we will require that officers hired with federal funds
be properly screened, including to ensure that they do not have a
history of termination or resignation under investigation for serious
misconduct from another police department.

**Support state, local, Tribal, and territorial officers with the
high-quality training the President has already mandated at the federal
level by the Executive Order.** Training varies widely across states and
across law enforcement agencies. The Plan will fund training that
enhances accountability, transparency, and the well-being of state and
local officers and the communities they are sworn to serve. That
includes an infusion of resources to enhance evidence-based training of
law enforcement on topics including crime control and deterrence
tactics, community engagement, use of force, interacting with people
with disabilities, responding to persons in mental health crisis and to
domestic violence calls, responding to First Amendment protected public
protest activity, and more. The Plan will also fund the purchase and
operation of body-worn cameras. The Plan calls on Congress to
appropriate $1 billion over five years for these purposes. These funds
will also be used to incentivize state and local law enforcement
agencies to implement reforms such as those discussed above that the
President required of federal law enforcement agencies in Executive
Order 14074.

**Recruit and retain police officers who demonstrate a commitment to
honorably serving and protecting.** We ask police to put their lives on
the line to keep us and our loved ones safe. Front-line officers and
chiefs around the country have made clear that we need to do more to
recruit and retain officers who honorably serve as guardians of their
communities. We also need to support agencies in developing flexible
employment opportunities so that the profession meets the needs of a
21<sup>st</sup> century workforce and can continue to attract the best
candidates at the state and local level who will meet and exceed the
effective, accountable community policing standards mandated for federal
law enforcement in the Executive Order. To attract and retain this
high-quality workforce, President Biden’s Safer America Plan will fund
bonuses for retention; provide student loan repayment, tuition
reimbursement, and higher education grant programs to incentivize
service-minded candidates, including women and individuals from
underrepresented communities, to become officers; support pilot programs
to explore more flexibility in scheduling and work arrangements; and
expand mental health and wellness care for our police officers. The Plan
calls on Congress to appropriate $750 million over five years for these
purposes, and require that grant recipients report to the Attorney
General and make public any use of funds to pay bonuses.

**Ensure that new resources for law enforcement reach not only our
biggest cities but also our small cities and towns.** Smaller agencies
often lack the personnel and resources to stay abreast of the latest
evidence-based practices in policing, and lack internal capacity to
identify and access grant and high-quality training opportunities. The
Safer America Plan will set aside a minimum of $300 million per year of
the funding described above to exclusively support small law enforcement
agencies.

***Clear Court Backlogs and Solve Murders So We Can Take Shooters and
Other Violent Criminals Off the Streets***

A small number of individuals are responsible for a disproportionate
share of homicides and gun violence in our cities. The federal
government will help state and local law enforcement in cities across
the country take these criminals off our streets – and keep them off our
streets. That’s why the President’s Fiscal Year 2023 budget proposal
includes funding to ensure that federal law enforcement can show up and
support state and local law enforcement. For example, the President’s
budget request includes $2.8 billion for the U.S. Attorney’s Offices, an
increase of 15% over FY22 enacted. This funding will increase the number
of attorneys in these offices by 10%, increasing the federal
government’s capacity to ramp up prosecutions of people who commit
shootings and other violent crimes. The President’s budget also includes
funding to hire 195 Deputy U.S. Marshals to help state and local law
enforcement take violent fugitives off our streets, and nearly 100
additional administrative staff to relieve administrative burdens
currently placed on Deputy U.S. Marshals so they can be re-deployed to
the field full time.

In February, the Attorney General directed U.S. Attorneys to increase
resources dedicated to district-specific violent crime strategies, such
as New York City’s Gun Violence Strategic Partnership. The Safer America
Plan will provide the federal government and cities with additional
resources to support these strategies.

The Plan calls on Congress to appropriate $2.67 billion over five years
for the following purposes:

**Provide communities with funding they need to set up task forces to
bring down the homicide and gun violence rate.** These task forces will
regularly convene federal, state, and local law enforcement to share
intelligence, especially on repeat shooters, and coordinate efforts to
successfully arrest, detain, and prosecute individuals committing
homicides and gun violence. This funding will help police departments in
communities to: hire critical personnel, including a task force
coordinator, additional forensic analysts, and staff to write and
process warrants for individuals suspected of committing violent crimes;
pay for overtime and hire additional law enforcement officers, as
needed, to execute on the work of the task force; provide life-saving
equipment for officers in the field, like bullet-proof vests; and
purchase forensic equipment and materials to analyze DNA, fingerprints,
and data from bodycams, CCTV, and social media, while respecting privacy
interests and civil rights. The Plan will also authorize the Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, Federal Bureau of
Investigation, U.S. Marshals Service, Drug Enforcement Administration,
and U.S. Attorney’s Offices) to hire additional personnel to staff these
task forces.

**Equip communities with additional technology and personnel they need
to quickly identify and investigate shooting incidents and image every
bullet or casing recovered in the city and enhance the capacity of ATF
to make ballistic matches.** Additional resources for these cities
include National Integrated Ballistics Information Network (NIBIN)
ballistics imaging machines and personnel needed to operate these
machines, acoustic gunshot detection technology, gunshot residue
forensics technology and analyst staff, and firearm forensics evidence
collection technicians. The Plan will also call on Congress to authorize
significant enhancement of ATF’s National NIBIN Correlation and Training
Center to expand the number of jurisdictions it services.

**Clear court backlogs and improve pretrial supervision in order to
improve public safety.** The COVID-19 pandemic has caused an
unprecedented backlog in courts’ processing of criminal cases, with
courts forced to delay or dismiss cases due to lack of capacity. We need
to ensure courts have the resources to fully and fairly assess people
accused of crimes and detain those who are too dangerous to be released
to the community, consistent with due process requirements; to process
cases and ensure accountability for criminal conduct; and to effectively
supervise people upon release. The Safer America Plan invests in the
technology and data systems modernization necessary to ensure that the
justice system runs efficiently and with the most current data, such as
case management systems that effectively integrate pre-trial services,
judicial, and law enforcement records; virtual access and notification
systems to facilitate remote check-ins and hearings as appropriate and
beneficial for all involved; or scheduling software to manage the
increased volume of cases. The Plan also provides emergency funding to
support pretrial and post-conviction supervision staffing and systems,
ensuring that persons on release are appropriately monitored and given
assistance with the employment, health, and housing services that are
shown to prevent recidivism.

***Crack Down on Other Serious Crimes Affecting Families Today***

The Safer America Plan includes several legislative fixes needed to
address emerging crime trends, target resources at violent crime, and
support commonsense criminal justice reform. To crack down on serious
crime, the Plan will:

**Impose tough penalties on all forms of fentanyl.** Over 100,000 people
have died from drug overdoses in the past 12 months, many of them from
the synthetic opioid fentanyl. The federal government regulates fentanyl
as a Schedule I drug, meaning it is subject to strict regulations and
criminal penalties. But drug suppliers have found a loophole: they can
easily alter the chemical structure of fentanyl—creating “fentanyl
related substances”—to enhance the drug’s psychoactive properties and
try to evade regulation of fentanyl. The Drug Enforcement Administration
and Congress temporarily closed this loophole, but it will reopen in
January 2023 unless Congress acts. The Safer America Plan includes the
Administration’s 2021 proposal to permanently schedule all fentanyl
related substances into Schedule I so traffickers of these deadly
substances face the penalties they deserve.

**Crack down on organized retail theft*.*** Late 2021 saw an increase in
high-profile incidents of organized retail theft around the country. In
these incidents, crime rings recruit people to storm a brick-and-mortar
store together and quickly steal high-value products for resale online.
To recruit people to perpetrate the thefts and the resale, these
organized theft rings typically target minors, individuals under
financial duress, and individuals with substance use disorders. To
tackle organized retail theft, the plan calls on Congress to pass
legislation to require online marketplaces, such as Amazon, to verify
third-party sellers’ information, and to impose liability on online
marketplaces for the sale of stolen goods on their platforms.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">2. </span><u>Invest in Crime
Prevention and A Fairer Criminal Justice System</u>**

***Fund Other Services to Address the Causes of Crime and Reduce the
Burdens on Police Officers***

Today, police are too often asked to respond to situations that require
a mental health care provider or a social worker, not law enforcement.

When it comes to mental health, we know that people experiencing mental
health challenges are more likely to be the victims than the
perpetrators of a violent crime. Policing is not the answer to these
challenges – fully funded mental health and substance use disorder
services and supports are the answer. That’s why the Biden
Administration has put forward a plan to transform how the nation
understands and treats mental health needs. As just one piece of this
plan, this July the Biden Administration launched the 988 crisis
response line so people experiencing suicidal ideation or another
behavioral health crisis can reach out for emergency help from a health
professional instead of calling 911. The President’s Fiscal Year 2023
budget also requests an additional $700 million to expand crisis centers
and crisis response so people experiencing a behavioral health crisis
have a place to call and a place to go.

The Safer America Plan further expands the prevention and intervention
strategies we know will reduce violent crime and ease the burden on
police officers so they can focus on policing. This includes:

**Helping states, cities, Tribes, and territories advance prevention
strategies and invest in mental health, substance use disorder,
homelessness and other services to prevent crime and reduce the burden
on police.** The Plan establishes a new $15 billion over 10 years
Accelerating Justice System Reform grant program that jurisdictions can
use to advance strategies that will 1) prevent violent crime and/or 2)
ease the burden on police officers so they do not have to respond to
non-violent situations that may not merit police intervention. Doing so
not only enhances public safety, but also delivers evidence-based
criminal justice reform that advances racial equity. For example,
jurisdictions may choose to use these funds to:

-   Expand drug courts that divert individuals charged with drug
    possession alone into mandatory treatment and harm reduction
    services instead of incarceration, as well as other alternative
    courts such as mental health courts and veterans courts;
-   Expand co-responder or alternate responder programs so calls that
    should be answered by mental health or substance use disorder
    providers or social workers – alone or in partnership with police –
    are not solely the responsibility of law enforcement;
-   Increase mental health and substance use disorder services,
    including by training existing professionals to become certified in
    cognitive behavioral therapy (which helps people improve their
    response to stress and reduce impulsivity), trauma-informed therapy,
    and other evidence-based treatments effective at addressing mental
    health problems, disruptive behaviors, and exposure to or risk of
    violence;
-   Support teenagers and young adults with paid jobs during the summer
    and school year, out-of-school enrichment programs, and mentoring;
-   Support built environmental improvement and design strategies proven
    to reduce violent crime in high-risk neighborhoods (for example,
    improved lighting in priority areas, crafting safe passage routes
    for students to walk to school, and vacant and/or abandoned lot and
    building remediation);
-   Provide housing and other supportive social services to individuals
    who are homeless, including those displaced due to victimization;
    and
-   Increasing job training, employment, housing, and other stabilizing
    services and opportunities for people returning home from jail and
    prison.

In addition, in order to receive these critical grants, jurisdictions
must repeal mandatory minimums for non-violent crimes and change other
laws that contribute to increased incarceration rates without making our
communities safer. The Plan calls on Congress to appropriate $14.7
billion in mandatory funding for this new program, which will add on to
the $300 million request in the President’s FY23 discretionary budget to
fully fund this effort.

**Expand community violence interventions with $5 billion over 10
years.** The Plan appropriates $5 billion to expand and build the
capacity of focused deterrence, violence interruption, and
hospital-based programs.Community violence intervention (CVI) programs
are effective because they leverage trusted messengers who work directly
with individuals most likely to engage in or be victimized by gun
violence, intervene in conflicts, and connect people to social, health
and wellness, and economic services to reduce the likelihood of violence
as an answer to conflict.

***Reform Our Justice System***

To support commonsense criminal justice reform, the Safer America Plan
will:

**End the crack-powder disparity and make the fix retroactive.** The
Safer America Plan calls on Congress to end once and for all the
racially discriminatory sentencing disparity between crack cocaine and
powder cocaine offenses—as President Biden first advocated in 2007—and
make that change fully retroactive. This step would provide immediate
sentencing relief to the 10,000 individuals, more than 90 percent of
whom are Black, currently serving time in federal prison pursuant to the
crack/powder disparity.

**Help formerly incarcerated individuals successfully reenter society.**
The Safer America Plan lifts almost all restrictions on eligibility and
access to vital federal benefits and programs that people need to get
back on their feet after serving their time and leaving incarceration.
For example:

-   Federal law currently includes a lifetime ban on eligibility for
    Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) and Temporary
    Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) benefits for people with prior
    drug felonies. States can modify or waive the ban, but restrictions
    remain across the country. The Safer America Plan calls on Congress
    to repeal the federal ban, nullifying state laws and regulations
    restricting eligibility based on conviction history, and to allow
    people to begin applying for benefits during the last 30 days of
    their incarceration. This would help Americans returning home make
    ends meet for their families and increase public safety. According
    to a [2017 Harvard
    study](http://www.law.harvard.edu/programs/olin_center/papers/pdf/Yang_920.pdf),
    access to SNAP and TANF benefits reduces the risk of reincarceration
    within one year by 10%.
-   Currently, Supplemental Security Income (SSI) and Social Security
    Disability Insurance (SSDI) payments are suspended during
    incarceration and terminate when incarceration exceeds 12 months.
    Although SSI allows people to apply 30 days pre-release, many are
    not aware of their ability to apply or cannot access the resources
    to do so, and SSDI allows applications only one month after release.
    The Safer America Plan would suspend rather than terminate SSI and
    SSDI during incarceration, automatically restart payments upon
    release, and allow new applicants to apply for SSI and SSDI benefits
    90 days before release.
-   The Plan calls on Congress to eliminate the ban on paying for health
    services during the last 30 days of a person’s incarceration. This
    would help Medicaid beneficiaries returning home from jail or prison
    begin the transition to community care before release.

In addition, as part of the $15 billion Accelerating Justice System
Reform grant program described above, states, cities, Tribes, and
territories may use funding to provide the following services for
individuals who are formerly or currently incarcerated: mental health
and substance use disorder treatment, GED programs, and training and
employment opportunities.

**Promote commonsense reforms in the states**. As noted above, the new
$15 billion Accelerating Justice System Reform grant program will not
only support crime prevention strategies; it will also incentivize state
criminal justice reforms such as repealing mandatory minimums for
non-violent crimes

<span style="text-decoration: underline">**3. <u>Take Additional
Commonsense Steps to Keep Dangerous Guns out of Dangerous
Hands</u>**</span>

After decades of congressional inaction, President Biden made historic
progress with bipartisan support from Congress. In June, the President
signed into law the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act, which will help
keep dangerous guns out of dangerous hands. For example, the new law
provides states with $750 million to invest in crisis interventions,
including extreme risk protection order laws, and it requires enhanced
background checks for gun purchasers under the age of 21. Earlier this
month, Congress confirmed Steve Dettelbach to serve as Director of the
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF), empowering
this law enforcement agency with the confirmed leader it has lacked
since 2015. Earlier this year, President Biden signed into law the NICS
Denial Notification Act, which was included in the Violence Against
Women (VAWA) reauthorization and requires federal officials to notify
state and local law enforcement when individuals who are legally
prohibited from purchasing firearms fail a background check through the
National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS).

But, when it comes to commonsense action to reduce gun crime, Congress
has more work to do.Congress needs to give ATF the resources it needs to
crack down on gun traffickers and gun dealers willfully violating the
law.Last year, the U.S. Department of Justice launched five
gun-trafficking strike forces to support state and local law enforcement
in efforts to stop the trafficking of firearms across state lines. The
President’s Fiscal Year (FY) 2023 budget proposes $1.7 billion in
discretionary funding – a 13% increase over the FY22 enacted level – for
ATF to enforce our commonsense gun laws. This funding will be used to:

-   Hire more than 140 new agents, intel analysts, and other personnel,
    including personnel to staff the multijurisdictional gun trafficking
    strike forces the Justice Department launched last year. These
    strike forces crack down on significant firearms trafficking
    corridors like the Iron Pipeline – the illegal flow of guns sold in
    the south, transported up the East Coast, and found at crime scenes
    in cities from Baltimore to New York City.
-   Hire 160 new investigators to help ensure that Federal Firearms
    Licensees (FFLs) and manufacturers comply with the law. These
    investigators will help carry out the Department of Justice’s new
    policy, announced last year, of zero tolerance, absent extraordinary
    circumstances, for certain willful violations of the law by
    federally licensed firearms dealers that put public safety at risk.
-   Add 16 new positions to provide NIBIN correlation reviews and
    training for state and local law enforcement agencies nationwide.
    The NIBIN database holds millions of digital images of ballistics
    from crime scenes. A NIBIN search can link seemingly unrelated
    scenes, thereby making connections and filling in gaps to help law
    enforcement identify and hold shooters accountable.
-   Increase by more than 40% the funding for the National Tracing
    Center, which more than 8,400 law enforcement agencies across the
    United States use to trace firearms found at crime scenes. Funding
    will be used to upgrade technology and hire additional personnel.

In addition, the Safer America Plan includes the following measures,
which would fully align with the Second Amendment:

**Keep guns out of dangerous hands.** The federal gun background check
system is the best tool we have to keep guns out of the hands of people
currently prohibited under federal law from purchasing these weapons –
including felons and domestic abusers.The Plan will strengthen the
background check system by requiring background checks for all gun
sales, with limited exceptions. In addition, the Plan will close the
terrorist, dating violence restraining order, stalking, and Charleston
loopholes in our existing gun background check system, which make it
easier for violent criminals to purchase firearms. And, the Plan will
establish a national extreme risk protection order program and require
safe storage of firearms.

**Keeping especially dangerous firearms out of our communities.** The
Plan will ban assault weapons and high-capacity magazines. In addition,
it will ban the manufacture, sale, or possession of unserialized
firearms, often referred to as “ghost guns.”

\###
