---
date: '2022-08-30'
published_time: 2022-08-30 21:46:01-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/30/statement-of-president-biden-on-the-passing-of-president-mikhail-gorbachev/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement of President\_Biden                On the Passing of President Mikhail\_\
  Gorbachev"
---
 
Mikhail Gorbachev was a man of remarkable vision. 

When he came to power, the Cold War had gone on for nearly 40 years and
communism for even longer, with devastating consequences. Few high-level
Soviet officials had the courage to admit that things needed to change.
As a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, I saw him do that
and more. As leader of the USSR, he worked with President Reagan to
reduce our two countries’ nuclear arsenals, to the relief of people
worldwide praying for an end to the nuclear arms race. After decades of
brutal political repression, he embraced democratic reforms. He believed
in *glasnost* and *perestroika* – openness and restructuring – not as
mere slogans, but as the path forward for the people of the Soviet Union
after so many years of isolation and deprivation. 

These were the acts of a rare leader – one with the imagination to see
that a different future was possible and the courage to risk his entire
career to achieve it. The result was a safer world and greater freedom
for millions of people. 

Even years after leaving office, he was still deeply engaged. When Mr.
Gorbachev visited the White House in 2009, he and I spoke for a long
time about our countries’ ongoing work to reduce U.S. and Russian
nuclear stockpiles. It was easy to see why so many worldwide held him in
such high esteem. 

We send our deepest condolences to his family and friends, and to people
everywhere who benefited from his belief in a better world. 

\###
