---
date: '2022-08-30'
published_time: 2022-08-30 14:10:58-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/30/fact-sheet-white-house-monkeypox-response-team-announces-new-plans-to-support-large-lgbtqi-events-and-equity-interventions-to-reach-communities-at-highest-risk-of-contracting-the-virus/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: White\_House Monkeypox Response Team Announces New Plans to Support\
  \ Large LGBTQI+ Events and Equity Interventions to Reach Communities at Highest\
  \ Risk of Contracting the\_Virus"
---
 
Today, the White House National Monkeypox Response team announced new
actions the Biden-Harris Administration is taking to combat the
monkeypox (MPV) outbreak and protect individuals most at risk of
contracting the virus. The Administration is providing additional
vaccines and support to states and cities holding events that convene
large groups of LGBTQI+ individuals, specifically gay, bisexual, and
other men who have sex with men. The White House also announced a new
pilot to surge vaccine availability and other prevention resources to
communities of color in light of recent [CDC
data](https://www.cdc.gov/poxvirus/monkeypox/response/2022/demographics.html)
showing the disproportionate reach of the virus among Black and Latino
gay, bisexual, and other men who have sex with men. 

Last week, the White House National Monkeypox Response team announced
that as a result of recent efforts to quickly distribute vaccines, and
as a result of the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) Emergency Use
Authorization (EUA) of intradermal administration of the JYNNEOS
vaccine, the United States is approaching being able to provide two
doses of vaccine to the 1.6 million individuals across the country most
at risk of contracting the virus.

**White House announces plans to provide additional vaccine and support
to Louisiana, Georgia, and California in advance of events attracting
large numbers of LGBTQI+ individuals.  
**  
The White House, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), and
the Centers of Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) have been working
closely with state and local governments and health leaders to prepare
for upcoming events attracting large numbers of LGBTQI+ individuals,
including Southern Decadence in New Orleans, Louisiana; Atlanta Black
Pride in Atlanta, Georgia; and Pridefest in Oakland, California. As part
of a pilot program announced earlier this month, the Biden-Harris
Administration is making additional vaccines available to these
jurisdictions and providing additional support on the ground, including
increased access to testing and other prevention resources. Details on
these plans include:

***Southern Decadence, New Orleans, Louisiana: September 1-5, 2022  
***  
The Administration will supply Louisiana with up to 6,000 additional
doses of vaccine by replenishing their stock of vaccine with the number
of doses administered leading up to and during Southern Decadence
events. These additional vaccines are supporting 12 community
vaccination events being held at a variety of locations across New
Orleans and the surrounding area leading up to Southern Decadence. In
addition to these events, CDC is supporting the Louisiana and New
Orleans health departments on a large-scale vaccination event on site
during the festival. The site will provide COVID-19 and MPV vaccinations
as well as HIV and STI testing.

The Louisiana Department of Health is also pre-positioning courses of
TPOXX in New Orleans in anticipation of any treatment needs for
individuals who have been diagnosed with MPV.  
  
CDC and the Louisiana and New Orleans health departments are also
working closely together to provide and distribute educational materials
about MPV and how individuals can protect themselves during the
festival. And, the Administration is providing both on-site and remote
support to New Orleans and Louisiana in preparation of the festival,
including providing remote support for Louisiana’s wastewater
surveillance program.

***Atlanta Black Pride, Atlanta, Georgia: September 2-4, 2022  
***  
The Administration will supply Georgia with up to 5,500 doses additional
of vaccine by replenishing their stock of vaccine with the number of
doses administered leading up to and during Black Pride events in
Atlanta. In anticipation of Black Pride, Atlanta and the surrounding
counties, including Fulton County, DeKalb County, Cobb County, and
Gwinnett County, have been holding routine vaccination clinics over the
last week. Starting this week and continuing through the weekend, the
Georgia Department of Health in conjunction with the surrounding county
health departments and community partners, will continue routine
vaccination in clinics and support 12 additional vaccination events
across Atlanta and the broader metro area.

The Georgia Department of Public Health and Fulton County, Dekalb
County, and Gwinnett County Health Departments are working closely with
a variety of local organizations, including Georgia CORE and A Vision 4
Hope, to ensure widespread dissemination of educational material and
information to individuals most at risk of contracting the virus and to
those planning on attending Black Pride events. Throughout the MPV
outbreak, Fulton County has focused on reaching communities of color
given the disproportionate impact of the virus on Black individuals.

***Oakland Pride and Pridefest, Oakland, California: September 4 and 11,
2022  
  
***The Administration will also supply additional vaccine and support to
Oakland and California as part of the Special Events vaccine pilot
program.

Oakland, California will receive an additional 2,400 doses of vaccine to
prepare for Pride and Pridefest events on September 4<sup>th</sup> and
11<sup>th</sup> by replenishing California’s stock of vaccine with the
number of doses administered around Oakland Pride and Pridefest events.
The Administration is also working closely with California to help
disseminate educational information and messaging to individuals
planning on attending Pride and Pridefest events to make sure they know
how to protect themselves from the virus and access vaccines, tests, and
treatment.

**White House announces new equity intervention pilot to ensure more
vaccines are equitably reaching communities where the outbreak has been
most severe.  
  
**Today the White House also announced a new pilot program to reach
populations who are at elevated risk of contracting MPV, but may face
barriers in accessing the vaccine, such as lack of access to online
appointment scheduling or stigma that may be associated with attending
public vaccine events that may require disclosure of sexual identity,
gender identity, or level of sexual activity.

As part of the equity intervention pilot, the Biden-Harris
Administration will set aside 10,000 vials of vaccine that health
departments can request for use as part of smaller-scale equity
interventions. Up to 100 vials per jurisdiction will be made available
to be used in up to 5 equity related interventions, including
distribution from community-based clinics that may not have been reached
by the current vaccine supply, distribution at smaller events and in
venues reaching Black and Latino LGBTQI+, and distribution to
communities identified locally as a priority based on local epidemiology
of MPV.

The Administration will provide a toolkit that community-based
organizations and jurisdictions can use to serve as a roadmap for equity
intervention strategies. To receive supply for targeted equity
interventions, a jurisdiction must have already used 50% of its received
vaccine and commit to match the Federal government’s equity allocation
if the intervention demonstrates successful.

To access these equity intervention allocations, jurisdictions can
engage directly with the CDC. The toolkit will be available to
jurisdictions and community-based organizations in the coming weeks.

\###
