---
date: '2022-08-09'
modified_time: 2022-08-08 20:53:01-04:00
published_time: 2022-08-09 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/09/fact-sheet-chips-and-science-act-will-lower-costs-create-jobs-strengthen-supply-chains-and-counter-china/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: CHIPS and Science Act Will Lower Costs, Create Jobs, Strengthen\
  \ Supply Chains, and Counter\_China"
---
 
In President Biden’s first year in office, the Biden-Harris
Administration has implemented an industrial strategy to revitalize
domestic manufacturing, create good-paying American jobs, strengthen
American supply chains, and accelerate the industries of the future.
These policies have spurred an historic recovery in manufacturing,
adding 642,000 manufacturing jobs since 2021. Companies are investing in
America again, bringing good-paying manufacturing jobs back home. The
construction of new manufacturing facilities has increased 116 percent
over last year.

Today, President Biden will sign into law the bipartisan CHIPS and
Science Act of 2022, which will build on this progress, making historic
investments that will poise U.S. workers, communities, and businesses to
win the race for the 21<sup>st</sup> century. It will strengthen
American manufacturing, supply chains, and national security, and invest
in research and development, science and technology, and the workforce
of the future to keep the United States the leader in the industries of
tomorrow, including nanotechnology, clean energy, quantum computing, and
artificial intelligence.  The CHIPs and Science Act makes the smart
investments so that American to compete in and win the future.

**<u>Spurred by the passage of the CHIPS and Science Act of 2022, this
week, companies have announced nearly $50 billion in additional
investments in American semiconductor manufacturing, bringing total
business investment to nearly $150 billion since President Biden took
office:</u>**

-   Micron is announcing a **<u>$40 billion</u>** investment in memory
    chip manufacturing, critical for computers and electronic devices,
    which will create up to 40,000 new jobs in construction and
    manufacturing. This investment alone will bring the U.S. market
    share of memory chip production from less than 2 percent to up to 10
    percent over the next decade.

The CHIPS and Science Act will boost American semiconductor research,
development, and production, ensuring U.S. leadership in the technology
that forms the foundation of everything from automobiles to household
appliances to defense systems. America invented the semiconductor, but
today produces about 10 percent of the world’s supply—and none of the
most advanced chips. Instead, we rely on East Asia for 75 percent of
global production. The CHIPS and Science Act will unlock hundreds of
billions more in private sector semiconductor investment across the
country, including production essential to national defense and critical
sectors.

The law will also ensure the United States maintains and advances its
scientific and technological edge. In the mid-1960s, at the peak of the
race to the moon, the federal government invested 2 percent of GDP in
research and development. By 2020, that number had fallen to less than 1
percent. Economic growth and prosperity over the last 40 years has
clustered in a few regions on the coasts, leaving far too many
communities behind. The CHIPS and Science Act will ensure the future is
made in ALL of America, and unlock opportunities in science and
technology for those who have been historically left out.

**<u>The Biden-Harris Administration has already taken action to ensure
expedient, responsible deployment of CHIPS and Science Act
funding:</u>**

-   **Coordinated permitting for high-tech manufacturing.** Today, the
    Administration is announcing the launch of a sector-specific
    interagency expert working group on permitting and
    permitting-related project delivery issues for high-tech
    manufacturing, consistent with the [President’s Permitting Action
    Plan announced in
    May](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/Biden-Harris-Permitting-Action-Plan.pdf). 
    This interagency working group will build on the interagency CHIPS
    and Science Act planning to date between the Council on
    Environmental Quality, Environmental Protection Agency, and the
    Department of Commerce.  It will help to ensure collaboration and
    coordination across federal agencies, the private sector, and with
    state and local governments to facilitate timely and effective
    reviews of all federally-funded projects. The working group will
    also serve as a clearinghouse for best practices with respect to
    permitting and other project delivery issues to support
    implementation of projects funded by the bill.  
      
-   **President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST)
    releases new recommendations on semiconductors R&D.** Today, PCAST
    sent a letter to the President with their recommendations for
    implementing the CHIPS and Science Act, including: forming a
    national microelectronics training network for semiconductor
    workforce development across academic institutions, including
    minority-serving institutions and community colleges; fostering
    innovation by reducing the barriers of entry to startups;
    recommending the development of a “chiplet platform” to enable
    startups and researchers to more rapidly innovate at lower cost; and
    setting a national semiconductor research agenda with fundamental
    research and grand challenges to, for example, build the first
    “zettascale supercomputer” which would be 1,000 times faster than
    the fastest supercomputer available today. The full PCAST
    semiconductors report will be released this fall.

**<u>The CHIPS and Science Act will:</u>**

-   **Bolster U.S. leadership in semiconductors.** The CHIPS and Science
    Act provides **$52.7 billion** for American semiconductor research,
    development, manufacturing, and workforce development. This includes
    **$39 billion** in manufacturing incentives, including **$2
    billion** for the legacy chips used in automobiles and defense
    systems, **$13.2 billion** in R&D and workforce development,and
    **$500** **million** to provide for international information
    communications technology security and semiconductor supply chain
    activities. It also provides a 25 percent investment tax credit for
    capital expenses for manufacturing of semiconductors and related
    equipment. These incentives will secure domestic supply, create tens
    of thousands of good-paying, union construction jobs and thousands
    more high-skilled manufacturing jobs, and catalyze hundreds of
    billions more in private investment.

The bill requires recipients to demonstrate significant worker and
community investments, including opportunities for small businesses and
disadvantaged communities, ensuring semiconductor incentives support
equitable economic growth and development.

These funds also come with strong guardrails, ensuring that recipients
do not build certain facilities in China and other countries of concern,
and preventing companies from using taxpayer funds for stock buybacks
and shareholder dividends. It will also support good-paying, union
construction jobs by requiring Davis-Bacon prevailing wage rates for
facilities built with CHIPS funding.

-   **Promote U.S. innovation in wireless supply chains**. The CHIPS and
    Science Act includes **$1.5 billion** for promoting and deploying
    wireless technologies that use open and interoperable radio access
    networks. This investment will boost U.S. leadership in wireless
    technologies and their supply chains.

<!-- -->

-   **Advance U.S. global leadership in the technologies of the
    future.**  U.S. leadership in new technologies—from artificial
    intelligence to biotechnology to computing—is critical to both our
    future economic competitiveness and our national security. Public
    investments in R&D lay the foundation for the future breakthroughs
    that over time yield new businesses, new jobs, and more exports.  
      

The CHIPS and Science Act will establish a technology, innovation, and
partnerships directorate at the National Science Foundation (NSF) to
focus on fields like semiconductors and advanced computing, advanced
communications technology, advanced energy technologies, quantum
information technologies, and biotechnology. It will strengthen
commercialization of research and technology, ensuring that what is
invented in America is made in America. The Act will also reauthorize
and expand fundamental and use-inspired research at the Department of
Energy Office of Science and the National Institute of Standards and
Technology to sustain U.S. leadership in the sciences and engineering as
the engine for American innovation.

-   **Catalyze regional economic growth and development.** The CHIPS and
    Science Act authorizes $10 billion to invest in regional innovation
    and technology hubs across the country, bringing together state and
    local governments, institutes of higher education, labor unions,
    businesses, and community-based organizations to create regional
    partnerships to develop technology, innovation, and manufacturing
    sectors.  
      
    These hubs will create jobs, spur regional economic development, and
    position communities throughout the country to lead in high-growth,
    high-wage sectors such as artificial intelligence, advanced
    manufacturing, and clean energy technology. It also authorizes a $1
    billion RECOMPETE pilot program at the Department of Commerce’s
    Economic Development Administration (EDA) to alleviate persistent
    economic distress and support long-term comprehensive economic
    development and job creation in the most distressed communities.

<!-- -->

-   **Provide STEM opportunities to more of America to participate in
    good-paying skilled jobs.** Science, technology, engineering, and
    mathematics (STEM) education and workforce development activities
    are critical to developing skills needed for taking on the
    highly-skilled jobs of the emerging industries built on technologies
    of the future. To ensure more people from all backgrounds and all
    regions and communities around the country, especially people from
    marginalized, under-served, and under-resourced communities, can
    benefit from and participate in STEM education and training
    opportunities, the CHIPS and Science Act authorizes new and expanded
    investments in STEM education and training from K-12 to community
    college, undergraduate and graduate education.  
      
-   **Drive opportunity and equity for all of America in STEM and
    innovation.** The legislation authorizes investments to expand the
    geographic and institutional diversity of research institutions and
    the students and researchers they serve, including new initiatives
    to support Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and
    other minority-serving institutions, and other academic institutions
    providing opportunities to historically-underserved students and
    communities, primarily through the National Science Foundation
    (NSF). The CHIPS and Science Act also broadens the geographic
    diversity of research and innovation funding to leverage the talent
    and ideas found all across America. The legislation also gives
    agencies and institutions the mission and the tools to combat sexual
    and gender-based harassment in the sciences, a demonstrated barrier
    to participation in STEM for too many Americans. Through these
    investments and initiatives, the bill would support learners,
    educators, and researchers at minority-serving and emerging research
    institutions and in rural communities, as well as broaden
    participation to include people of all backgrounds and experiences,
    driving the creation of a STEM ecosystem that looks like and
    benefits all of America.
