---
date: '2022-08-31'
modified_time: 2022-08-31 05:03:20-04:00
published_time: 2022-08-31 06:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/31/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-public-and-private-sector-actions-to-strengthen-teaching-profession-and-help-schools-fill-vacancies/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET:  Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces Public and Private\
  \ Sector Actions to Strengthen Teaching Profession and Help Schools Fill\_Vacancies"
---
 
Our nation’s teachers prepare and inspire the next generation of leaders
that are critical to our future. Yet for years, our education system has
faced challenges in attracting, recruiting, and retaining qualified
teachers – challenges that were made worse by the pandemic. As children
across the country start the 2022-2023 school year, too many schools are
struggling to fill vacancies for teachers, including with qualified
teachers, and other critical school professionals – such as bus drivers,
paraprofessionals, nurses, and mental health professionals – positions
that are essential to help our students recover academically, access the
mental health supports they need, and thrive in and out of the
classroom.

Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is announcing new efforts to
strengthen the teaching profession and support schools in their effort
to address teacher shortages as the new school year begins. This
announcement includes new commitments from leading job platforms to make
it easier for Americans to find opportunities in the education field,
and new initiatives from teachers unions and national and state
organizations to expand high-quality pathways into the profession for
future teachers.

The President has been clear from day one that to address these
long-standing staffing challenges facing our schools, exacerbated by the
pandemic, teachers, paraprofessionals, and other school staff need to be
paid competitively, and treated with the respect and dignity that they
deserve, including through improved working conditions for staff and
learning conditions for students. Today’s announcements build on this
call, and the actions the President has already taken to invest in and
support educators across the country and address staffing shortages. The
$130 billion in President Biden’s American Rescue Plan directed to the
nation’s K-12 schools have allowed school districts across the country
to invest in teacher pipeline programs, increase compensation for
teachers, and hire more professionals across the education workforce.
ARP funding has helped school districts increase the number of school
social workers by 54%, increase the number of school counselors by 22%
and increase the number of school nurses by 22% compared to years prior
to the pandemic. Today’s announcements reflect additional steps by the
Administration and leaders across sectors to continue to tackle this
challenge.  

This afternoon, First Lady Jill Biden, Secretary Cardona, Secretary
Walsh, Ambassador Rice, the executive leadership of ZipRecruiter,
Handshake, and Indeed, and leaders from the National Governors
Association, American Federation of Teachers, National Education
Association, Council of Chief State School Officers, and American
Association of Colleges for Teacher Education will convene in the
Roosevelt Room to discuss the staffing challenges schools are facing,
these new actions, and additional ways that the federal government,
state and local governments, education organizations and the private
sector can strengthen the teaching profession.

**<u>Talent Industry Announces New Commitments to Help School Districts
Source Talent and Help More Americans Find Jobs in Schools.</u>**

Today, leading talent recruitment and job platforms are announcing a
series of new actions to make it easier for states and school districts
to source, recruit, and hire job seeking teachers and school
professionals, and to help more Americans find jobs in education:

-   **Today ZipRecruiter** is **launching a** [**new online job
    portal**](http://www.schooljobsnearme.org/) **specifically dedicated
    to K-12 school jobs**. This portal will showcase job openings across
    public schools throughout the United States, including teachers,
    nurses, guidance counselors, social workers, mental health
    counselors, librarians, and more. Schools, districts, and states can
    partner with ZipRecruiter to have their open roles included for
    free. The job portal will also feature additional hiring resources
    including best practices for both job seekers and school districts’
    human resource teams. 

<!-- -->

-   **[Handshake](http://www.joinhandshake.com/) will help college
    students explore careers in education.** In October 2022, Handshake
    will host a nationwide free virtual event to help current
    undergraduate students learn about pathways in the field of
    education, including teachers, guidance counselors, school mental
    health specialists, and school psychologists. This event will
    provide information on how educators can make an impact and provide
    practical advice about building a career in the teaching
    profession. Alongside the event, Handshake will publish a list of
    all schools and districts hiring students and college graduates for
    jobs this year, helping aspiring educators kick off their career
    search. The Handshake network includes 10 million current and recent
    students at 1,400 two-and four-year colleges and universities
    nationwide, including 281,000 who have pursued or are pursuing
    education degrees.

<!-- -->

-   [**Indeed**](https://www.indeed.com/) **is announcing that it will
    facilitate virtual hiring fairs for educators throughout the
    country.** These events will specifically focus on the hiring of
    teachers, administrators, counselors, and other staff. Participating
    entities will gain access to Indeed’s free suite of hiring tools to
    manage the end-to-end hiring process, from job postings through
    interviews.

**<u>Biden Administration Announces New Actions and Highlights Resources
to Strengthen the Educator Pipeline and Address Shortages.</u>**

Today, the Department of Education (ED) and the Department of Labor
(DOL) have issued a [joint
letter](https://www2.ed.gov/policy/gen/guid/secletter/220831.html) to
state and local education and workforce leaders encouraging them to take
a series of actions to address teacher and school staff shortages and
invest in the teaching profession, including:

-   **Paying teachers a livable and competitive wage.** Secretaries
    Cardona and Walsh are encouraging governors and district leaders to
    use American Rescue Plan’s [Elementary and Secondary School
    Emergency Relief
    funds](https://oese.ed.gov/files/2021/12/21-0414.DCL_Labor-Shortages.pdf)
    and the $350 billion in [State and Local Fiscal
    Recovery](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/07/SLFRF-Learning-Loss-and-Mental-Health-Toolkit-v0630-CLEAN.pdf)
    funds to increase teacher pay. Low pay continues to be a significant
    contributor to a weak teacher pipeline and to a history of high
    turnover rates. [On
    average](https://www.epi.org/publication/teacher-pay-penalty-2022/),
    teachers make about 33 percent less than other college-educated
    professionals. Adjusted for inflation, the average weekly wages of
    public school teachers has only increased $29 between 1996 and 2021.

<!-- -->

-   **Expanding high-quality programs that prepare and support teachers,
    including registered teacher apprenticeship programs***.* DOL is
    committing to prioritize the education sector in future
    apprenticeship funding, including its next round of over $100
    million in apprenticeship grants, which will provide critical
    support for states and other partners looking to start and expand
    teacher apprenticeship programs. Students need qualified teachers
    who are prepared to teach them, and who reflect the diversity of our
    students. Teachers need affordable pathways into the profession.
    Registered teacher apprenticeship programs allow individuals –
    including those already working in schools, like teaching assistants
    – to earn while they learn, receiving pay while they gain teaching
    skills with the supervision of a mentor teacher, and take coursework
    to earn their teaching license. This allows teachers to gain robust
    experience in the classroom before leading their own, and makes
    becoming a teacher more affordable. Once registered by DOL or their
    state apprenticeship agency, state and local workforce boards can
    use Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) Title I funds to
    support these programs. The Secretaries also encourage state and
    local workforce boards to collaborate with education systems to
    address non-instructional staffing shortages in schools.
    -   States like Tennessee have already used American Rescue Plan
        funds to invest in and expand registered teacher apprenticeship
        programs, using immediate resources to make long-term
        investments in teaching programs in the state that also address
        current needs.   As in Tennessee, registered teacher
        apprenticeship programs can be used to scale high-quality
        pathways into the profession, like residencies and Grow Your Own
        programs. These models provide robust classroom experience for
        teachers during their training. Grow Your Own programs
        specifically help districts develop their own teachers, in
        partnership with institutions of higher education, including by
        getting teaching assistants, career changers, and high school
        students on the pathway to becoming teachers.

**<u>National Teacher Unions and State Organizations to Expand
High-Quality Pathways for Teachers, including Teacher Apprenticeship
Programs</u>**

National organizations representing teachers, state school chiefs,
governors, and teacher colleges are announcing today that they are
working together to expand high-quality registered teacher
apprenticeship programs, teaching residencies, and Grow Your Own
programs.

-   **The Council of Chief State School Officers (CCSSO), the American
    Federation of Teachers (AFT), the National Education Association
    (NEA), and the National Governors Association (NGA)** are announcing
    that they will work together with other partners in the field to
    identify best practices and support their members in pursuing
    registered apprenticeships or other key strategies that ensure
    teacher quality while offering increased pathways for entrance and
    growth in the profession.

<!-- -->

-   **The Pathways Alliance – a coalition of public and private
    organizations dedicated to supporting a strong and diverse teacher
    pipeline – is creating national guidelines for registered teacher
    apprenticeship programs.** These guidelines will help states and
    school districts establish high-quality registered teacher
    apprenticeship programs, building upon work currently underway to
    provide guidelines for high-quality teacher residencies.

**As part of the Biden Administration’s commitment to supporting and
investing in educators, today the White House is holding a Public
Service Loan Forgiveness Day of Action.**

Earlier this year, the Biden Administration made temporary changes to
the Public Service Loan Forgiveness program to make sure teachers and
school staff can access the loan forgiveness they are eligible for. As
part of today’s Day of Action, leading education organizations,
including the American Federation of Teachers and National Education
Association, are working to ensure that school staff across the nation
are able to take advantage of the temporary changes to the program. To
benefit from the temporary changes, borrowers must apply and certify
their employment for the period of time they wish to count toward PSLF
using the [PSLF Help Tool](https://studentaid.gov/pslf/). For more
information, please visit [www.PSLF.gov](http://www.PSLF.gov). The
temporary changes end on October 31, 2022.The White House is urging
eligible teachers to take advantage today before time runs out.

\###
