---
date: '2022-08-12'
modified_time: 2022-08-12 10:58:43-04:00
published_time: 2022-08-12 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/12/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-boards-and-commissions-4/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to Boards and\_Commissions"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint the
following individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Joan Breier Brodsky, Member, National Museum and Library Services
    Board
-   Susan Lynn Gibbons, Member, National Museum and Library Services
    Board
-   Amy Elizabeth Gilman, Member, National Museum and Library Services
    Board
-   Julius C. Jefferson Jr., Member, National Museum and Library
    Services Board
-   Cameron Kitchin, Member, National Museum and Library Services Board
-   Dipesh Navsaria, Member, National Museum and Library Services Board
-   James G. Neal, Member, National Museum and Library Services Board
-   Annie Norman, Member, National Museum and Library Services Board
-   Halona Norton-Westbrook, Member, National Museum and Library
    Services Board
-   Allison C. Perkins, Member, National Museum and Library Services
    Board
-   Monica Ramirez-Montagut, Member, National Museum and Library
    Services Board

**National Museum and Library Services Board**  
The National Museum and Library Services Board advises the agency on
general policies with respect to the duties, powers, and authority of
the Institute of Museum and Library Service relating to museum, library,
and information services, as well as the annual selection of National
Medals recipients.  
  
**Joan Breier Brodsky, Member, National Museum and Library Services
Board**  
Joan Brodsky holds an A.B. from Syracuse University in Latin and
Education and a Masters in Library Science, also from Syracuse. She is a
librarian and a book and paper conservator. She serves as a trustee of
the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum in Springfield,
Illinois and the Newberry Library in Chicago. Brodsky is on the Board of
Visitors of the Syracuse University Library and the Advisory Board of
the Library of the Jewish Theological Seminary in New York City and is a
member of the Grolier Club in New York City and a life member of the
American Library Association. At Syracuse University, she is a founder
and sponsor of an annual endowed lecture series and workshop on the
conservation of books, paper, photographs, plastics, and other materials
maintained by libraries.  
  
**Susan Lynn Gibbons, Member, National Museum and Library Services
Board**  
Susan Gibbons is vice provost for collections and scholarly
communication at Yale University, with responsibilities for the
university’s museums, libraries, university press, and the Institute for
the Preservation of Cultural Heritage. She was Yale’s University
Librarian from 2011 to 2020 and has held library positions at the
University of Rochester, the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, and
Indiana University. She served on the board of the Association of
Research Libraries from 2013-2020 and as the board president in
2018-2019. In addition, she has served on the boards of the Center for
Research Libraries, ITHAKA, and SAGE Publications. Gibbons holds an
M.L.S and an M.A. in history from Indiana University, a professional
M.B.A. from the University of Massachusetts, and a doctorate in higher
education administration from the University of Rochester.   
  
**Amy Elizabeth Gilman, Member, National Museum and Library Services
Board**  
Dr. Amy Gilman joined the Chazen Museum of Art at the University of
Wisconsin-Madison as director in September 2017. Prior to her current
role, Gilman spent 12 years at the Toledo Museum of Art in Toledo, Ohio,
ending as deputy director. Gilman is a progressive leader in the field
and an advocate for leveraging and expanding the role of the university
art museum on campus, in the community, and in the field – especially as
locations to promote experimentation about what it means to be a museum
and piloting potential changes in current museum models. Gilman is an
alumna of the Getty Leadership Institute. She earned her doctorate in
art history at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Ohio, a
Master of Fine Arts in photography from Columbia College in Chicago, and
a bachelor’s degree in performance studies from Northwestern University
in Evanston, Illinois.   
  
**Julius C. Jefferson Jr., Member, National Museum and Library Services
Board**  
Julius C. Jefferson Jr. is an active member of the library community and
has served in leadership roles at the local, national, and international
level. Jefferson is often called upon as an authority to speak on issues
of importance to libraries and library workers. He has advocated for
improved library services in a number of print and broadcast media
outlets and is often sought as a speaker on library-related issues such
as diversity, leadership, and professional development. Jefferson
currently works for the Congressional Research Service at the Library of
Congress, where he has served in various leadership roles.  
  
**Cameron Kitchin, Member, National Museum and Library Services
Board**  
Cameron Kitchin is the ninth appointed Director of the Cincinnati Art
Museum. He has led the museum team, institutional vision, community
engagement, collections, exhibitions, and expansive scholarship since
2014. He served as Director of the Memphis Brooks Museum of Art from
2008-2014 and led the Virginia Museum of Contemporary Art (formerly
Contemporary Art Center of Virginia) from 2002-2008.  
  
Kitchin is an elected Trustee of the Association of Art Museum Directors
and serves on the Board and Executive Committee of ICOM-US, the U.S.
national committee of the International Council of Museums. He is a
member of the national exhibitions committee of the American Federation
of Arts. His prior professional experience includes special projects and
strategic planning with the American Alliance of Museums (formerly
American Association of Museums) and Senior Associate for museums and
cultural organizations with Economics Research Associates. Kitchin holds
degrees in art history from Harvard University and business
administration from William & Mary. He is a 2008 graduate of the Getty
Leadership Institute. Kitchin and his family live in the town of
Wyoming, Ohio.  
  
**Dipesh Navsaria, Member, National Museum and Library Services
Board**  
Dipesh Navsaria, M.P.H., M.S.L.I.S., M.D. is a pediatrician working in
the public interest. He blends the roles of physician, occasional
children’s librarian, educator, public health professional, and child
health advocate. With graduate degrees in public health, children’s
librarianship, physician assistant studies, and medicine, he brings
together a combination of interests and experience. He is an associate
professor of pediatrics at the School of Medicine and Public Health, as
well as a clinical associate professor of Human Development and Family
Studies at the School of Human Ecology, both at the University of
Wisconsin–Madison. He has practiced primary care pediatrics in a variety
of settings with special interest in underserved populations and
continues to practice in outpatient settings.  He also works regionally
and nationally with Reach Out and Read and the American Academy of
Pediatrics.  
  
Committed to understanding how basic science can translate into busy
primary-care settings via population health concepts and policy
initiatives and also be incorporated into transdisciplinary approaches
across multiple sectors and schools of thought, Navsaria aims to educate
the next generation of those who work with children and families in
realizing how their professional roles include being involved in larger
concepts of social policy and how they may affect the cognitive and
socioemotional development of children for their future benefit.  The
various ways in which we can influence the environment around children
and families — from the very micro to the most macro — to ensure they
can flourish and thrive is at the heart of what he does.  
  
**James G. Neal, Member, National Museum and Library Services Board**  
Jim Neal is University Librarian Emeritus at Columbia University. He has
served as a library and technology administrator at several U.S.
research universities. He has been an active member of the national and
international library community. He has presented at over 500
conferences and has published widely in the library literature. He has
focused his professional work in the areas of digital libraries,
intellectual freedom, intellectual property, library collaboration,
diversity and social justice, and library innovation. He has received
numerous awards for his professional leadership and accomplishments,
including Honorary Membership in the American Library Association.  
  
**Annie Norman, Member, National Museum and Library Services Board**  
Dr. Annie Norman is State Librarian of Delaware and Director of the
Delaware Division of Libraries.  Under her leadership, the Delaware
Library Catalog was established; currently 74 participating libraries
are sharing 2.5 million items for the benefit of Delawareans. Delaware
Libraries launched Dolly Parton’s Imagination Library in 2020; now every
Delawarean under age 5 is eligible statewide.  
  
Norman received her Doctorate of Education in Innovation and
Organizational Leadership from Wilmington University and is a recipient
of the Audrey K. Doberstein Award for Leadership for her dissertation,
*Librarians’ Leadership for Lifelong Learning*. She is the first
librarian to be inducted into the *Hall of Fame of Delaware Women*.

**Halona Norton-Westbrook, Member, National Museum and Library Services
Board**  
Halona Norton-Westbrook is the Director and CEO of the Honolulu Museum
of Art. Founded in 1927, the Honolulu Museum of Art is the largest fine
art museum in the state of Hawai’i, with an encyclopedic collection of
over 55,000 works of art, an art school, a theater, and a fine arts
library. Norton-Westbrook was raised in the San Francisco Bay Area,
lived for several years in London, England while working towards her
graduate degrees, and took up her role in Honolulu in January 2020,
having most recently served as Director of Curatorial Affairs and
Curator of Modern and Contemporary Art at the Toledo Museum of Art.
Prior to that, she was the recipient of the Andrew W. Mellon Leadership
Fellowship at the Toledo Museum of Art, a program inaugurated in 2012 to
train the next generation of museum leaders.  
  
Norton-Westbrook is a passionate advocate for museums and the vital role
that they play in providing accessibility to the arts and fostering
greater empathy, connection, and creativity in the lives of individuals
and communities. Norton-Westbrook has an expertise in the formation,
history, and evolution of museum collections in the 20<sup>th</sup>
century and in Modern and Contemporary Art. She received a B.A. in
American History and Studio Art from Mills College, an M.A. in Art
History from Courtauld Institute of Art in London, and a Ph.D. in
Museology from the University of Manchester.  
  
**Allison C. Perkins, Member, National Museum and Library Services
Board**  
Allison Perkins joined the staff of Reynolda House Museum of American
Art in Winston-Salem, North Carolina as executive director in 2006. She
was named Wake Forest University’s associate provost for Reynolda House
and Reynolda Gardens in 2015. Reynolda is evolving as a destination for
visitors of all ages and backgrounds to experience belonging through
peaceful contemplation, play, work, and learning. Reynolda’s affiliation
with Wake Forest University has grown in several stages, and the
historic property and school share a grounding in the humanities for the
common good. Perkins strives to uphold the institution’s mission to
connect people with the beauty and complexity of the American story
through the integration of art, nature, and history.  
  
Perkins spent the first half of her career in art museum education.
Prior to joining Reynolda, she was deputy director of education and
interpretation at the Baltimore Museum of Art, moving there from her
previous role as education director of the Amon Carter Museum of
American Art, Fort Worth. Perkins received a Bachelor of Arts in art
history from Lake Forest College and completed graduate work in art
history at the University of Chicago. She is a graduate of the Getty
Leadership Institute, an executive training program for senior-level
museum professionals.  
  
**Monica Ramirez-Montagut, Member, National Museum and Library Services
Board**  
Dr. Monica Ramirez-Montagut is the director for the Parrish Art Museum
in Water Mill, New York. Previous positions include: Director of
Michigan State University’s Broad Art Museum in East Lansing, Director
at the Newcomb Art Museum of Tulane University in New Orleans,
Louisiana; Senior Curator for the San Jose Museum of Art in Silicon
Valley, California; Curator at The Aldrich Contemporary Art Museum in
Ridgefield, Connecticut; and Assistant Curator at Solomon Guggenheim
Museum in Manhattan. Throughout her extensive career, her approach to
art is known for being both publicly engaged and socially conscious. An
example is her 2019 groundbreaking exhibition *Per(Sister): Incarcerated
Women of America* featuring the stories of 30 formerly incarcerated
women of Louisiana. Ramirez-Montagut received an architecture degree
from Universidad Iberoamericana in Mexico City, as well as a master’s
and Ph.D. in theory and history of architecture from Universitat
Politécnica de Catalunya in Barcelona, Spain. In 2020, Ramirez-Montagut
joined the Board of Trustees of the U.S. International Council for
Museums and the Association of Art Museum Directors. She was one of the
panelists of the U.S. Department of State’s Bureau of Educational and
Cultural Affairs that selected artist Simone Leigh to represent the U.S.
in the 59<sup>th</sup> Venice Biennale where Leigh received the Golden
Lion award.

\###
