---
date: '2024-12-09'
modified_time: 2024-12-08 21:26:28-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-09 05:30:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/12/09/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-actions-and-historic-progress-supporting-tribal-nations-and-native-communities-ahead-of-fourth-annual-white-house-tribal-nations-summit/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces New Actions and Historic\
  \ Progress Supporting Tribal Nations and Native Communities Ahead of Fourth Annual\
  \ White\_House Tribal Nations\_Summit"
---
 
*President Biden to Designate Carlisle Federal Indian Boarding School
National Monument; Announce Strategy to Preserve and Revitalize Native
Languages*

Today President Biden will host the fourth and final White House Tribal
Nations Summit of the Biden-Harris Administration, reaffirming the
Administration’s historic progress on strengthening the Nation-to-Nation
relationships with Tribal Nations and cementing its legacy as one of the
most supportive Administrations for Tribes ever.

At the Summit, President Biden will announce a new proclamation
establishing the Carlisle Federal Indian Boarding School National
Monument in Carlisle, Pennsylvania. The new national monument will tell
the story of the oppression endured by thousands of Native children and
their families at this site and the harmful legacy of the broader Indian
boarding school system that the federal government operated or supported
across the country for more than 150 years. This action builds on
President Biden’s historic Presidential apology and the leadership of
Secretary of the Interior Deb Haaland to establish and lead research and
listening sessions with Tribes and Native communities across the country
as part of the Federal Indian Boarding School Initiative.

Respect for Tribal Nations is a cornerstone of the Biden-Harris
Administration’s policies for Indian Country – policies that are
highlighted at the Summit. In addition to the new national monument
designation, the Administration will announce a historic,
all-of-government strategy to preserve and revitalize Native languages.
The strategy would expand access to immersion language programs in
schools, support community-led language education efforts, and promote
Native language schools and programs. The Administration will also
showcase new initiatives supporting Tribal sovereignty,
self-determination, and the federal trust responsibility, while bringing
together Tribal leaders and senior administration officials to discuss
priorities for Indian Country.

Since taking office, President Biden and Vice President Harris have
delivered a record-breaking $45 billion in investments in Indian Country
through the Investing in America agenda, transforming infrastructure,
expanding healthcare, advancing education, and addressing systemic and
historic injustices. Landmark policies and federal action, such as
elevating Tribal consultation, investing in developing co-stewardship
agreements, elevating the incorporation of Indigenous Knowledge, and
implementing government-wide training on Tribal treaty rights and the
trust responsibility, have centered Native voices in federal
decision-making. From the protection of sacred lands through national
monument designations and the conservation of over 45 million acres of
lands and waters, to the historic Presidential apology for Federal
Indian boarding schools, the Biden-Harris Administration has affirmed
its deep respect for Tribes and Native communities.

During the Summit, the Biden-Harris Administration will also release a
comprehensive 2024 Progress Report for Tribal Nations, which outlines
historic progress the Administration has made over the past year to
deliver on the President’s commitment to supporting Indian Country, and
to address the top concerns of Tribal communities.

New Administration-wide actions include:

**<u>Healing from the Federal Indian Boarding School Era</u>**

-   **Designating the Carlisle Federal Indian Boarding School National
    Monument**. By establishing a new national monument at the site of
    the former Carlisle Federal Indian Industrial School, President
    Biden is acknowledging the Federal Indian boarding school era,
    advancing healing, and commemorating the resilience of Tribal
    Nations and Indigenous Peoples. For more than 150 years, the Federal
    Government removed American Indian, Alaska Native, and Native
    Hawaiian children from their families, Tribes, and homelands – often
    by force or coercion – and transported them to institutions that
    aimed to strip them of their languages, religions, and cultures.

From 1879 to when it ceased operations in 1918, the Carlisle School
subjected 7,800 children from more than 140 Indian Tribes (including
Alaska Native Villages) to its coercive education program. The school
served as a model for the Federal Indian boarding school system, which
operated throughout the early 19th through mid-20th centuries and
comprised over 400 other federally-supported, off-reservation schools
across the United States, as well as hundreds of similar institutions
operated by religious organizations. At least 973 Native children died
in these schools according to available federal records, and the
children who survived often endured physical, emotional, and sexual
abuse. At Carlisle, school officials forced children to cut their hair,
prohibited them from speaking their Native languages, and subjected them
to harsh labor.

The new national monument will be located in Carlisle, Pennsylvania on
24.5 acres of what is now the U.S. Army’s Carlisle Barracks, one of the
nation’s oldest military installations. The monument boundary
encompasses the historic buildings and structures that made up the
campus of the Carlisle School – including School Road Gateposts that
were built by the labor of Native American children and youth at the
school. The gateposts still stand today as a marker of the removal and
separation of children from their families, Tribes, and homelands. The
monument will be cooperatively managed by the National Park Service and
the U.S. Army. The National Park Service, in coordination with the Army,
will engage Tribal Nations and the Native Hawaiian Community in
development of the management plan and ongoing management of the
monument, and provide for Tribal consultation with any federally
recognized Tribe with historical connections to any part of the Federal
Indian boarding school system to help ensure the national monument tells
the full story of this site, similar institutions, and the broader
federal Indian boarding school era.

With the establishment of the new national monument, the Army will now
transfer administrative jurisdiction over the gateposts to the National
Park Service, and the agencies will sign a memorandum of understanding
to guide their cooperative management of the national monument. The
Carlisle Federal Indian Boarding School National Monument is President
Biden’s twelfth use of the Antiquities Act.

**<u>Promoting Native Languages</u>**

-   **10-Year Native Language Revitalization Plan.** While there were
    once hundreds of thriving Native languages in the U.S., over three
    quarters of the remaining 190 languages spoken today are now
    endangered. Studies indicate fewer than 20 languages will exist by
    2050 if no action is taken. The Departments of the Interior,
    Education, and Health and Human Services and the White House Council
    on Native American Affairs are publishing a 10-year National Plan on
    Native Language Revitalization (Plan) that calls for strategic
    actions to address the United States government’s historic role in
    the loss of Native languages across the lower 48 states, Alaska, and
    Hawai’i. The Plan lays out a long-term, all-of-government strategy
    that works with Tribal Nations, the Native Hawaiian Community, urban
    Native communities, Native language experts, schools, community
    organizations, and the philanthropic sector for the protection,
    preservation, reclamation and revitalization of Native languages.
    The Plan’s proposals would: 1) expand access to immersion language
    environments, 2) support community-led revitalization efforts,
    and 3) develop, grow and sustain Native language support networks.
    The Plan also recommends ways to address a chronic under-investment
    in Native language revitalization to date.

**<u>Meeting the Federal Trust Responsibility</u>**

-   **OMB Guidance on Unmet Federal Obligations.** OMB’s guidance
    furthers the goals of Executive Order 14112, which seeks to reform
    Federal funding to be more consistent with Tribal self-determination
    and sovereignty. The new guidance supports a comprehensive effort to
    address chronic underfunding of Tribal programs by calculating unmet
    federal obligations and developing actionable recommendations for
    closing funding gaps.

**<u>Promoting Understanding of Tribal Consultation and Tribal Treaty
Rights and Reserved Rights</u>**

-   **Trainings for Federal Employees on Tribal Consultation and Tribal
    Treaty and Reserved Rights. The Department of the Interior, Office
    of Personnel Management, and the Office of Management and Budget, in
    coordination with the White House Council on Native American
    Affairs, are releasing trainings available to Federal employees on
    Tribal consultation and Tribal Treaty and Reserved Rights. These
    trainings reflect years of Tribal leader input** and will assist
    federal employees across the government in understanding their role
    in supporting Tribal consultation and the federal trust
    responsibility to Tribes**.  
    **

**<u>Reforming Federal Processes for Tribal Nations</u>**

-   **FEMA Tribal Declarations Interim Guidance.** New
    [guidance](https://www.fema.gov/disaster/how-declared-tribal-nations)
    will streamline the process for Tribal Nations seeking disaster
    declarations, including reducing minimum damage thresholds,
    enhancing cost-sharing adjustments, and expanding assistance for
    Tribal members.

<!-- -->

-   **HHS Tribal Data Access Policy**. The new policy establishes clear
    guidelines and timelines for Tribes and Tribal Epidemiology Centers
    (TECs) to access critical health data, advancing public health
    outcomes and addressing data disparities.

**<u>Supporting Tribes and Other Communities Considering Voluntary
Relocation</u>**

-   **Opportunities for Federal Support of Community-Driven Relocation
    Report.** The Community-Driven Relocation Subcommittee of the
    National Climate Task Force is releasing the *Opportunities for
    Federal Support of Community-Driven Relocation*
    [report](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/12/Opportunities-for-Federal-Support-of-Community-Driven-Relocation-vF.pdf),
    which provides background on voluntary community-driven relocation
    to avoid climate- and pollution-related hazards, an overview of the
    current Federal legal and programmatic landscape, and next steps
    that are available for Federal agencies to support Tribes and other
    communities contemplating relocation due to severe environmental
    impact and hazards from climate change. The report recognizes the
    disproportionate climate-related risks that Tribal communities face
    and the leadership that Tribal communities have already demonstrated
    in relocating their communities and partnering with Federal, State,
    and local governments as well as other partners. An accompanying
    [resource
    guide](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/12/Community-Driven-Relocation_Guide-to-Federal-Programs-and-Resources_vF.pdf)
    will help Tribes and communities identify specific Federal agencies,
    and programs to support their efforts.

These announcements build upon historic actions by the Biden-Harris
Administration to support Tribal Nations and Native communities, which
include:

-   Historic investments in Tribal Nations, including $32 billion in the
    American Rescue Plan, the largest direct federal investment to
    Tribal Nations in history; $13 billion in the Bipartisan
    Infrastructure Law; and over $700 million in the Inflation Reduction
    Act.

<!-- -->

-   Signing two Presidential Memoranda [directing federal agencies to
    submit plans of action to implement meaningful consultation with
    Tribal
    Nations](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/26/memorandum-on-tribal-consultation-and-strengthening-nation-to-nation-relationships/) and [establishing
    uniform standards for Tribal
    Consultation](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/11/30/memorandum-on-uniform-standards-for-tribal-consultation/#:~:text=The%20Presidential%20Memorandum%20of%20January,directives%20of%20Executive%20Order%2013175.).

<!-- -->

-   Historic appointments of Native Americans across the Administration,
    including Secretary of the Interior Deb Haaland and over 80 Native
    Americans in senior Administration roles.

<!-- -->

-   Re-launching the Tribal Nations Summit and re-establishing
    the [White House Council on Native American
    Affairs](https://www.bia.gov/whcnaa) that serves to foster an
    all-of-government approach to coordinating and developing Tribal
    policy.

<!-- -->

-   Signing an [Executive Order to improve public safety and criminal
    justice and address the crisis of Missing and Murdered Indigenous
    People
    (MMIP)](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/11/15/executive-order-on-improving-public-safety-and-criminal-justice-for-native-americans-and-addressing-the-crisis-of-missing-or-murdered-indigenous-people/) by
    directing agencies to prioritize addressing this crisis and
    assessing what more can be accomplished.  
-   Signing an Executive Order to improve educational outcomes and
    career opportunities for Native American students by focusing on
    systemic barriers, increasing access to high-quality education, and
    fostering economic empowerment.

<!-- -->

-   Securing the first-ever advance appropriations for the Indian Health
    Service, which provides long-overdue funding stability and
    predictability for IHS.

<!-- -->

-   Signing a [Presidential Memorandum to Restore Healthy and Abundant
    Native Fish Populations in the Columbia
    River](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/09/27/memorandum-on-restoring-healthy-and-abundant-salmon-steelhead-and-other-native-fish-populations-in-the-columbia-river-basin/),
    which supports cultural and spiritual practices, commerce, and
    economic growth for Tribes.

<!-- -->

-   Authoring the first-of-its-kind government-wide [Indigenous
    Knowledge
    guidance](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/12/OSTP-CEQ-IK-Guidance.pdf)
    that assists federal agencies in recognizing and including
    Indigenous Knowledge in Federal research, policy, and decision
    making.

<!-- -->

-   Restoring protections for the [Grand
    Staircase-Escalante](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/10/08/a-proclamation-on-grand-staircase-escalante-national-monument/) and [Bear
    Ears](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/10/08/a-proclamation-on-bears-ears-national-monument/) National
    Monuments in Utah, and designating and expanding the following
    national monuments that hold significance to Tribal Nations: Avi Kwa
    Ame in Nevada; [Castner
    Range](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/21/fact-sheet-president-biden-designates-castner-range-national-monument/) in
    Texas; [Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni Ancestral Footprints of the Grand
    Canyon](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/08/08/fact-sheet-president-biden-designates-baaj-nwaavjo-itah-kukveni-ancestral-footprints-of-the-grand-canyon-national-monument/) in
    Arizona; and [Berryessa Snow Mountain and San Gabriel Mountains
    National
    Monument](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/02/fact-sheet-president-biden-expands-san-gabriel-mountains-national-monument-and-berryessa-snow-mountain-national-monument/)s
    in California.

<!-- -->

-   Increasing Tribal Co-Stewardship of Lands and Waters through
    historic co-stewardship agreements. During the Biden-Harris
    Administration, the Departments of the Interior, Agriculture and
    Commerce have signed 400 co-stewardship agreements with Tribes,
    Alaska Native Corporations, and consortiums.

\###
