---
date: '2024-12-12'
modified_time: 2024-12-11 19:56:48-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-12 05:15:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/12/12/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-clemency-for-nearly-1500-americans/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Announces Clemency for Nearly 1,500\_Americans"
---
 
*Today’s announcement will commute the sentences of close to 1,500
individuals who were placed on home confinement and will pardon 39
individuals convicted of non-violent crimes*

Today, President Biden announced that he is granting clemency to nearly
1,500 Americans – the most ever in a single day – who have shown
successful rehabilitation and a strong commitment to making their
communities safer. The President is commuting the sentences of close to
1,500 individuals who were placed on home confinement during the
COVID-19 pandemic and who have successfully reintegrated into their
families and communities. He is also pardoning 39 individuals who were
convicted of non-violent crimes. These actions represent the largest
single-day grant of clemency in modern history.

Together, these actions build on the President’s record of criminal
justice reform to help reunite families, strengthen communities, and
reintegrate individuals back into society. The President has issued more
sentence commutations at this point in his presidency than any of his
recent predecessors at the same point in their first terms. He is also
the first President ever to issue categorical pardons to individuals
convicted of simple use and possession of marijuana, and to former
LGBTQI+ service members convicted of private conduct because of their
sexual orientation. In the coming weeks, the President will take
additional steps to provide meaningful second chances and continue to
review additional pardons and commutations.

Americans receiving relief today include:

-   A decorated military veteran and pilot who spends much of his time
    helping his fellow church members who are in poor health or unable
    to perform strenuous tasks;

<!-- -->

-   A nurse who has led emergency response for several natural disasters
    and who helped spearhead vaccination efforts during the COVID-19
    pandemic; and

<!-- -->

-   An addiction counselor who volunteers his time to help young people
    find their purpose, make better choices, and refrain from
    destructive behaviors and gang involvement.

As the President has said, the United States is a nation of second
chances. The President recognizes how the clemency power can advance
equal justice under law and remedy harms caused by practices of the
past.

The nearly 1,500 individuals who received commutations today have been
serving their sentences at home for *at least* one year under the
COVID-era CARES Act. These Americans have been reunited with their
families and shown their commitment to rehabilitation by securing
employment and advancing their education. The 39 individuals receiving
pardons today were convicted of non-violent crimes, including drug
offenses, and have turned their lives around. These individuals are
parents, veterans, health care professionals, teachers, advocates, and
engaged members of their communities. Many of them have used their
experiences in the criminal justice system to inspire and encourage
others.

**<u>Individual Clemency Actions Throughout the Biden-Harris
Administration</u>**

The President is intent on granting clemency to individuals convicted of
non-violent crimes who were sentenced under outdated laws, policies, and
practices that left them with longer sentences than if the individuals
were sentenced today.

To address these injustices, President Biden has taken several bold
clemency actions throughout his Administration, including:

-   In April 2022, the President granted clemency to individuals with
    various drug-related offenses and some individuals on CARES Act home
    confinement. In total, he granted three pardons and 75
    commutations.  
      
-   In December 2022, the President granted clemency to recipients with
    various drug- and alcohol-related offenses. In total, he granted six
    pardons.  
      
-   In April 2023, the President granted clemency to recipients on CARES
    Act home confinement. In total, he granted 31 commutations.  
      
-   In December 2023 and April 2024, the President granted clemency to
    individuals sentenced for non-violent drug offenses. In total, he
    granted 11 pardons and 16 commutations.  
      

These individual actions have helped to transform these individuals’
lives and positively impact their communities. Federal convictions make
it difficult to secure housing, jobs, educational opportunities,
benefits, and health care; all essential to living a healthy and
productive life. Through his use of the clemency power, President Biden
has taken steps to unlock doors of opportunity that would have otherwise
remained closed to these recipients, who deserve a second chance.  
  

**<u>Categorical Clemency Actions throughout the Biden-Harris
Administration</u>**

In addition to these individual clemency actions, President Biden has
issued a number of categorical pardons to certain groups of people. The
President has used categorical clemency more than any of his
predecessors, which has allowed him to widely and systemically respond
to historic injustices. His bold and unprecedented categorical actions,
broadly outlined below, include the following:

-   In October 2022, the President issued a full, complete, and
    unconditional categorical pardon for the offense of simple
    possession of marijuana.  
      
-   In December 2023, the President issued another proclamation that
    expanded earlier relief for the offenses of simple possession of
    marijuana, attempted simple possession of marijuana, or use of
    marijuana, regardless of whether the individual had been charged
    with or prosecuted for the offenses on or before the date of the
    proclamation.   
      
-   In June 2024, the President issued a full, complete, and
    unconditional categorical pardons to certain former military service
    persons convicted of offenses based on their sexual orientation,
    specifically unaggravated offenses based on consensual, private
    conduct with persons age 18 and older occurring between May 31,
    1951, and December 26, 2013, as well as attempts, conspiracies, or
    solicitations of such conduct.

 The President’s categorical approach to clemency has also inspired
leaders across the country to take similar action. Over ten states and
localities, including Maryland and Massachusetts, have issued
categorical clemency for marijuana convictions, impacting hundreds of
thousands of people and allowing individuals to move past their
convictions and move on with their daily lives.

While today’s announcement marks important progress, there is more to
come. President Biden will continue to review clemency petitions and
deliver criminal justice reform in a manner that advances equity and
justice, promotes public safety, supports rehabilitation and reentry,
and provides meaningful second chances.

\###
