---
date: '2024-12-12'
published_time: 2024-12-12 15:29:41-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/12/12/biden-harris-administration-releases-first-ever-u-s-national-strategy-to-counter-islamophobia-and-anti-arab-hate/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Releases First-Ever U.S. National Strategy\
  \ to Counter Islamophobia and Anti-Arab\_Hate"
---
 
Today, the White House is releasing the first-ever [U.S. National
Strategy to Counter Islamophobia and Anti-Arab
Hate](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/12/National-Strategy-Doc.pdf).
The Strategy was developed through a whole-of-government collaboration
with a broad range of civil society partners to describe and address the
bias, discrimination, and threats Muslim and Arab Americans have long
faced. Over the past year, this initiative has become even more
important as threats against American Muslim and Arab communities have
spiked. In October 2023, six-year old Wadee Alfayoumi, an American
Muslim boy of Palestinian descent, was viciously killed in his home in
Illinois and over the last year there have been other grievous attacks
on Muslim and Arab Americans.

The Strategy contains more than 100 Executive Branch Actions and more
than 100 Calls to Action to every sector of society to prevent and
address such violent attacks and to ensure that Muslim and Arab
Americans enjoy the liberties and opportunities that are the bedrock of
our country. With this initiative, we are creating a path for progress,
in partnership with all levels of government, civil society, and the
private sector, both now and over the long term.

In December 2022, when President Biden established an interagency group
to increase and better coordinate efforts to counter Antisemitism,
Islamophobia, and related forms of bias and discrimination, work began
on this Strategy. In 2023, the Biden-Harris Administration released the
first-ever National Strategy to Combat Antisemitism and announced the
development of the first-ever National Strategy to Counter Islamophobia
and Anti-Arab Hate. This latest strategy has four priorities:

**Increase awareness of hatred against Muslims and Arabs and broaden
recognition of these communities’ heritages.** Muslims and Arab
Americans have helped build our country since its founding, but they
have also routinely experienced hate, discrimination, and bias due to
baseless stereotypes, fearmongering, and prejudice. While individuals
have sometimes been targeted because they are thought to be Muslim, it
is also crucial to recognize that Arabs are routinely targeted simply
for being who they are. Through new data collection and innovative
educational efforts, the Administration is increasing awareness of these
forms of hate as well of the proud heritages of Muslim and Arab
Americans.      

**Improve safety and security for Muslims and Arabs.** Everyone deserves
to live their lives without fear of violence, harassment, or
discrimination. The Strategy addresses the targeting of Muslim and Arab
communities, including through unprecedented investments in
strengthening the security of nonprofits and increased efforts to ensure
easier access to those funds; correction of discriminatory travel
restrictions; and new tools to address transnational repression, doxing,
swatting, and hoax threats. It also seeks to reduce trust deficits
between government and community members such as by sharing successful
practices of engaging Muslim and Arab Americans in the reporting of hate
crimes. The Strategy recognizes our utmost duty to protect the nation
from terrorist threats and attacks while safeguarding everyone’s civil
rights and civil liberties.

**Tackle discrimination against Muslims and Arabs and appropriately
accommodate their religious practices.** Muslim and Arab Americans have
long faced discrimination in settings such as education, employment,
public accommodations, land use, housing, health care, and access to
financial services. More agencies are making it clear that
discrimination against Muslim and Arab Americans in federally funded
activities is illegal, and the Administration has instituted new
practices to accommodate religion and produced a wide range of resources
and trainings on nondiscrimination and religious freedom.

**Continue to build cross-community solidarity and collective action to
counter hate.** Threats to one community must be treated as threats to
all. Increasing cross-community collaboration  continues to be a key
part of Administration efforts to protect the safety of all Americans,
including through new partnerships that build solidarity among
communities of diverse faiths and beliefs.

We urge our state, local, and international counterparts, as well as the
nongovernmental sector, to pursue similar initiatives that seek to build
greater unity by recognizing our common humanity, affirming our shared
values and history, and embracing equal justice, liberty, and security
for all.

\###
