---
date: '2024-12-23'
modified_time: 2024-12-22 21:52:27-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-23 05:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/12/23/fact-sheet-president-biden-takes-action-to-protect-american-workers-and-businesses-from-chinas-unfair-trade-practices-in-the-semiconductor-sector/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Takes Action to Protect American Workers and\
  \ Businesses from China\u2019s Unfair Trade Practices in the Semiconductor\_Sector"
---
 
A resilient and secure supply of foundational semiconductors is critical
to U.S. national and economic security.  These semiconductors are
essential to key sectors of the U.S. economy, powering cars, medical
devices, critical infrastructure, key aerospace and defense systems, and
the goods and services we rely on every day.

The People’s Republic of China (PRC) routinely engages in non-market
policies and practices, as well as industrial targeting, of the
semiconductor industry that enables PRC companies to significantly harm
competition and create dangerous supply chain dependencies in
foundational semiconductors.  

Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is taking additional action to
protect American workers and businesses from the PRC’s unfair trade
practices in the semiconductor sector and support a healthy domestic
industry for foundational semiconductors. 

These actions include:

**Launching a Section 301 investigation to examine the PRC’s targeting
of foundational semiconductors.**

The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative is launching a Section 301
investigation to examine the PRC’s targeting of foundational
semiconductors (also known as legacy or mature node chips) for dominance
and the impact on the U.S. economy.

In addition, the investigation will initially assess the impact of the
PRC’s acts, policies, and practices on the production of silicon carbide
substrates or other wafers used as inputs into semiconductor
fabrication.

PRC semiconductors often enter the U.S. market as a component of
finished goods. This Section 301 investigation will examine a broad
range of the PRC’s non-market acts, policies, and practices with respect
to the semiconductor sector, including to the extent these
semiconductors are incorporated as components into downstream products
for critical industries like defense, automotive, medical devices,
aerospace, telecommunications, and power generation and the electrical
grid. 

**Awarding and catalyzing billions of dollars in semiconductor
manufacturing projects across the country.**

The Biden-Harris Administration has championed efforts to ensure more
chips are made in America by American workers, in particular through
CHIPS and Science Act funding, which allocates at least $2 billion for
mature semiconductors.  This was a key part of President Biden’s vision
for renewing American economic leadership and a vibrant American
industrial base.

The United States is investing across the semiconductor supply
chain—including the upstream materials critical to chip manufacturing
such as silicon carbide and wafers.  To date, the Department of Commerce
has catalyzed billions of dollars in private sector investments that
will serve the American auto and defense industries, including the Texas
Instruments projects in Texas and Utah, the GlobalFoundries projects in
Vermont and New York, and the Bosch project in California.  Many of
these investments also include supply agreements with customers across
critical infrastructure industries to maximize the predictability,
volume, and quality of domestically manufactured chips needed to power
complex technology.  These investments are compounded and sustained by
this Administration’s 48D Advanced Manufacturing Investment Credit,
which will provide up to a 25% tax incentive for the manufacturing of
semiconductors, semiconductor manufacturing equipment, and wafer
production.

**Reducing national security risks in federal supply chains.**

Semiconductors are key components of U.S. critical infrastructure that
have many military applications. It is vital that federal agencies
procure secure and trusted chips. 

To clean up federal procurement of semiconductors, the Biden-Harris
Administration is:

-   Implementing a statutory provision in the James M. Inhofe National
    Defense Authorization Act for FY 2023 that prohibits executive
    agencies from procuring or obtaining products and services that
    include chips from certain Chinese fabs and other entities of
    concern.
-   Releasing a [Request for
    Information](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/omb/briefing-room/2024/12/10/biden-harris-administration-seeks-input-on-strengthening-domestic-supply-chains-for-american-made-semiconductors-through-federal-procurement/)
    (RFI) to gauge the best ways for government contractors to scale up
    their use of domestically manufactured chips, particularly for
    critical infrastructure.  The RFI intends to solicit commercial
    ideas from industry that may inform future policymaking in support
    of the government-wide effort to leverage existing manufacturing
    capacity.
-   Issuing guidance to help the Federal Government – the world’s
    largest buyer – organize its demand for domestic semiconductors so
    that agencies can mitigate the risk posed by undue dependence on
    foreign manufacturing, limited competition, and possible higher
    manufacturing costs.  This effort includes agencies developing
    strategies to dual or multiple source semiconductors, increasing
    transparency for critical infrastructure supply chains, and
    providing the government’s demand for the products and services that
    use these chips.

**Prioritizing supply chain resilience and bolstering our toolkit to
address non-market policies and practices.**

President Biden made supply chain resilience a Day One priority in his
Administration.  The first-ever U.S. Government Quadrennial Supply Chain
Review, published on December 19, provides an in-depth assessment of the
United States’ critical supply chains, actions taken over the last four
years to make each supply chain more resilient, and necessary steps to
increase U.S. resilience in the future. 

The Review includes a comprehensive strategy to respond to non-market
policies and practices because they pose a significant challenge in
critical industries covered in the supply chain report.  The strategy
details the types of comprehensive action necessary to combat non-market
policies and practices, including procurement policies. 

**Working with our partners around the world to strengthen cooperation
on semiconductor supply chains and address shared concerns about China’s
unfair practices.**

Semiconductor supply chains are critical not only to the United States
but to all of our allies and partners.  The Biden-Harris Administration
has closely consulted with allies and partners on promoting economic
resilience and addressing the PRC’s non-market practices in the
semiconductor supply chain, including through the following efforts:

-   The State Department launched the CHIPS and Science Act’s
    International Technology Security and Innovation (ITSI) Fund, which
    has thus far partnered with eight countries – Costa Rica, Panama,
    Vietnam, Indonesia, India, Kenya, the Philippines, and Mexico – to
    promote semiconductor supply chain development, security, and
    diversification.
-   The Department of Commerce announced the Indo-Pacific Economic
    Framework for Prosperity (IPEF) Agreement Relating to Supply Chain
    Resilience with 13 diverse partner countries across the
    Indo-Pacific, led by the United States, to coordinate more resilient
    supply chains for semiconductors and other industries.
-   Within the G7, the United States has championed efforts to bolster
    economic resilience and address harmful market distortions and
    global excess capacity in key sectors resulting from non-market
    policies and practices.   This led to the establishment of
    mechanisms to jointly monitor and respond to these detrimental
    practices, including in the semiconductor sector.  

President Biden recognizes the benefits for our workers and businesses
from strong alliances and a rules-based international trade system based
on fair competition.  The Biden-Harris Administration will continue to
collaborate with allies and partners on this critical issue in the
coming days and weeks.  

\###
