---
date: '2024-12-15'
modified_time: 2024-12-16 21:52:47-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-15 12:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/12/15/fact-sheet-progress-by-biden-harris-good-jobs-task-force/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Progress by Biden-\u2060Harris Good Jobs Task\_Force"
---
 
Today, the White House is releasing new data illustrating the
transformative impact the Biden-Harris Investing in America agenda has
already had in creating good jobs, especially union jobs, that expand
the power of the American worker.

As the Investing in America agenda spurs record levels of job
creation—particularly in construction, clean energy, and
manufacturing—the Biden-Harris Administration has focused on ensuring
federal funds continue to promote good-paying, high-quality jobs. In
September, President Biden signed an [Executive
Order](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/06/fact-sheet-days-after-labor-day-biden-harris-administration-issues-executive-order-to-promote-good-jobs-through-investing-in-america-agenda/)
calling on agencies to embed high-road labor standards and best
practices across Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, CHIPS and Science, and
Inflation Reduction Act clean energy programs.

The Good Jobs Task Force, a group of federal leaders created by the
President’s Executive Order, analyzed more than 80 programs as part of
its work drawing a government-wide blueprint for expanding job quality
through federal investments.

**The review found agencies and their partners in the private and public
sector have made significant, measurable progress towards creating and
improving access to good jobs—including union jobs—which are leading to
concrete improvements in workers’ lives**

**<u>Better Wages through More Union Jobs</u>**

The Biden-Harris Administration invested billions of dollars in long
needed infrastructure projects like fixing roads and bridges, upgrading
ports and expanding airports, and building manufacturing facilities.
$84B of these construction projects are covered by a union contract
providing good paying jobs with benefits available to all Americans, not
just those with a four-year college degree.President Biden and Vice
President Harris are proud to represent the most pro-union
Administration in American history.

**Under the Biden-Harris Investing in America agenda, more than 600
construction projects have collective bargaining agreements in place or
in negotiation**. These pre-hire agreements, known as project labor
agreements, are used to set family-sustaining wages and benefits on
construction projects. They can also help open career pathways through
registered apprenticeship, the gold standard for training workers on the
job.

**This is also true in manufacturing: Because of job quality priorities,
more than 100 federal investments are in manufacturing and clean energy
projects covered by collective bargaining agreements.**

100% of the announced awards through Domestic Manufacturing Conversion
Grants, over 75% of total funding awarded through the Grid Resilience
and Innovation Partnership (GRIP) Program, and 70% of total funding
awarded through the Battery Materials Processing and Battery
Manufacturing and Recycling grants, are going to workplaces with
Collective Bargaining Agreements

By promoting these agreements, the Biden-Harris Administration has had a
transformative impact on workers’ lives.

**<u>Promoting Paths to the Middle Class and Expanding Participation in
the Workforce</u>**

**More than 300 projects, representing an investment of $47 billion from
across the U.S. government, provide workers with services like
transportation and child care—the types of supportive services that
allow workers to get and retain good jobs.** This is especially true of
lower-income and underserved populations in areas where there are
limited, or no, child care or transportation options.

**Additionally, this Administration has invested over $46 billion in
projects that support registered apprenticeship programs.** These
programs make good jobs available to all Americans, not just those with
a four-year college degree. **Since January 2021,** **over a million
individuals have started earn-while-you-learn training through
registered apprenticeship programs**, including over 100,000 women, and
historically high numbers of Black Americans, Hispanics, and Individuals
with Disabilities.

\###
