---
date: '2024-12-04'
published_time: 2024-12-04 07:40:04-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/12/04/readout-of-president-joe-bidens-meeting-with-president-hakainde-hichilema-of-zambia/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of President Joe\_Biden\u2019s Meeting with President Hakainde Hichilema\
  \ of\_Zambia"
---
 
President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. met today with President Hakainde
Hichilema of Zambia, to discuss the U.S.-Zambian relationship and our
shared commitment to economic and democratic progress. The two leaders
discussed the Lobito Trans-Africa Corridor and the new rail line from
the Angola border into Zambia. They discussed how these investments in
infrastructure — including through a new $491 million Millennium
Challenge Corporation compact with the Government of Zambia in which the
United States will invest $458 million and Zambia will commit $33
million — will help catalyze sustainable and inclusive economic growth
for the people of Zambia, lower the cost of transporting goods to
regional and global markets, and create an incredible legacy for
generations to come. They affirmed the need to ensure conditions are in
place to attract private sector investments in Zambia, including a
conviction that strong, resilient democracies are essential to create
quality jobs and inclusive economic growth. The presidents underscored
their conviction that countries should not be held back from investing
in their development by the need to service unsustainably high debt, and
together committed to continue advocating for reform.

\###
