---
date: '2024-12-06'
modified_time: 2024-12-06 17:23:08-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-06 17:23:07-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/12/06/letter-to-the-speaker-of-the-house-and-president-pro-tempore-of-the-senate-regarding-the-war-powers-report-5/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Letter to the Speaker of the House and President Pro Tempore of the Senate\
  \ Regarding the War Powers\_Report"
---
 
Dear Mr. Speaker:   (Dear Madam President:)

I am providing this supplemental consolidated report, prepared by my
Administration and consistent with the War Powers Resolution (Public Law
93-148), as part of my efforts to keep the Congress informed about
deployments of United States Armed Forces equipped for combat.

MILITARY OPERATIONS IN SUPPORT OF UNITED STATES COUNTERTERRORISM EFFORTS

In furtherance of counterterrorism efforts, the United States continues
to work with partners around the globe, with a particular focus on the
United States Central and Africa Commands’ areas of responsibility.  In
this context, the United States has deployed forces to conduct
counterterrorism operations and to advise, assist, and accompany
security forces of select foreign partners on counterterrorism
operations.  In the majority of these locations, the mission of United
States military personnel is to facilitate counterterrorism operations
of foreign partner forces and does not include routine engagement in
combat.  In many of these locations, the security environment is such
that United States military personnel may be required to defend
themselves against threats or attacks, and, to that end, the United
States may deploy United States military personnel with weapons and
other appropriate equipment for force protection.  Specific information
about counterterrorism deployments to select countries is provided
below, and a classified annex to this report provides further
information.

Military Operations Conducted Pursuant to the 2001 Authorization for Use
of Military Force and in Support of Related United States
Counterterrorism Objectives

Since October 7, 2001, United States Armed Forces, including Special
Operations Forces, have conducted counterterrorism combat operations,
including against al-Qa’ida and associated forces.  Since August 2014,
these operations have included targeting the Islamic State of Iraq and
Syria (ISIS), also known as the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant
(ISIL), which was formerly known as al-Qa’ida in Iraq.  In support of
these and other overseas operations, the United States has deployed
combat-equipped forces to several locations in the United States
Central, European, Africa, Southern, and Indo-Pacific Commands’ areas of
responsibility.  Such operations and deployments have been reported
previously, consistent with the 2001 Authorization for Use of Military
Force (Public Law 107-40), the Authorization for Use of Military Force
Against Iraq Resolution of 2002 (Public Law 107-243), Public Law 93-148,
and other statutes.  These ongoing operations, which the United States
has carried out with the assistance of numerous international partners,
have been successful in seriously degrading ISIS capabilities in Syria
and Iraq.  If necessary, in response to terrorist threats, I will direct
additional measures to protect the people and interests of the United
States.  It is not possible to know at this time the precise scope or
the duration of the deployments of United States Armed Forces that are
or will be necessary to counter terrorist threats to the United States.

**Afghanistan.  **United States military personnel remain postured
outside Afghanistan to address threats to the United States homeland and
United States interests that may arise from inside Afghanistan.

**Iraq and Syria.  **As part of a comprehensive strategy to defeat ISIS,
United States Armed Forces are working by, with, and through local
partners to conduct operations against ISIS forces in Iraq and Syria and
against al-Qa’ida in Syria to limit the potential for resurgence of
these groups and to mitigate threats to the United States homeland.  A
small presence of United States Armed Forces remains in strategically
significant locations in Syria to conduct operations, in partnership
with local, vetted ground forces, to address continuing terrorist
threats emanating from Syria.  United States Armed Forces in Iraq
continue to advise, assist, and enable select elements of the Iraqi
security forces, including Iraqi Kurdish security forces.  United States
Armed Forces also provide limited support to the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization mission in Iraq.  United States Armed Forces, as part of
the Global Coalition to Defeat ISIS, remain present in Iraq at the
invitation of the Government of Iraq.

I directed United States forces to conduct discrete strikes on November
11, 2024, and on November 26, 2024, against facilities in Syria used by
Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) and affiliated militia
groups for headquarters and command and control, weapons storage,
training, logistics support, and other purposes.  These strikes followed
attacks against United States personnel and facilities in Syria that
threatened the lives of United States personnel and Coalition forces
operating alongside United States forces, and that were perpetrated by
the IRGC, affiliated militia groups, and other Iran-affiliated groups.
 I directed these discrete military actions consistent with my
responsibility to protect United States citizens both at home and abroad
and in furtherance of United States national security and foreign policy
interests, pursuant to my constitutional authority as Commander in Chief
and Chief Executive and to conduct United States foreign relations.

**Arabian Peninsula Region.  **The United States military continues to
work closely with the Republic of Yemen government and regional partner
forces to degrade the terrorist threat posed by al-Qa’ida in the Arabian
Peninsula and ISIS. 

Since at least November 2023, Yemen-based Houthi militants have engaged
in a series of attacks against United States military forces, including
ships and aircraft, and against maritime commercial shipping operating
in the Red Sea, the Bab al-Mandeb Strait, and the Gulf of Aden.  These
attacks have posed a threat to the safety of United States forces and
commercial ships and their crews, regional political and economic
stability, and navigational rights and freedoms.  The Houthi militants
continue to pose a threat of future attacks against United States forces
and military vessels and against other maritime traffic in the region. 
In response, United States forces have conducted discrete strikes
against facilities, locations, and equipment in Yemen that support and
facilitate Houthi militants’ attacks in the Red Sea region.  These
strikes protect and defend our personnel and assets, and degrade and
disrupt the ability of the Houthi militants to carry out future attacks
against the United States and against vessels operating in the Red Sea
region that could further destabilize the region and threaten United
States strategic interests.  The strikes were conducted in a manner
designed to limit the risk of escalation and avoid civilian casualties.

United States Armed Forces are deployed to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
to protect United States forces and interests in the region against
hostile action by Iran and Iran-backed groups.  These forces, operating
in coordination with the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia,
provide air and missile defense capabilities and support the operation
of United States military aircraft.  The total number of United States
forces in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is approximately 2,027.

**Jordan.  **At the request of the Government of Jordan, approximately
3,942 United States military personnel are deployed to Jordan to support
Defeat-ISIS operations, to enhance Jordan’s security, and to promote
regional stability.

**Lebanon.  **At the request of the Government of Lebanon, approximately
99 United States military personnel are deployed to Lebanon to enhance
the government’s counterterrorism capabilities, to support the
counterterrorism operations of Lebanese security forces, and to protect
United States interests in the country.  The increase of approximately
24 personnel is attributable to the heightened hostilities between
Israel and Hezbollah, leading to increasing instability.  Accordingly, a
small number of personnel were deployed to protect United States
diplomatic facilities and diplomatic personnel, and to ensure rapid
capability to respond to crisis.

**Turkey.  **United States Armed Forces remain deployed to Turkey, at
the Turkish government’s request, to support Defeat-ISIS operations and
to enhance Turkey’s security.

**East Africa Region.  **United States Armed Forces continue to counter
the terrorist threat posed by ISIS and al-Shabaab, an associated force
of al-Qa’ida.  Since the last periodic report, United States Armed
Forces have conducted one airstrike in Somalia against al-Shabaab in
defense of our Somali partner forces.  United States Armed Forces remain
prepared to conduct airstrikes in Somalia against ISIS and al-Shabaab
terrorists.  United States military personnel conduct periodic
engagements in Somalia to train, advise, and assist regional forces,
including Somali and African Union Transition Mission in Somalia forces,
in connection with counterterrorism operations.  United States military
personnel are deployed to Kenya to support counterterrorism operations
in East Africa.  United States military personnel continue to partner
with the Government of Djibouti, which has permitted use of Djiboutian
territory for basing of United States Armed Forces.  United States
military personnel remain deployed to Djibouti, including for purposes
of staging for counterterrorism and counter-piracy operations in the
vicinity of the Horn of Africa and the Arabian Peninsula, and to provide
contingency support for embassy security augmentation in East Africa, as
necessary. 

**Lake Chad Basin and Sahel Region.  **OnSeptember 15, 2024, at the
request of the Government of Niger, the United States ended its limited
military presence in that country.

**Cuba.**  United States Armed Forces continue to conduct humane and
secure detention operations for detainees held at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba,
under the authority provided by Public Law 107-40, as informed by the
law of war.  There are 30 such detainees as of the date of this report.

**Philippines.  **United States military personnel deployed to the
Philippines are providing support to the counterterrorism operations of
the armed forces of the Philippines.

MILITARY FORCES IN DEFENSE OF ISRAEL

As reported on October 15, 2024, I directed the deployment of a Terminal
High Altitude Air Defense (THAAD) system and United States forces
capable of operating this system to Israel.  Although these forces are
equipped for combat, THAAD is a defensive system, and I directed the
deployment of it and accompanying United States forces for the purpose
of protecting both Israel and United States persons and property. 

MILITARY OPERATIONS IN EGYPT IN SUPPORT OF THE MULTINATIONAL FORCE AND
OBSERVERS

Approximately 378 United States military personnel are assigned to or
are supporting the United States contingent of the Multinational Force
and Observers, which have been present in Egypt since 1981.

UNITED STATES AND NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION OPERATIONS IN
KOSOVO

The United States continues to contribute forces to the Kosovo Force
(KFOR), led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization in cooperation
with local authorities, bilateral partners, and international
institutions, to deter renewed hostilities in Kosovo.  Approximately 403
United States military personnel are among KFOR’s approximately 4,500
personnel.

UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES IN NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION
COUNTRIES

Approximately 80,000 United States Armed Forces personnel are assigned
or deployed to North Atlantic Treaty Organization countries in Europe,
including those deployed to reassure our allies and to deter further
Russian aggression.

I have directed the participation of United States Armed Forces in all
of the above-described operations pursuant to my constitutional and
statutory authority as Commander in Chief and as Chief Executive
(including the authority to carry out Public Law 107-40, Public Law
107-243, and other statutes), as well as my constitutional and statutory
authority to conduct the foreign relations of the United States.
 Officials of my Administration and I communicate regularly with
congressional leadership, relevant congressional committees, and other
Members of Congress with regard to these deployments, and we will
continue to do so.

                              Sincerely,

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
