---
date: '2024-12-16'
modified_time: 2024-12-15 21:25:31-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-16 05:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/12/16/fact-sheet-president-biden-designates-frances-perkins-national-monument/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Designates Frances Perkins National\_Monument"
---
 
*Action Uplifts Women’s History by Honoring the First Woman Cabinet
Secretary, Longest-Serving Secretary of Labor, and a Key Architect of
the New Deal*

Today President Biden will sign a proclamation establishing the Frances
Perkins National Monument in Newcastle, Maine, to honor the historic
contributions of America’s first woman Cabinet Secretary and the
longest-serving Secretary of Labor.

Frances Perkins was the leading architect behind the New Deal and led
many labor and economic reforms that continue to benefit Americans
today. During her 12 years as Secretary of Labor under President
Franklin D. Roosevelt, she envisioned and helped create Social Security;
helped millions of Americans get back to work during the Great
Depression; fought for the right of workers to organize and bargain
collectively; and established the minimum wage, overtime pay,
prohibitions on child labor, and unemployment insurance.

During a visit to the Department of Labor’s Frances Perkins Building,
President Biden will showcase Frances Perkins’s foundational legacy,
which civil rights and women’s rights leaders have built upon to further
expand opportunities for all Americans. The President will also
highlight how his Administration has continued to stand with labor and
strengthen America’s workforce. President Biden is proud to be the most
pro-union and pro-worker president in history,
[including](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/06/fact-sheet-days-after-labor-day-biden-harris-administration-issues-executive-order-to-promote-good-jobs-through-investing-in-america-agenda/)
creating the Made in America office; requiring Project Labor Agreements
on nearly all major federal construction projects of over $35 million;
signing the Butch Lewis Act to save more than one million pensions; and
becoming the first president in history to walk a picket line.

The designation of this new national monument advances President Biden’s
March 2024 [Executive
Order](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/03/27/executive-order-on-recognizing-and-honoring-womens-history/)
to strengthen the recognition of women’s history. In addition to
establishing the Frances Perkins National Monument, today Secretary of
the Interior Deb Haaland will announce five new National Historic
Landmarks that will increase the representation of women’s history in
historic sites across America and additional new actions to advance
President Biden’s Executive Order.

**<u>Frances Perkins National Monument</u>**

At a time when few women were in leadership positions and just 13 years
after the 19th Amendment granted women the right to vote, President
Roosevelt asked Frances Perkins to become his Secretary of Labor.
Perkins told President Roosevelt that if she accepted the position, she
intended to execute an ambitious plan to protect American workers. Over
her 12 years as Secretary of Labor, Perkins accomplished nearly
everything on her list and laid the groundwork for the labor policy and
social safety net that we continue to build on today.

The new national monument boundary encompasses the 57 acres of the
Frances Perkins Homestead National Historic Landmark site in Newcastle,
Maine. The Perkins Homestead played a pivotal role in Frances Perkins’
life and was the place Perkins felt most at home. She spent her
childhood summers there, and returned frequently for respite throughout
her ground-breaking professional career.  

Owned by her family for over 270 years, the Homestead remains much as it
looked during Perkins’ lifetime. The 2.3-acre core area of the Homestead
has been donated to the National Park Service and is reserved as part of
the new monument, including the Perkins’ family home known as the brick
house, a barn and outbuilding, gardens, and part of the stone wall
surrounding the property. The remaining Homestead landscape extends from
the core area to the Damariscotta River to the east, and contains other
buildings, structures, gardens, and the paths used by Perkins and her
family throughout her life. These lands are currently owned by the
Frances Perkins Center which has been managing and preserving them, and
they will be reserved and protected as part of the national monument if
they are ever donated to the Federal Government in the future.

**<u>Advancing Women’s History and Telling a More Complete American
Story</u>**

The establishment of the Frances Perkins National Monument furthers the
Administration’s commitment to recognizing women’s contributions to our
country. TheBiden-Harris Administration has [invested more than $40
million](https://www.doi.gov/womens-history-month) to restore and
support sites that recognize and elevate the stories of women who have
shaped American history. Today, the Department of the Interior (DOI) is
announcing additional new actions that advance the President’s Executive
Order on Honoring and Recognizing Women’s History, including:

-   Secretary Haaland is announcing five new National Historic
    Landmarks, DOI’s highest recognition of a property’s historical,
    architectural, or archeological significance. These include:
    -   **The Charleston Cigar Factory** **in Charleston, South
        Carolina.** This new landmark, historically known as the
        American Cigar Company Building, will recognize the site where
        cigar factory workers – led by Black women – went on strike for
        better pay and working conditions, and against gender and racial
        discrimination on the job.
    -   **The Furies Collective House in Washington, D.C.** This new
        landmark recognizes the former home of a group of young
        activists who created a social and political community credited
        with recognizing the existence and needs of lesbians in the
        women’s movement in the early 1970s, and who published a
        newspaper focused on questions of women’s identity,
        relationships, and roles in society.
    -   **The Lucy Diggs Slowe and Mary Burrill House in Washington,
        D.C.** This new landmark includes the residence of Lucy Diggs
        Slowe, the first dean of women at Howard University, and her
        partner Mary Burrill. An advocate for educational parity between
        men and women students, Slowe helped modernize student affairs
        at Howard and other historically Black colleges and universities
        (HBCUs).
    -   **Azurest South in Petersburg, Virginia**. This new landmark is
        designed in the International Style, an architectural style
        developed in the United States and Europe in the 1920s and 1930s
        that dominated mid-20th century architecture, by Amaza Lee
        Meredith, a pioneering Black woman architect.
    -   **The Peter Hurd and Henriette Wyeth House and Studios in San
        Patricio, New Mexico.** This new landmark recognizes the home
        and workspace of 20<sup>th</sup> century Realist painter
        Henriette Wyeth.    

<!-- -->

-   The National Park Service is announcing a $500,000 grant from the
    Historic Preservation Fund to support the renovation of the **Seneca
    Falls Knitting Mill**, a part of the Seneca Falls Village Historic
    District. The Fund’s support will enable the National Women’s Hall
    of Fame to expand its programming on women’s history and restore the
    mill, which was one of the few places in Seneca Falls, New York to
    employ women during its 150 years of operation.  
-   As directed by President Biden, DOI is releasing **a** [**new
    report**](https://www.nps.gov/aboutus/upload/Executive-Order-14121-Recognizing-and-Honoring-Womens-History-Section-3a-Report.pdf)
    **on representation of women across sites of national importance,
    including National Historic Landmarks, national monuments, and
    national park sites.** The report assesses which existing federal
    sites are significant to women’s history and offers opportunities to
    improve the recognition of women’s contributions to our country
    across the National Park Service, including through the National
    Historic Landmark program.

**<u>Background on Antiquities Act Designations</u>**

President Theodore Roosevelt first used the Antiquities Act in 1906 to
designate Devils Tower National Monument in Wyoming. Since then, 18
presidents of both parties have used this authority to protect natural
and historic features in America, including the Grand Canyon, the Statue
of Liberty, the Birmingham Civil Rights National Monument, the Pullman
National Monument, and the César E. Chávez National Monument.

The Frances Perkins National Monument will be President Biden’s
13<sup>th</sup> use of the Antiquities Act and his fourth new national
monument commemorating a site that helps tell a more complete American
story. Other designations under President Biden include the creation of
the Emmett Till and Mamie Till-Mobley National Monument, the Springfield
1908 Race Riot National Monument, and the Carlisle Federal Indian
Boarding School National Monument.

\###
