---
date: '2024-12-04'
published_time: 2024-12-04 15:52:59-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/12/04/readout-of-the-2024-white-house-tribal-youth-forum/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of the 2024 White\_House Tribal Youth\_Forum"
---
 
On November 15, 2024, the Biden-Harris Administration held the Fourth
Annual White House Tribal Youth Forum.  At the Forum, over 100 Native
American youth from across the country engaged with Administration
officials on key issues impacting their communities, including food
sovereignty, climate change, mental health, and missing and murdered
Indigenous persons. Discussions touched on themes youth leadership,
preservation of culture, and destigmatizing mental illness. Youth were
also given a presentation from the White House Internship Program to
learn about opportunities available to them within the White House
Office.

The Biden-Harris Administration remains committed to strengthening the
relationship between the Federal Government and Tribal Nations to
advance opportunity for Indigenous people, which includes empowering the
future leaders of Indian Country. For the past four years the White
House Tribal Youth Forum has provided a unique opportunity for Tribal
youth to share their ideas and provide input on policy decisions that
impact their communities and future generations.

Tribal youth participants heard directly from Department of the Interior
Secretary Deb Haaland, U.S. Department of Agriculture Secretary Tom
Vilsack, Department of Health and Human Services Deputy Secretary Andrea
Palm, White House Council on Environmental Quality Chair Brenda Mallory,
White House Internship Program Associate Director Jasmin Chavez-Cruz,
Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration Deputy
Assistant Secretary Sonia Chessen, Administration for Native Americans
Deputy Commissioner Hope MacDonald Lone Tree, and Assistant Secretary
for Indian Affairs Bryan Newland.  In addition, the Forum included
senior White House officials and senior Administration officials from
the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Department of the Interior,
Department of Justice, Department of Health and Human Services, the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, the White House Council on Environmental Quality, and
the White House Domestic Policy Council.

\###

<span id="_msocom_1"></span>
