---
date: '2024-12-02'
modified_time: 2024-12-01 18:36:41-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-02 05:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/12/02/first-lady-jill-biden-announces-the-2024-white-house-holiday-theme-a-season-of-peace-and-light/
tags: statements-releases
title: "First Lady Jill\_Biden Announces the 2024 White\_House Holiday Theme: A \u201C\
  Season of Peace and\_Light\u201D"
---
 
Today, First Lady Jill Biden is announcing the 2024 White House Holiday
theme: **A “Season of Peace and Light”**

**In a welcome letter to visitors at the beginning of the commemorative
2024 White House Holiday Guidebook, the President and First Lady
write**:

“The holidays have always held a special place in our hearts, and we’ve
loved opening the doors of the People’s House wider and wider each year,
continuing the spirit of goodwill and gratitude. America’s story is your
story, and we hope you feel at home here.   
   
“As we celebrate our final holiday season here in the White House, we
are guided by the values we hold sacred: faith, family, service to our
country, kindness towards our neighbors, and the power of community and
connection.

“It has been the honor of our lives to serve as your President and First
Lady. Our hope is for the Nation to be blessed with the peace and light
of the holiday season. We wish you a Merry Christmas and Happy
Holidays.”

**At the end of the holiday guidebook, the President and First Lady
write to visitors:** “At the holidays, Americans come together every
year in fellowship and faith, reminding us that we are stronger as a
community than we are apart. The strength of our country, and the soul
of our Nation, come from you. May the promise of this “Season of Peace
and Light” guide your path forward.”

During an event at the White House later today, the First Lady will
officially unveil the holiday and seasonal decor, offer her holiday
message to the Nation, and thank the volunteers from across the country
who helped decorate the White House for the season. As part of
her [*Joining Forces* ](http://wh.gov/joiningforces)initiative to
support military families, the First Lady invited National Guard
families to be the first members of the public to experience the White
House holiday decor. As a fellow National Guard mother, Dr. Biden wanted
to show appreciation for, and honor, the special role the National Guard
plays in serving our country. The National Guard is a unique element of
the U.S. military that serves both community and country, in domestic
and foreign missions. 

  
The White House expects to welcome approximately 100,000 visitors during
the holiday season. Videos, photos, and information about the décor will
be available
on [WhiteHouse.gov/Holidays](http://whitehouse.gov/holidays).
Additionally, over the course of the holidays, a variety of interactive
viewing experiences will launch on digital platforms, allowing
individuals to engage with the White House during the holidays from
home.

**2024 Holidays at the White House, by the numbers:**

-   It takes over **300 dedicated volunteers** from across the country
    working a full week to decorate the inside and outside of the White
    House.
-   There are **83 Christmas trees** throughout the White House.
-   Approximately **9,810 feet of ribbon**, **over 28,125 ornaments**,
    and **over 2,200 doves** were used this year to decorate the White
    House.
-   Over **165,075 holiday lights** decorate the trees, garlands,
    wreaths, and displays
-   The Gingerbread White House includes **25 sheets of gingerbread**
    **dough**, **10 sheets of sugar cookie dough**, **65 pounds of
    pastillage**, **45 pounds of chocolate**, **50 pounds** **of**
    **royal icing**, **and** **10 pounds of gum paste**.

**A “Season of Peace and Light,” the 2024 White House Holiday Theme:**

Each room and design element throughout the White House holiday display
encourages guests to embrace the peace and light of the holiday season.

**The East Wing**

Guests enter the East Wing of the White House under stunning, rotating
starlight. Lush greenery and garlands adorn the East Wing Lobby,
enveloping guests in the peaceful tranquility of nature as they begin
their holiday tour of the White House.

**The Gold Star Tree**

The first Christmas tree display featured on the White House tour is
dedicated to Gold Star Families. This year’s Gold Star Tree exhibit is
constructed of six oversized and stacked stars, representing all six
branches of the military. Names of fallen service members are written on
gold star ornaments on the four accompanying Christmas trees.

The Gold Star Trees honor the heroic men and women of our Nation’s
military who have laid down their lives for our country, those who are
Missing in Action, and the families who carry on their legacies. May God
bless our troops and their families.

**The East Colonnade**

As guests proceed down the East Colonnade, they are surrounded by a
collection of bells, symbolizing the peaceful sounds of the holiday
season. Brass-colored bells suspend from the ceiling and sleigh bells
line the archways. In the East Garden Room, just before entering the
historic mansion, visitors are greeted by a three-dimensional
horse-drawn sleigh, pulling a Christmas tree decorated with bells and
lights.

**The Library**

A forest of vintage ceramic Christmas trees are featured throughout the
library, twinkling in all of the colors of the holiday season. President
Franklin Delano Roosevelt designated this room to serve as the White
House Library in 1935. This space now holds approximately 2,700 volumes
of books focusing primarily on American history and literature. A
classroom teacher for forty years, First Lady Jill Biden added
children’s books to the White House Library collection, in collaboration
with the Library of Congress.

**The Vermeil Room**

The décor of the Vermeil Room (vermeil is the French term for silver
dipped in gold) is devoted to floral displays, using a variety of
materials.  On the walls of this room are portraits of first ladies,
including Mamie Eisenhower, Claudia “Lady Bird” Johnson, and Jacqueline
Kennedy. Over sixty years ago, Mrs. Kennedy founded the White House
Historical Association to protect, preserve, and provide public access
to the rich history of the People’s House.

**The China Room**

Food is love. A baker’s bench and artisanal breads set the scene in this
room, reminding guests of the peaceful, patient, and loving process of
baking bread.

The China Room, which was first introduced as a display room by First
Lady Edith Wilson in 1917, houses tableware used by past presidential
families. Most presidents, beginning with George Washington, are
represented by either a personal or State Service of porcelain, glass,
or silver. Each piece recalls the State Dinners and celebratory meals
that have brought together world leaders, diplomats, and other White
House guests.

**Diplomatic Reception Room**

This fall, First Lady Jill Biden expanded and enhanced the public tour
of the White House. The Diplomatic Reception Room, used to welcome
foreign dignitaries, and home to President Franklin Delano Roosevelt’s
famous fireside chats, is now open to the general public for the first
time. Holiday florals and fruit are on display in this room, as a nod to
the importance of hospitality and grace to peaceful diplomacy.

**The East Room**

A reflective canopy wraps the ceiling and windows, surrounding guests in
a peaceful snowfall. Two large Christmas trees flank the center door,
with the tree bases illuminated with silhouettes of Americans holding
hands, giving movement and energy to the décor.

As the largest room in the White House, the East Room has hosted public
receptions, ceremonies, bill signings, and other memorable occasions. It
also includes Gilbert Stuart’s portrait of George Washington, which
First Lady Dolley Madison instructed workers to save in 1814 when the
White House was about to be set aflame during the War of 1812.

The East Room includes a Neapolitan crèche, or Nativity scene, with over
forty figurines, most

dating back to the eighteenth century. The crèche has been displayed
during every White House holiday season since 1967.

**The Green Room**

In the Green Room, light shines through colored glass ornaments and
prisms, reflecting beautiful hues throughout the room. Once Thomas
Jefferson’s dining room, the Green Room houses Henry Ossawa Tanner’s
painting, *Sand Dunes at Sunset, Atlantic City*. Tanner mixed actual
sand into his paint to illustrate the windswept beaches of our coasts.

**The Official White House Menorah**

Displayed just outside the Green Room, in the Cross Hall, is the
official White House Menorah, created in 2021 by the White House
Executive Residence Carpenters’ Shop. The Menorah was constructed using
wood that was removed more than seventy years ago during the Truman-era
renovation of the White House.

**The Blue Room**

The Blue Room showcases the official White House Christmas Tree. This
year’s tree is an 18½ foot Fraser Fir from North Carolina and stands
floor to ceiling, filling the oval room. Every year, the Blue Room
chandelier is removed to accommodate the Christmas tree’s full height.

The stunning tree features a light-filled, whimsical carousel, with
names of every state, territory, and the District of Columbia, showcased
around the tree’s décor. With bright lights, vivid colors, and
three-dimensional holiday candy treats, guests will gaze in wonder as
they are taken on a delightful adventure around the tree.

This year’s official White House Christmas Tree was presented to the
First Lady by David, Sam, and Jim Cartner of Cartner’s Christmas Tree
Farm in Newland, North Carolina, the 2024 Grand Champion Grower in the
National Christmas Tree Association’s annual contest.

**State Dining Room**

As part of the First Lady’s *Joining Forces* initiative to support
military families, Dr. Biden invited families of the USS Delaware and
the USS Gabrielle Giffords, two U.S. Navy vessels for which she serves
as a sponsor, to provide the colorful paper chain garlands hanging
throughout the room. The ornaments on the Christmas trees were crafted
as self-portraits by students from across the country, ensuring that
children see themselves reflected in this year’s holiday display.

**The Gingerbread White House**

A favorite for all during the holidays is the annual Gingerbread White
House. This year’s sweet creation draws inspiration from the overall
holiday décor theme of a “Season of Peace and Light.” A glowing
starburst shines over the Gingerbread White House, and the sugary
replica includes a cheerful scene of ice skaters on the South Lawn.

**The Red Room**

In the Red Room, white paper doves carry messages of peace. Drawings
from children around the country to the President and First Lady are
displayed throughout the room. Large, illuminated gift boxes are placed
under the Red Room’s Christmas tree.

**The Cross Hall and Grand Foyer**

The Cross Hall unites the State Rooms of the White House, with the East
Room and State Dining Room at the opposite ends, and the Green, Blue,
and Red Rooms opening from the south side. The slightly arched ceiling
springs from the cast plaster molding designed during the Theodore
Roosevelt Renovation of 1902.

Suspended overhead in the Cross Hall is a cascade of peace doves flying
above. Christmas trees trimmed with red and green plaid décor, as well
as a vintage red truck, complete the holiday scenery.

**2024 White House Holiday Guide Illustrator**

Children’s book author and illustrator, Zoe Ranucci, created artwork
throughout the 2024 White House Holiday Guide, which perfectly captures
a “Season of Peace and Light” at the White House.**  
**

**2024 White House Holiday Recognitions and Support**  
The President and First Lady thank the Executive Residence staff and the
team of over 300 volunteers who dedicated their time, energy, and
talents to transform the White House for the holiday season.

Bryan Rafanelli, of Rafanelli Events, worked closely with Dr. Biden to
lead the creative efforts of a talented team to bring her vision to life
for the White House holiday décor, celebrating a “Season of Peace and
Light.”

The President and First Lady are grateful for the support from the
National Confectioners Association and the creative design teams of
Birch Event Design, BMF Media Group, Cheree Berry Paper & Design, East
Olivia, Frost Chicago, Glitterville Studios, HMR Designs, Kehoe Designs,
MC², Mot Designs, Patch NYC, Rafanelli Events, Red Bliss Design, Silver
Lining Design Group, and 4 Wall Entertainment.

\###
