---
date: '2024-12-11'
modified_time: 2024-12-11 23:01:59-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-11 23:01:58-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/12/11/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-releases-global-health-security-annual-report-demonstrating-the-impact-of-united-states-leadership-and-investments/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Releases Global Health Security\
  \ Annual Report Demonstrating the Impact of United\_States Leadership and\_Investments"
---
 
President Biden and Vice President Harris came into office determined to
end the COVID-19 pandemic while making progress toward a world that is
safe from biological threats. Today we are releasing the final annual
global health security report of the Biden-Harris Administration, *[U.S.
Government Support for Global Health Security – Protecting Lives and
Safeguarding
Economies](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/12/2024-GHS-Progress-Report.pdf), which*
highlights progress in global health security and identifies remaining
challenges.

The Biden-Harris Administration has advanced a [bold
agenda](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/04/Global-Health-Security-Strategy-2024-1.pdf)
to prevent the devastating toll of outbreaks and pandemics, including
investing more than $3 billion in strengthening global health security
(GHS) since 2020. These investments have helped to: prepare countries
around the world to more effectively prevent, detect and respond to
biological threats; build stronger and more effective regional and
global institutions to support health emergency preparedness and
response; and respond rapidly to numerous outbreaks – from Ebola to mpox
– to limit the health and economic impacts on the American people, as
well as people living around the world. U.S. leadership in global health
security is built on decades of investments in global health and
research and development, as well as strong partnerships with other
countries, regional and multilateral institutions, civil society, and
the private sector.

**REDUCING THE RISK OF NEW THREATS EMERGING AND BUILDING COUNTRY
CAPACITY TO RESPOND TO THREATS**

The most effective way to limit the impact of biological threats is to
stop them at their source. The United States is working with countries
and partners around the world to ensure they have the capacity to
identify and stop emerging threats before they grow into regional or
global threats. Central to these partnerships is the development of a
shared plan based on gaps in each country’s capacity, as well as country
ownership to sustain global health security capacities once U.S.
Government support has ended. Highlights from the report include:

-   **More than 100 countries are building stronger global health
    security capacities:** Over the last four years, the Biden-Harris
    Administrationexpanded [**formal Global Health Security
    partnerships**](https://www.state.gov/united-states-global-health-security-partnerships/where-we-work/)
    from 19 countries to more than 50 countries and one regional group.
    The United States has also leveraged financial resources and
    diplomatic channels to mobilize support for 50 additional countries
    to strengthen their health security capacities, for a total of more
    than 100 countries receiving support. For example, through U.S.
    support to the Pandemic Fund and the Global Fund to Fight AIDS,
    Tuberculosis and Malaria (Global Fund) COVID-19 Response Mechanism,
    over sixty countries received financing to strengthen core health
    security capacities. The United States is not the sole provider of
    these resources, as countries around the world contribute, including
    through co-financing by low and middle-income countries.

<!-- -->

-   **Measuring the impact of U.S. investments:** The Biden-Harris
    Administration is focused on measurable results of these
    investments. Of the 25 formal GHS partner countries that have
    received U.S. support for at least two years, five have achieved the
    U.S. target of “demonstrated capacity” in at least five technical
    areas, and an additional five countries are close. We can also see
    the impact of investments when threats emerge. For example, the
    Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) – a U.S. government GHS
    partner since 2015 – has successfully contained five Ebola outbreaks
    since 2020, dramatically improving detection and response times. In
    2022 the government of DRC detected an Ebola outbreak in 48 hours
    and contained the outbreak with only five lives lost to the disease.

<!-- -->

-   **Country ownership on global health security:** Many United States
    GHS partner countries are leading their own responses to crises,
    with U.S. collaboration when needed. For example, the U.S.
    Government is partnering with Nigeria to build stronger capacity on
    zoonotic diseases, disease surveillance, and health emergency
    management, among other areas. In 2023, Nigeria experienced
    outbreaks of anthrax, a zoonotic disease that can cause severe
    illness in people and animals. Nigeria activated national response
    mechanisms to coordinate collaboration across the human and animal
    sectors and reduce the risk for further disease transmission.
    Nigeria also collaborated with Ghana to exchange strategies for
    anthrax prevention and control. These and other measures helped
    curtail the impact of anthrax in Nigeria.

<!-- -->

-   **Reducing the risk of biosafety and biosecurity incidents**:
    Expanding biosurveillance capacity and the rapid evolution of
    technology are critical for health security, but can also elevate
    the risk of accidental and deliberate incidents. The Biden-Harris
    Administration has taken significant steps to minimize the chances
    of laboratory accidents; reduce the likelihood of deliberate use or
    accidental misuse; ensure effective biosafety and biosecurity
    practices and oversight; and promote responsible research and
    innovation. For example, the United States secured inclusion of
    biosafety and biosecurity as a critical component of the Pandemic
    Fund grants to support laboratory strengthening. One of the
    projects, the Caribbean Public Health Agency Train-the-Trainer
    Workshop on the Safe Transportation of Infectious
    Substances, resulted in certified trainers well-positioned to serve
    as national trainers and advisors in biosafety and safe transport
    protocols, ensuring safer practices across the region. The U.S.
    global health security bilateral partnerships also build capacity in
    biosafety and biosecurity: the GHS partner countries with at least
    two years of U.S. Government support demonstrated a net improvement
    in biosafety and biosecurity capacity from 2018 to 2023.

<!-- -->

-   **Modernizing biorisk management:** The Administration released the
    2024 [*United States Government Policy for Oversight of Dual Use
    Research of Concern and Pathogens with Enhanced Pandemic
    Potential*](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/05/USG-Policy-for-Oversight-of-DURC-and-PEPP.pdf),
    marking a major new step in modernizing biorisk management. This
    policy streamlines and expands oversight of research of concern
    across the entire U.S. Government – setting a new global standard
    for effective research oversight. The Administration also introduced
    a new
    [framework](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/04/Nucleic-Acid_Synthesis_Screening_Framework.pdf)
    for biotechnology safeguards on federally funded purchases of
    synthetic DNA and RNA. These safeguards, which include
    Know-Your-Customer screening, will reduce the likelihood of misuse
    of synthetic biology. 

**BUILDING MORE EFFECTIVE AND SUSTAINABLE GLOBAL HEALTH SECURITY
GOVERNANCE AND FINANCING SYSTEMS**

Strong national systems within the United States and other countries are
essential to global health security. However, each country, including
the United States, operates within a regional or global system that can
either facilitate or hamper quick and effective responses to health
emergencies. The Biden-Harris Administration has invested in building
stronger multilateral systems and partnerships to strengthen global
health security. 

**Multilateral Partnerships**

-   **Multilateral Negotiations:** Through strong leadership and
    diplomatic outreach to World Health Organization (WHO) Member
    States, the United States helped secure an ambitious suite of
    amendments to the International Health Regulations (IHR) that will
    strengthen health emergency prevention, preparedness, and response.
    The United States is actively negotiating a pandemic agreement, with
    the goal of putting in place practical measures to prevent future
    pandemics, and strengthening the international community’s ability
    to respond rapidly and effectively in the event of a pandemic. The
    United States has also supported successful negotiations through the
    United Nations (UN) and UN agencies such as WHO on pandemic
    prevention, preparedness and response; antimicrobial resistance;
    biosafety and biosecurity; and biological weapons nonproliferation;
    among other areas.

<!-- -->

-   **Multi-country Partnerships:** The Biden-Harris Administration has
    worked closely with our allies and partners to advance initiatives
    critical to improving health security. For example, the **G20** has
    been instrumental in establishing and sustaining stronger links
    between health and finance ministries. The **G7** has committed to
    support more than 100 countries to strengthen their global health
    security capacities, and has led progress in transforming pandemic
    preparedness and response financing. The U.S. Department of State
    launched the [**Foreign Ministry
    Channel**](https://www.state.gov/launch-of-foreign-ministry-channel-for-global-health-security/)
    for Health Security to foster greater diplomatic engagement among
    Foreign Ministries on global health security. The **Quad**, a
    diplomatic grouping between the United States, Australia, India, and
    Japan, delivered more than 400 million safe and effective COVID-19
    vaccine doses to Indo-Pacific countries and almost 800 million doses
    globally; advanced health security priorities in the Indo-Pacific
    region; and recently launched the [Quad Cancer
    Moonshot](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/21/fact-sheet-quad-countries-launch-cancer-moonshot-initiative-to-reduce-the-burden-of-cancer-in-the-indo-pacific/),
    which will deliver up to 40 million doses of the human
    papillomavirus vaccine and support other efforts to address cervical
    cancer to the Indo-Pacific. Since its inception in 2014, the United
    States has actively engaged in the [**Global Health Security Agenda
    (GHSA)**](https://globalhealthsecurityagenda.org/)**,** a
    partnership of over 70 countries, more than 10 international
    organizations and coalitions, and more than 30 non-governmental
    organizations, including private sector and civil society partners,
    working together to accelerate implementation of the International
    Health Regulations.

**Financing**

Limitations in the existing systems to finance pandemic prevention,
preparedness, and response left countries and financial institutions ill
prepared to effectively contain COVID-19, contributing to the health and
financial crises that resulted in the deaths of over [1.2 million
Americans](https://covid.cdc.gov/covid-data-tracker/#maps_deaths-total)
and an estimated $14 trillion in economic losses to the U.S. economy. On
day one, President Biden [called on his
Administration](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/01/21/national-security-directive-united-states-global-leadership-to-strengthen-the-international-covid-19-response-and-to-advance-global-health-security-and-biological-preparedness/)
to transform the existing financing institutions and to cultivate new
financing sources for global health security that are more effective and
sustainable, and that are less dependent on U.S. government assistance. 

-   **Expanding Reliable Financing for Pandemic Prevention and
    Preparedness:** The United States was instrumental in the creation
    of the [**Pandemic
    Fund**](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/30/statement-by-president-biden-on-pandemic-preparedness-prevention-and-response-fund-at-the-world-bank/)
    in 2022, the only multilateral financing facility dedicated
    exclusively to pandemic preparedness financing for low- and middle-
    income countries. The Pandemic Fund made significant progress in its
    first two years, awarding grants totaling $885 million, which
    mobilized an additional $6 billion in investments, to support 75
    countries and economies across six geographic regions. The Pandemic
    Fund also effectively pivoted to support countries to prepare for
    mpox outbreaks as part of the global response to the ongoing mpox
    public health emergency. The United States has supported the
    Pandemic Fund’s $2 billion replenishment goal by pledging up to $667
    million by 2025, calling on other donors to step up their
    contributions and end the cycle of panic and neglect.

<!-- -->

-   **Strengthening Existing Financing Institutions to Support GHS:**
    The United States is working to evolve **Multilateral Development
    Banks** to be better equipped to respond to the increasing
    frequency, scope, and complexity of global challenges, including
    pandemics. The Biden-Harris Administration strongly supported the
    establishment of the **International Monetary Fund Resilience and
    Sustainability Trust** and its goal of supporting low-income and
    vulnerable middle-income countries to access long-term, affordable
    financing to address longer-term challenges, such as health
    emergencies.

<!-- -->

-   **Improving Timely Access to Emergency Response Financing:** During
    the COVID-19 pandemic, many countries and institutions lacked the
    liquidity to procure the medical countermeasures (MCM) needed to
    mount effective and timely responses. The U.S. Development Finance
    Corporation helped develop and lead a **G7** [**Surge Financing
    Initiative**](https://www.dfc.gov/media/press-releases/dfc-announces-surge-financing-initiative-and-strategic-investments-bolster),
    through which G7 development finance institutions (DFIs), the
    European Investment Bank, the International Finance Corporation, and
    global and regional health stakeholders are developing and deploying
    innovative financing tools to accelerate access to MCMs in health
    emergencies. The United States also supported the establishment of
    the **Day Zero Financing Facility**, a suite of tools that will
    enable Gavi, The Vaccine Alliance, to quickly meet demand for
    vaccines during a pandemic, including up to $2 billion in bridge
    financing loans. The United States also supports the roles of the
    **Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI)**, the
    **Global Fund**, and other regional and multilateral organizations
    in the development of solutions to surge financing for MCMs during
    emergencies.

<!-- -->

-   **Increasing International Coordination and Cooperation in Health
    Security Financing:** During health emergencies donors often surge
    rapid financial and technical support, with limited effective means
    for transparency and coordination, which can lead to inefficiencies,
    duplication of efforts, and gaps in support. The Biden-Harris
    Administration has taken action to enhance the impact of financing
    though increased coordination and cooperation including supporting
    the establishment of the **G20 Finance-Health Task Force** to
    strengthen coordination between Finance and Health Ministries; and
    contributed to improved international **mpox response
    coordination**.

**EXPANDING ACCESS TO MEDICAL COUNTERMEASURES**

The Biden-Harris Administration has prioritized [expanding access to
quality medical countermeasures
(MCMs](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/29/fact-sheet-update-on-the-united-states-commitment-to-expanding-access-to-medicines-around-the-world-2/))
around the world, building on decades of global health and health
security leadership by the United States. The United States has long led
the world in innovation, research and development. The COVID-19 pandemic
demonstrated the vital role of U.S. biotechnology and biomanufacturing
in developing and producing the life-saving diagnostics, therapeutics,
and vaccines needed to protect American lives and livelihoods, and
national and economic security against future biological threats,
whether naturally-occurring, accidental, or deliberate. The Biden-Harris
Administration has strengthened sustainable global manufacturing and
supply chain capacity; donated vaccines, diagnostic tests and treatments
and support for their delivery; expanded pandemic response financing for
MCMs; and strengthened legal and regulatory systems to ensure quality
products and overcome barriers to rapid access. 

-   **Investments in Research and Development for Preparedness:** While
    there will always be new or evolving biological threats, developing
    effective countermeasures for known threats is a critical piece of
    preparedness. For example, the U.S. government **invested billions
    of dollars in mRNA technology** in advance of the COVID-19 pandemic.
    These public investments translated into millions of lives saved in
    the United States and around the world, and were crucial to
    developing the mRNA vaccine technology that can be leveraged in a
    future pandemic, as well as potentially treating other diseases. The
    U.S. supports the goals of the **mRNA Technology Transfer
    Programme**, a capacity-building initiative in low- and
    middle-income countries to sustainably produce mRNA vaccines.
    Similarly, the United States Government **invested** [**more than $2
    billion in the JYNNEOS
    vaccine**](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/24/fact-sheet-the-united-states-commitment-to-address-the-global-mpox-outbreak/)
    as part of smallpox preparedness. These investments directly led to
    product licensure for both smallpox and mpox. On September 13, 2024,
    WHO announced pre-qualification of the JYNNEOS vaccine for global
    use, including in the Africa region in response to ongoing mpox
    outbreaks. The JYNNEOS vaccine that has now been used to protect
    Americans and people living around the world from mpox; it would not
    exist without the investment and technical expertise provided by the
    United States.

<!-- -->

-   **Investments in Biotechnology:** The Biden-Harris Administration
    has prioritized [transforming our biotechnology
    capabilities](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/09/American-Pandemic-Preparedness-Transforming-Our-Capabilities-Final-For-Web.pdf),
    including catalyzing advances in science, technology, and core
    capabilities and has advanced a [whole-of-government
    approach](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/09/12/executive-order-on-advancing-biotechnology-and-biomanufacturing-innovation-for-a-sustainable-safe-and-secure-american-bioeconomy/)
    to strengthening U.S. biotechnology and biomanufacturing, including
    for health security. The United States Government’s historic
    investments in science and technology, from basic science to
    piloting innovative financing mechanisms to real-time research
    during health emergencies, are transforming the tools and approaches
    we use to detect, contain and respond to health threats. These
    efforts support the ambitious international goal of developing
    vaccines, treatments and diagnostics within 100 days from the onset
    of a potential pandemic.

<!-- -->

-   **Support for the** **Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness
    Innovations (CEPI)**: CEPI is working to accelerate the development
    of life-saving vaccines against emerging disease threats, and to
    transform capability for rapid countermeasure development in
    response to future threats. Notable achievements include: the market
    authorization of the world’s first Chikungunya vaccine and
    technology transfer to regional producers for regional supply to
    LMICs; the advancement through clinical development of vaccine
    candidates against Lassa, Nipah, and coronaviruses, among others;
    and the launch of a new Disease X Vaccine Library with six viral
    families prioritized as high risk.

<!-- -->

-   **Expanding Access to Publicly-supported Medical Inventions:** The
    U.S. supports broad access to medical inventions facilitated by
    public investments and science, including through: the NIH proposal
    to promote access to products that rely on NIH-owned inventions
    (“[Promoting Equity Through Access
    Planning](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2024/05/22/2024-11188/national-institutes-of-health-nih-office-of-science-policy-osp-request-for-information-on-draft-nih)”);
    fair pricing guarantees in funding agreements between manufacturers
    and the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority
    (BARDA); and appropriate provisions in a Pandemic Agreement for
    timely and equitable access to pandemic-related health products.
    During the COVID-19 pandemic, NIH licensed COVID-19 technologies
    arising from NIH intramural research to the Medicines Patent Pool
    (MPP) for access through WHO’s COVID-19 Technology Access Pool
    (C-TAP). Such contributions are an important step toward
    facilitating wider availability of lifesaving interventions around
    the world.

<!-- -->

-   **Respecting Countries’ Rights to Protect Public Health:** The
    United States respects countries’ right to protect public health and
    to promote access to medicines for all. The United States respects
    and does not call out countries for exercising health rights and
    flexibilities enshrined in the World Trade Organization’s (WTO’s)
    Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights
    (TRIPS), including with respect to compulsory licenses, in a manner
    consistent with TRIPS obligations. Toward that end, the United
    States endorsed negotiations of a temporary waiver of WTO
    intellectual property rules to support access to COVID vaccines.

**STOPPING BIOLOGICAL THREATS AT THEIR SOURCE**

In February 2021, just a few weeks into the Biden-Harris Administration
and during the height of the COVID-19 pandemic, DRC and Guinea
experienced two unrelated Ebola outbreaks. Since then, the United States
Government has supported responses to numerous outbreaks, from Ebola
disease and Marburg virus disease to mpox, avian influenza, Oropouche
virus, as well as ongoing threats including dengue, cholera, measles,
malaria and HIV. United States Government support to emergency response
is closely linked with ongoing bilateral investments in preparedness,
with the goal of each country developing the capacity and resources to
lead and coordinate responses to threats as soon as they emerge.
Examples of U.S. Government support to outbreak responses during the
Biden-Harris Administration include:

-   **COVID-19 Pandemic:** Starting in 2021, the United States [invested
    $16 billion in the global COVID-19
    response](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/09/fact-sheet-actions-taken-by-the-biden-harris-administration-to-ensure-continued-covid-19-protections-and-surge-preparedness-after-public-health-emergency-transition/).
    The Administration accelerated global access to COVID-19 vaccines,
    including sharing nearly 700 million COVID-19 vaccine doses with
    countries around the world, as well as diagnostics and
    therapeutics, [supporting health
    workers](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/11/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-administration-global-health-worker-initiative/),
    securing supply chains, and combatting mis- and disinformation on
    safe and effective COVID-19 vaccines. The United States was the
    world’s largest donor to the Access to COVID-19 Tools Accelerator
    (ACT-A) and provided global leadership to raise additional billions
    in critical funding through the
    U.S.-[hosted](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/22/fact-sheet-president-bidens-global-covid-19-summit-ending-the-pandemic-and-building-back-better/)
    and
    [co-hosted](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/12/statement-from-president-biden-and-president-von-der-leyen-on-occasion-of-the-second-global-covid-19-summit-may-12-2022/)
    Global COVID-19 Summits to save lives globally, end the pandemic,
    and build stronger health security.

<!-- -->

-   **Mpox Outbreaks:** The worldhas faced two regional or global
    outbreaks of mpox during the Biden-Harris Administration. In 2022,
    the Biden-Harris Administration mounted a robust response to the
    spread of clade IIb mpox by making vaccines available to those at
    risk, making testing more convenient, and providing treatments to
    those who needed them both in the United States and worldwide.
    During the ongoing clade I mpox outbreak, the U.S. Government [has
    committed over $500 million to support mpox preparedness and
    response
    activities](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/24/fact-sheet-the-united-states-commitment-to-address-the-global-mpox-outbreak/)
    in mpox-affected countries in Africa, and the U.S. Government has
    made more than one million mpox vaccine doses available for global
    use. The United States has delivered additional support through
    technical assistance and in-kind contributions to surveillance, case
    investigation, procurement of diagnostic kits, consumable reagents,
    other laboratory supplies, and personal protective equipment.
-   **Marburg Virus Disease (MVD):** After learning of the MVD outbreak
    in Rwanda in September 2024, the United States committed to making
    nearly $11 million available to address urgent health needs in
    Rwanda and surrounding countries, including for surveillance and
    contact tracing, infection prevention and control guidance, and exit
    screening. Within days of learning of the MVD outbreak, CDC deployed
    three senior scientists to Rwanda to support its response. Although
    there are currently no FDA-approved vaccines or drugs against MVD,
    the United States contributed thousands of investigational vaccine
    doses and a small number of investigational therapeutics doses,
    [which arrived in Rwanda within a week of the U.S. Government
    learning of the
    outbreak](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/07/statement-from-nsc-spokesperson-sean-savett-on-marburg-virus-disease-outbreak/).
    The United States has also contributed hundreds of MVD tests and
    units of personal protective equipment.

<!-- -->

-   **Enhanced U.S. Government Response Coordination:** Building on work
    in previous Administrations, the Biden-Harris Administration has
    successfully shepherded the “Playbook for Biological Incident
    Response” and a “Biological Incident Notification and Assessment”
    protocol from concept stage to an established and well-exercised
    process for rapid communication and coordination when biological
    threats emerge. This playbook and the protocol serve to give U.S.
    federal agencies “off-the-shelf” tools to respond to biological
    threats from all sources – natural, accidental and deliberate – that
    avoid response delays that cost lives and resources.

While we have made progress since emerging from the acute phase of the
COVID-19 pandemic, continued investment of financial, political, and
technical resources is needed to ensure success in building stronger
preparedness today, sustainability of those efforts, and resilience to
future biological threats. Both at home and abroad, willingness to
invest critical financial and political resources has waned as global
health security competes with other priorities for attention and
resources. Collective action across sectors and throughout the world is
needed to ensure we do not cycle once more into neglect, rather that we
sustain and build on the significant progress made. Success in these
efforts will make Americans safer, protect our economy and reduce
international reliance on U.S. resources and expertise during times of
crisis.

\###
