---
date: '2024-12-23'
modified_time: 2024-12-23 20:44:53-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-23 20:44:52-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/12/23/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-h-r-5009-servicemember-quality-of-life-improvement-and-national-defense-authorization-act-for-fiscal-year-2025/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on H.R. 5009, Servicemember Quality of\
  \ Life Improvement and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year\_2025"
---
 
Today, I have signed into law H.R. 5009, the “Servicemember Quality of
Life Improvement and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2025” (the “Act”).  This Act authorizes fiscal year appropriations
principally for the Department of Defense, Department of Energy national
security programs, Department of State, Department of Homeland Security,
and the Intelligence Community.  This bill provides vital benefits for
military personnel and their families, and includes critical authorities
to support our country’s national defense, foreign affairs, and homeland
security.  While I am pleased to support the critical objectives of the
Act, I note that certain provisions of the Act raise concerns.

A number of provisions of the Act may, in certain circumstances,
interfere with the exercise of my constitutional authority to articulate
the positions of the United States in international negotiations or fora
(*e.g.*, sections 735(a), 1214, 1221, 1333, 5121(b), 7204, and
7803(a)).  I recognize that “\[i\]t is not for the President alone to
determine the whole content of the Nation’s foreign policy” (Zivotofsky
v. Kerry) and will make every effort to take action consistent with
these directives.  Indeed, I do not necessarily oppose many of the
objectives in these provisions.  Nevertheless, I will not treat them as
limiting my constitutional discretion to articulate the views of the
United States before international organizations and with foreign
governments.

Certain provisions of the Act, including sections 129, 809, 1067, 1069,
1078, 1225, 1229, 1707, 6308, 7302(b)(2)-(3), 7502, and 7505, would
require the President and other officials to submit certifications,
reports, notifications, or plans to the Congress that (1) may in the
ordinary course, include highly sensitive classified information,
including information that could reveal critical intelligence sources or
military operational plans or (2) could implicate executive branch
confidentiality interests.  In addition, section 354(4) raises
constitutional concerns to the extent that it purports to compel the
provision of certain documents subject to executive branch
confidentiality interests — including attorney-client privileged
information.  The Constitution vests the President with the authority to
prevent the disclosure of such highly sensitive information in order to
discharge his responsibility to protect the national security.  At the
same time, congressional committees have legitimate needs to perform
vital oversight and other legislative functions with respect to national
security and military matters.  Accordingly, it has been the common
practice of the executive branch to comply with statutory reporting
requirements in a way that satisfies congressional needs pursuant to the
traditional accommodation practice and consistent with due regard for
the protection from unauthorized disclosure of classified information
relating to sensitive intelligence sources and methods or other
exceptionally sensitive matters, as well as to preserve the
confidentiality of internal executive branch deliberations, particularly
those with respect to decisions bearing on the Nation’s national
security.  I believe the Congress shares this understanding, and my
Administration will presume that it is incorporated into statutory
reporting requirements of the kind at issue in the Act.

Division A, title X, subtitle D, section 1043 of the Act continues to
bar the use of funds appropriated to the Department of Defense to
transfer Guantánamo Bay detainees to the custody or effective control of
certain foreign countries.  Division A, title X, subtitle D, section
1041 likewise would continue to prohibit the use of such funds to
transfer Guantánamo Bay detainees into the United States.  It is the
longstanding position of the executive branch that these provisions
unduly impair the ability of the executive branch to determine when and
where to prosecute Guantánamo Bay detainees and where to send them upon
release.  In some circumstances, these provisions could make it
difficult to comply with the final judgment of a court that has directed
the release of a detainee on writ of habeas corpus, including by
constraining the flexibility of the executive branch with respect to its
engagement in delicate negotiations with foreign countries over the
potential transfer of detainees.  I urge the Congress to eliminate these
restrictions as soon as possible. 

My Administration strongly opposes Division A, title VII, subtitle A,
section 708 of the Act, which inhibits the Department of Defense’s
ability to treat all persons equally under the law, no matter their
gender identity.  By prohibiting the use of appropriated funds, the
Department of Defense will be compelled to contravene clinical practice
guidelines and clinical recommendations.  The provision targets a group
based on that group’s gender identity and interferes with parents’ roles
to determine the best care for their children.  This section undermines
our all-volunteer military’s ability to recruit and retain the finest
fighting force the world has ever known by denying health care coverage
to thousands of our service members’ children.  No service member should
have to decide between their family’s health care access and their call
to serve our Nation. 

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
December 23, 2024.

\###
