---
date: '2024-12-07'
published_time: 2024-12-07 13:50:09-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/12/07/the-united-states-and-bahrain-launch-geospatial-acceleration-initiative-under-c-sipa/
tags: statements-releases
title: "The United\_States and Bahrain Launch Geospatial Acceleration Initiative under\_\
  C-SIPA"
---
 
The United States and the Kingdom of Bahrain are proud to unveil the
Geospatial Acceleration Initiative, an ambitious step forward in one of
the Middle East’s longest-standing and most valued strategic
partnerships. This initiative stems from the advanced technology track
of the Comprehensive Security Integration and Prosperity Agreement
(C-SIPA), signed in 2023, which strengthened US-Bahraini collaboration
in defense, security, and cutting-edge technology development.

Bahrain’s steadfast dedication to regional security is exemplified by
its prominent role in supporting multinational efforts to ensure safe
navigation in the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden, countering threats to
maritime trade, and upholding international law. Bahrain’s leadership in
this effort underscores its ongoing commitment to advancing regional
stability and protecting vital global trade corridors.

Through the Geospatial Acceleration Initiative and the advanced C-SIPA
tech track, the U.S. National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA)—a
global leader in geospatial intelligence—will collaborate with Bahraini
stakeholders to produce and share hydrographic, aeronautical, and
topographic geospatial foundation data. This partnership will enhance
navigation safety for both military forces and bolster maritime security
across the region.

The enduring U.S.-Bahrain partnership, rooted in decades of mutual trust
and shared goals, is a testament to the power of collaboration.
Together, through innovative initiatives like the Geospatial
Acceleration Initiative, we reaffirm our resolve to confront today’s
challenges with ingenuity and unity. This partnership continues to serve
as a cornerstone of peace, security, and prosperity for both nations and
beyond.

\###
