---
date: '2024-12-19'
modified_time: 2024-12-19 17:10:52-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-19 17:09:57-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/12/19/fact-sheet-president-biden-and-vice-president-harris-are-delivering-for-rural-communities/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden and Vice President Harris Are Delivering for\
  \ Rural\_Communities"
---
 
Over the past four years, President Biden and Vice President Harris have
taken action to ensure rural Americans do not have to leave their
hometowns to find opportunity. One year ago, President Biden visited a
family farm in Northfield, Minnesota to kick off the “Investing in Rural
America” event series, spurring over 30 visits by Cabinet members and
White House Senior Officials to rural communities across the country.
The Biden-Harris Administration is investing in rural America to create
opportunity for farmers, small business owners, families, and
communities.  
  
**Investing in Rural American Infrastructure  
**  
The President’s Investing in America agenda is investing billions of
dollars to revitalize and rebuild rural communities across the country –
a generational investment in rural America. This funding also represents
the single largest investment in Tribal infrastructure ever.  
  
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law provides $65 billion to ensure every
American has access to affordable, reliable high-speed internet through
a historic investment in infrastructure deployment. That includes a $2
billion program at the Department of Commerce to invest in high-speed
internet on Tribal lands. The Department of Agriculture (USDA) has
invested more than $4 billion in projects that will expand access to
high-speed broadband and bring new economic opportunities and a better
quality of life for more than 650,000 people across 46 states through
its ReConnect Program.  
  
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law also provides a historic $8.25 billion
investment to reduce wildfire risks for communities, better detect
wildfires, and institute workforce reforms and landmark pay increases
for federal wildland firefighters. Through the Community Wildfire
Defense Grant program, USDA has awarded $467 million to 259 project
proposals across 36 states and 18 tribes, which will assist with
planning for and mitigating wildfire risks, and has recently made
another $200 million available. USDA is also investing $150 million from
the Inflation Reduction Act to help underserved and small acreage forest
landowners connect to emerging voluntary climate markets, which can
provide economic opportunities for landowners and incentivize improved
forest health and management. And through the Inflation Reduction Act
and other appropriations, the Forest Service invested nearly $544
million in 63 projects in 2024 to conserve more than half a million
acres of private forestlands across the U.S., ensuring that these places
will remain working forests while protecting water sources and reducing
wildfire risk.  
  
Additionally, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law invests billions of
dollars to make sure rural families can get where they need to go,
including through a $4.1 billion investment in Rural Area Formula Grants
at the Department of Transportation (DOT). This program will support
1,300 rural transit systems by enabling them to purchase transit
vehicles and infrastructure, plan transit more effectively, and fund
operations. DOT is also providing $2 billion over 5 years in dedicated
funding to projects in rural areas that improve and expand the surface
transportation infrastructure.

  
**Delivering Clean, Reliable Water to Rural America  
**  
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law’s transformative investment of over
$50 billion in our water and wastewater infrastructure is fundamentally
changing the quality of life for millions of people in rural America by
replacing lead pipes, providing critical access to sanitation, ensuring
access to affordable clean drinking water, and tackling drought. That
includes a $3.5 billion investment through the Indian Health Service
which has launched over 700 projects to build out a safe supply of
drinking water, reliable sewage systems, and waste disposal facilities
across Indian Country. And the Inflation Reduction Act’s Tribal Clean
Drinking Water program made $320 million available to bring safe, clean
drinking water to Tribal communities in the West, with an initial $82
million announced to fund 23 projects.  
  
The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and USDA, in collaboration
with states and Tribal Nations, are working together on the Closing
America’s Wastewater Access Gap initiative. This partnership leverages
technical assistance resources to help historically underserved
communities identify and pursue federal funding opportunities to address
their rural wastewater needs. To date, EPA has announced that 38 more
communities across 22 states have joined the initiative.  
  
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is also cleaning up pollution in rural
areas by investing $4.7 billion to plug, remediate, and restore
dangerous orphaned oil and gas wells across the country; nearly $11.3
billion to create good-paying jobs, including union jobs, and catalyze
economic opportunity by reclaiming abandoned mine lands; and $3.5
billion to 95 previously unfunded Superfund site projects, including the
longstanding backlog of projects, to clean up contaminated sites and
advance environmental justice.  
  
In addition, the Biden-Harris Administration is leading
a whole-of-government effort to make Western communities more resilient
to climate change and the ongoing megadrought by harnessing the full
resources of the President’s Investing in America agenda. The Inflation
Reduction Act and Bipartisan Infrastructure Law together include $15.4
billion to enhance the West’s resilience to drought through water-saving
projects and other conservation efforts. In March 2024, the
Administration took historic action to protect the stability of the
Colorado River Basin including through investments from the Inflation
Reduction Act’s $4 billion Colorado River drought mitigation funds,
conserving at least 3 million-acre-feet of water by 2026.  
  
**Lowering Energy Costs and Strengthening the Grid  
**  
Supported by Inflation Reduction Act, the Empowering Rural America (New
ERA) program is the largest investment in rural America’s electric
system since President Franklin Delano Roosevelt signed the Rural
Electrification Act in 1936. It invests $9.7 billion to help
member-owned rural electric cooperatives provide their communities with
clean, reliable, and affordable energy. USDA has announced over $8.3
billion in New ERA funding across 24 states so far, with the rural
electric cooperatives building or purchasing nearly 12 gigawatts of
clean energy. The Powering Affordable Clean Energy (PACE) program will
fund new clean energy and energy storage projects to make it more
affordable for rural Americans to use clean, reliable energy. In 2024,
USDA awarded the 34 projects totaling $917 million. Since the start of
the Biden-Harris Administration, USDA has invested more than $2.7
billion through the Rural Energy for America (REAP) program in 9,901
renewable energy and energy efficiency improvements helping farms and
small businesses lower their energy costs, generate new income, and
strengthen the resilience of their operations. Almost 7,000 of these
projects were funded by over $1 billion provided by the Inflation
Reduction Act  
  
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law invests billions of dollars to improve
resilience, reliability, safety, and availability of energy in rural
America. So far, the Department of Energy (DOE) announced over $457
million for 93 projects to accelerate clean energy deployment in rural
and remote areas across the country through the Energy Improvements in
Rural or Remote Areas (ERA) Program. DOE announced up to $475 million in
March 2024 for 5 projects to accelerate clean energy deployment on
current and former mine land. The selected projects cover a range of
clean energy technologies, from solar, microgrids, and pumped storage
hydropower to geothermal and battery energy storage systems.  
  
DOE announced nearly $7.6 billion through the Grid Resilience and
Innovation Partnerships (GRIP) Program to strengthen grid reliability
and resilience across all 50 states, including several major rural grid
resilience projects. This funding is spurring private investment,
bringing public-private investment to over $22 billion to deliver
affordable, clean electricity to all Americans and ensure that
communities across the nation have a reliable grid that is prepared for
extreme weather worsened by the climate crisis. In addition, EPA awarded
$27 billion through the Inflation Reduction Act’s Greenhouse Gas
Reduction Fund (GGRF) to create a national financing network for clean
energy and climate solutions across the country, including rural
communities. Together, the GGRF’s $14 billion National Clean Investment
Fund, $6 billion Clean Communities Investment Accelerator, and $7
billion Solar for All program dedicate approximately two-thirds of the
funding to low-income and disadvantaged communities, advancing the
President’s Justice40 Initiative.  
  
This year, the Bureau of Indian Affairs’ Tribal Electrification Program
funded by the Inflation Reduction Act provided $143 million in financial
and technical assistance to 34 Tribes to connect homes to transmission
and distribution that is powered by clean energy, provide electricity to
unelectrified Tribal homes through zero-emissions energy systems,
transition electrified Tribal homes to zero-emissions energy systems,
and support associated home repairs and retrofitting. The program will
also support clean energy workforce development opportunities in Indian
Country.

And, by expanding the availability of homegrown biofuels, the
Biden-Harris Administration is strengthening our energy independence
while bringing good-paying jobs and other economic benefits to rural
communities. For example, up to $500 million from the Inflation
Reduction Act is being made available through the Higher Blends
Infrastructure Incentive Program to increase the availability of
domestic biofuels and give Americans additional, cleaner fuel options at
the pump. Through this program, USDA has provided $251 million in grants
so far.

Many of the programs aimed at delivering clean, reliable water to rural
America, lowering energy costs, and strengthening the grid are covered
under the President’s Justice40 Initiative, which sets the goal that 40%
of the overall benefits of certain federal climate, clean energy,
affordable and sustainable housing, and other investments flow to
disadvantaged communities that are marginalized by underinvestment and
overburdened by pollution as part of the most ambitious climate,
conservation, and environmental justice agenda in history.

**Improving Access to Health Care and Lowering Health Care Costs for
Rural Communities**  
  
The Biden-Harris Administration is lowering health care costs for rural
Americans and supporting access to high quality care in rural America. 
Rural seniors are seeing lower drug costs thanks to the Inflation
Reduction Act. About 281,000 rural Part D Medicare enrollees would have
benefitted from the $35 insulin cap if it had been in effect in 2020,
and about 481,000 rural enrollees would have benefitted from $0
recommended adult vaccines if it had been in effect in 2021. About
289,000 rural enrollees are projected to save $1,000 or more when the
$2,000 out-of-pocket cap goes into effect in 2025. Nearly 3 million
rural Americans signed up for 2024 coverage at the Affordable Care Act’s
HealthCare.gov Marketplace. Eighty percent of consumers could find
health plans for $10 or less a month, with many qualifying for plans
with $0 premiums. And thanks to the President’s ARP and IRA, rural
HealthCare.gov enrollees are saving an $890 per year on their health
insurance premiums, about 28% more than their urban counterparts. In
addition, four states have expanded Medicaid since President Biden took
office, providing coverage to over one million Americans while reducing
the risk of rural hospital closure by half.   
  
The Biden-Harris Administration has launched the new Rural Emergency
Hospital designation to provide a new option to some struggling
hospitals, and it is investing in training the next generation of health
care providers to serve rural communities. The Department of Health and
Human Services (HHS) has also extended several grant opportunities to
support rural communities, including $28 million to provide direct
health services and expand infrastructure and $16 million to provide
technical assistance to rural hospitals facing financial distress.
Recognizing the critical role nurses play in providing primary care,
mental health and maternal health care services, particularly in rural
areas, HHS announced more than $100 million in awards to address the
increasing demand for registered nurses, nurse practitioners, certified
nurse midwives and nurse faculty. Through the Rural Residency Planning
and Development Program, HHS has invested over $28 million in awards
across 25 states to create new rural residency programs to train more
physicians in rural communities, which increases the likelihood of
practicing in a rural community. And through a $47 million investment,
HHS funded 32 Rural Public Health Workforce Training Networks across 22
states, bolstering health care capacity in rural areas and training more
than 2,000 health professionals, including community health workers,
EMTs, health IT specialists, certified nurse assistants, and dental
assistants, among others.

In addition, CMS has updated policies to support access to important
services for Medicare beneficiaries at rural health clinics, including
for integration behavioral health care, providing opioid use disorder
treatment and chronic pain management services, allowing greater
flexibility with telehealth services for mental health, supporting rural
providers participating in value-based care models, and enabling
enhanced care management services. Further, CMS is announcing this
December a new request for applications for the ongoing Rural Community
Hospital Demonstration. The goal of the program is to test the
feasibility and advisability of cost-based reimbursement for small rural
hospitals that are too large to be Critical Access Hospitals. This
program was first created by Congress in 2004 but has not opened
applications up since 2017.

HHS’ Rural Communities Opioid Response Program is a multi-year
initiative that has invested $298 million in 386 awards to reduce the
morbidity and mortality of substance use disorder (SUD), including
opioid use disorder, in rural communities at the highest risk for SUD.
Through the Rural Emergency Medical Services Training Program, HHS has
invested $20.5 million since the start of the Biden-Harris
Administration to support the recruitment and training of EMS personnel
in rural areas with a focus on addressing SUD and co-occurring substance
use and mental disorders.   
**Supporting Veterans in Rural Communities**  
  
One quarter of all veterans in the U.S. (4.4 million) reside in rural
communities. Around 48 percent of all rural veterans (2.7 million) are
enrolled in the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) health care
system, which is higher than the 41 percent enrollment rate of urban
veterans. The Biden-Harris Administration has implemented several
initiatives to support veterans living in rural communities, ensuring
they have access to affordable, low-cost, high-quality healthcare. The
landmark Sergeant First Class Heath Robinson Honoring our Promise to
Address Comprehensive Toxics (PACT) Act enacted the most significant
expansion of benefits and services for toxic exposed veterans in more
than 30 years. Since the enactment of the PACT Act in August 2022, VA
has completed over 1.8 million PACT Act-related claims with an approval
rate of 74.5% and enrolled nearly 740,000 veterans in VA healthcare. VA
has been able to expand the types of conditions that are considered
service connected making it easier for toxic exposed veterans to get the
disability benefits they deserve —a critical step to ensuring all
veterans get access to the care they need. PACT Act also expanded who is
eligible to enroll in VA health care and required new toxic exposure
screenings for all veterans enrolled; to date, VA has completed more
than 5.9 million free toxic exposure screenings. VA is delivering these
benefits to veterans at the fastest rate in the nation’s history. The
Act includes the largest VA outreach campaign in history, ensuring that
the rural veterans and their survivors are aware of and can access the
benefits can healthcare they are entitled to.

Provider shortage continues to challenge accessibility and affordability
of health care, especially in rural communities across the United
States. VA Office of Rural Health has continued to support and further
developed different initiatives and programs to help reserve this trend.
For example, VA continues to fund the Rural Interprofessional Faculty
Development Initiative (RIFDI) which adds physician residents in rural
VA facilities through the 18-month faculty development program and has
demonstrated benefits to both the clinician partaking in the program and
the receiving rural VA hospital. VA also expanded its Connected
Care program, enabling more telehealth delivery for rural veterans than
ever before. In 2023, VA launched the Pilot Program on Graduate Medical
Education and Residency (PPGMER) to support more graduate medical
education positions to serve in rural and other underserved areas.

  
**Creating New and Better Agricultural Markets to Increase
Competition**  
  
As part of the Biden-Harris Administration’s Action Plan for a Fairer,
More Competitive, and More Resilient Meat and Poultry Supply Chain, USDA
has invested over $1.4 billion to support new or expanded small-sized
and medium sized processing facilities and to create a more resilient,
diverse and secure U.S. food supply chain. These investments are giving
farmers more market options and fairer prices by spurring competition.
These investments are also providing consumers with more choices and
affordable prices at the grocery store.  
  
Through the Fertilizer Production Expansion Program, USDA has invested
$320 million in 67 fertilizer production facilities to expand access to
domestic fertilizer options for American farmers in 32 states and Puerto
Rico. These investments will increase U.S. fertilizer production by 9.1
million tons annually and create more than 800 jobs in rural
communities.  

The USDA spearheaded several new rules to improve fairness and
competition. This included final rules to promote transparency in
poultry farming contracts, to prohibit discrimination and ban
retaliation against farmers and ranchers in meat markets, and strengthen
the product of USA standards. It also proposed a new rule to protect
poultry growers from unfair deductions and variations in pay.

The Administration committed to better enforce the laws on the books.
USDA stood up an enforcement partnership with 32 state attorneys
general. USDA and Department of Justice (DOJ) strengthened their
collaboration, and created an anonymous reporting tool for unfair and
anticompetitive practices at farmerfairness.gov in early 2022. Since
then, DOJ brought suit against Agristats for using algorithms to fix
prices and outputs in meat markets; secured a consent decree with major
poultry processors Cargill, Sanderson, and Wayne Farms to limit unfair
variations in pay for poultry farmers; and blocked a merger of Dole and
Fresh Express which would have consolidated vegetable markets.
Meanwhile, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) successfully challenged
the largest grocery merger in US history and brought a case to prevent
price discrimination by big brands against independent retailers. The
DOJ and FTC also worked to preserve and promote the right of farmers to
repair their own tractors, including parts and batteries.

  
**Investing in Climate-Smart Agriculture  
**  
Through the Partnerships for Climate-Smart Commodities initiative, USDA
is investing $3.03 billion in 135 projects that seek to build and expand
market opportunities for American commodities produced using
climate-smart practices. The Inflation Reduction Act provided a record
$19.5 billion for USDA conservation programs to support hundreds of
thousands of farmers and ranchers apply practices such as cover
cropping, conservation tillage, wetland restoration, prescribed grazing,
nutrient management, tree planting, and more to millions of acres of
land. This has direct climate mitigation benefits and advances a host of
other environmental co-benefits, in addition to offering farmers,
ranchers and foresters new revenue streams. The climate-smart
agriculture investments that USDA has made and continues to make are
estimated to support over 180,000 farms and over 225 million acres in
the next 5 years.  
  
**Strengthening Local and Regional Food Systems**  
  
The Biden-Harris Administration is investing in local and regional food
systems, which adds value for both agricultural producers and consumers,
and spurs economic activity locally — helping communities that have been
left behind by the current agricultural models and supporting
good-paying jobs throughout the supply chain. USDA created twelve
Regional Food Business Centers across the country that are providing
coordination, technical assistance and capacity building to help
farmers, ranchers and food businesses reach local customers and navigate
federal state and local resources. USDA is also investing $300 million
through the Organic Transition Initiative to support farmers in
transitioning to organic and build and strengthen organic markets so
more farmers can participate.  
  
To support Tribal Nations’ food and agriculture supply chain resiliency,
USDA invested $48.1 million in meat and poultry processing
infrastructure for indigenous animals such as bison, reindeer or salmon.
In October 2023, USDA also launched a new, interagency pilot to purchase
bison meat from Tribal and local bison operations for Tribal communities
through the Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations (FDPIR).

In June, USDA made more than 140 awards to agricultural employers,
totaling $50 million, through its new Farm Labor Stabilization and
Protection Pilot Program. The program, which is supported by President
Biden’s American Rescue Plan, aims to stabilize the nation’s food supply
and improve working conditions for farmworkers.  
  
**Improving Nutrition and Food Access for Rural Communities**  
  
President Biden set a bold goal of ending hunger and reducing
diet-related diseases in the U.S. by 2030—all while reducing
disparities. Through the Healthy Meals Incentives Initiative, USDA has
awarded nearly $30 million in grants to small and rural communities to
improve the nutritional quality of school meals and help modernize their
operations. Each small and/or rural school district will receive up to
$150,000 to support them in improving the nutritional quality of their
meals and modernizing their operations through innovative staff training
programs, kitchen updates and renovations, redesigning food preparation
and service spaces, or other school-district led efforts to support
school meals and school nutrition professionals.  
  
This year, USDA’s summer nutrition programs reached more kids than ever
before. In addition to in-person summer meal sites, summer meal
operators in rural communities had the option to provide children with
meals via grab-and-go or delivery through the Non-Congregate Summer Meal
Service. And, through SUN Bucks (also referred to as Summer EBT),
children in low-income families in participating states, territories,
and Tribes received $120 per eligible child for the summer in the form
of pre-loaded cards that families can use to purchase groceries.  
  
USDA has also expanded online purchasing with Supplemental Nutrition
Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits to be available in all 50 states and
the District of Columbia. This expansion provides greater convenience
and access to healthy food options for tens of millions of Americans,
including in remote and rural areas.  
  
**Cutting Housing Costs, Boosting Supply, and Expanding Access to
Affordable Housing in Rural America**  
  
The Biden-Harris Administration has taken aggressive action to boost
housing supply and lower housing costs. Housing units under construction
hit a 50-year high during this Administration, and housing starts are up
16% compared to the previous Administration. When aligned with other
policies to reduce housing costs and expand affordability, such as
rental assistance and down payment assistance, closing the supply gap
will mean more affordable rents and more attainable homeownership for
Americans in every community, including rural communities.

The Biden-Harris Administration oversaw large housing investments in
rural America. State and local governments allocated nearly $20 billion
in American Rescue Plan State and Local Fiscal Recovery Funds, making it
the largest one-time housing block grant in U.S. history. These dollars
were often combined with programs like USDA’s Single-Family Housing
Guaranteed Loan Program and Off-Farm Labor Housing program to make these
dollars go further and help more households. Under the Biden-Harris
Administration, USDA helped 33,436 families by building or renovating
1,065 multifamily housing apartment complexes in rural areas through
nearly $1.4 billion in direct loans, guaranteed loans, and grants.
Additionally, USDA provided $5.996 billion in rental assistance to help
388,588 very-low- and low-income rural families pay their rent. Since
2021, USDA has invested $7.6 billion to offer rental housing
opportunities to rural families, senior citizens, people with
disabilities, and farm workers and their families. In single-family
housing programs, USDA invested over $48 billion to help more than
278,000 families with modest incomes buy, refinance, or repair their
homes through our direct and guaranteed single-family housing loan
programs, including 98,000 low- and very low-income borrowers.

In addition, HUD issued a first-of-its-kind Community Development Block
Grant (CDBG) competition called Pathways to Removing Obstacles (PRO)
Housing to enable communities to identify and remove barriers to housing
production and preservation. In its first round, PRO awarded $85
million, including to rural areas that used funding to address matters
such as zoning, predevelopment costs, and permitting.

The Biden-Harris Administration also took actions to encourage the
construction and preservation of manufactured housing, a critical source
of affordable housing, especially for low-income, rural, and Native
American households and offers a potentially lower-cost pathway to
homeownership. Earlier this year, HUD made available Preservation and
Reinvestment Initiative for Community Enhancement (PRICE) grants,
competitive funding that can be used for the replacement of dilapidated
homes, assistance for homeowners such as repairs and accessibility
modifications, mitigation and resilience upgrades, improvement of
infrastructure such as stormwater systems or utilities, housing services
including eviction prevention, and planning activities. It marked the
first time the federal government has made grant funding available
specifically for investments in manufactured housing communities,
including resident-owned communities. In addition, USDA made more than
$18 million in grants and loans under the Off-Farm Labor Housing program
to support home improvements for farmworkers and their families.

While boosting supply is critical to bring prices down over the
long-term, the lack of affordable housing is one of the main drivers of
homelessness in most jurisdictions. In 2023, HUD announced the award of
$486 million in grants and $43 million for stability vouchers to address
unsheltered and rural homelessness. These awards allow grantees to fund
rural homelessness assistance programs in local communities such as rent
or utility assistance, emergency lodging, housing repairs, food and
clothing assistance, and costs associated with converting federal
properties to house homeless individuals and families. 

  
**Strengthening Access to Higher Education, Career Pathways, and Rural
Workforce Development**  
  
The Biden-Harris Administration is committed to expanding rural
students’ access to career pathways and higher education opportunities
that lead to good-paying jobs right in their own communities. In
December 2023, the Department of Education announced $44.5 million in
grants to 22 institutions of higher education to improve rates of
postsecondary education enrollment, persistence, and completion among
students in rural communities through the Rural Postsecondary & Economic
Development Grant Program.

The Department of Education also awarded $31 million through the Career
Connected High Schools grant program to help secondary education,
postsecondary education, and workforce development systems expand access
to career-connected high school programs for more students while
unlocking career success. Of the 19 awards, 11 went to rural-focused
programs.

In September 2024, the Institute for Education Sciences announced the
National Education Research and Development Center for Improving Rural
Postsecondary Education. This Center, hosted by MDRC, will receive $10
million over five years to focus on improving access to postsecondary
education and completion of postsecondary degrees and credentials for
students from rural K12 districts and locales.

In September 2024, the Department of Labor (DOL) awarded $49 million to
support 35 projects through the Workforce Opportunities for Rural
Communities (WORC) Initiative. WORC, which is a partnership between DOL,
the Appalachian Regional Commission, the Delta Regional Authority, and
the Northern Border Regional Commission, provides grant funds to enable
rural communities to develop local and regional workforce development
solutions aligned with existing economic development strategies and
community partnerships to promote new, sustainable job opportunities and
long-term economic vitality. New for this round, the funding opportunity
specifically encouraged applicants who are part of the Rural Partners
Network.  
** **

**Supporting Schools in Rural Communities**

The Biden-Harris Administration has continued to demonstrate its
commitment to rural K12 districts by increasing investments in the Rural
Education Achievement Program, the Department of Education’s only
formula grant program specifically designated for rural K12 districts.
Since Fiscal Year (FY) 2020, the program has seen an increase of nearly
$35 million, culminating in $220 million allocated to rural small and/or
low-income schools in FY 24.

During the Biden-Harris Administration, the Department of Education has
expanded Full-Service Community Schools (FSCS) five-fold, from $25
million in 2020 to $150 million in 2023. In FY 2022 and 2023, 20 awards
totaling $67,668,574 per award year went to projects specifically
serving rural areas. Community schools collaborate with local
non-profits, health providers, private partners, and other agencies to
coordinate and deliver services like health care, mental health and
nutrition services, afterschool and summer programming, and high-quality
early learning programs.

In November of 2023, the Department of Education awarded $182 million in
new grant awards under the Education, Innovation, and Research Program
(EIR), with $46 million supporting grants in rural areas. These grants
support local efforts to develop, implement, and take to scale
entrepreneurial and evidence-based projects that have the potential to
improve academic achievement for underserved students. EIR has seen an
increase of $94 million in new awards between FY 2021 and FY 2023,
demonstrating the Biden-Harris Administration’s commitment to promoting
equity in student access to high-quality educational opportunities for
rural learners.

  
**Lowering Child Care Costs and Supporting Child Care Providers in Rural
America**  
   
President Biden secured the largest one-time investment this country has
ever made in child care through his American Rescue Plan. Those funds
helped 225,000 child care providers stay open so that the parents of
more than 10 million children could go to work with peace of mind. A
third of providers reported they would have closed permanently without
these relief funds. More than 8-in-10 licensed child care centers
nationwide received ARP assistance and it benefited 30,000 rural child
care programs – in most states, 97% of rural counties or more received
aid.  
   
President Biden has also worked to build the supply of child care in
underserved areas, including rural areas. HHS issued a landmark final
rule to improve the Child Care & Development Block Grant program, which
helps the families of more than 1.3 million children afford child care.
As a result of this rule, HHS has required for the first time that all
states provide resources to build the supply of care in underserved
geographic areas. This fall, the Biden-Harris Administration hosted a
first-of-its-kind rural childcare convening, bringing together childcare
providers and advocates to discuss opportunities to expand access to
early care in rural and Tribal communities.

**  
Partnering with Rural Communities to Create Jobs and Support Rural-led
Economic Development**  
  
Launched in April 2022, the Rural Partners Network (RPN) is an
all-of-government program that partners with rural people to access
resources and funding to create local jobs, build infrastructure, and
support long-term economic stability on their own terms. RPN staff on
the ground are now supporting 36 community networks in 10 states and
Puerto Rico. Since its inception, the federal government has invested
nearly $8.5 billion in RPN communities to support critical
infrastructure, economic development, housing, and other priorities.  
  
In February 2021, President Biden established the Interagency Working
Group on Coal and Power Plant Communities and Economic
Revitalization (Energy Communities IWG) to identify and deliver
resources to the coal, oil and gas, and power plant communities that
have powered our country for generations. Since then, member agencies
have helped drive over $20 billion in federal investment to these
communities. The Energy Communities IWG has launched Rapid Response
Teams across the country to establish a network of assistance that is
focused and sustainable in a community or region.  
  
In addition, the Department of Transportation’s Thriving Communities
Program is providing planning, technical assistance, and capacity
building support to underserved and under-resourced communities,
including rural communities.  
  
With funding from the American Rescue Plan, the Department of Commerce
launched several place-based programs to connect people to good paying
jobs and help underserved communities leverage regional assets,
including rural communities. The Build Back Better Regional Challenge
awarded 21 regional coalitions a total of $1 billion to transform their
regional economies through growing a local industry sector. These
awardees span 236 rural counties. The Good Jobs Challenge awarded $500
million to 32 regional workforce training systems across the country. At
least 19 of these 32 awardees serve rural areas. The Department of
Commerce also awarded $100 million from the Indigenous Communities
Program, all of which primarily serve rural communities, and $500
million from the Economic Adjustment Assistance Program, two-thirds of
which primarily serve rural communities, to support economic development
needs such as enabling infrastructure and workforce development.    
  
Additionally, authorized by President Biden’s CHIPS and Science Act, the
Department of Commerce’s Regional Innovation and Technology Hubs
program has designated 31 communities across the country as “Tech Hubs”
that will bring together private industry, state and local government,
higher education, labor unions, nonprofit institutions, and other
critical stakeholders to develop and grow innovative industries that
stimulate economic growth, create jobs, and strengthen national
security. Nearly three-quarters of Tech Hubs designees encompass small
and rural areas.  
  
Also authorized by the CHIPS and Science Act, the Department of
Commerce’s $200 million Distressed Area Recompete Pilot
Program (“Recompete”) aims to address persistent economic distress in
communities across the country through a series of highly targeted,
transformational investments. Seven of the 22 program finalists focus
exclusively on rural communities, and their proposed investments include
workforce skill training, addressing childcare deserts in rural America,
supporting small businesses, and building local capacity.

\###
