---
date: '2024-12-19'
modified_time: 2024-12-19 07:48:31-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-19 05:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/12/19/fact-sheet-president-biden-sets-2035-climate-target-aimed-at-creating-good-paying-union-jobs-reducing-costs-for-all-americans-and-securing-u-s-leadership-in-the-clean-energy-economy-of-the-future/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Sets 2035 Climate Target Aimed at Creating Good-Paying\
  \ Union Jobs, Reducing Costs for All Americans, and Securing U.S. Leadership in\
  \ the Clean Energy Economy of the\_Future"
---
 
*The U.S. Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) is an economy-wide,
all greenhouse gas target of reducing net emissions by 61-66 percent
below 2005 levels in 2035*

*The emissions reduction strategy includes leveraging landmark
investments from the Inflation Reduction Act and Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, complemented by federal standards; coordinating with
local, state, Tribal, and territorial governments; and mobilizing
private capital*

In 2015, the world came together to finalize the Paris Agreement, an
historic agreement joined by nearly every country in the world to
address the climate crisis and protect the planet for future
generations. On Day One of his Administration, President Biden fulfilled
his promise to rejoin the Paris Agreement and set a course for the
United States to tackle the climate crisis at home and abroad. In 2021,
pursuant to the terms of the Paris Agreement, President Biden submitted
a nationally determined contribution (NDC) with a target of reducing
U.S. greenhouse gas emissions 50-52 percent from the 2005 baseline in
2030.

**Today, as the United States continues to accelerate the transition to
a clean energy economy, President Biden is announcing a new climate
target for the United States: a 61-66 percent reduction in 2035 from
2005 levels in economy-wide net greenhouse gas emissions.** It keeps the
United States on a straight line or steeper path to achieve net-zero
greenhouse gas emissions, economy-wide, by no later than 2050. In
connection with this announcement, the United States is making a [formal
submission](https://unfccc.int/sites/default/files/2024-12/United%20States%202035%20NDC.pdf)
of this new target to the United Nations Climate Change secretariat as
its next NDC under the Paris Agreement.

To develop the U.S. 2035 NDC, the Biden-Harris Administration analyzed
how every economic sector – power generation, buildings, transportation,
industry, agriculture and forestry– can spur innovation, unleash new
opportunities, drive competitiveness, and cut pollution. Additionally,
the United States anticipates, as part of achieving its 2035 NDC
emissions target, methane reductions of at least 35 percent from 2005
levels in 2035. Cutting methane emissions is among the fastest ways to
reduce near-term warming and is an essential complement to
CO<sub>2</sub> mitigation.

This 2035 NDC aligns with President Biden’s target of a net zero
greenhouse gas economy no later than 2050 and marks an ambitious
capstone to President Biden’s climate legacy, focused on investment,
innovation, creating millions of good-paying and union jobs, building
the clean energy economy of the future, reducing costs for all
Americans, advancing environmental justice, and improving the health and
security of communities across America. There are multiple paths to
reach these targets, and U.S. Federal, state, local, territorial, and
Tribal governments have numerous tools available to work with civil
society and the private sector to mobilize investment in the years ahead
while supporting a stronger, fairer economy.

**<u>Momentum from President Biden’s Climate and Economic Agenda</u>**
****

Since President Biden announced the 2030 NDC in April 2021 to reduce
emissions 50-52% by 2030, the United States has designed and implemented
a historic climate strategy that leverages emissions reduction and
economic growth in every region of the country. Advanced through
thousands of policies and actions undertaken by federal, state,
territorial, Tribal, and local governments, the strategy includes
passage of the landmarks Bipartisan Infrastructure Law (BIL) and the
Inflation Reduction Act (IRA), paired with strategic implementation of a
regulatory agenda to ensure emissions reductions across every sector of
the economy. This approach has equipped federal, state, territorial,
Tribal, and local governments with additional resources and regulatory
certainty to partner with the private sector to grow a new clean energy
economy that benefits American workers and consumers. Implementation of
this broad and comprehensive strategy has already led to more than $450
billion of private sector investment in domestic clean energy and
manufacturing projects. This progress will accelerate as the
Biden-Harris climate agenda continues to drive a wide range of
investments in clean energy deployment and manufacturing in the years
ahead. Examples include:

-   [**Arizona**](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/05/Arizona-IIA-State-Fact-Sheet.pdf)
    has added over 370,000 new jobs, and unleashed more than $120
    billion in private sector investment. Investments include $5.5
    billion to build a battery facility outside Phoenix that will
    produce batteries for 350,000 electric vehicles per year.
-   [**California**](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/05/California-IIA-State-Fact-Sheet.pdf)
    has added over two million new jobs and more than $45 billion in
    private sector manufacturing and clean energy investment, including
    a $4 billion Gigafactory to produce lithium-ion batteries in
    Imperial Valley.
-   [**Georgia**](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/05/Georgia-IIA-State-Fact-Sheet.pdf)
    has added nearly half a million new jobs and mobilized more than $40
    billion in private sector investment. Qcells is investing $2.5
    billion to expand its solar panel and component manufacturing
    capacity in Dalton and Cartersville.
-   [**Maryland**](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/05/Maryland-IIA-State-Fact-Sheet.pdf)
    has added over 160,000 new jobs, and attracted more than $2.7
    billion in private sector investment, including a $350 million
    investment from Constellation Energy to increase the output and
    lifespan of its renewable energy portfolio.
-   [**Pennsylvania**](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/05/Pennsylvania-IIA-State-Fact-Sheet.pdf)
    has added more than 560,000 new jobs and unleashed nearly $4.3
    billion in private sector investment, including a $500 million
    investment by Eos Energy Enterprises to expand battery manufacturing
    operations in Turtle Creek, supported by a [loan guarantee from
    DOE’s Loan Programs
    Office](https://www.energy.gov/articles/biden-harris-administration-announces-3035-million-loan-guarantee-eos-energy-enterprises-0).
-   [**Wisconsin**](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/05/Wisconsin-IIA-State-Fact-Sheet.pdf)
    has added more than 188,000 new jobs and $5.4 billion in private
    sector manufacturing and clean energy investments, including $426
    million for the state’s first large-scale solar and battery storage
    project outside Milwaukee.

These investments and many more tell a clear story: the clean energy
revolution is being built in America, and that will not be reversed.

**<u>Fundamental Economic and Technological Trends</u>** ****

Over the past four years the prices of clean energy generation and
infrastructure have fallen dramatically. President Biden’s economic
agenda, supported by complementary subnational government actions and
private sector innovation, has reshaped the energy landscape now and for
future generations so that American consumers and workers will benefit,
especially in energy communities that have historically powered our
nation. Along with the boom in domestic investments, technological
advances across the energy sector are also making the U.S. clean energy
revolution irreversible, including:

-   **Clean Energy Generation**. The levelized cost of utility-scale
    solar photovoltaic (PV) and onshore wind are dropping rapidly. In
    2024,
    [estimates](https://www.lazard.com/media/xemfey0k/lazards-lcoeplus-june-2024-_vf.pdf)
    for utility-scale solar PV and onshore wind are as low as $29 per
    megawatt hour and $27 per megawatt hour, respectively. On a
    [levelized-cost
    basis,](https://www.lazard.com/media/xemfey0k/lazards-lcoeplus-june-2024-_vf.pdf)
    utility-scale solar is now broadly on par with fossil fuel sources,
    even before accounting for the environmental and public health
    benefits. A [recent
    analysis](https://energyinnovation.org/report/the-coal-cost-crossover-3-0/)
    indicates that 99 percent of all U.S. coal plants are more expensive
    to continue running than to replace with solar, wind, and energy
    storage resources. Geothermal power generation capacity is also
    accelerating, with [203 megawatts commissioned globally in 2023, up
    12 percent from
    2022](https://www.irena.org/-/media/Files/IRENA/Agency/Publication/2024/Sep/IRENA_Renewable_power_generation_costs_in_2023.pdf).
    Recent technological advances,
    [particularly](https://fervoenergy.com/fervo-energy-announces-technology-breakthrough-in-next-generation-geothermal/)
    in drilling, indicate the industry [is on
    track](https://liftoff.energy.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/03/LIFTOFF_DOE_NextGen_Geothermal_v14.pdf)
    to an average cost of $60-70/MWh by 2030 and $45/MWh by 2035. New
    enhanced geothermal capacity is already
    [slated](https://about.fb.com/news/2024/08/new-geothermal-energy-project-to-support-our-data-centers/)
    to meet the clean electricity demands of new industries. And the
    recent completion of the [Vogtle nuclear power plant in
    Georgia](https://www.eia.gov/todayinenergy/detail.php?id=61963), the
    nation’s first new nuclear reactors in over 30 years, as well as
    planned
    [revitalizations](https://michiganadvance.com/2024/11/13/palisades-nuclear-plant-along-lake-michigan-plans-for-a-2025-comeback-a-1st-in-the-u-s/)
    of existing reactors,
    [progress](https://acu.edu/2024/09/23/nrc-issues-construction-permit-for-natura-resources-molten-salt-reactor-at-acu-2/)
    on
    [advanced](https://www.terrapower.com/terrapower-begins-construction-in-wyoming)
    [reactor](https://kairospower.com/external_updates/nuclear-regulatory-commission-approves-construction-permit-for-hermes-demonstration-reactor/)
    technologies, and new [private
    sector](https://www.energytech.com/distributed-energy/article/55247450/seeking-nuclear-partners-for-ai-future-meta-releases-rfp-for-smrs-advanced-reactors)
    [demand](https://www.energytech.com/distributed-energy/article/55246834/data-center-take-on-world-nuclear-day-amazon-is-banking-on-future-reactors),
    are all signs of further progress expanding nuclear power capacity
    ahead.  
      
-   **New and Better Transmission**. Expanding and enhancing the U.S.
    transmission system is critical to the nation’s resilience and
    national security. Significant expansions of new and upgraded
    transmission lines by public and private sector entities, including
    [SunZia
    Transmission](https://patternenergy.com/pattern-energy-closes-11-billion-financing-of-largest-clean-energy-infrastructure-project-in-u-s-history/)
    in New Mexico, will facilitate the transmission of clean energy
    across the United States. Meanwhile, a new generation of modern grid
    technologies provides a significant opportunity to achieve power
    system capacity expansion, including through [high-performance
    conductors](https://spectrum.ieee.org/grid-enhancing-technologies)
    that can carry two times (or more) the amount of power of
    conventional transmission wires, as well as grid enhancing
    technologies that maximize electricity transmission across the
    existing system through a family of technologies that includes
    sensors, power flow control devices, and analytical tools.  
      
-   **Battery Storage.** Utility-scale battery storage has the potential
    to provide much-needed flexibility that supports renewable energy
    sources, and helps address grid infrastructure challenges. Between
    2010 and 2023, [the cost of utility-scale battery storage projects
    declined by 89%, to $273 per kilowatt
    hour](https://www.irena.org/-/media/Files/IRENA/Agency/Publication/2024/Sep/IRENA_Renewable_power_generation_costs_in_2023.pdf),
    driven by improvements in manufacturing, materials efficiency, and
    manufacturing processes. Storage capacity additions also increased
    significantly, with additions of 22 gigawatt hours (GWh) in 2023. As
    the private sector continues to invest in new battery technologies
    and manufacturing processes, battery storage costs will continue to
    decline, supporting the clean energy economy of the future.  
      

<!-- -->

-   **Energy Efficiency**. Improvements in energy efficiency can cut
    pollution and save Americans on their energy and water bills. The
    Biden-Harris Administration has [strengthened energy efficiency
    standards](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/12/19/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-more-than-100-actions-in-2022-to-strengthen-energy-efficiency-standards-and-save-families-money/) to
    save households and businesses money, with standards updated by DOE
    for dozens of
    appliances [expected](https://www.energy.gov/articles/doe-finalizes-four-consensus-based-efficiency-standards-save-americans-billions-utility) to
    provide nearly [$1 trillion in consumer
    savings](https://www.energy.gov/articles/doe-finalizes-efficiency-standards-residential-refrigerators-and-freezers-closing-out) over
    30 years, saving the average household [more than $100 a
    year](https://appliance-standards.org/document/study-bidens-appliance-efficiency-standards-will-save-households-over-100-annually) while
    also reducing greenhouse gas emissions by more than 2 billion metric
    tons. Efficient equipment such as heat pumps powered by clean
    electricity are already making heating, cooling, and hot water more
    affordable for a growing number of American homes. 2022 marked the
    first year that heat pump sales outpaced fossil fuel furnaces in the
    US; in 2023, [heat pumps outsold gas furnaces by
    27](https://buildingdecarb.org/2024-wrapped-decarb-edition) percent,
    demonstrating the technology’s growing popularity with consumers.
    When paired with energy efficiency improvements, like insulation,
    heat pumps lower the cost of heating and cooling, while improving
    indoor and outdoor air quality.

<!-- -->

-   [**Clean
    Steel**](https://liftoff.energy.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/02/LIFTOFF_DOE_Industrial-Decarbonization_REV022724.pdf)
    **and** [**Clean
    Concrete**](https://liftoff.energy.gov/industrial-decarbonization/low-carbon-cement/).
    Producing steel and concrete, fundamental building blocks of the
    modern economy, accounts for more than 15 percent of global
    greenhouse gas emissions. Clean steel and concrete are already being
    produced in the United States. Major steelmakers are now using
    Inflation Reduction Act investments to build and retrofit American
    steel facilities to produce cleaner steel. Innovative low carbon
    methods for concrete production can reduce emissions by eliminating
    the need for high temperatures or through the use of alternative low
    carbon feedstocks. These innovative concretes are more durable and
    stronger than conventional concrete, improving the performance of
    infrastructure investments and resulting in long term savings. As
    clean hydrogen and clean electricity prices continue to fall,
    producers will be able to further slash emissions using these
    cleaner inputs.  
      
-   **Clean Hydrogen**. Hydrogen has the potential to reduce emissions
    across a host of sectors, including transportation and heavy
    industry. Key cost drivers of green hydrogen production, including
    the [capital
    expenditure](https://liftoff.energy.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/20230523-Pathways-to-Commercial-Liftoff-Clean-Hydrogen.pdf)
    for [electrolyzers](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3EE01208E.) and the
    price of renewable energy, are expected to decline in years ahead
    due to economies of scale, delivering green hydrogen at a lower
    price point. Combined, these two cost declines could translate to a
    significant reduction in green hydrogen production costs, [from $3-6
    per kilogram today to $1.50 – 2 by
    2035](https://liftoff.energy.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/20230523-Pathways-to-Commercial-Liftoff-Clean-Hydrogen.pdf).

<!-- -->

-   **Clean Cars and Trucks**. Electric vehicles (EVs) are already
    selling at a [record
    pace](https://www.eia.gov/todayinenergy/detail.php?id=63904) in the
    United States, supported by falling component prices as well as fuel
    and maintenance cost savings for consumers. From 2018 to 2022, the
    sales-weighted average price of electric cars
    [decreased](https://www.iea.org/reports/global-ev-outlook-2024/trends-in-electric-cars),
    and the price gap between internal combustion vehicles and EVs has
    begun to close. Through 2035, falling EV component prices will drive
    down the purchase price for EVs and bring new customers to the EV
    market. For instance, battery prices are set to [fall by as much as
    50 percent through
    2026](https://www.goldmansachs.com/insights/articles/electric-vehicle-battery-prices-are-expected-to-fall-almost-50-percent-by-2025)
    thanks to improved technology and expanded production of key inputs.
    Federal standards support these market developments: the
    strongest-ever national pollution standards for [passenger
    cars](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/biden-harris-administration-finalizes-strongest-ever-pollution-standards-cars-position)
    and [heavy-duty
    vehicles](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/biden-harris-administration-finalizes-strongest-ever-greenhouse-gas-standards-heavy)
    are providing certainty for the automobile industry, catalyzing
    private investment, creating good-paying union jobs, improving
    public health, and expanding consumer choice in clean vehicles.

<!-- -->

-   **Federal Sustainability.** With broad support from America’s
    manufacturers, clean energy developers, labor organizations,
    business leaders, states, and communities, the Federal Government’s
    300,000 buildings, 600,000 vehicles, and $750 billion in annual
    procurement power will continue to be [more sustainable and
    resilient](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/12/09/fact-sheet-biden-%E2%81%A0harris-administration-leads-by-example-leveraging-the-federal-government-to-catalyze-clean-energy-jobs-and-cut-costs-and-pollution/)
    while supporting good jobs, cutting costs, and saving taxpayers
    money.

**<u>Action and Leadership from state, local, Tribal, and territorial
governments</u>**

State, local, Tribal, and territorial governments in the United States
have a long history of climate leadership that has laid the groundwork
for subsequent federal action, including the Inflation Reduction Act.
Many critical climate levers, especially in the transportation,
electricity, and building sectors, lie largely within the domain of
these governments. In the years ahead, leveraging and expanding the new
clean energy economy enabled by the Biden-Harris Administration’s
policies and bolstered by strong economic tailwinds supporting clean
energy, these governments will ensure that the United States remains
all-in on climate action. States, territories, cities, counties, and
Tribal governments together have the capacity to step in and deliver on
climate ambition. In the years ahead, we expect that subnational and
Tribal governments will adopt new and strengthen existing
climate-forward policies such as:

-   **Climate Action Plan Implementation:** Through support from the
    Inflation Reduction Act, more than 45 states and more than 200
    Tribes, territories, and metro areas have now developed their own
    [Climate Action
    Plans](https://www.epa.gov/inflation-reduction-act/about-cprg-planning-grant-information),
    representing a historic set of opportunities for subnational climate
    progress across sectors. More than $4 billion of [Climate Pollution
    Reduction
    Grants](https://www.epa.gov/inflation-reduction-act/about-cprg-implementation-grants)
    awarded by the Biden-Harris Administration will also advance 59
    implementation projects across 30 states, 33 Tribal Nations, and 1
    territory to reduce climate pollution from every sector of the
    economy. Many of these projects can be expanded and provide examples
    that other states, local governments, Tribes, and even businesses
    can replicate in their work to tackle the climate crisis.  
      
-   **Innovative Solutions to Cut Pollution from the Existing
    Transportation Systems**.
    [California](https://ww2.arb.ca.gov/our-work/programs/low-carbon-fuel-standard),
    [Washington](https://ecology.wa.gov/Air-Climate/Reducing-Greenhouse-Gas-Emissions/Clean-Fuel-Standard),
    and [Oregon](https://www.oregon.gov/deq/ghgp/cfp/Pages/default.aspx)
    have developed and implemented, or started to implement, programs
    that reduce emissions from the transportation sector through a
    predictable, market-based approach, generating climate and local-air
    quality benefits for residents and communities. New York City and
    State adopted and implemented the country’s first-ever [congestion
    pricing program,](https://congestionreliefzone.mta.info/) which will
    reduce climate pollution and provide a stable funding source for
    mass transit. Other states have the opportunity to build on these
    successful policy initiatives in their own jurisdictions.  
      
-   **Renewable Portfolio Standards (RPSs) and Clean Energy Standards
    (CESs)**. Today, twenty-five states and the District of Columbia
    have set [RPSs and eight others have adopted
    CESs](https://www.c2es.org/document/renewable-and-alternate-energy-portfolio-standards/),
    which will increase the generation of low- and zero-carbon
    electricity. Adoption of these standards by additional states, as
    well as the strengthening of existing standards, provides
    significant upside for reducing climate pollution.  
      
-   **Building Energy Codes**. Many subnational governments have
    [already adopted](https://www.energycodes.gov/state-portal) or are
    in the process of adopting the most up-to-date energy codes to
    ensure new building construction is energy efficient and lowering
    emissions for years to come. Subnational governments are also
    reducing energy costs and emissions in existing buildings, with
    almost 25 percent of commercial buildings subject to a building
    performance standard or located in a community with plans to adopt
    [building performance
    standards](https://www.energycodes.gov/infographics).  
      
-   **State Procurement of Low-Carbon Materials**. The Biden-Harris
    Administration’s landmark Federal Buy Clean Initiative leverages the
    sway of the U.S. government, as the largest purchaser on Earth, to
    spur demand for clean American manufacturing of materials that form
    the bedrock of our economy. [Thirteen
    states](https://www.sustainability.gov/buyclean/index.html#aboutpartnership)
    have joined the Federal-State Buy Clean Partnership and committed to
    prioritizing efforts that support procurement of lower-carbon
    infrastructure materials in state-funded projects. These states can
    continue to work together to send a clear, harmonized demand signal
    to the marketplace for the long-term decarbonization of essential
    industries.  
      
-   **Financing Climate Solutions.** With support from the Inflation
    Reduction Act’s Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund (GGRF), the national
    network for financing clean energy and climate solutions across
    sectors is larger than ever before. The National Clean Investment
    Fund awardees are establishing national clean financing institutions
    that deliver accessible and affordable financing for clean
    technology projects nationwide, and the Clean Communities Investment
    Accelerator awardees are establishing hubs that provide funding and
    technical assistance to community lenders working in low-income and
    disadvantaged communities.

<!-- -->

-   **State and Regional Efforts to Cap Emissions.** 15 states and
    Puerto Rico have binding economy-wide emissions targets in law,
    covering more than 115 million Americans across the country. Voters
    in Washington State recently
    [upheld](https://apnews.com/article/washington-climate-law-repeal-initiative-vote-bbac4bb2601db447d783ba5c511c9cbd)
    a groundbreaking law requiring companies to cut carbon emissions
    while investing in programs that benefit the public, such as habitat
    restoration and climate adaptation. This recent success builds on
    initiatives such as the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI), a
    [regional
    program](https://www.rggi.org/sites/default/files/Uploads/Fact%20Sheets/RGGI_101_Factsheet.pdf)
    that requires certain power plants to acquire allowances for every
    ton of CO<sub>2</sub> emitted.

In the years to come, leadership will come from all across American
society – cities and states, Tribes and territories, small and big
businesses, working communities, individual Americans and the private
sector working together to seize the economic opportunity, create jobs,
and build the clean energy economy. This new clean energy economy,
enabled by the forward-looking policies of this Administration, will
continue to grow – and the United States will continue to create good
jobs and cut carbon pollution right here at home.

\###
