---
date: '2022-09-30'
published_time: 2022-09-30 17:19:55-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/09/30/a-proclamation-on-national-arts-and-humanities-month-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Arts And Humanities Month,\_2022"
---
 
     For centuries, American arts and humanities have been a beacon of
light and understanding, recording our history and advancing new ways of
thinking.  This National Arts and Humanities month, we celebrate our
Nation’s visionary artists, scholars, and creators whose work touches
and reveals the soul of America.

     My Administration is committed to making the arts and humanities
more accessible to people of every age and background, uplifting more
voices, inspiring new generations, and showing the full power of our
example as a great Nation.  We have invested hundreds of millions of
dollars in strengthening the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) and
the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH), and our American Rescue
Plan allocated over a billion more to help museums, libraries, theaters,
concert halls, and other venues recover from the pandemic.  

     This critical support comes on top of a historic Executive Order I
signed this week to promote the arts, humanities, and museum and library
services.  The order re-establishes the President’s Committee on the
Arts and Humanities, and directs cooperation among Federal agencies and
offices to strengthen our Nation’s health, economy, equity, and civic
life through these disciplines.  Additionally, I am proud to have
appointed Dr. Maria Rosario Jackson to chair the NEA, the first African
American and Mexican American to head the agency, and Shelly C. Lowe to
chair the NEH, the first Native American in that role.  Together, we
will keep working to support artists, scholars, and leaders who look
like America and will help tell our full story as a Nation.  

     The NEH charter says it best:  Democracy demands wisdom.  The steps
we are taking this month will support American creators and communities,
foster new understanding, and inspire us all to tackle our toughest
challenges and keep pushing forward to form a more perfect Union.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 2022 as National Arts and Humanities Month.  I call on the
people of the United States to observe this month with appropriate
programs, ceremonies, and celebrations. 

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day
of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
