---
date: '2022-09-15'
published_time: 2022-09-15 19:29:22-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/09/15/memorandum-on-presidential-determination-on-major-drug-transit-or-major-illicit-drug-producing-countries-for-fiscal-year-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Memorandum on Presidential Determination on Major Drug Transit or Major Illicit\
  \ Drug Producing Countries for Fiscal Year\_2023"
---
 
September 15, 2022  

Presidential Determination  
No.        2022-23        

MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE  
               

SUBJECT: Presidential Determination on Major Drug Transit  
or Major Illicit Drug Producing Countries for  
Fiscal Year 2023

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States, including section 706(1) of the Foreign
Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003 (Public Law 107-228)
(FRAA), I hereby identify the following countries as major drug transit
or major illicit drug producing countries:  Afghanistan, The Bahamas,
Belize, Bolivia, Burma, Colombia, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, India, Jamaica, Laos,
Mexico, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, and Venezuela.

A country’s presence on the foregoing list is neither a reflection of
its government’s counterdrug efforts nor level of cooperation with the
United States.  Consistent with the statutory definition of a major drug
transit or major illicit drug producing country set forth in sections
481(e)(2) and 481(e)(5) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as
amended (Public Law 87-195) (FAA), the reason countries are placed on
the list is the combination of geographic, commercial, and economic
factors that allow drugs to be transited or produced, even if a
government has engaged in robust and diligent narcotics control and law
enforcement measures.

Pursuant to section 706(2)(A) of the FRAA, I hereby designate
Afghanistan, Bolivia, Burma, and Venezuela as having failed demonstrably
to make substantial efforts during the previous 12 months to both adhere
to their obligations under international counternarcotics agreements and
to take the measures required by section 489(a)(1) of the FAA.  Included
with this determination are justifications for the designations of
Afghanistan, Bolivia, Burma, and Venezuela, as required by section
706(2)(B) of the FRAA.  I have also determined, in accordance with
provisions of section 706(3)(A) of the FRAA, that United States programs
that support Afghanistan, Bolivia, Burma, and Venezuela are vital to the
national interests of the United States.  

Addressing the ongoing and increasingly staggering toll of the drug
addiction and overdose epidemic in the United States, which tragically
claimed nearly 108,000 lives in 2021, remains one of the foremost public
health priorities of my Administration.  Through our 2022 National Drug
Control Strategy, my Administration will focus on critical drivers of
the epidemic, including untreated addiction and drug trafficking, and
will redouble efforts to strengthen foreign partnerships to address drug
production and trafficking, particularly to tackle the shared challenge
of synthetic drugs. 

My Administration’s Fiscal Year 2023 Budget request calls for $24.3
billion to support evidence-based prevention and treatment, including
harm reduction and recovery support services, with targeted investments
to meet the needs of populations at greatest risk for overdose and
substance use disorder.  The Budget request also includes significant
investments to reduce the supply of illicit drugs originating from
beyond our borders.  

The United States is committed to working together with the countries of
the Western Hemisphere as neighbors and partners to meet our shared
challenges of drug production, trafficking, and use, and to counter the
deleterious impact of narcotics-related corruption.  My Administration
is expanding cooperation globally to bolster efforts to address the
production and trafficking of dangerous synthetic drugs that are
responsible for so many of our overdose deaths, particularly fentanyl,
its analogues, and methamphetamine.  We will look to expand cooperation
with China, India, and other chemical source countries to disrupt the
global flow of synthetic drugs and their precursor chemicals.  Under the
U.S.-Mexico Bicentennial Framework for Security, Public Health, and Safe
Communities, we support and encourage Mexican efforts to target
clandestine drug laboratories, chemists, and companies involved in
chemical diversion; to enact stronger chemical control and
accountability frameworks; to increase interdiction of precursor
chemicals and finished synthetic drugs in transit; and to arrest key
organized crime figures involved in the synthesis and trafficking of
fentanyl and methamphetamine and the laundering of drug proceeds.  The
United States is encouraged by Afghanistan’s ban on opium poppy
cultivation, production, and trafficking, and will monitor the
implementation of this ban.  The United States is also encouraged by
Bolivia’s counternarcotics efforts over the past year, including
increased cooperation with international partners.  I encourage
Bolivia’s government to take additional steps to safeguard the country’s
licit coca markets from criminal exploitation, to reduce illicit coca
cultivation that continues to exceed legal limits under Bolivia’s
domestic laws for medicinal and traditional use, and to continue
international collaboration to disrupt drug traffickers.  In addition,
while the foregoing list is focused by law on drug trafficking and the
production of plant-based drugs and synthetic opioids that significantly
affects the United States, addressing the global proliferation of other
dangerous synthetic drugs remains a key drug control priority of my
Administration.

You are authorized and directed to submit this designation, with the
Afghanistan, Bolivia, Burma, and Venezuela memoranda of justification,
under section 706 of the FRAA, to the Congress, and to publish this
determination in the *Federal Register*.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

  
  
  
                            

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
