---
date: '2022-09-15'
published_time: 2022-09-15 12:45:59-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/09/15/executive-order-on-ensuring-robust-consideration-of-evolving-national-security-risks-by-the-committee-on-foreign-investment-in-the-united-states/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Executive Order on Ensuring Robust Consideration of Evolving National Security\
  \ Risks by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United\_States"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including section 721 of the
Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended (50 U.S.C. 4565) (section
721), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby
ordered as follows:  
  
Section 1.  Policy.  The United States welcomes and supports foreign
investment, consistent with the protection of national security.  The
United States commitment to open investment is a cornerstone of our
economic policy and provides the United States with substantial economic
benefits, including “the promotion of economic growth, productivity,
competitiveness, and job creation, thereby enhancing national security,”
as the Congress recognized in section 1702(b)(1) of the Foreign
Investment Risk Review Modernization Act of 2018 (FIRRMA) (Subtitle A of
Title XVII of Public Law 115-232).  Some investments in the United
States by foreign persons, however, present risks to the national
security of the United States, and it is for this reason that the United
States maintains a robust foreign investment review process focused on
identifying and addressing such risks.  
  
It is important to ensure that the foreign investment review process
remains responsive to an evolving national security landscape and the
nature of the investments that pose related risks to national security,
as the Congress recognized in section 1702(b)(4) of FIRRMA.  One factor
for the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (Committee)
to consider, as the Congress highlighted in section 1702(c)(1) of
FIRRMA, is that national security risks may arise from foreign
investments involving “a country of special concern that has a
demonstrated or declared strategic goal of acquiring a type of critical
technology or critical infrastructure that would affect United
States leadership in areas related to national security.”  Along these
lines, I previously underscored in Executive Order 14034 of June 9, 2021
(Protecting Americans’ Sensitive Data From Foreign Adversaries), and
emphasize in this order the risks presented by foreign adversaries’
access to data of United States persons.  With respect to investments
directly or indirectly involving foreign adversaries or other countries
of special concern, what may otherwise appear to be an economic
transaction undertaken for commercial purposes may actually present an
unacceptable risk to United States national security due to the legal
environment, intentions, or capabilities of the foreign person,
including foreign governments, involved in the transaction.  It is the
policy of the United States Government to continue to respond to these
risks as they evolve, including through a robust review of foreign
investments in United States businesses.  
  
In light of these risks, this order provides direction to the Committee
to ensure that, in reviewing transactions within its jurisdiction
(covered transactions), the Committee’s review remains responsive to
evolving national security risks, including by elaborating and expanding
on the factors identified in subsections (f)(1)-(10) of section 721. 
This order shall be implemented consistent with the Committee’s
statutory mandate to determine the effects of each covered transaction
reviewed by the Committee on the national security of the
United States.  
  
Sec. 2.  Elaboration on Existing Statutory Factors. (a)  In considering
the factors described in subsection (f)(3) of section 721, the Committee
shall, taking into account the requirements of national security,
consider the following, as appropriate:  
  
(i)   It is important to national security that the Committee continues
to assess the effect of foreign investment on domestic capacity to meet
national security requirements, including those requirements that fall
outside of the defense industrial base.  In particular, the resilience
of certain critical United States supply chains may have national
security implications.  The United States recognizes the importance of
cooperating with its allies and partners to secure supply chains;
however, certain foreign investment may undermine supply chain
resilience efforts and therefore national security by making the United
States vulnerable to future supply disruptions.  These vulnerabilities
may occur if an investment shifts ownership, rights, or control with
respect to certain manufacturing capabilities, services, critical
mineral resources, or technologies that are fundamental to national
security — including because they are critical to United States supply
chain resilience — to a foreign person who might take actions that
threaten to impair the national security of the United States as a
result of the transaction, or to other foreign persons, including
foreign governments, to whom the foreign person has commercial,
investment, non-economic, or other ties (relevant third-party ties) that
might cause the transaction to pose a threat to national security.  
  
(ii)  The Committee shall consider, as appropriate, the covered
transaction’s effect on supply chain resilience and security, both
within and outside of the defense industrial base, in manufacturing
capabilities, services, critical mineral resources, or technologies that
are fundamental to national security, including:  microelectronics,
artificial intelligence, biotechnology and biomanufacturing, quantum
computing, advanced clean energy (such as battery storage and hydrogen),
climate adaptation technologies, critical materials (such as lithium and
rare earth elements), elements of the agriculture industrial base that
have implications for food security, and any other sectors identified in
section 3(b) or section 4(a) of Executive Order 14017 of February 24,
2021 (America’s Supply Chains).   
  
(A)  The Committee shall consider, as appropriate, the degree of
involvement in the United States supply chain by a foreign person who is
a party to the covered transaction and who might take actions that
threaten to impair the national security of the United States as a
result of the transaction, or who might have relevant third-party ties
that might cause the transaction to pose such a threat.

(B)  The Committee shall consider, as appropriate, the United States
capability with respect to manufacturing capabilities, services,
critical mineral resources, or technologies, including those described
in subsection (a)(ii) of this section; the degree of diversification
through alternative suppliers across the supply chain, including
suppliers located in allied or partner economies; whether the United
States business that is party to the covered transaction supplies,
directly or indirectly, the United States Government, the energy sector
industrial base, or the defense industrial base; and the concentration
of ownership or control by the foreign person in a given supply chain,
among other factors that the Committee determines to be appropriate in
considering whether the covered transaction may undermine the resilience
and security of supply chains critical to national security.

(b)  In considering the factors described in subsection (f)(5) of
section 721, the Committee shall, taking into account the requirements
of national security, consider the following, as appropriate:

\(i\)    Although foreign investments can in many circumstances help to
foster domestic innovation, it is important to protect United States
technological leadership by addressing the risks posed by investments by
foreign persons who might take actions that threaten to impair the
national security of the United States as a result of the transaction,
and by addressing whether such persons have relevant third-party ties
that might cause the transaction to pose such a threat.

\(ii\)   The Committee shall consider, as appropriate, whether a covered
transaction involves manufacturing capabilities, services, critical
mineral resources, or technologies that are fundamental to United States
technological leadership and therefore national security, such as
microelectronics, artificial intelligence, biotechnology and
biomanufacturing, quantum computing, advanced clean energy, and climate
adaptation technologies.  The Committee shall also consider, as
appropriate, relevant third-party ties that might cause the transaction
to threaten to impair the national security of the United States.

\(iii\)  The Committee shall consider, as appropriate, whether a covered
transaction could reasonably result in future advancements and
applications in technology that could undermine national security.

\(iv\)   The Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP), in
consultation with other members of the Committee, shall periodically
publish a list of technology sectors, including those technologies
listed in subsection (b)(ii) of this section, that it assesses are
fundamental to United States technological leadership in areas relevant
to national security.  OSTP shall, as appropriate, draw on the findings
of other United States Government efforts to identify technology sectors
that are fundamental to United States technological leadership.  The
Committee shall consider the list described in this subsection, as
appropriate.  
  
Sec. 3.  Additional Factors to be Considered.  (a)  In addition to the
factors identified in subsections (f)(1)-(10) of section 721, the
Committee shall consider, in reviewing the effects of a covered
transaction on the national security of the United States, the following
factors relating to aggregate industry investment trends that may have
consequences for an individual covered transaction’s impact on national
security:  
  
(i)    Incremental investments over time in a sector or technology may
cede, part-by-part, domestic development or control in that sector or
technology and may give a foreign person who might take actions that
threaten to impair the national security of the United States as a
result of the transaction, or their relevant third-party ties that might
cause the transaction to pose such a threat, control of or rights in
United States businesses in a manner that may result in national
security risk.  A series of acquisitions in the same, similar, or
related United States businesses involved in activities that are
fundamental to national security or on terms that implicate national
security may result in a particular covered transaction giving rise to a
national security risk when considered in the context of transactions
that preceded it.  In aggregate, these transactions may facilitate
harmful technology transfer in key industries or otherwise harm national
security through the cumulative effect of these investments.  As the
Congress identified in section 1702(c)(2) of FIRRMA, the Committee may
consider “the cumulative control of, or pattern of recent transactions
involving, any one type of critical infrastructure, energy asset,
critical material, or critical technology by a foreign government or
foreign person” in considering national security risks.  Contextualizing
the Committee’s review of an individual transaction in light of the
aggregate or series of related transactions could reveal national
security risks arising from the covered transaction that were not
otherwise apparent.  
  
(ii)   The Committee shall consider, as appropriate, as part of the
Committee’s review of a covered transaction, the risks arising from the
covered transaction in the context of multiple acquisitions or
investments in a single sector or in related manufacturing capabilities,
services, critical mineral resources, or technologies, by any foreign
person who might take actions that threaten to impair the national
security of the United States as a result of the transaction, or
involving relevant third-party ties that might cause the transaction to
pose such a threat.  
  
(iii)  The Committee may request, as part of the Committee’s review of a
covered transaction, that the Department of Commerce’s International
Trade Administration provide the Committee an analysis of the industry
or industries in which the United States business operates, and the
cumulative control of, or pattern of recent transactions by, a foreign
person, including, directly or indirectly, a foreign government, in that
sector or industry.  
  
(b)  In addition to the factors identified in subsections (f)(1)-(10) of
section 721, the Committee shall consider, in reviewing the effects of a
covered transaction on the national security of the United States, the
following factors relating to cybersecurity risks resulting from a
covered transaction that threaten to impair national security:  
  
(i)    It is important for the United States to ensure that foreign
investment in United States businesses does not erode United States
cybersecurity.  Investments by foreign persons with the capability and
intent to conduct cyber intrusions or other malicious cyber-enabled
activity — such as activity designed to affect the outcome of any
election for Federal, State, Tribal, local, or territorial office; the
operation of United States critical infrastructure; or the
confidentiality, integrity, or availability of United States
communications — may pose a risk to national security.  The Congress, in
section 1702(c)(6) of FIRRMA, identified “exacerbating or creating new
cybersecurity vulnerabilities” as a relevant consideration for the
Committee when considering national security risks arising from a
covered transaction.  Review of foreign investment is an important tool
as part of broader United States efforts to ensure the cybersecurity of
the United States.  
  
(ii)   The Committee shall consider, as appropriate, whether a covered
transaction may provide a foreign person who might take actions that
threaten to impair the national security of the United States as a
result of the transaction, or their relevant third-party ties that might
cause the transaction to pose such a threat, with direct or indirect
access to capabilities or information databases and systems on which
threat actors could engage in malicious cyber‑enabled activities
affecting the interests of the United States or United States persons,
including:

(A)  activity designed to undermine the protection or integrity of data
in storage or databases or systems housing sensitive data;

(B)  activity designed to interfere with United States elections, United
States critical infrastructure, the defense industrial base, or other
cybersecurity national security priorities set forth in Executive Order
14028 of May 12, 2021 (Improving the Nation’s Cybersecurity); and

\(C\)  the sabotage of critical energy infrastructure, including smart
grids.

\(iii\)  The Committee shall also consider, as appropriate, the
cybersecurity posture, practices, capabilities, and access of both the
foreign person and the United States business that could allow a foreign
person who might take actions that threaten to impair the national
security of the United States as a result of the transaction, or their
relevant third-party ties that might cause the transaction to pose such
a threat, to manifest cyber intrusion and other malicious cyber-enabled
activity within the United States.  
  
(c)  In addition to the factors identified in subsections (f)(1)-(10) of
section 721, the Committee shall consider, in reviewing the effects of a
covered transaction on the national security of the United States, the
following factors relating to national security concerns surrounding
sensitive data:  
  
(i)    Data is an increasingly powerful tool for the surveillance,
tracing, tracking, and targeting of individuals or groups of
individuals, with potential adverse impacts on national security.  In
section 1702(c)(5) of FIRRMA, the Congress recognized that the Committee
may consider whether a covered transaction may “expose, either directly
or indirectly, personally identifiable information, genetic information,
or other sensitive data of United States citizens to access by a foreign
government or foreign person that may exploit that information in a
manner that threatens national security.”  Moreover, advances in
technology, combined with access to large data sets, increasingly enable
the re‑identification or de‑anonymization of what once was
unidentifiable data.  Therefore, it is important for the United States
Government to stay current with threats posed by advances in such
technology, including by considering potential risks posed by foreign
persons who might exploit access to certain data on United States
persons to target individuals or groups within the United States to the
detriment of national security.  Accordingly, the Committee shall
consider whether foreign investments in United States businesses that
have access to or that store United States persons’ sensitive data,
including health and biological data, involve a foreign person who might
take actions that threaten to impair the national security of the United
States as a result of the transaction, including whether the foreign
person might have relevant third-party ties that might cause the
transaction to pose such a threat.  
  
(ii)   The Committee shall consider, as appropriate, whether a covered
transaction involves a United States business that:  
  
(A)  has access to United States persons’ sensitive data, including
United States persons’ health, digital identity, or other biological
data and any data that could be identifiable or de‑anonymized, that
could be exploited to distinguish or trace an individual’s identity in a
manner that threatens national security; or  
  
(B)  has access to data on sub-populations in the United States that
could be used by a foreign person to target individuals or groups of
individuals in the United States in a manner that threatens national
security.   
  
(iii)  The Committee shall also consider, as appropriate, whether a
covered transaction involves the transfer of United States persons’
sensitive data to a foreign person who might take actions that threaten
to impair the national security of the United States as a result of the
transaction, and whether the foreign person has relevant third-party
ties that have sought to exploit such information or have the ability to
exploit such information to the detriment of national security,
including through the use of commercial or other means.  
  
Sec. 4.  Periodic Review.  Consistent with the policy described in
section 1 of this order, it is important for the Committee, on an
ongoing basis, to continue to review its processes, practices, and
regulations, and to continue to make any updates as needed and
appropriate to ensure that the Committee’s consideration of national
security risks remains robust alongside changes to the national security
landscape.  Accordingly, the Committee shall regularly review its
processes, practices, and regulations, and shall periodically provide to
the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs a report
documenting the results of its review.  The report shall also include
any resulting policy recommendations that the Committee considers
necessary to meet the evolving set of national security risks.  
  
Sec. 5.  Definitions.  For purposes of this order, terms shall have the
same meanings ascribed to them in section 721 and regulations
promulgated by the Committee under section 721.   
  
Sec. 6.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:  
  
(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or  
  
(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative
proposals.  
  
(b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
subject to the availability of appropriations.  
  
(c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, affect the
requirements in section 721 relating to the scope of the Committee’s
jurisdiction.  
  
(d)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

                         
   JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

  
THE WHITE HOUSE,  
September 15, 2022.
