---
date: '2022-09-30'
modified_time: 2022-09-30 17:08:32-04:00
published_time: 2022-09-30 17:01:06-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/09/30/a-proclamation-on-national-clean-energy-action-month-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "National Disability Employment Awareness Month,\_2022"
---
 
During National Disability Employment Awareness Month, we celebrate the
essential contributions to our workplaces, economy, and Nation made by
disabled Americans and recommit to promoting equal opportunity for all
people.

     For far too long in this country, employers could refuse to hire
you if you were disabled.  Stores could turn you away.  If you used a
wheelchair, there was no real way to take a bus or train to work or
school.  America simply was not built for all Americans.  In 1945,
President Truman established National Disability Employment Awareness
Month and issued the first national call for disabled people to access
all the opportunities and rewards of work.  Forty-five years later, in
1990, the Congress came together to pass the Americans with Disabilities
Act (ADA), which helps to ensure our workforce is more productive,
prosperous, and inclusive by banning disability discrimination,
including in the workplace.  Courageous activists of all backgrounds had
fought for decades to lay the groundwork and change public
consciousness, and I was proud to cosponsor this groundbreaking civil
rights law.  Since then, the ADA has not only transformed lives, but it
has also inspired over 180 other countries to pass similar laws and
brought us closer to realizing the full promise of our Nation.

     Still, we have a long way to go.  Studies have found that Americans
with disabilities are especially productive and motivated workers — but
they still have a harder time getting jobs, promotions, and fair pay.
 They are three times less likely than others to be employed and often
earn sub-minimum wages for their work.  That is wrong.  We have an
obligation to change that, and as the Nation’s largest employer, the
Federal Government has a responsibility to set an example as a model
workplace where everyone is valued and treated with respect.  Last year,
I issued an Executive Order putting diversity, equity, inclusion, and
accessibility front and center across the entire Federal Government.  To
ensure our Federal workforce actually looks like America, the Executive
Order directs agencies to find and remove barriers to hiring and
promotion and to recruit more recent graduates with disabilities.

     Meanwhile, my Administration’s Labor Department is protecting the
rights of workers with disabilities in the private sector, cracking down
on employers who discriminate, and ending the unfair use of sub-minimum
wages.  The Departments of Education, Labor, Health and Human Services,
and the Social Security Administration, are helping State and local
governments, employers, and nonprofits that hire people with
disabilities to access funding for competitive integrated employment
opportunities.  My Administration’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is
expanding access to transit, updating old train stations and airports so
more people with disabilities can travel and work.  We are working to
ease the added threat the pandemic has posed to the disabled community
and its support networks.  Where long COVID has now risen to the level
of a disability, we are helping people understand their rights and get
the workplace accommodations they need.

     This month, let us acknowledge workers with disabilities who make
our communities, our economy, and our Nation stronger.  Let us continue
the legacy of generations of disability rights activists who have fought
for equal employment opportunities, integrated workplaces, and equal pay
for equal work.  Let us deliver the promise of America to all Americans.
 

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 2022 as National Disability Employment Awareness Month.  I urge
all Americans to embrace the talents and skills that workers with
disabilities bring and to promote the right to equal employment
opportunity for all.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
thirtieth day of September, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-two, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.

  
JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
