---
date: '2022-09-30'
published_time: 2022-09-30 17:17:07-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/09/30/a-proclamation-on-national-youth-justice-action-month-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Youth Justice Action Month,\_2022"
---
 
     During National Youth Justice Action Month, we recommit to
transforming our juvenile justice system, shifting its focus from
punishment to support — from the past to the future.  By investing more
in all children’s health and well-being, our youth can build a
foundation for full lives and our whole country can benefit from their
unlimited potential.  
    

Every child in America deserves a fair shot through good schools, safe
communities, and equal opportunities.  But some 36,000 young Americans
remain confined in juvenile residential facilities, too often stuck in
unsafe environments, facing adult charges or severe sentences, and
living with untreated trauma that keeps them from moving forward.  Young
people of color and young people with disabilities are
disproportionately affected.  We are not giving America’s children the
second chances they deserve.  It is time to rethink our system in order
to better reach the young people who need us most with guidance and
support to keep them from coming in contact with the criminal justice
system in the first place.

       My Administration has invested historic amounts in improving our
youth justice system, increasing funding for the Department of Justice’s
Juvenile Justice Programs, which had seen sharp cuts.  We have also
invested in schools, mentorship, and job training programs, providing
more than $120 billion of American Rescue Plan funding to help schools
safely reopen during the pandemic, to hire more teachers and counselors,
to launch afterschool and summer tutoring programs that help kids catch
up, and to meet changing mental health needs.  My Administration more
than doubled funding for Full-Service Community Schools that support
students and their families outside the classroom with important
services like health care and career counseling.  We have launched a
national partnership to recruit 250,000 Americans to serve as tutors and
mentors and called on the Congress to fund new programs that would turn
juvenile detention facilities into job-training centers.  Once young
people come in contact with the justice system, we are working to make
sure they are treated fairly — boosting access to lawyers who will fight
for them and safely expanding alternatives to incarceration, including
intensive job training and mentorship programs.  Once they leave the
system, we are helping youth to find housing, jobs, and other support.
 We are also urging States to expunge, seal, or vacate juvenile records
where appropriate so more young Americans can move forward and build
lives of dignity and opportunity.

       This month, I stand with youth justice advocates in urging States
and communities across the country to do more to help every child
realize their full promise.  I will never quit working to strengthen
America’s commitment to justice and building a system focused on
redemption and rehabilitation, especially for our children.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 2022 as National Youth Justice Action Month.  I call upon all
Americans to observe this month by taking action to support our youth
and by participating in appropriate ceremonies, activities, and programs
in their communities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day
of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                                 JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
