---
date: '2022-09-19'
published_time: 2022-09-19 10:37:28-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/09/19/a-proclamation-on-national-voter-registration-day-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Voter Registration Day,\_2022"
---
 
     The right to vote is the foundation of our democracy — it defines
us as Americans and serves as the cornerstone of our liberty.  With it,
anything is possible in America; without it, nothing is.  It is a legacy
passed down by our greatest leaders — a legacy which provides each one
of us with a voice in the creation of a better Nation.  It is the source
of our power as citizens, our mightiest tool of social transformation,
and the stabilizing tradition that confers legitimacy to our system of
Government.  Each year on National Voter Registration Day, we reaffirm
our conviction that democracy only works when everyone can participate,
and we encourage all eligible Americans to register to vote.

     Our Nation has not always lived up to its promise of equal access
to the right to vote, and so many Americans have struggled, suffered,
and died fighting for a say in the destiny of our country.  From Seneca
Falls, New York, to Selma, Alabama, to Washington, D.C. — and across
America — ordinary people have organized to protest disenfranchisement
and won.  The efforts of these courageous women and men have led to the
passage of landmark civil rights legislation like the Voting Rights Act,
the National Voter Registration Act, and the Help America Vote Act,
which extended the blessings of democracy to millions of citizens.
 Lately, however, those protections have been weakened by decisions of
the Supreme Court of the United States.  Now, State legislatures are
passing new forms of voting restrictions to limit participation and
choose whose vote can count at all.  As the late Representative John
Lewis, an icon of the voting rights struggle, would say, “democracy is
not a state; it is an act.”  Our Founding Fathers understood this,
as did the suffragists at the National Women’s Rights Convention of
1848, the other giants of the Civil Rights Movement, and today’s
activists working for a freer, fairer, and more accessible voting
system.  Just as securing and protecting voting rights was the test of
their times, it continues to be the challenge of ours.

     As President, I will do everything in my power to protect the right
to vote and ensure that every American has a free and fair opportunity
to exercise this fundamental liberty.  This means appointing highly
qualified advocates to the Department of Justice and doubling the
agency’s voting rights enforcement staff to ensure the Department has
the resources to fight voter suppression in the courts.  It also means
issuing an Executive Order to establish a whole-of-government effort to
promote access to voter registration and election information,
especially in some of our most underserved communities.  I have directed
my Administration to take historic action to help college students and
veterans register effectively.  I continue to call on the Congress to
pass the Freedom to Vote Act and the John Lewis Voting Rights
Advancement Act.  These laws would address election subversion, remove
dark money from politics, end partisan gerrymandering, and fix the
gaping holes in voter access left by the Supreme Court of the United
States.  They would also allow the Justice Department to halt
discriminatory laws before they go into effect.

     In celebration of National Voter Registration Day, let us honor the
heroes who fought to secure voting rights and expand them.  I call on
all eligible Americans to ensure that their registration is up to date
and to encourage their family, neighbors, and friends to do the same. 
Let us all remain engaged with the ongoing struggle to build an America
where every vote matters and where every citizen has the ability and the
right to participate freely in the democratic process.  We cannot give
up now.  The future of our Nation depends on it.  To learn more about
how to register or check your voter registration information, you can
visit [vote.gov](https://vote.gov/).

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 20, 2022, as National Voter Registration Day.  I call on all
eligible Americans to observe this day by ensuring that they are
accurately registered and by committing to cast a ballot in upcoming
elections.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this nineteenth day
of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
