---
date: '2022-09-09'
modified_time: 2022-09-09 13:27:48-04:00
published_time: 2022-09-09 13:27:47-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/09/09/a-proclamation-on-national-hispanic-serving-institutions-week-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Hispanic-Serving Institutions Week,\_2022"
---
 
     Today, Hispanic students make up nearly 20 percent of college
undergraduates in the United States.  They are our future leaders — the
next generation of doctors and teachers, entrepreneurs and artists,
first responders and scientists, elected officials and activists.
 Ensuring that these young people are prepared to take on the challenges
of tomorrow is critical to the future of our Nation.

     That is why this week we celebrate Hispanic-Serving Institutions
(HSIs), which foster cultures of belonging and respect on their campuses
and offer Hispanic students a nurturing, inclusive environment to learn
and grow.  Recently, I was pleased to award the Presidential Medal of
Freedom to Dr. Julieta García, the first Mexican-American woman to lead
the University of Texas at Brownsville, a center of excellence for
countless students who have been inspired by her example.  Committed to
the value of education as a critical tool to uplift an entire community,
Dr. García has demonstrated how HSIs can enable student success across
the country.

     My Administration knows that more needs to be done to support these
places of higher learning that stand for the ideals of opportunity,
dignity, and respect.  Despite their many accomplishments, HSIs have
been hit hard in recent years.  Data show that Hispanic undergraduate
enrollment has fallen by 7 percent since the pandemic began, and for the
first time in 20 years, the number of these institutions has declined. 
That is why we are strengthening our commitment to help HSIs provide a
pathway to opportunity and economic mobility for their students. 

     My Administration has invested approximately $11 billion from our
American Rescue Plan to keep students and staff at HSIs safe from the
COVID-19 pandemic and provide students emergency grants so they can stay
enrolled.  I also signed a bill to increase the maximum Pell Grant award
by the greatest amount in over a decade, which will help approximately
half of all Hispanic students, who depend on Pell Grants to pay for
college.

     Additionally, to address the financial harms of the pandemic, my
Administration is providing up to $20,000 in debt relief as part of a
comprehensive effort to address the burden of growing college costs.
 This action will have a significant impact on Hispanic borrowers, given
that among Hispanic undergraduate borrowers, 65 percent receive Pell
Grants. My Administration is also working to fix the broken Public
Service Loan Forgiveness program by giving public servants –- many of
whom are educators at HSIs and alumni -– appropriate credit toward
forgiveness.  These proposed changes build on the transformations
already made with the Public Service Loan Forgiveness program that
expire on October 31, 2022.  For more information, please visit
PSLF.gov.

     I have reestablished the White House Initiative on Advancing
Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity for Hispanics. 
And since my Administration began, the First Lady and the Secretary of
Education have visited HSIs across our Nation to support efforts to keep
students engaged, enrolled, and moving toward the completion of a degree
or certificate.

     There is still much more work to be done.  We have a long way to go
to fulfill the full potential of America, and my Administration sees
HSIs as a critical gateway to making that promise a reality.  I am
proposing that we double the maximum Pell Grant amount by 2029 and
continue to make higher education more affordable for all Americans.  I
am also requesting increased funding from the Congress to help
Historically Black Colleges and Universities, Tribal Colleges and
Universities, and minority-serving institutions, such as HSIs, expand
their research and development infrastructure and strengthen their
curricula in science, technology, and agriculture.

     Every day, Hispanic Americans contribute immensely to our Nation’s
economy, security, and culture.  It is our duty to ensure that the next
generation of Hispanic students can make the most of their God-given
talents.  During National Hispanic-Serving Institutions Week, we
recommit our support for the institutions helping to make this promise a
reality.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 11 through September 17, 2022, as National Hispanic-Serving
Institutions Week.  I call on public officials, educators, and all the
people of the United States to observe this week with appropriate
programs, ceremonies, and activities that acknowledge the many ways
these institutions and their graduates contribute to our country.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this ninth day of
September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

  
JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
