---
date: '2022-09-30'
modified_time: 2022-09-30 17:52:27-04:00
published_time: 2022-09-30 16:49:13-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/09/30/a-cybersecurity-awareness-month-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation\_on\_Cybersecurity Awareness Month,\_2022"
---
 
During Cybersecurity Awareness Month, we highlight the importance of
safeguarding our Nation’s critical infrastructure from malicious cyber
activity and protecting citizens and businesses from ransomware and
other attacks.  We also raise awareness about the simple steps Americans
can take to secure their sensitive data and stay safe online.

     Cyberattacks affect our day-to-day lives, our economy, and our
national security.  By destroying, corrupting, or stealing information
from our computer systems and networks, they can impact electric grids
and fuel pipelines, hospitals and police departments, businesses and
schools, and many other critical services that Americans trust and rely
on every day.  That is why my Administration started working immediately
to shield our country and improve our defenses against cyberattacks.

     Last year, I signed an Executive Order to modernize the Federal
Government’s cybersecurity defenses and create a standard playbook for
Federal agencies to better identify and mitigate cyber threats and to
respond quickly and effectively when they are attacked.  It also
improves Federal information security by establishing robust security
standards for software purchased by the Government, which in turn raises
the standard of cybersecurity in software products sold to the American
people.  My Administration is using the enormous purchasing power of the
Federal Government to move the market standard to better protect
Americans. 

     However, Government cannot meet our cyber resilience goals alone.
The private sector owns and operates much of our Nation’s critical
infrastructure, and my Administration is committed to partnering with
private industry to keep the public safe.  We have required minimum
cybersecurity standards for vital sectors of the American economy,
including new security directives issued by the Transportation Security
Administration to strengthen our transportation sector and associated
infrastructure.  Through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, we are
investing in cybersecurity as a critical component in everything we
build, from bridges to the electrical grid. We will also continue
exchanging information with private industry about cyber threats so they
can keep strengthening their defenses and ensure that the critical
services they provide to the American people stay up and running.

     The challenges before us require urgency and cooperation around the
globe.  That is why we are also joining with our international partners
to hold malicious cyber actors accountable for their disruptive and
destabilizing cyber-attacks and to make it harder for them to conduct
damaging activities.  My Administration’s international
Counter-Ransomware Initiative brings together more than 30 countries
spanning 13 time-zones to disrupt malicious cyber activity around the
world.  

     Cybersecurity is not limited to Government or critical
infrastructure.  Hackers target Americans every day, and cybersecurity
is about protecting the American people and the services we rely on. 
This month, I encourage all Americans to increase their cybersecurity at
home, at work, and in schools by taking steps such as enabling
multi-factor authentication, using a trusted password manager and strong
passwords, recognizing and reporting phishing, and updating their
software regularly.  As the threat of malicious cyber activities grows,
we must all do our part to keep our Nation safe and secure.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 2022 as Cybersecurity Awareness Month.  I call upon the people,
businesses, and institutions of the United States to recognize the
importance of cybersecurity, to take action to better protect yourselves
against cyber threats, and to observe Cybersecurity Awareness Month in
support of our national security and resilience.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day
of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
