---
date: '2022-09-16'
published_time: 2022-09-16 11:55:35-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/09/16/a-proclamation-on-constitution-day-and-citizenship-day-and-constitution-week-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Constitution Day and Citizenship Day, and Constitution Week,\_\
  2022"
---
 
     America is founded on the most powerful idea in history — that we
are all created equal.  That idea sparked our revolution, ignited a wave
of change across the world, and beats in the hearts of Americans today.
 It is central to our Constitution, and citizenship embodies a true
faith and allegiance to give it full meaning in our everyday lives.
 On this Constitution Day and Citizenship Day, and during this
Constitution Week, we recommit to protecting and defending the very idea
of America.

     When our Founding Fathers came together nearly 250 years ago, they
set in motion an experiment that changed the world.  They disagreed and
debated but ultimately came together to forge a new system of
self-government — a system balanced between a strong Federal Government
and the States, held together by co-equal branches and a separation of
powers.  America would not be a land of kings or dictators; it would be
a Nation of laws — a Nation of order, not chaos; of peace, not violence.
 Here in America, the people rule through the ballot, and their will
prevails.

     As we have seen throughout our history, though, nothing about our
democracy is guaranteed.  America is an idea — one that requires
constant stewardship.  We have to fight for it, earn it, and renew it
with each generation.  That is why my Administration will do everything
in our power to uphold and defend our Constitution against all enemies,
foreign and domestic, and to protect the rights and freedoms that it
promises us all.  That means we have to be firm, resolute, and
unyielding in defending the right to vote and ensuring that each vote is
counted.  It is a sacred right from which all others flow.  But last
year alone, nearly 20 States passed laws to make it harder to vote — not
only to suppress the vote, but to subvert it.  I have directed Federal
agencies to promote voting access, and I appointed top civil rights
advocates to the Department of Justice, which has doubled its voting
rights staff.  We need the Congress to finally pass the Freedom to Vote
and John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Acts to prevent voter
suppression, protect election officials, ban dark money, and end
partisan gerrymandering, preserving our democracy and the spirit of our
Constitution.

     As we reflect today on the promise of our Nation, we also join
millions of Americans in reaffirming the rights and responsibilities of
citizenship and welcoming our new citizens, whose courage and faith in
America has brought them here from every part of the world to start new
lives.  My Administration will keep working to make the naturalization
process faster and more efficient and to build a more fair, orderly, and
humane immigration system for all.  The commitment, sacrifices, and
dreams of new Americans have made us strong since our Nation’s founding,
and we celebrate their optimism, drive, and contributions.

     We are living at an inflection point in history, engaged in a
struggle between democracy and autocracy at home and abroad.  We have to
show the world that democracy can deliver.  Today, this week, and
always, it is up to us all to stand for the rule of law, to preserve the
flame of democracy, and to keep the promise of America alive.

     To honor the timeless principles enshrined in our Constitution, the
Congress has, by joint resolution of February 29, 1952 (36 U.S.C. 106),
designated September 17 as “Constitution Day and Citizenship Day” and
authorized the President to issue a proclamation calling on United
States officials to display the flag of the United States on all
Government buildings on that day.  By joint resolution of August 2, 1956
(36 U.S.C. 108), the Congress further requested that the President
proclaim the week beginning September 17 and ending September 23 of each
year as “Constitution Week.”

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 17, 2022, as Constitution Day and Citizenship Day, and
September 17 through September 23 as Constitution Week.  On this day and
during this week, we celebrate our Constitution and the rights of
citizenship that together we enjoy as the people of this proud Nation.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
sixteenth day of September, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-two, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
