---
date: '2022-09-16'
modified_time: 2022-09-16 11:39:10-04:00
published_time: 2022-09-16 11:39:09-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/09/16/a-proclamation-on-national-farm-safety-and-health-week-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Farm Safety and Health Week,\_2022"
---
 
     America’s farmers, farmworkers, and ranchers serve one of our most
vital needs — they feed our Nation and sustain our communities.  They
steward our lands so they have the power to provide for us, generation
after generation.  They offer meaningful jobs to millions of people,
rooted in the rewards of hard work and the beauty of nature.  They help
fuel our economy and enable our country to compete in markets around the
globe.  During National Farm Safety and Health Week, we commit to
improving the safety and well-being of everyone working on our farms.

     For all they provide for our Nation, we know the many barriers
farmers, farmworkers, and ranchers face.  Extreme weather — made more
frequent and ferocious by the climate crisis — can jeopardize or destroy
a season’s harvest, representing months, or even years, of investment
and commitment.  Fluctuating commodity prices and input costs can
tighten profit margins and usher in tough, lean years.  Accidents and
injuries can cut precious lives short, dramatically threaten the
livelihoods of survivors and their families, and rob businesses of the
workers they rely upon.

     My Administration is supporting the implementation of robust health
and safety standards on farms and ranches.  With up to $65 million from
the American Rescue Plan, the United States Department of Agriculture
(USDA) is helping to minimize the risks of injuries on farms, on
ranches, and in processing plants.  The USDA is also investing $100
million into partnerships with labor unions and other workforce
development experts to better train agricultural employees.  For the
first time, the Department of Labor’s Occupational Safety and Health
Administration has launched a program to conduct heat-related indoor and
outdoor workplace inspections in the face of yet another season of
extreme and deadly heat.

     My Administration is making health insurance more affordable and
health care more accessible, which is especially important for farmers,
ranchers, and farmworkers who suffer injuries.  My Administration’s
Inflation Reduction Act and American Rescue Plan lowered annual premiums
for families across the country.  My Administration made a historic $1.5
billion investment in health workforce loan repayment and scholarship
programs to incentivize primary care clinicians and other health care
providers to work in underserved areas, including rural and Tribal
communities.  We are providing Federal field employees with training on
the best uses of mental health resources and communication strategies
while scaling our investment in programs that provide professional
behavioral health counseling and other services to agricultural workers.
 We are also calling for programs that will reduce loan repayments for
mental health and substance use disorder clinicians committed to
practicing in rural and other underserved communities.

     Supporting the well-being of our farmers, farmworkers, and ranchers
means protecting their financial health as well.  Last year, I signed
into law the Extending Government Funding and Delivering Emergency
Assistance Act, which includes $10 billion in assistance to agricultural
producers impacted by wildfires, droughts, hurricanes, and winter
storms.  My Administration also announced $700 million in available
grant funding for State agencies, Tribal entities, and non-profit
organizations to provide financial relief for farmworkers and
meatpacking workers affected by the COVID-19 pandemic.  We are devoted
to ensuring that agricultural workers can do their jobs free from harm
and that they can recover from accidents and injuries with dignity and
financial security. 

     This week, we redouble our efforts to protect the health and safety
of farmers, farmworkers, and ranchers, and we celebrate the immense
contributions they have made and continue to make to our Nation.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 18 through September 24, 2022, as National Farm Safety and
Health Week.  I call upon the people of the United States, including
America’s farmers and ranchers and agriculture-related institutions,
organizations, and businesses, to reaffirm a dedication to farm safety
and health.  I also urge all Americans to express appreciation and
gratitude to our farmers, farmworkers, and ranchers for their tireless
service to our Nation.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
sixteenth day of September, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-two, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
