---
date: '2022-09-30'
published_time: 2022-09-30 16:54:39-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/09/30/a-proclamation-on-national-community-policing-week-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Community Policing Week,\_2022"
---
 
     Public trust is the foundation of public safety.  Without trust in
law enforcement, victims do not call for help, witnesses do not step
forward, crimes go unsolved, and justice is not served.  When police
officers build trust with the public, they make our communities safer
and our Nation more secure.  This is the essence of community policing. 
This week, we reaffirm that safe, effective, and accountable community
policing is the gold standard for law enforcement and recommit to
supporting officers with the resources they need to do their jobs
successfully and responsibly.

     Police officers swear an oath to protect us from harm, uphold the
rule of law, and serve their communities.  While this job has always
demanded excellence, working in law enforcement today is harder than it
has ever been.  Officers are expected to be everything all at once —
from rescuing citizens from natural disasters, accidents, and crime to
serving as counselors to people experiencing a mental health or
substance use crisis.  Law enforcement is noble and dangerous work that
requires adequate resources and collaboration from community
stakeholders.

     That is why my Administration is helping officers tackle the
complex challenges they face on the job each day while building public
trust in the process.  Through my Administration’s American Rescue Plan,
we secured historic funding to help States and cities hire officers for
safe, accountable, and effective community policing, crime prevention,
and intervention.  We committed more Federal resources to support State
and local law enforcement in 2021 than almost any other year on record.
 This year, through a bipartisan budget deal, we secured over $511
million for the Department of Justice’s Community Oriented Policing
Services Office.  And my Administration has awarded Department of
Justice (DOJ) grants to State, local, territorial, and Tribal law
enforcement agencies to hire community policing professionals, to
develop and test innovative policing strategies, and to provide training
on collaborative policing approaches.  I have also called for increased
support for the DOJ’s Project Safe Neighborhoods, which brings together
law enforcement officials, prosecutors, community leaders, and other
stakeholders to produce local solutions to violent crime.

     Additionally, this year I was proud to sign an Executive Order to
help build trust between law enforcement and communities across America
and enhance public safety.  It calls for a fresh approach to recruiting,
training, retaining, and recognizing officers who embody and exemplify
the highest standards of the profession.  The Executive Order mandates
that all Federal agents wear and activate body cameras while on patrol,
directs agencies to promote officer wellness, and creates a new national
law enforcement accountability database in which all Federal law
enforcement agencies must participate. This database will include
records of officer misconduct as well as commendations and awards. 

     There is still much more we can do.  This summer, I outlined my
Administration’s Safer America Plan — an investment in police who walk
the beat, know the neighborhood, and are accountable to those they are
sworn to serve and protect.  This plan would help State and local police
departments recruit, hire, and train 100,000 additional officers for
safe, effective, and accountable community policing consistent with the
standards in the Executive Order I signed.  It would also help States,
cities, Tribes, and territories increase mental health and substance use
disorder services and crisis responders for non-violent situations to
reduce the burden on police officers.  This action builds on my
Administration’s work to help States establish “Mobile Crisis
Intervention Teams” that provide individuals experiencing a mental
health or substance use crisis with rapid access to mental health
professionals.  My Safer America Plan will also address the root causes
of crime and the burden on officers so they can focus on policing by
investing $20 billion in housing, job training, reentry, youth
enrichment, and other stabilizing social services. 

     I believe the vast majority of Americans want the same things from
law enforcement:  trust, safety, and accountability. Effective community
policing can lower incidents of violent crime, decrease the occurrences
of unjustified uses of force, build trust and community, and help
address the long-standing inequities in our criminal justice system,
which disproportionately affect people of color and people with
disabilities.

     During National Community Policing Week, I call on communities
across our Nation to invest in strengthening relationships between
officers and the individuals they serve and protect.  I also encourage
local residents, business owners, and other community stakeholders to
collaborate with law enforcement, identify initiatives that will help
build mutual trust, and help prevent crime.  When Americans work
together with common purpose and with mutual trust and respect, we can
make this Nation stronger and keep our people safer.    
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 2 through October 8, 2022, as National Community Policing Week. 
I call upon law enforcement agencies, elected officials, and all
Americans to observe this week by recognizing ways to improve public
safety, build trust, and strengthen community relationships.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day
of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
