---
date: '2022-09-23'
modified_time: 2022-09-23 11:49:02-04:00
published_time: 2022-09-23 11:49:01-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/09/23/a-proclamation-on-national-public-lands-day-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Public Lands Day,\_2022"
---
 
   On National Public Lands Day, we give thanks for the precious public
lands that are the birthright of every American and at the heart of our
national pride.  From national parks to monuments, conservation areas,
wildlife refuges, forests, grasslands, marine sanctuaries, reservoirs,
and lakes — these lands provide endless opportunities for adventure,
education, and respite.  They are the ancestral homelands of Tribal
Nations and Indigenous peoples — sacred sites with rich heritage.  They
sustain the outdoor recreation industry and strengthen our economy. 
They protect biodiversity, help mitigate climate change, and make
communities more resilient to extreme weather events and natural
disasters.  On this day, we acknowledge our responsibility to make our
public lands accessible to all Americans and recommit ourselves to
conserving these spaces for generations to come.

     Since 1994, volunteers across our country have joined together on
this day to perform acts of service and help safeguard public lands. 
From the Colorado River to the Superior National Forest, participants
clean waterways, maintain trails, reforest land, and learn about the
value of conservation.  The theme of this year’s National Public Lands
Day is “Giving Back Together,” an acknowledgement of the many ways
public lands enrich our lives and a reminder of the power they have to
unite us around a common appreciation for the natural world. 
I encourage everyone to visit
[blm.gov/national-public-lands-day](https://www.blm.gov/national-public-lands-day)
and seek out volunteer opportunities near you.

     My Administration is committed to helping protect and restore
America’s cherished public lands.  With our Inflation Reduction Act and
historic funding from the Congress, we will tackle the climate crises by
investing in clean energy, securing funding for climate-friendly jobs,
strengthening wildfire resilience, and combatting deforestation.  We
will redouble our efforts to protect old-growth forests, reestablish the
boundaries of treasured monuments, and reassert protections for
wildlife.  Through the Civilian Climate Corps, we hope to put Americans
to work conserving public lands across our Nation.  And with our America
the Beautiful Initiative, my Administration is working with State,
local, and Tribal governments, as well as private landowners, to
voluntarily conserve 30 percent of our Nation’s lands and waters by
2030.

     Additionally, we are working to ensure that our public lands —
central to our Nation’s heritage — tell the full story of America and
remain accessible to all Americans.  That is why I signed the Amache
National Historic Site Act to acknowledge the unjust incarceration of
thousands of civilians of Japanese ancestry at Amache during World War
II.  I restored protections for the Bears Ears, Grand
Staircase-Escalante, and Northeast Canyons and Seamounts National
Monuments to safeguard the ancestral homelands of Tribal Nations,
preserve vital cultural and archaeological artifacts, and honor the
history of those who stewarded these grounds since time immemorial. 
Public lands reflect our past and create opportunities for commemoration
and healing for the future.  It is essential that we continue to make
public lands accessible to all Americans so that everyone can benefit
and derive meaning from their splendor and the histories they tell.

     Today, federally managed public lands will offer free admission to
all visitors, and I encourage Americans to explore these locations.  I
also invite everyone to express gratitude to the dedicated staff and
volunteers who work hard to preserve our public lands and safeguard
these national treasures for all Americans to enjoy. 

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 24, 2022, as National Public Lands Day.  I invite all
Americans to join me in a day of service for our public lands.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-third
day of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.  

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
