---
date: '2022-09-30'
published_time: 2022-09-30 16:47:39-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/09/30/a-proclamation-on-national-breast-cancer-awareness-month-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Breast Cancer Awareness Month,\_2022."
---
 
Far too many Americans face the overwhelming shock of a breast cancer
diagnosis.  They are flooded with new information, worried about loved
ones, and at times unable to afford treatment — all the while staring
down life’s toughest questions.  During National Breast Cancer Awareness
Month, we rededicate ourselves to supporting patients and their
families, boosting access to care, and raising awareness about the
life-saving importance of early screening.  We honor all those we have
lost to this terrible disease and celebrate the courageous survivors and
advocates fighting to beat it, along with the loved ones and medical
providers who have their backs every day.

     Cancer changes everyone and every family it touches, including ours
— and breast cancer is the second most common form of the disease among
women in the United States.  One in eight women will be diagnosed in
their lifetimes, including an expected 290,000 just this year.
 Fortunately, we are making progress in our fight to end cancer as we
know it.  The investments our Nation has made in research and screening
technologies have been transformative.  Groundbreaking immunotherapies
and other new treatments have changed the prognosis for so many, and
early detection is our most important tool.  When found early, the
5-year survival rate is now 99 percent.

     There is so much more that the greatest Nation in the world can and
must do to get every American access to the care they need.  This year,
Jill and I reignited the Cancer Moonshot program that we first launched
in 2016.  We set a game-changing goal of cutting the overall cancer
death rate by half in the next 25 years and brought leaders from 20-plus
offices and agencies together to form a Cancer Cabinet to get it done.
 To accelerate research, my Administration also created ARPA-H, the
Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health.  Modeled on DARPA — the
Pentagon agency that gave us the internet and GPS — ARPA-H will drive
breakthroughs in preventing, detecting, and treating diseases like
cancer.  We are working to ensure that clinical trials recruit
participants who reflect the full diversity of our Nation and find
therapies that better preserve patients’ quality of life.  A cancer
diagnosis is not only frightening but also a doorway into a confusing
world of appointments, costs, and care.  Patients and their families
need information and support, which is why the First Lady has worked to
highlight programs that put people at the center of their care.

     At the same time, my Administration is working to boost access to
life-saving screenings and treatments.  That means safeguarding the
Affordable Care Act, which requires insurers to cover mammograms and
stops them from turning away survivors by listing cancer as a
“preexisting condition.”  It also means pushing to expand Medicaid so
low-income Americans do not have to choose between paying the rent or
paying for life-saving care.  To that end, we made sure that the
American Rescue Plan lowered health insurance costs for millions of
families, and the Inflation Reduction Act will now lock in those lower
premiums while also capping the amount of money seniors pay for
prescription drugs, including cancer drugs, at $2,000 a year.

     Finally, we are also joining with advocates to raise awareness
about the life-saving importance of breast cancer screenings.  Jill has
dedicated herself to this work since 1993, when four of her friends were
diagnosed with breast cancer in just 1 year.  She later founded the
Biden Breast Health Initiative, which educated high school girls in
Delaware about breast health and encouraged them to spread the word to
their own family members.  As First Lady, she has traveled the country
to encourage everyone to get the cancer screenings they need.  Nearly 10
million life-saving screenings were missed during the pandemic.  The
First Lady and I call on all Americans to make sure they are caught up.

     As so many families know too well, cancer can rip lives apart
forever.  Beating it is one of the biggest things we can do — as
individuals and together as a Nation.  This work transcends party and
politics, and there is nothing we cannot do when we come together as
Americans.  For all those we have lost and for the ones we can save, let
us rededicate ourselves this month to ending cancer and keep building
this moonshot into a movement worthy of the precious lives at stake.

     More information on breast cancer is available at
[cancer.gov/types/breast](https://www.cancer.gov/types/breast). 
Information specialists at the National Cancer Institute are also
available to help answer cancer-related questions in English and Spanish
at 1-800-422-6237.  Additionally, the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention’s National Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program
provides breast cancer screenings and diagnostic services to those with
low incomes who are uninsured or otherwise qualify for the program.
 Americans can learn more about this program at
[cdc.gov/cancer/nbccedp/screenings.htm](https://www.cdc.gov/cancer/nbccedp/screenings.htm).

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 2022 as National Breast Cancer Awareness Month.  I encourage
citizens, government agencies, private businesses, nonprofit
organizations, and other interested groups to join in activities that
will increase awareness of what Americans can do to prevent and control
breast cancer, and pay tribute to those who have lost their lives to
this disease.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day
of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
