---
date: '2022-09-15'
published_time: 2022-09-15 10:56:15-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/09/15/a-proclamation-on-national-pow-mia-recognition-day/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National POW/MIA Recognition\_Day"
---
 
     From Belleau Wood to the Battle of the Bulge, Korea to Vietnam,
Afghanistan to Iraq, and around the world, American patriots have dared
all, risked all, and given all to defend our Nation and protect our
liberties.  Now and always, we honor their service, valor, and
sacrifice.  We also continue the righteous work of bringing home our
heroes who remain unaccounted for.

     On National POW/MIA Recognition Day, we pledge to seek out answers
for the families of service members still missing in action.  We commit
to doing all in our power to identify and recover America’s missing sons
and daughters.  And we pay tribute to former prisoners of war —
individuals who exhibited remarkable courage, love of country, and
devotion to duty to protect our Nation’s safety and freedoms.

     Today and every day, we fly the iconic black and white flag
symbolizing America’s Prisoners of War and Missing in Action above the
White House, at the United States Capitol, on military bases, at
memorials and cemeteries, and at homes across America.  It is a reminder
that we have not forgotten the heroism of our POWs and MIAs and that we
still hope for their return.  There is no undertaking more fundamental
than the rite of remembrance, and there is no act more sacred or more
American than keeping the faith with those who have sacrificed so much
for our Nation.

     On this day of heartache and of resolve, let us offer strength to
the families still waiting for the return of their loved ones.  Let us
extend our gratitude to Americans and international partners working
tirelessly to bring home our missing service members from prior
conflicts.  And let us remember that freedom is never free, that
democracy always requires champions, and that we owe an eternal debt to
the heroes of our Armed Forces.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 16, 2022, as National POW/MIA Recognition Day.  Along with my
fellow Americans, I salute our former POWs who overcame unspeakable
indignities to return home with honor.  We will work tirelessly to
provide the families of those who have not yet come home the fullest
possible measure of accounting.  I urge all Americans to observe this
day of honor and remembrance with appropriate ceremonies and activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this

fifteenth day of September, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-two, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
