---
date: '2022-09-30'
published_time: 2022-09-30 17:10:28-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/09/30/a-proclamation-on-child-health-day-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Child Health Day,\_2022"
---
 
     Across America, parents are united by a common dream that their
children’s lives will be healthier, happier, and more promising than
their own.  On Child Health Day, we rededicate ourselves to making that
dream a reality and recommit to providing every child with the quality
health care, child care, and education they need to thrive.

     Supporting our children means — first and foremost — keeping them
safe.  The devastating truth is that guns are currently the number one
cause of death for children in the United States.  That is not
acceptable, and it is why I signed the first major bipartisan law in
nearly 30 years to keep firearms out of the hands of people who are a
danger to themselves and to others, protecting innocent children from
rampant gun violence — especially in schools.  This is just
the beginning; I will continue to push for an assault weapon ban that
will limit access to these dangerous weapons on American streets and in
our communities.  No child should have to live in fear.

     At the same time, no parent should have to lie awake at night
wondering how they will pay for the treatment or hospital care their
child needs.  Thanks to the American Rescue Plan and other key
initiatives of my Administration, one million children have gained
health coverage since I came into office.  My Inflation Reduction Act
will also lower health insurance premiums for 13 million Americans.  To
give hardworking parents more breathing room during the pandemic,
I expanded the child tax credit — a measure estimated to have helped cut
child poverty by over 40 percent last year.  This money was a
life-changer for families who too often must choose between a paycheck
and taking care of themselves and their loved ones.  Additionally, in
September, I convened the first White House Conference on Hunger,
Nutrition, and Health in over 50 years, at which we released a national
strategy to create a pathway to free, healthy school meals for all
children — beginning by expanding free school meals to 9 million more
kids by 2032.

     My Administration’s efforts to tackle the national mental health
crisis, especially among our Nation’s youth, build on these important
measures.  Today, suicide is the second leading cause of death among
young people between the ages of 10 and 24, and over the past several
years, mental health emergencies have increased among youth of all
ages.  In response, my Administration is making it easier for children
across America to access mental health specialists through their
pediatricians’ offices.  We are helping to address the harms of social
media use on youth mental health and investing billions of dollars to
expand access to mental health services and professionals in schools. 
We are also educating States on ways to leverage all Federal resources,
including Medicaid, to improve the delivery of health care in schools. 
Already, we are making progress.  As of July, the number of school
social workers has risen 54 percent relative to the years before the
pandemic.  In the same period, the number of counselors is up 22
percent, and the number of school nurses has also increased by 22
percent.

     To protect our children from the COVID-19 pandemic, my
Administration rolled out vaccines for children 6 months and older,
helping to ensure that kids and infants can be safer in all public
spaces, including classrooms and daycares.  We are delivering affordable
high-speed internet to every American so students no longer have to sit
in fast food parking lots just to use the Wi-Fi to do their homework.  I
secured funding to help replace every single lead pipe in the Nation so
no one has to second-guess the quality of the water their child is
drinking.  The Inflation Reduction Act will also replace thousands of
diesel school buses with electric buses, saving our kids from inhaling
dangerous fumes. 

     I know there is so much more work to do to build a future worthy of
the hopes and dreams of our children.  We must secure free, high-quality
preschool for every American child and lower health care costs even more
for American families.  I continue calling for tax breaks for
middle-class parents and for new laws that keep our children safe from
violence at school and at home.  I will do everything in my power to
tackle the climate crisis and pass down a healthier planet to future
generations.  To win the competition for the future, we must continue
building a healthier and safer Nation for our children.  Our families
and our country depend on it.

     The Congress, by a joint resolution approved May 18, 1928, as
amended (36 U.S.C. 105), has called for the designation of the first
Monday in October as Child Health Day and has requested that the
President issue a proclamation in observance of this day.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
Monday, October 3, 2022, as Child Health Day.  I call upon families,
child health professionals, faith-based and community organizations, and
governments to help ensure that America’s children stay safe and
healthy.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day
of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
