---
date: '2022-09-23'
modified_time: 2022-09-23 12:07:12-04:00
published_time: 2022-09-23 12:07:11-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/09/23/a-proclamation-on-national-hunting-and-fishing-day-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Hunting And Fishing Day,\_2022"
---
 
      Every year, tens of millions of Americans take to the great
outdoors to hunt and fish.  These time-honored traditions offer
opportunities for sport and leisure, put food on our tables, and bring
families and friends together.  They embody the American spirit of
adventure and resourcefulness and inspire gratitude for the beauty and
bounty of our natural world.  On National Hunting and Fishing Day, we
celebrate America’s hunters and anglers for strengthening our
communities and recommit ourselves to conserving lands and waters so
future generations can enjoy these beloved pastimes.

     Hunting and fishing are more than just hobbies — they also sustain
livelihoods.  They contribute billions of dollars annually to our
Nation’s economy and support over a million jobs in the United States. 
They bring important tourism dollars to communities and create new
business opportunities for local entrepreneurs.  To strengthen these
industries, my Administration expanded hunting and fishing opportunities
on 2.1 million acres of public lands last year, one of the largest
increases in recent history.  We have also proposed additional
expansions to the number of Federal land and water units within the
National Wildlife Refuge System where hunting and fishing are permitted.

     The future of hunting and fishing depends on our ability
to conserve America’s public lands and natural spaces.  Over the years,
the twin crises of biodiversity loss and climate change have made
healthy fish and game harder to find.  Hunters and anglers have been
some of our Nation’s earliest conservation leaders, and they continue to
be an integral part of the solution.  Additionally, for nearly a
century, Federal programs that direct revenue from equipment and license
sales have funded State and local conservation efforts throughout the
country, bringing in more than $25.5 billion to date.  To bolster the
impact of these programs, my Administration recently announced a record
investment of $1.5 billion in annual funding to support State and local
wildlife and habitat conservation efforts and outdoor recreation.  We
also established the Federal Interagency Council on Outdoor Recreation
to coordinate efforts between the Departments of the Interior,
Agriculture, Defense-Civil Works, and Commerce to strengthen the outdoor
recreation economy.  And my Administration’s America the Beautiful
Initiative set a national goal of conserving at least 30 percent of our
Nation’s lands and waters by 2030, launching a decade-long effort to
support locally led and voluntary conservation and restoration
projects.  This work is tied to our fight against the climate crisis,
our pledge to drastically reduce emissions, and our duty to build a
better, healthier world.

     As we reflect on the long-cherished traditions and cultural
heritage of hunting and fishing, we recognize America’s hunters and
anglers in their pursuit of adventure and commitment to conserve our
natural world.  We recommit to strengthening the hunting and fishing
industries in a responsible and sustainable way while supporting the
people whose livelihoods depend on them.  And we renew our efforts to
build partnerships with hunters and anglers; agricultural and forest
landowners; outdoor enthusiasts; Tribal Nations, States, and
territories; local officials; and other important stakeholders to make
public lands accessible to all Americans and keep our outdoor spaces
healthy and resilient for generations to come.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 24, 2022, as National Hunting and Fishing Day.  I call upon
all Americans to observe this day with appropriate programs and
activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
twenty-third day of September, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-two, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
