---
date: '2022-09-30'
modified_time: 2022-09-30 17:16:56-04:00
published_time: 2022-09-30 17:16:55-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/09/30/national-clean-energy-action-month-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "National Clean Energy Action Month,\_2022"
---
 
During National Clean Energy Action Month, we strive to turn the climate
crisis into opportunity and recommit to moving America to a clean energy
future.  By leading the world in manufacturing and exporting clean
energy technologies, creating good-paying union jobs, lowering costs for
families, and addressing environmental injustice, the United States can
meet one of the most consequential challenges of our time.

     During my first year in office, my Administration set a
groundbreaking goal:  to cut our Nation’s greenhouse gas emissions in
half by 2030, reach 100 percent clean electricity by 2035, and achieve
net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050.  We have made significant
progress, creating the first-ever National Climate Task Force,
reinstating and strengthening environmental protections, and inspiring
record-breaking private sector commitments to transition to clean
energy.  

     I have also signed key legislation to propel us toward these goals,
including the historic Inflation Reduction Act, which is the largest
investment to combat climate change in American history.  This law will
create a generation of good-paying jobs by expanding clean energy.  It
provides consumers with tax credits to buy electric cars or fuel cell
vehicles, saving costs at the gas pump.  It helps families keep cool in
the summer and warm in the winter with rebates for efficient appliances
and home weatherization.  And it strengthens our energy security with
incentives for clean energy production.  In total, this law will save
families hundreds of dollars per year in energy costs and reduce our
Nation’s greenhouse gas emissions by a billion metric tons in the year
2030 alone.

     These actions build on my Administration’s Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, an unprecedented investment to fortify our
infrastructure against the climate crisis.  Through this law, we are
modernizing public transit with the latest clean energy technology,
upgrading our power grid, and implementing a nationwide electric vehicle
charging network.  We are funding thousands of miles of new, resilient
transmission lines to deliver clean energy to American homes and
businesses.  We are fortifying our grid to improve our energy security
and independence.  Most importantly, we are creating jobs across
the country, putting plumbers, pipefitters, electrical workers, steel
workers, and so many others to work on projects that support families
and help tackle the climate crisis.  

     My Administration will prioritize ensuring that frontline and
fence-line communities most impacted by climate change receive the
benefits of the clean energy economy.  That is why I made a commitment
to deliver 40 percent of the benefits from Federal investments in
climate and clean energy to disadvantaged communities and why I
established a White House Environmental Justice Advisory Council in my
first month in office.  At the same time, we take seriously our
responsibility to create new, good-paying jobs for the hardworking
Americans in energy communities that have powered our economy for over a
century and often suffer from legacy pollution caused by fossil fuels.
 To this end, we are helping these communities access the resources they
need to spur economic revitalization and clean up environmental
pollution.

     The climate crisis is here.  Our Nation — and the world — sits at
an inflection point.  By investing in clean energy, modernizing our
infrastructure, and ensuring that everyone benefits in the process, we
can build a safer, healthier, and more energy-secure future.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 2022 as National Clean Energy Action Month.  I call upon the
citizens of the United States to recognize this month by working
together to mitigate climate change and achieve a healthier environment
for all. 

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this

thirtieth day of September, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-two, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.

  
JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
