---
date: '2022-09-30'
published_time: 2022-09-30 17:02:02-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/09/30/a-proclamation-on-national-domestic-violence-awareness-and-prevention-month-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Domestic Violence Awareness And Prevention Month,\_\
  2022"
---
 
     While our Nation has made significant progress in addressing
domestic violence by responding to the stories and leadership of
courageous survivors, as well as through advocacy and legislative
action, domestic violence nonetheless remains all too common in
America.  During National Domestic Violence Awareness and Prevention
Month, we continue to shine a light on the causes of this scourge,
strengthen the ability of Federal, State, Tribal, territorial, and local
officials to take action, and call on all communities to strengthen
prevention efforts.  My Administration is working to ensure that all
survivors have access to justice and the support they need for their
healing and well-being.

     When I introduced the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) in the
Senate in 1990 with the support of many members of the Congress and
community advocates, we began to bring these cases of abuse out of the
shadows.  For too long, few in this country were willing to call
domestic violence a national epidemic.  VAWA increased survivors’ access
to services and support, empowered Federal law enforcement to hold
perpetrators accountable, and enhanced the enforcement of protection
orders across State lines.  In March of this year, I was proud to sign
the VAWA Reauthorization Act of 2022 into law, which extends all current
VAWA grant programs until 2027 and increases services and support for
all survivors, including by strengthening access to services for
survivors from underserved or marginalized communities.  It also
enhances evidence-based, trauma-informed trainings for law enforcement
officers involved in assisting victims and investigating these crimes.

     While we know that VAWA is making a significant difference, we also
know that much work still remains.  Millions of women and men are
impacted by some form of intimate partner abuse each year.  Domestic
violence can cause injury, fear, post-traumatic stress disorder, housing
insecurity, missed school or work, and other devastating consequences. 
Historically underserved populations, including LGBTQI+ survivors,
persons with disabilities, immigrants, racial and ethnic minorities, and
American Indians, Alaska Natives, and Native Hawaiians face some of the
highest rates of domestic and sexual violence, along with additional
barriers to safety and support.  The effects of this epidemic stretch
well beyond the home, impacting extended families, schools, and the
workplace.

     Over the past three decades, I have continued this commitment to
preventing and addressing domestic violence and all forms of
gender-based violence.  To strengthen our support for victims during the
pandemic, when we saw a rise in domestic violence as survivors
experienced increased isolation, economic insecurity, and barriers to
accessing help, my Administration increased funding for shelters and
supportive service providers and offered targeted resources to
culturally-specific, community-based organizations that address the
needs of survivors in marginalized communities.  In total, we have
invested nearly $1 billion in supplemental funding from our American
Rescue Plan to bolster these programs.

     I also created the White House Gender Policy Council and called for
the development of the first-ever Government-wide National Action Plan
to End Gender-Based Violence, as well as updates to the 2016 United
States Strategy to Prevent and Respond to Gender-Based Violence
Globally.  These strategies will provide a roadmap to guide my
Administration’s whole-of-government effort to end domestic violence,
sexual assault, and other forms of gender-based violence.

     My efforts did not stop there.  Last year, I signed the National
Defense Authorization Act to fundamentally shift how the military
investigates and prosecutes domestic violence, sexual assault, and
related crimes.  I also issued an Executive Order to implement important
reforms to the military code.  We owe it to those who bravely wear our
Nation’s uniform to improve support for survivors and expand prevention
of all forms of gender-based violence.

     In July, I signed the Safer Communities Act and provided
significant resources for States to implement extreme risk protection
order laws and also expanded measures to prevent abusers convicted of
assaulting their current or former dating partners from buying or owning
guns.  Millions of women across America report being threatened with a
gun by an intimate partner, and evidence suggests that when a gun is
present, the risk of death from domestic violence is five times
greater.  Additionally, because cyberstalking, sextortion, and other
forms of intimate partner violence involving technology are becoming
increasingly common, we established a new White House Task Force to
Address Online Harassment and Abuse and expanded efforts to prevent and
address these harms. 

     As we continue the essential work of ending domestic violence, we
can all help build a culture where abuse is not tolerated and where
survivors are heard, supported, and protected.  We can express our
gratitude to the remarkable people and organizations that offer care and
critical services to survivors of domestic violence, and we must remain
committed to building a better world where all people can feel safe and
respected and live free from abuse.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 2022 as National Domestic Violence Awareness and Prevention
Month.  I call on all Americans to speak out against domestic violence
and support efforts to educate all people about healthy relationships
centered on respect; support victims and survivors in your own families
and networks; and support the efforts of victim advocates, service
providers, health care providers, and the legal system, as well as the
leadership of survivors, in working to end domestic violence.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day
of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
