---
date: '2022-09-23'
modified_time: 2022-09-23 11:40:14-04:00
published_time: 2022-09-23 11:39:50-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/09/23/a-proclamation-on-gold-star-mothers-and-familys-day-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Gold Star Mother\u2019s And Family\u2019s Day,\_2022"
---
 
 Today and always, we honor the families of American service members who
made the ultimate sacrifice to protect our lives and our liberties.  Let
us remember the heroes they lost, share in their grief, and support them
as they navigate life without their loved ones by their sides.

     The world teaches us time and again that peace is never guaranteed
and that the blessings of a free society can never be taken for
granted.  As we again see the advance of authoritarianism around the
globe, our Nation’s service members continue to preserve and defend an
idea rooted in freedom and democracy:  the idea of the United States of
America.  They answer duty’s call, prepared to sacrifice everything to
keep our country safe and our fundamental principles strong and secure.

     At every step, the families of these patriots share in the
sacrifice — their service too often unseen, their heroism too often
unsung.  Military service often requires loved ones to celebrate life’s
milestones apart, parents to raise children alone, and partners to forgo
each other’s wisdom, comfort, and love when it is needed most. 
Deployments can bring uncertainty and fear — something my family has
experienced firsthand.  And for those who receive that devastating news
— that their loved one is not returning home — life is never the same.

     No words can fill the hole left in the heart of each of
our Nation’s Gold Star families.  No ceremonies can replace the missing
pieces of their souls.  But we must never fail to recognize all these
families have given for our Nation.  We will uphold our fundamental duty
to remember the lives of our fallen warriors and honor our sacred
obligation to stand by their surviving families — always.  And through
my Administration’s Joining Forces initiative, we will ensure that all
military and veteran families, caregivers, and survivors have what they
need to begin healing.

     On Gold Star Mother’s and Family’s Day, our country renews its
pledge to ensure that these heroes’ families have the resources and the
support they need in their loved ones’ absences.  We honor the Gold Star
families who are there for one another even in their own grief, bringing
solace to others who understand their pain.  And on behalf of a grateful
Nation, we thank these families for their service and their sacrifice. 
May God bless our troops and may God bless our Gold Star families.

     The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 115 of June 23, 1936 (49
Stat. 1895 as amended), has designated the last Sunday in September as
“Gold Star Mother’s Day.”

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
Sunday, September 25, 2022, as Gold Star Mother’s and Family’s Day.  I
call upon all Government officials to display the flag of the United
States over Government buildings on this special day.  I also encourage
the American people to display the flag and hold appropriate ceremonies
as a public expression of our Nation’s gratitude and respect for our
Gold Star Mothers and Families.  
  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
twenty-third day of September, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-two, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
