---
date: '2022-09-30'
modified_time: 2022-09-30 17:14:30-04:00
published_time: 2022-09-30 17:14:29-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/09/30/a-proclamation-on-national-youth-substance-use-prevention-month-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Youth Substance Use Prevention Month,\_2022"
---
 
     During National Youth Substance Use Prevention Month, we rededicate
ourselves to transforming the lives of America’s youth through
prevention.  We commit to building and supporting communities where
young Americans can live healthy and fulfilling lives, free from the
dangers of substance use, laying the groundwork for strong future
generations.

     Our country has been battered by twin crises in recent years:  an
overdose epidemic and COVID-19.  Last year, a record 107,000 Americans
died of drug overdoses, ripping a hole in families across every
community in the Nation.  More than a thousand of those who died were
teenagers — sons, daughters, sisters, brothers, and friends who still
had their whole lives ahead of them.  We cannot let that continue.  My
Administration is drawing on evidence-based strategies to prevent
substance use and to intervene early so we can help keep America’s young
people healthy and safe.  We are supporting programs that teach young
people about the risks of drug and alcohol use — including the dangers
of illicit fentanyl and counterfeit pills — and about the life-saving
power of naloxone.

     Preventing substance use during adolescence has been shown
to significantly reduce the chance of developing a substance use
disorder later in life.  For every dollar we spend today on effective
school-based prevention programs, we save $18 in the future by avoiding
potential medical costs and boosting productivity on the job. 
Prevention programs also make young people less likely to one day have
children who use substances, highlighting the far-reaching value these
efforts have across generations.

     Americans can all agree that this work is critical –- irrespective
of their political party affiliation.  That is why I made beating the
opioid epidemic — our Nation’s most deadly drug use crisis — a pillar of
the bipartisan Unity Agenda that I unveiled in this year’s State of the
Union.  I know that together, with resources and smart policy, we can
overcome it.  Last year, we invested nearly $4 billion in American
Rescue Plan funds to expand mental health and substance use services and
to help school districts increase the number of social workers on staff
by as much as 54 percent.  My Fiscal Year 2023 budget proposes $3.1
billion in National Drug Control funding for prevention, nearly $850
million more than last year.  We have already provided more than $120
billion for quality tutoring, mental health, and afterschool programs.
 We are supporting Drug-Free Communities coalitions in all 50 States,
giving local communities the tools and resources to address their own
youth substance use issues in ways that are culturally appropriate.
 We are working to ensure that States leverage Medicaid funding to
support schools providing mental health and substance use care to our
youth. We are also working to ensure full parity between physical and
mental health care so all Americans have access to quality, affordable
care, including for substance use.

     This month, I call on everyone — parents, siblings, friends,
neighbors, teachers, community members, and more — to reach out to the
young people in their lives to share information, promote healthy
lifestyles, and help transform lives through evidence-based substance
use prevention.  We thank every individual and every organization
working on the front lines to prevent youth substance use.  And we renew
our commitment to building a healthier and more supportive Nation where
all young people can reach their full potential and achieve their
dreams.  I will never quit fighting to get everyone the support and
resources needed to beat this crisis.  No one is ever alone.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 2022 as National Youth Substance Use Prevention Month.  Let us
all take action to implement practice and evidence-based prevention
strategies and improve the health of our Nation.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day
of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                                 JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
