---
date: '2022-09-16'
modified_time: 2022-09-16 18:34:11-04:00
published_time: 2022-09-16 18:34:10-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/09/16/a-proclamation-on-national-historically-black-colleges-and-universities-week-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Historically Black Colleges and Universities Week,\_\
  2022"
---
 
  Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) help prepare
their students to excel in every profession, and they foster
transformative movements for greater justice and equality in our
democracy.  During National Historically Black Colleges and Universities
Week, we celebrate HBCUs for their longstanding legacy of molding
trailblazers, visionaries, and public servants; for enabling students to
make immense contributions to this country as Black professionals and
tradespeople; and for bringing us closer to the promise of an America
for all Americans.

      HBCUs have produced 40 percent of all Black engineers and 50
percent of all Black lawyers in America.  Seventy percent of Black
doctors in our country attended an HBCU, and 80 percent of Black judges
are alumni of these schools.  From the Fisk Jubilee Singers who
performed for Queen Victoria to the female mathematicians who offered
critical intelligence to NASA’s first human space flights, to the
brilliant legal scholars who helped dismantle structural segregation,
and so many of the giants of the Civil Rights movement who dedicated
their lives to lifting up the rights and dignity of all Americans, HBCUs
have empowered graduates to form America’s cultural identity, write our
national story, and safeguard this country’s most fundamental values.
 Our historic Vice President Kamala Harris is a HBCU graduate, as well
as Michael Regan, Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.

    My Administration is helping HBCUs weather the pandemic and make
tuition more affordable for their students to continue this legacy of
excellence and inclusion.  Since taking office, we have invested a
historic $5.8 billion to support staffing, teaching, and campus
operations at these institutions.  This includes providing HBCU students
with emergency financial aid during the pandemic and forgiving over $1.6
billion in debt held by nearly half of all HBCUs to help them finance
infrastructure improvement projects.  This summer, I announced debt
relief of up to $20,000 for low- and middle-income borrowers with
Federal student loans, easing the burden of student loan debt for so
many HBCU students and alumni.  Students also have more financial
resources because my Administration increased the maximum Pell Grant by
$400 to $6,895 –- the largest increase in over a decade — helping 75
percent of students enrolled in HBCUs pay for their education.
 Additionally, I reestablished the President’s Board of Advisors on
HBCUs to bridge relationships between these schools and the private
sector, and we launched a White House initiative to help HBCUs secure
additional Federal funding.  Further, I am proposing a historic
investment to create and expand HBCU programs in fields like
cybersecurity, engineering, and health care.

    This is only the start of my Administration’s campaign to empower
HBCUs and expand their capacity to make even greater contributions to
our society.  This week and every week, we celebrate HBCUs for helping
to make this country stronger and more inclusive, and we continue to
champion and reinforce the ongoing achievements of these institutions —
because we know that when they succeed, America succeeds.

    NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 18 through September 24, 2022, as National Historically Black
Colleges and Universities Week.  I call upon educators, public
officials, professional organizations, corporations, and all Americans
to observe this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and
activities that acknowledge the countless contributions these
institutions and their alumni have made to our country.

   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
sixteenth day of September, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-two, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
