---
date: '2022-09-16'
modified_time: 2022-09-16 11:30:01-04:00
published_time: 2022-09-16 11:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/09/16/a-proclamation-on-minority-enterprise-development-week-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Minority Enterprise Development Week,\_2022"
---
 
     Every day, America’s 9.2 million minority business enterprises
deliver essential goods and services to their customers and help power
the United States economy.  They develop cutting-edge technologies,
provide social services to people in need, construct roads and bridges,
operate restaurants and retail shops, and make vital contributions
to all industries.  Minority business enterprises also provide
proprietors and employees a sense of purpose, a source of dignity, and
for some, a valuable asset to pass down through generations.  During
Minority Enterprise Development Week, we celebrate the ingenuity and
dedication of America’s minority entrepreneurs, and we recommit to
helping all Americans access the resources they need to build thriving
businesses and a fairer, more prosperous Nation.

     Minority business enterprises generate $1.8 trillion in annual GDP
and provide income to millions of workers, yet many of these businesses
suffer from the vestiges of historical discrimination.  Obstacles to
accessing capital, barriers to entering new markets, and limited access
to Government contracts make it difficult for operators to start and
grow their enterprises.  Minority business owners are still more likely
to be turned down for loans, earn less revenue, and employ fewer workers
than their non-minority counterparts.  Today, firms owned by Black
Americans, Latinos, American Indians, Alaska Natives, Asian Americans,
Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders make up approximately 18 percent
of employer businesses, yet receive just over 10 percent of Federal
procurement spending.  These disparities contribute to America’s racial
wealth gap; estimates suggest that differences in business ownership
account for 20 percent of the wealth gap between the average white
household and the average Black household.

     My Administration is committed to changing that.  We have taken
historic steps to counter chronic underinvestment in Black and Brown
communities, boosting access to capital and markets.  Our American
Rescue Plan established the $10 billion State Small Business Credit
Initiative at the Department of the Treasury, which will provide funding
to States, territories, and Tribal Governments to establish lending and
investment programs for main-street small businesses and early-stage
companies in disadvantaged areas.  The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law
made permanent the Minority Business Development Agency, the only
Federal agency dedicated to linking minority-owned businesses to private
lenders, exporters, and public- and private-sector buyers; and it
directs the Department of Transportation to prioritize contracts to
small disadvantaged businesses.  My Administration is also using the
Federal Government’s tremendous purchasing power to drive change:  We
have pledged to boost the share of Federal contracting dollars awarded
to small disadvantaged businesses by an unprecedented 50 percent
by 2025, which is projected to bring minority-owned businesses as much
as $100 billion in new revenue over this time period.

     Our work is far from finished.  I am calling on the Congress to
strengthen funding for the Small Business Administration and the
Minority Business Development Agency to support women, people of color,
people with disabilities, veterans, and other underserved business
owners.  I have also called for the expansion of the Treasury
Department’s Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, which
will help local lenders deliver more credit, capital, and financial
support to historically overlooked business owners and communities. 

     Since this Nation’s founding, owning and operating a business has
been an important path to achieving the American dream.  This week and
every week, my Administration will work to ensure that minority
entrepreneurs have the resources to start and grow their own businesses,
enriching their communities and the Nation.  Together, we will grow the
economy from the bottom up and the middle out, making sure it works for
everyone.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 18 through September 24, 2022, as Minority Enterprise
Development Week.  I call upon the people of the United States to
acknowledge and celebrate the achievements and contributions of minority
business owners and enterprises and commit to promote systemic economic
equality.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this sixteenth day
of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
