---
date: '2022-09-12'
published_time: 2022-09-12 10:06:16-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/09/12/executive-order-on-advancing-biotechnology-and-biomanufacturing-innovation-for-a-sustainable-safe-and-secure-american-bioeconomy/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Executive Order on Advancing Biotechnology and Biomanufacturing Innovation\
  \ for a Sustainable, Safe, and Secure American\_Bioeconomy"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.  Policy.  It is the policy of my Administration to coordinate
a whole-of-government approach to advance biotechnology and
biomanufacturing towards innovative solutions in health, climate change,
energy, food security, agriculture, supply chain resilience, and
national and economic security.  Central to this policy and its outcomes
are principles of equity, ethics, safety, and security that enable
access to technologies, processes, and products in a manner that
benefits all Americans and the global community and that maintains
United States technological leadership and economic competitiveness.

Biotechnology harnesses the power of biology to create new services and
products, which provide opportunities to grow the United States economy
and workforce and improve the quality of our lives and the environment.
 The economic activity derived from biotechnology and biomanufacturing
is referred to as “the bioeconomy.”  The COVID-19 pandemic has
demonstrated the vital role of biotechnology and biomanufacturing in
developing and producing life-saving diagnostics, therapeutics, and
vaccines that protect Americans and the world.  Although the power of
these technologies is most vivid at the moment in the context of human
health, biotechnology and biomanufacturing can also be used to achieve
our climate and energy goals, improve food security and sustainability,
secure our supply chains, and grow the economy across all of America.

For biotechnology and biomanufacturing to help us achieve our societal
goals, the United States needs to invest in foundational scientific
capabilities.  We need to develop genetic engineering technologies and
techniques to be able to write circuitry for cells and predictably
program biology in the same way in which we write software and program
computers; unlock the power of biological data, including through
computing tools and artificial intelligence; and advance the science of
scale‑up production while reducing the obstacles for commercialization
so that innovative technologies and products can reach markets faster.

Simultaneously, we must take concrete steps to reduce biological risks
associated with advances in biotechnology.  We need to invest in and
promote biosafety and biosecurity to ensure that biotechnology is
developed and deployed in ways that align with United States principles
and values and international best practices, and not in ways that lead
to accidental or deliberate harm to people, animals, or the environment.
 In addition, we must safeguard the United States bioeconomy, as foreign
adversaries and strategic competitors alike use legal and illegal means
to acquire United States technologies and data, including biological
data, and proprietary or precompetitive information, which threatens
United States economic competitiveness and national security.

We also must ensure that uses of biotechnology and biomanufacturing are
ethical and responsible; are centered on a foundation of equity and
public good, consistent with Executive Order 13985 of January 20, 2021
(Advancing Racial Equity and Support for Underserved Communities Through
the Federal Government); and are consistent with respect for human
rights.  Resources should be invested justly and equitably so that
biotechnology and biomanufacturing technologies benefit all Americans,
especially those in underserved communities, as well as the broader
global community.

To achieve these objectives, it is the policy of my Administration to:

(a)  bolster and coordinate Federal investment in key research and
development (R&D) areas of biotechnology and biomanufacturing in order
to further societal goals;

(b)  foster a biological data ecosystem that advances biotechnology and
biomanufacturing innovation, while adhering to principles of security,
privacy, and responsible conduct of research;

(c)  improve and expand domestic biomanufacturing production capacity
and processes, while also increasing piloting and prototyping efforts in
biotechnology and biomanufacturing to accelerate the translation of
basic research results into practice;

(d)  boost sustainable biomass production and create climate-smart
incentives for American agricultural producers and forest landowners;

(e)  expand market opportunities for bioenergy and biobased products and
services;

(f)  train and support a diverse, skilled workforce and a next
generation of leaders from diverse groups to advance biotechnology and
biomanufacturing;

(g)  clarify and streamline regulations in service of a science- and
risk-based, predictable, efficient, and transparent system to support
the safe use of products of biotechnology;

(h)  elevate biological risk management as a cornerstone of the life
cycle of biotechnology and biomanufacturing R&D, including by providing
for research and investment in applied biosafety and biosecurity
innovation;

(i)  promote standards, establish metrics, and develop systems to grow
and assess the state of the bioeconomy; to better inform policy,
decision-making, and investments in the bioeconomy; and to ensure
equitable and ethical development of the bioeconomy;

(j)  secure and protect the United States bioeconomy by adopting a
forward‑looking, proactive approach to assessing and anticipating
threats, risks, and potential vulnerabilities (including digital
intrusion, manipulation, and exfiltration efforts by foreign
adversaries), and by partnering with the private sector and other
relevant stakeholders to jointly mitigate risks to protect technology
leadership and economic competitiveness; and

\(k\)  engage the international community to enhance biotechnology R&D
cooperation in a way that is consistent with United States principles
and values and that promotes best practices for safe and secure
biotechnology and biomanufacturing research, innovation, and product
development and use.

The efforts undertaken pursuant to this order to further these policies
shall be referred to collectively as the National Biotechnology and
Biomanufacturing Initiative.

Sec. 2.  Coordination.  The Assistant to the President for National
Security Affairs (APNSA), in consultation with the Assistant to the
President for Economic Policy (APEP) and the Director of the Office of
Science and Technology Policy (OSTP), shall coordinate the executive
branch actions necessary to implement this order through the interagency
process described in National Security Memorandum 2 of February 4, 2021
(Renewing the National Security Council System) (NSM-2 process).  In
implementing this order, heads of agencies (as defined in section 13 of
this order) shall, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law,
consult outside stakeholders, such as those in industry; academia;
nongovernmental organizations; communities; labor unions; and State,
local, Tribal, and territorial governments to advance the policies
described in section 1 of this order.

<u>Sec</u>. <u>3</u>.  <u>Harnessing Biotechnology and Biomanufacturing
R&D to Further Societal Goals</u>.  (a)  Within 180 days of the date of
this order, the heads of agencies specified in subsections (a)(i)-(v) of
this section shall submit the following reports on biotechnology and
biomanufacturing to further societal goals related to health, climate
change and energy, food and agricultural innovation, resilient supply
chains, and cross-cutting scientific advances.  The reports shall be
submitted to the President through the APNSA, in coordination with the
Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), the APEP, the
Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy (APDP), and the Director
of OSTP.

\(i\)    The Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS), in
consultation with the heads of appropriate agencies as determined by the
Secretary, shall submit a report assessing how to use biotechnology and
biomanufacturing to achieve medical breakthroughs, reduce the overall
burden of disease, and improve health outcomes.

(ii)   The Secretary of Energy, in consultation with the heads of
appropriate agencies as determined by the Secretary, shall submit a
report assessing how to use biotechnology, biomanufacturing, bioenergy,
and biobased products to address the causes and adapt to and mitigate
the impacts of climate change, including by sequestering carbon and
reducing greenhouse gas emissions.

(iii)  The Secretary of Agriculture, in consultation with the heads of
appropriate agencies as determined by the Secretary, shall submit a
report assessing how to use biotechnology and biomanufacturing for food
and agriculture innovation, including by improving sustainability and
land conservation; increasing food quality and nutrition; increasing and
protecting agricultural yields; protecting against plant and animal
pests and diseases; and cultivating alternative food sources.

(iv)   The Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with the Secretary of
Defense, the Secretary of HHS, and the heads of other appropriate
agencies as determined by the Secretary of Commerce, shall submit a
report assessing how to use biotechnology and biomanufacturing to
strengthen the resilience of United States supply chains.

(v)    The Director of the National Science Foundation (NSF), in
consultation with the heads of appropriate agencies as determined by the
Director, shall submit a report identifying high-priority fundamental
and use‑inspired basic research goals to advance biotechnology and
biomanufacturing and to address the societal goals identified in this
section.

(b)  Each report specified in subsection (a) of this section shall
identify high-priority basic research and technology development needs
to achieve the overall objectives described in subsection (a) of this
section, as well as opportunities for public-private collaboration. 
Each of these reports shall also include recommendations for actions to
enhance biosafety and biosecurity to reduce risk throughout the
biotechnology R&D and biomanufacturing lifecycles.

(c)  Within 100 days of receiving the reports required under subsection
(a) of this section, the Director of OSTP, in coordination with the
Director of OMB, the APNSA, the APEP, the APDP, and the heads of
appropriate agencies as determined through the NSM-2 process, shall
develop a plan (implementation plan) to implement the recommendations in
the reports.  The development of this implementation plan shall also
include the solicitation of input from external experts regarding
potential ethical implications or other societal impacts, including
environmental sustainability and environmental justice, of the
recommendations contained in the reports required under subsection (a)
of this section.  The implementation plan shall include assessments and
make recommendations regarding any such implications or impacts.

(d)  Within 90 days of the date of this order, the Director of OMB, in
consultation with the heads of appropriate agencies as determined
through the NSM-2 process, shall perform a budget crosscut to identify
existing levels of agency spending on biotechnology- and
biomanufacturing-related activities to inform the development of the
implementation plan described in subsection (c) of this section.

(e)  The APNSA, in coordination with the Director of OMB, the APEP, the
APDP, and the Director of OSTP, shall review the reports required under
subsection (a) of this section and shall submit the reports to the
President in an unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

(f)  The APNSA, in coordination with the Director of OMB, the APEP, the
APDP, and the Director of OSTP, shall include a cover memorandum for the
reports submitted pursuant to subsection (a) of this section, along with
the implementation plan required under subsection (c) of this section,
in which they make any additional overall recommendations for advancing
biotechnology and biomanufacturing.

(g)  Within 2 years of the date of this order, agencies at which
recommendations are directed in the implementation plan required under
subsection (c) of this section shall report to the Director of OMB, the
APNSA, the APEP, the APDP, and the Director of OSTP on measures taken
and resources allocated to enhance biotechnology and biomanufacturing,
consistent with the implementation plan described in subsection (c) of
this section.

(h)  Within 180 days of the date of this order, the President’s Council
of Advisors on Science and Technology shall submit to the President and
make publicly available a report on the bioeconomy that provides
recommendations on how to maintain United States competitiveness in the
global bioeconomy.

<u>Sec</u>. <u>4</u>.  <u>Data for the Bioeconomy</u>.  (a)  In order to
facilitate development of the United States bioeconomy, my
Administration shall establish a Data for the Bioeconomy Initiative
(Data Initiative) that will ensure that high-quality, wide-ranging,
easily accessible, and secure biological data sets can drive
breakthroughs for the United States bioeconomy.  To assist in the
development of the Data Initiative, the Director of OSTP, in
coordination with the Director of OMB and the heads of appropriate
agencies as determined by the Director of OSTP, and in consultation with
external stakeholders, shall issue a report within 240 days of the date
of this order that:

(i)    identifies the data types and sources, to include genomic and
multiomic information, that are most critical to drive advances in
health, climate, energy, food, agriculture, and biomanufacturing, as
well as other bioeconomy-related R&D, along with any data gaps;

(ii)   sets forth a plan to fill any data gaps and make new and existing
public data findable, accessible, interoperable, and reusable in ways
that are equitable, standardized, secure, and transparent, and that are
integrated with platforms that enable the use of advanced computing
tools;

(iii)  identifies — based on the data types and sources described in
subsection (a)(i) of this section — security, privacy, and other risks
(such as malicious misuses, manipulation, exfiltration, and deletion),
and provides a data-protection plan to mitigate these risks; and

\(iv\)   outlines the Federal resources, legal authorities, and actions
needed to support the Data Initiative and achieve the goals outlined in
this subsection, with a timeline for action.

(b)  The Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the
Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of
Commerce (acting through the Director of the National Institute of
Standards and Technology (NIST)), the Secretary of HHS, the Secretary of
Energy, and the Director of OMB, shall identify and recommend relevant
cybersecurity best practices for biological data stored on Federal
Government information systems, consistent with applicable law and
Executive Order 14028 of May 12, 2021 (Improving the Nation’s
Cybersecurity).

(c)  The Secretary of Commerce, acting through the Director of NIST and
in coordination with the Secretary of HHS, shall consider bio-related
software, including software for laboratory equipment, instrumentation,
and data management, in establishing baseline security standards for the
development of software sold to the United States Government, consistent
with section 4 of Executive Order 14028.

Sec. 5.  Building a Vibrant Domestic Biomanufacturing Ecosystem.  (a) 
Within 180 days of the date of this order, the APNSA and the APEP, in
coordination with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of
Agriculture, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of HHS, the
Secretary of Energy, the Director of NSF, and the Administrator of the
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), shall develop a
strategy that identifies policy recommendations to expand domestic
biomanufacturing capacity for products spanning the health, energy,
agriculture, and industrial sectors, with a focus on advancing equity,
improving biomanufacturing processes, and connecting relevant
infrastructure.  Additionally, this strategy shall identify actions to
mitigate risks posed by foreign adversary involvement in the
biomanufacturing supply chain and to enhance biosafety, biosecurity, and
cybersecurity in new and existing infrastructure.

(b)  Agencies identified in subsections (b)(i)-(iv) of this section
shall direct resources, as appropriate and consistent with applicable
law, towards the creation or expansion of programs that support a
vibrant domestic biomanufacturing ecosystem, as informed by the strategy
developed pursuant to subsection (a) of this section:

\(i\)    the NSF shall expand its existing Regional Innovation Engine
program to advance emerging technologies, including biotechnology;

(ii)   the Department of Commerce shall address challenges in
biomanufacturing supply chains and related biotechnology development
infrastructure;

(iii)  the Department of Defense shall incentivize the expansion of
domestic, flexible industrial biomanufacturing capacity for a wide range
of materials that can be used to make a diversity of products for the
defense supply chain; and

(iv)   the Department of Energy shall support research to accelerate
bioenergy and bioproduct science advances, to accelerate biotechnology
and bioinformatics tool development, and to reduce the hurdles to
commercialization, including through incentivizing the engineering
scale-up of promising biotechnologies and the expansion of
biomanufacturing capacity.

(c)  Within 1 year of the date of this order, the Secretary of
Agriculture, in consultation with the heads of appropriate agencies as
determined by the Secretary, shall submit a plan to the President,
through the APNSA and the APEP, to support the resilience of the United
States biomass supply chain for domestic biomanufacturing and biobased
product manufacturing, while also advancing food security, environmental
sustainability, and the needs of underserved communities.  This plan
shall include programs to encourage climate-smart production and use of
domestic biomass, along with budget estimates, including accounting for
funds appropriated for Fiscal Year (FY) 2022 and proposed in the
President’s FY 2023 Budget.

(d)  Within 180 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of
Homeland Security, in coordination with the heads of appropriate
agencies as determined by the Secretary, shall:

\(i\)   provide the APNSA with vulnerability assessments of the critical
infrastructure and national critical functions associated with the
bioeconomy, including cyber, physical, and systemic risks, and
recommendations to secure and make resilient these components of our
infrastructure and economy; and

(ii)  enhance coordination with industry on threat information sharing,
vulnerability disclosure, and risk mitigation for cybersecurity and
infrastructure risks to the United States bioeconomy, including risks to
biological data and related physical and digital infrastructure and
devices.  This coordination shall be informed in part by the assessments
described in subsection (d)(i) of this section.

<u>Sec</u>. <u>6</u>.  <u>Biobased Products Procurement</u>.  (a) 
Consistent with the requirements of 7 U.S.C. 8102, within 1 year of the
date of this order, procuring agencies as defined in 7 U.S.C.
8102(a)(1)(A) that have not yet established a biobased procurement
program as described in 7 U.S.C. 8102(a)(2) shall establish such a
program.

(b)  Procuring agencies shall require that, within 2 years of the date
of this order, all appropriate staff (including contracting officers,
purchase card managers, and purchase card holders) complete training on
biobased product purchasing.  The Office of Federal Procurement Policy,
within OMB, in cooperation with the Secretary of Agriculture, shall
provide training materials for procuring agencies.

(c)  Within 180 days of the date of this order and annually thereafter,
procuring agencies shall report previous fiscal year spending to the
Director of OMB on the following:

(i)    the number and dollar value of contracts entered into during the
previous fiscal year that include the direct procurement of biobased
products;

(ii)   the number of service and construction (including renovations)
contracts entered into during the previous fiscal year that include
language on the use of biobased products; and

(iii)  the types and dollar values of biobased products actually used by
contractors in carrying out service and construction (including
renovations) contracts during the previous fiscal year.

(d)  The requirements in subsection (c) of this section shall not apply
to purchase card transactions and other “\[a\]ctions not reported” to
the Federal Procurement Data System pursuant to 48 CFR 4.606(c). 

(e)  Within 1 year of the date of this order and annually thereafter,
the Director of OMB shall publish information on biobased procurement
resulting from the data collected under subsection (c) of this section
and information reported under 7 U.S.C. 8102, along with other related
information, and shall use scorecards or similar systems to encourage
increased biobased purchasing.

(f)  Within 1 year of the date of this order and annually thereafter,
procuring agencies shall report to the Secretary of Agriculture specific
categories of biobased products that are unavailable to meet their
procurement needs, along with desired performance standards for
currently unavailable products and other relevant specifications.  The
Secretary of Agriculture shall publish this information annually.  When
new categories of biobased products become commercially available, the
Secretary of Agriculture shall designate new product categories for
preferred Federal procurement, as prescribed by 7 U.S.C. 8102.

(g)  Procuring agencies shall strive to increase by 2025 the amount of
biobased product obligations or the number or dollar value of
biobased-only contracts, as reflected in the information described in
subsection (c) of this section, and as appropriate and consistent with
applicable law.

Sec. 7.  Biotechnology and Biomanufacturing Workforce.  (a)  The United
States Government shall expand training and education opportunities for
all Americans in biotechnology and biomanufacturing.  To support this
objective, within 200 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of
Commerce, the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Education, the APDP,
the Director of OSTP, and the Director of NSF shall produce and make
publicly available a plan to coordinate and use relevant Federal
education and training programs, while also recommending new efforts to
promote multi-disciplinary education programs.  This plan shall promote
the implementation of formal and informal education and training (such
as opportunities at technical schools and certificate programs), career
and technical education, and expanded career pathways into existing
degree programs for biotechnology and biomanufacturing.  This plan shall
also include a focused discussion of Historically Black Colleges and
Universities, Tribal Colleges and Universities, and Minority Serving
Institutions and the extent to which agencies can use existing statutory
authorities to promote racial and gender equity and support underserved
communities, consistent with the policy established in Executive Order
13985.  Finally, this plan shall account for funds appropriated for FY
2022 and proposed in the President’s FY 2023 Budget.

(b)  Within 2 years of the date of this order, agencies that support
relevant Federal education and training programs as described in
subsection (a) of this section shall report to the President through the
APNSA, in coordination with the Director of OMB, the ADPD, and the
Director of OSTP, on measures taken and resources allocated to enhance
workforce development pursuant to the plan described in subsection (a)
of this section.

Sec. 8.  Biotechnology Regulation Clarity and Efficiency.  Advances in
biotechnology are rapidly altering the product landscape.  The
complexity of the current regulatory system for biotechnology products
can be confusing and create challenges for businesses to navigate.  To
improve the clarity and efficiency of the regulatory process for
biotechnology products, and to enable products that further the societal
goals identified in section 3 of this order, the Secretary of
Agriculture, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency,
and the Commissioner of Food and Drugs, in coordination with the
Director of OMB, the ADPD, and the Director of OSTP, shall:

(a)  within 180 days of the date of this order, identify areas of
ambiguity, gaps, or uncertainties in the January 2017 Update to the
Coordinated Framework for the Regulation of Biotechnology or in the
policy changes made pursuant to Executive Order 13874 of June 11, 2019
(Modernizing the Regulatory Framework for Agricultural Biotechnology
Products), including by engaging with developers and external
stakeholders, and through horizon scanning for novel products of
biotechnology;

(b)  within 100 days of completing the task in subsection (a) of this
section, provide to the general public plain-language information
regarding the regulatory roles, responsibilities, and processes of each
agency, including which agency or agencies are responsible for oversight
of different types of products developed with biotechnology, with case
studies, as appropriate;

(c)  within 280 days of the date of this order, provide a plan to the
Director of OMB, the ADPD, and the Director of OSTP with processes and
timelines to implement regulatory reform, including identification of
the regulations and guidance documents that can be updated, streamlined,
or clarified; and identification of potential new guidance or
regulations, where needed;

(d)  within 1 year of the date of this order, build on the Unified
Website for Biotechnology Regulation developed pursuant to Executive
Order 13874 by including on the website the information developed under
subsection (b) of this section, and by enabling developers of
biotechnology products to submit inquiries about a particular product
and promptly receive a single, coordinated response that provides, to
the extent practicable, information and, when appropriate, informal
guidance regarding the process that the developers must follow for
Federal regulatory review; and

(e)  within 1 year of the date of this order, and annually thereafter
for a period of 3 years, provide an update regarding progress in
implementing this section to the Director of OMB, the United States
Trade Representative (USTR), the APNSA, the ADPD, and the Director of
OSTP.  Each 1-year update shall identify any gaps in statutory authority
that should be addressed to improve the clarity and efficiency of the
regulatory process for biotechnology products, and shall recommend
additional executive actions and legislative proposals to achieve such
goals.

Sec. 9.  Reducing Risk by Advancing Biosafety and Biosecurity.  (a)  The
United States Government shall launch a Biosafety and Biosecurity
Innovation Initiative, which shall seek to reduce biological risks
associated with advances in biotechnology, biomanufacturing, and the
bioeconomy.  Through the Biosafety and Biosecurity Innovation Initiative
— which shall be established by the Secretary of HHS, in coordination
with the heads of other relevant agencies as determined by the Secretary
— agencies that fund, conduct, or sponsor life sciences research shall
implement the following actions, as appropriate and consistent with
applicable law:

(i)   support, as a priority, investments in applied biosafety research
and innovations in biosecurity to reduce biological risk throughout the
biotechnology R&D and biomanufacturing lifecycles; and

(ii)  use Federal investments in biotechnology and biomanufacturing to
incentivize and enhance biosafety and biosecurity practices and best
practices throughout the United States and international research
enterprises.

(b)  Within 180 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of HHS and
the Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with agencies that
fund, conduct, or sponsor life sciences research, shall produce a plan
for biosafety and biosecurity for the bioeconomy, including
recommendations to:

\(i\)   enhance applied biosafety research and bolster innovations in
biosecurity to reduce risk throughout the biotechnology R&D and
biomanufacturing lifecycles; and

\(ii\)  use Federal investments in biological sciences, biotechnology,
and biomanufacturing to enhance biosafety and biosecurity best practices
throughout the bioeconomy R&D enterprise.

(c)  Within 1 year of the date of this order, agencies that fund,
conduct, or sponsor life sciences research shall report to the APNSA,
through the Assistant to the President and Homeland Security Advisor, on
efforts to achieve the objectives described in subsection (a) of this
section.

<u>Sec</u>. 10.  Measuring the Bioeconomy.  (a)  Within 90 days of the
date of this order, the Secretary of Commerce, through the Director of
NIST, shall, in consultation with other agencies as determined by the
Director, industry, and other stakeholders, as appropriate, create and
make publicly available a lexicon for the bioeconomy, with consideration
of relevant domestic and international definitions and with the goal of
assisting in the development of measurements and measurement methods for
the bioeconomy that support uses such as economic measurement, risk
assessments, and the application of machine learning and other
artificial intelligence tools.

(b)  The Chief Statistician of the United States, in coordination with
the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Commerce, the Director of
NSF, and the heads of other appropriate agencies as determined by the
Chief Statistician, shall improve and enhance Federal statistical data
collection designed to characterize the economic value of the United
States bioeconomy, with a focus on the contribution of biotechnology to
the bioeconomy.  This effort shall include:

(i)   within 180 days of the date of this order, assessing, through the
Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Economic Analysis, the feasibility,
scope, and costs of developing a national measurement of the economic
contributions of the bioeconomy, and, in particular, the contributions
of biotechnology to the bioeconomy, including recommendations and a plan
for next steps regarding whether development of such a measurement
should be pursued; and

(ii)  within 120 days of the date of this order, establishing an
Interagency Technical Working Group (ITWG), chaired by the Chief
Statistician of the United States, which shall include representatives
of the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Commerce, OSTP, the
NSF, and other appropriate agencies as determined by the Chief
Statistician of the United States.

\(A\)  Within 1 year of the date of this order, the ITWG shall recommend
bioeconomy-related revisions to the North American Industry
Classification System (NAICS) and the North American Product
Classification System (NAPCS) to the Economic Classification Policy
Committee.  In 2026, the ITWG shall initiate a review process of the
2023 recommendations and update the recommendations, as appropriate, to
provide input to the 2027 NAICS and NAPCS revision processes.

\(B\)  Within 18 months of the date of this order, the ITWG shall
provide a report to the Chief Statistician of the United States
describing the Federal statistical collections of information that take
advantage of bioeconomy-related NAICS and NAPCS codes, and shall include
recommendations to implement any bioeconomy-related changes as part of
the 2022 revisions of the NAICS and NAPCS.  As part of its work, the
ITWG shall consult with external stakeholders.

<u>Sec</u>. <u>11</u>.  <u>Assessing Threats to the United States
Bioeconomy</u>.  (a)  The Director of National Intelligence (DNI) shall
lead a comprehensive interagency assessment of ongoing, emerging, and
future threats to United States national security from foreign
adversaries against the bioeconomy and from foreign adversary
development and application of biotechnology and biomanufacturing,
including acquisition of United States capabilities, technologies, and
biological data.  As part of this effort, the DNI shall work closely
with the Department of Defense to assess technical applications of
biotechnology and biomanufacturing that could be misused by a foreign
adversary for military purposes or that could otherwise pose a risk to
the United States.  In support of these objectives, the DNI shall
identify elements of the bioeconomy of highest concern and establish
processes to support ongoing threat identification and impact
assessments.

(b)  Within 240 days of the date of this order, the DNI shall provide
classified assessments to the APNSA related to:

(i)   threats to United States national and economic security posed by
foreign adversary development and application of biomanufacturing; and

(ii)  foreign adversary means of, and intended usages related to,
acquisition of United States biotechnologies, biological data, and
proprietary or precompetitive information.

(c)  Within 120 days of receiving the DNI’s assessments, the APNSA shall
coordinate with the heads of relevant agencies as determined through the
NSM-2 process to develop and finalize a plan to mitigate risks to the
United States bioeconomy, based upon the threat identification and
impact assessments described in subsection (a) of this section, the
vulnerability assessments described in section 5(d) of this order, and
other relevant assessments or information.  The plan shall identify
where executive action, regulatory action, technology protection, or
statutory authorities are needed to mitigate these risks in order to
support the technology leadership and economic competitiveness of the
United States bioeconomy.

(d)  The United States Government contracts with a variety of providers
to support its functioning, including by contracting for services
related to the bioeconomy.  It is important that these contracts are
awarded according to full and open competition, as consistent with the
Competition in Contracting Act of 1984 (Public Law 98-369, 98 Stat.
1175).  In accordance with these objectives, and within 1 year of the
date of this order, the Director of OSTP, in coordination with the
Secretary of Defense, the Attorney General, the Secretary of HHS, the
Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the DNI, the
Administrator of NASA, and the Administrator of General Services, shall
review the national security implications of existing requirements
related to Federal procurement — including requirements contained in the
Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) and the Defense Federal Acquisition
Regulation Supplement — and shall recommend updates to those
requirements to the FAR Council, the Director of OMB, and the heads of
other appropriate agencies as determined through the NSM-2 process.  The
recommendations shall aim to standardize pre-award data collection to
enable due diligence review of conflict of interest; conflict of
commitment; foreign ownership, control, or influence; or other potential
national security concerns.  The recommendations shall also include
legislative proposals, as relevant.

(e)  The Director of OMB shall issue a management memorandum to
agencies, or take other appropriate action, to provide generalized
guidance based on the recommendations received pursuant to subsection
(d) of this section.

Sec. 12.  International Engagement.  (a)  The Department of State and
other agencies that engage with international partners as part of their
missions shall undertake the following actions with foreign partners, as
appropriate and consistent with applicable law — with a specific focus
on developing countries, international organizations, and
nongovernmental entities — to promote and protect both the United States
and global bioeconomies:

(i)     enhance cooperation, including joint research projects and
expert exchanges, on biotechnology R&D, especially in genomics;

(ii)    encourage regulatory cooperation and the adoption of best
practices to evaluate and promote innovative products, with an emphasis
on those practices and products that support sustainability and climate
objectives;

(iii)   develop joint training arrangements and initiatives to support
bioeconomy jobs in the United States;

(iv)    work to promote the open sharing of scientific data, including
genetic sequence data, to the greatest extent possible in accordance
with applicable law and policy, while seeking to ensure that any
applicable access and benefit-sharing mechanisms do not hinder the rapid
and sustainable development of innovative products and biotechnologies;

(v)     conduct horizon scanning to anticipate threats to the global
bioeconomy, including national security threats from foreign adversaries
acquiring sensitive technologies or data, or disrupting essential
bio-related supply chains, and to identify opportunities to address
those threats;

(vi)    engage allies and partners to address shared national security
threats;

(vii)   develop, and work to promote and implement, biosafety and
biosecurity best practices, tools, and resources bilaterally and
multilaterally to facilitate appropriate oversight for life sciences,
dual-use research of concern, and research involving potentially
pandemic and other high-consequence pathogens, and to enhance sound risk
management of biotechnology- and biomanufacturing-related R&D globally;
and

(viii)  explore how to align international classifications of
biomanufactured products, as appropriate, to measure the value of those
products to both the United States and global bioeconomies.

(b)  Within 180 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of State,
in coordination with the USTR and the heads of other agencies as
determined by the Secretary, as appropriate, shall submit to the APNSA a
plan to support the objectives described in subsection (a) of this
section with foreign partners, international organizations, and
nongovernmental entities.

Sec. 13.  Definitions.  For purposes of this order:

(a)  The term “agency” has the meaning given that term by 44 U.S.C.
3502(1).

(b)  The term “biotechnology” means technology that applies to or is
enabled by life sciences innovation or product development.

(c)  The term “biomanufacturing” means the use of biological systems to
develop products, tools, and processes at commercial scale.

(d)  The term “bioeconomy” means economic activity derived from the life
sciences, particularly in the areas of biotechnology and
biomanufacturing, and includes industries, products, services, and the
workforce.

(e)  The term “biological data” means the information, including
associated descriptors, derived from the structure, function, or process
of a biological system(s) that is measured, collected, or aggregated for
analysis.

(f)  The term “biomass” means any material of biological origin that is
available on a renewable or recurring basis.  Examples of biomass
include plants, trees, algae, and waste material such as crop residue,
wood waste, animal waste and byproducts, food waste, and yard waste.

(g)  The term “biobased product” has the meaning given that term in 7
U.S.C. 8101(4).

(h)  The term “bioenergy” means energy derived in whole or in
significant part from biomass.

(i)  The term “multiomic information” refers to combined information
derived from data, analysis, and interpretation of multiple omics
measurement technologies to identify or analyze the roles,
relationships, and functions of biomolecules (including nucleic acids,
proteins, and metabolites) that make up a cell or cellular system.
 Omics are disciplines in biology that include genomics,
transcriptomics, proteomics, and metabolomics.

(j)  The term “key R&D areas” includes fundamental R&D of emerging
biotechnologies, including engineering biology; predictive engineering
of complex biological systems, including the designing, building,
testing, and modeling of entire living cells, cell components, or
cellular systems; quantitative and theory-driven multi-disciplinary
research to maximize convergence with other enabling technologies; and
regulatory science, including the development of new information,
criteria, tools, models, and approaches to inform and assist regulatory
decision-making.  These R&D priorities should be coupled with advances
in predictive modeling, data analytics, artificial intelligence,
bioinformatics, high-performance and other advanced computing systems,
metrology and data-driven standards, and other non-life science enabling
technologies.

(k)  The terms “equity” and “underserved communities” have the meanings
given those terms by sections 2(a) and 2(b) of Executive Order 13985.

(l)  The term “Tribal Colleges and Universities” has the meaning given
that term by section 5(e) of Executive Order 14049 of October 11, 2021
(White House Initiative on Advancing Educational Equity, Excellence, and
Economic Opportunity for Native Americans and Strengthening Tribal
Colleges and Universities).

(m)  The term “Historically Black Colleges and Universities” has the
meaning given that term by section 4(b) of Executive Order 14041 of
September 3, 2021 (White House Initiative on Advancing Educational
Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity Through Historically Black
Colleges and Universities).

(n)  The term “minority serving institution” has the meaning given that
term by 38 U.S.C. 3698(f)(4).

(o)  The term “foreign adversary” has the meaning given that term by
section 3(b) of Executive Order 14034 of June 9, 2021 (Protecting
Americans’ Sensitive Data From Foreign Adversaries).

(p)  The term “life sciences” means all sciences that study or use
living organisms, viruses, or their products, including all disciplines
of biology and all applications of the biological sciences (including
biotechnology, genomics, proteomics, bioinformatics, and pharmaceutical
and biomedical research and techniques), but excluding scientific
studies associated with radioactive materials or toxic chemicals that
are not of biological origin or synthetic analogues of toxins.

<u>Sec</u>. <u>14</u>.  <u>General Provisions</u>.  (a)  Nothing in this
order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of OMB relating to budgetary,
administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other
person.                            

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

  
THE WHITE HOUSE,  
  September 12, 2022.
