---
date: '2022-09-09'
published_time: 2022-09-09 13:24:26-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/09/09/a-proclamation-on-national-grandparents-day-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Grandparents Day,\_2022"
---
 
     On National Grandparents Day and every day, we give thanks to
grandparents for their wisdom, strength, and love.

     Grandparents are storytellers and gatekeepers of family tradition. 
They are wellsprings of knowledge and experience.  They are the
centerpieces of family gatherings and the glue that keeps so many
families together.  Grandparents also help raise children.  They shuttle
grandkids to-and-from school, babysit when parents are away from home,
and offer advice and comfort when it is needed most.  Sometimes they
fill in as primary caregivers, putting aside their own needs and working
full-time to provide the blessing of a loving family.  I know from my
own experience how grandparents can step up in critical moments.  When
my father lost his job in Scranton, Pennsylvania, my grandpop welcomed
us into his home and offered us stability during a time of uncertainty.

     While this is a day of celebration, it is also an opportunity to
remember the grandparents who are no longer with us.  The COVID-19
pandemic cut short the lives of too many loved ones — especially our
seniors.  My Administration sends strength to families who are no longer
whole and to families whose grandparents are fighting for their health
today.  We also send encouragement to families who postponed gatherings
and loving embraces during the pandemic. 

For Jill and me, our grandchildren are the love of our lives and the
life of our love.  We know how difficult it can be to remain physically
apart, and we hope that the progress we have made — and continue to make
— in ending the COVID-19 pandemic will allow more families to safely
enjoy precious time together.  Finally, we acknowledge that, for many
Americans, grandparents live on only through the stories of relatives
who were fortunate enough to have known them, but that these bonds can
be powerful too.

     As we look ahead, my Administration will continue advocating for
grandparents, especially as they care for children.  The Department of
Health and Human Services (HHS) is preparing a National Caregiving
Strategy to present the Congress with new recommendations to better
support family caregivers.  And, my Administration is committed to
making health care more affordable for more Americans, including seniors
— many of whom are grandparents.  As part of the Inflation Reduction
Act, seniors and other Medicare beneficiaries will have the peace
of mind of knowing that their prescription drug costs are capped
at $2,000 annually. And millions of seniors will benefit from Medicare
finally being able to negotiate prescription drug costs.  My
Administration will always protect Medicare and Social Security.
 Ensuring that seniors can age with dignity, security, and respect is
not only the right thing to do — it is integral to our character as a
Nation.

     Many of our grandparents arrived in this country with nothing but a
dream and an unwavering commitment to ensure that the lives of their
children and grandchildren would be better than their own.  Regardless
of where they came from or how they got here, they have worked hard,
planted roots, and built communities.  They have had big hopes for us,
and through our ups and downs, they have continued to love us just the
same — because that is what grandparents do.  On National Grandparents
Day, let us honor the grandparents who teach us lessons, imbue us with
family pride, and shower us with affection.  On behalf of a grateful
Nation, we thank you for the gifts of life and love.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 11, 2022, as National Grandparents Day.  I call upon all
Americans to celebrate the important role that grandparents play in the
lives of their families and the children they love.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this ninth day of
September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.  
                               

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
