---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-09'
modified_time: 2021-06-09 10:32:09-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/09/fact-sheet-executive-order-protecting-americans-sensitive-data-from-foreign-adversaries/
published_time: 2021-06-09 10:32:08-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Executive Order Protecting Americans\u2019 Sensitive Data from\
  \ Foreign Adversaries"
---
 
The Biden Administration is committed to promoting an open,
interoperable, reliable and secure Internet; protecting human rights
online and offline; and supporting a vibrant, global digital economy.
Certain countries, including the People’s Republic of China (PRC), do
not share these values and seek to leverage digital technologies and
Americans’ data in ways that present unacceptable national security
risks while advancing authoritarian controls and interests.    
  
Today, President Biden signed an Executive Order (E.O.) to further
address the ongoing national emergency declared in E.O. 13873 of May 15,
2019 with respect to the threat posed to the United States’ information
and communications technology and services (ICTS) supply chain.
President Biden revoked and replaced three E.O.s that aimed to prohibit
transactions with TikTok, WeChat, and eight other communications and
financial technology software applications; two of these E.O.s are
subject to litigation. In their place, this E.O. directs the use of a
criteria-based decision framework and rigorous, evidence-based analysis
to address the risks posed by ICTS transactions involving software
applications that are designed, developed, manufactured, or supplied by
persons that are owned or controlled by, or subject to the jurisdiction
of a foreign adversary, including the People’s Republic of China, that
may present an undue or unacceptable risk to the national security of
the United States and the American people.  
  
Specifically, the E.O. the President signed today:  
  
**Enables the U.S. to take strong steps to protect Americans’ sensitive
data: **This E.O. revokes and replaces E.O.s 13942, 13943, and
13971. The new E.O. directs the Department of Commerce to instead
evaluate foreign adversary connected software applications under the
rules published to implement E.O. 13873 and take action, as
appropriate.  
  
**Provides criteria for identifying software applications that may pose
unacceptable risk:** This E.O. provides criteria for consideration,
consistent with the criteria set forth in E.O. 13873 and the
implementing regulations, for identifying and evaluating ICTS
transactions involving foreign adversary connected software applications
that may pose an unacceptable risk to U.S. national security and the
American people. For example, ICTS transactions involving software
applications may present a heightened risk when the transactions involve
applications that are owned, controlled, or managed by persons that
support foreign adversary military or intelligence activities, or are
involved in malicious cyber activities, or involve applications that
collect sensitive personal data.  
  
**Develops further options to protect sensitive personal data and
address the potential threat from certain connected software
applications:** This E.O. directs the Department of Commerce, in
consultation with other U.S. departments and agencies, to make
recommendations to protect against harm from the sale, transfer of, or
access to sensitive personal data, including personally identifiable
information and genetic information – to include large data repositories
– to persons owned or controlled by, or subject to the jurisdiction or
direction of, foreign adversaries. Additionally, the Department of
Commerce will make recommendations for additional executive and
legislative actions to further address the risk associated with foreign
adversary connected software applications.

\###
