---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-11'
modified_time: 2021-06-10 15:22:25-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/11/fact-sheet-president-biden-and-g7-leaders-to-announce-steps-to-forge-a-more-fair-and-inclusive-global-economy/
published_time: 2021-06-11 02:00:00-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden and G7 Leaders to Announce Steps to Forge a More\
  \ Fair and Inclusive Global\_Economy"
---
 
*The United States is rallying the world’s democracies to deliver for
our people, meet the world’s biggest challenges, and demonstrate our
shared values*

Today, President Biden will meet with G7 leaders to discuss ways to
forge a more fair, sustainable, and inclusive global economy that meets
the unique challenges of our time. President Biden and G7 partners are
committed to a global recovery that benefits the middle class and
working families at home and around the world.

President Biden and G7 leaders agreed to continue providing policy
support to the global economy for as long as necessary to create a
strong, balanced, and inclusive economic recovery.  In addition, leaders
are expected to announce that the G7 is:

**Rallying around the US proposal for Strong Global Minimum Tax. ** G7
leaders will endorse a strong global minimum tax of at least 15 percent.
This U.S. priority is a critical step towards ending the decades-long
race to the bottom that pushes nations to compete over who can offer the
lowest tax rate to large corporations at the expense of protecting
workers, investing in infrastructure, and growing the middle class.

This unprecedented progress reflects the Biden Administration’s
commitment to building a global tax system that is equitable and
equipped to meet the needs of the 21st century global economy. By making
big multinational corporations pay their fair share and raising
resources to fund priorities for domestic renewal – such as
infrastructure, childcare, affordable housing, and education – a global
corporate minimum tax is a key part of our efforts to deliver a foreign
policy for the middle class, and will help support working families
everywhere.  This agreement is a clear illustration of how American
leadership and commitment to multilateralism can produce results for
American workers and businesses.  
  
Today’s agreement paves the way for the removal of Digital Service Taxes
(DSTs) and other discriminatory taxes. In addition to agreement on a
global minimum tax, the G7 also reached historic agreement on a plan to
replace DSTs with a broader reallocation of taxing rights to the places
where the largest and most profitable multinational corporations are
doing business and making money. Importantly, this applies to large
multinationals broadly, both domestic and foreign, and not just the
technology sector. This is an important principle for the United States,
and will ensure that big multinational companies across the economy will
pay a little more in the places where they operate, whether or not they
have their headquarters there.  
  
**Exploring a Major Reallocation of Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) to
Countries in Need: ** The United States and our G7 partners are actively
considering a global effort to multiply the impact of the International
Monetary Fund’s proposed  Special Drawing Rights (SDR) allocation to the
countries most in need.  At potentially up to $100 billion in size, the
proposed effort would further support health needs – including
vaccinations – and help enable greener, more robust economic recoveries
in vulnerable countries, and promote a more balanced, sustained, and
inclusive global recovery.  

More detail will be included in the G7 Leaders’ Communique.

\###
