---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-09'
modified_time: 2021-06-09 15:30:17-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/09/president-biden-announces-five-key-nominations/
published_time: 2021-06-09 15:30:16-04:00
title: President Biden Announces Five Key Nominations
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following five individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Amanda Howe, Nominee for Assistant Administrator for Mission
    Support, Environmental Protection Agency
-   Guy Kiyokawa, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Enterprise
    Integration, Department of Veterans Affairs
-   Damon Smith, Nominee for General Counsel, Department of Housing and
    Urban Development
-   William Eugene Holloway, Nominee for Member of the Board of
    Directors of the National Institute of Building Sciences
-   Javier Ramirez, Nominee for Director of the Federal Mediation and
    Conciliation Service

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Amanda Howe, Nominee for
Assistant Administrator for Mission Support, Environmental Protection
Agency</span>**  
Amanda Howe is a career public servant, helping lead progressive change
in government, politics, and the non-profit sector. She served in the
role of Chief Operating Officer for the Kamala Harris For The People
presidential campaign in 2019 and for the Democratic National Committee
before, during, after President Barack Obama’s 2012 re-election
campaign. In the past year, she’s been a senior advisor to the President
of Everytown for Gun Safety and for the Maya Wiley for Mayor campaign in
New York City. Howe served as Deputy and then Acting Chief of Staff to
New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio, and after, as a consultant to the
city, helped plan the first-ever ticker tape parade for a women’s team
for the U.S. Women’s Soccer Team World Cup win and for the official
visit of Pope Francis and his procession through Central Park.  She
served as Vice President of the non-profit American Council on Renewable
Energy in Washington, D.C.  In Virginia, Howe served as Assistant
Secretary of Commerce and Trade for then-Governor Mark R. Warner and led
the planning for then-Governor Tim Kaine of the Virginia portion of the
most recent official visit to the U.S. of Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II
and Prince Phillip in 2007. Howe holds a bachelor’s degree in political
science from Dalhousie University in Nova Scotia.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Guy Kiyokawa, Nominee for
Assistant Secretary for Enterprise Integration, Department of Veterans
Affairs</span>**  
Mr. Guy Kiyokawa is currently the Deputy Director of the Defense Health
Agency (DHA), Falls Church, VA. The DHA is a joint Combat Support Agency
supporting Army, Navy, and Air Force medical services, and it
administers the TRICARE Health Plan providing worldwide medical, dental
and pharmacy programs to more than 9.6 million uniformed service
members, retirees and their families. Prior to his selection to the
Senior Executive Service in 2015, Mr. Kiyokawa completed a 29-year
career in the United States Army with leadership experience in multiple
roles ranging from aeromedical evacuation pilot to health facility
engineering to healthcare administration.  He culminated his career as
the Chief of Staff for the newly formed Defense Health Agency, and
retired at the rank of Colonel in 2015.  
  
Mr. Kiyokawa was born and raised in Honolulu, Hawaii. He holds a
Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering from the University of Southern
California, and is a 1995 graduate of the US Army-Baylor University
Program with a Master’s Degree in Health Administration.  Mr. Kiyokawa
graduated from the U.S. Army War College in Carlisle Barracks, PA where
he completed the War College Fellowship with the Department of Veterans
Affairs in Washington, DC.  He currently resides in Vienna, Virginia
with his wife and three kids.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Damon Smith, Nominee for
General Counsel, Department of Housing and Urban Development</span>**  
Damon Smith currently serves as the Principal Deputy General Counsel at
the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).  He joined
the Biden-Harris Administration after serving as Senior Director of
Advocacy and Counsel at the Credit Union National Association (CUNA),
representing the nation’s cooperatively-owned, not-for-profit credit
unions in housing, telecommunications and financial security matters. 
Prior to joining CUNA, Smith was a Partner at Jenner and Block LLP in
Washington, D.C. where he provided counsel to companies facing complex
compliance, government regulation and enforcement matters.  
  
Smith previously served as the Senior Counsel and Acting General Counsel
at the U.S. Department for Housing and Urban Development during the
Obama-Biden Administration, where he provided legal and policy guidance
on a range of programs and activities and set the Department’s
litigation strategy and regulatory agenda. Before his government
service, he taught property and local government law as an Associate
Professor at Rutgers-Camden Law School and a Visiting Professor at the
American University Washington College of Law.  Smith began his legal
career as a real estate Associate at Arnold & Porter in Washington,
D.C., and worked prior to law school as an urban planner in East St.
Louis, Illinois and St. Louis, Missouri.   
  
Smith is a graduate of Harvard Law School and holds a bachelor’s degree
in English and a master’s degree in urban planning from the University
of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign  
  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">William Eugene Holloway,
Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors of the National Institute
of Building Sciences</span>**  
Bill Holloway is Vice President, Principal, and Director of Delaware
Operations for Bernardon, an award-winning regional architecture,
interior design and landscape architecture firm with offices in
Wilmington, Delaware and West Chester and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
Spanning 39 years of practice, his professional accomplishments include
significant projects in the public works, institutional, and healthcare
markets. Among Holloway’s notable projects are the Joseph R. Biden, Jr.
Train Station in Wilmington, the restoration of the historic Old State
House in Dover, Delaware, and renovations to over twenty-seven
facilities for the Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia.  Currently,
Holloway is working on a major addition to the Delaware Division of
Public Health Laboratory in Smyrna, Delaware.  
  
In recognition of his service to the profession of Architecture, the
American Institute of Architects (AIA) named him a Richard Upjohn Fellow
at the national level for his service on the Institute’s board.  In
honor of his successful tenure as president of AIA Delaware, Holloway
was made a member of the chapter’s G. Morris White Society.  He was also
voted to be accepted to the membership of the Carpenters’ Company of the
City and County of Philadelphia, a prestigious organization of builders,
architects, and engineers originally chartered in 1724.  
  
Bill earned his Bachelor of Architecture degree from The Pennsylvania
State University where he was awarded the College of Arts & Architecture
Medal for Creative Achievement and the Alpha Rho Chi Medal for
leadership, service and merit in architecture.  He is also quite proud
of his years as a member of the sousaphone rank in the Penn State Blue
Band. In the community and beyond, Bill serves as a longtime member of
the Executive Board of the Del-Mar-Va Council Boy Scouts of America; a
member of the Easter Seals Society of Delaware and the Eastern Shore
Board of Trustees; and a member of the executive committee of the New
Castle County Chamber of Commerce.  Bill also continues his avocation in
music as a member of the Aldersgate Brass Ensemble. Bill and his wife of
37 years, Cathy, reside in Chadds Ford, Pennsylvania and together they
have two adult children, Megan Holloway and Ben Holloway, both of
Wilmington, Delaware.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Javier Ramirez, Nominee for
Director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service</span>**  
Javier Ramirez began his FMCS career as a Commissioner in 2005 and is
currently the Executive Manager of the Division of Agency Initiatives. 
This office bears responsibility for the Office of Conflict Management &
Prevention, Office of Strategy & Development, the Center for Conflict
Resolution and Education, the FMCS Institute for Conflict Management,
and the DC and Northern Virginia (HQ) Commissioners.    
  
Javier mediated disputes in all sectors of the economy (except air and
rail) in professions such as the performing arts, public safety,
professors, hospitality, hospitals, manufacturing, and packing houses. 
Javier facilitated and mediated multi-party disputes in manufacturing,
construction, and education.  He was on the facilitation team for
several regulatory negotiations, including the Department of Energy
(DOE) negotiations that resulted in the largest energy-saving rule in
DOE history.  Javier also trained and successfully facilitated parties
in various collaborative bargaining models.  Notably, Javier
collaborated with colleagues to create the FMCS Affinity Bargaining
model.  He represented the agency in international tri-partite training
efforts in Bangladesh and trained all New Zealand labor mediators on
collaborative bargaining. Javier has been the recipient of multiple FMCS
performance awards in recognition of his work, including the Director’s
Award.  
  
Additionally, Javier is regularly asked to present at national and
regional conferences on conflict management topics.  He guest lectured
on labor relations and dispute management at the University of Illinois,
University of Colorado Boulder, National Defense University, Cornell,
and other universities.  
  
Prior to FMCS, Javier spent over fourteen years in labor relations,
negotiating contracts and resolving disputes in areas such as
immigration, contract administration, communication, staffing, and
politics at the federal, state, and local level.  His efforts have been
featured in Rolling Stone, Chicago Tribune Magazine, and Chicago Lawyer
Magazine; cited in the New York Times Best Seller Fast Food Nation; and
recognized by the College of Labor and Employment Lawyers.  
  
Javier enjoys the performing arts or exploring the great outdoors with
his wife and two adult children.

\###
