---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-18'
modified_time: 2021-06-18 15:53:23-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/18/fact-sheet-300-million-shots-in-150-days-the-presidents-covid-19-strategy-is-delivering-for-americans/
published_time: 2021-06-18 14:00:00-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: 300 Million Shots in 150 Days: The President\u2019s COVID- \u2060\
  \ 19 Strategy is Delivering for Americans"
---
 
When President Biden took office 150 days ago, more than 3,300 Americans
were dying each day, more than 185,000 Americans were infected with
COVID-19 cases a day, and the economy had lost millions of jobs.  
  
Today, thanks to the President’s COVID-19 strategy, the virus is in
retreat. 300 million shots have been administered in 150 days, COVID-19
cases and deaths have decreased by more than 90 percent, and the economy
is experiencing the strongest rebound in decades.  
  
This did not happen by accident. The President committed to the American
people that he would confront this unprecedented challenge with the full
strength and capabilities of the federal government. Each day since
taking office, the President has done just that – mobilizing a
whole-of-government, wartime effort to defeat COVID-19. And, he has
brought all Americans, including public and private sector leaders,
together and asked them to do their part.  
  
The results are clear: America is starting to look like America again,
and entering a summer of joy and freedom.  
  
**300 Million Shots in 150 Days**  
  
When President Biden took office, about 5% of adult Americans had gotten
vaccinated. At the pace the U.S. was vaccinating in January, it would
have taken 336 days to get to 300 million shots in arms. And, inadequate
vaccine supply, vaccinators, and places to get vaccinated severely
limited Americans’ access to vaccines.  
  
Thanks to the Biden Administration’s whole-of-government effort to stand
up a first-of-its-kind, best-in-class nationwide vaccination program,
today, more than 175 million Americans have gotten at least one COVID-19
vaccine shot.

-   65% of adult Americans have at least one shot, and 55% of adults are
    fully vaccinated.
-   87% of seniors and 74% of adults age 40 and over have at least one
    shot.
-   15 states and Washington, D.C., have gotten at least 70% of adults
    one shot.
-   26 states and D.C. have fully vaccinated 50% or more of adults. 

Importantly, this progress on vaccinations has brought COVID-19 cases,
hospitalizations and deaths down to their lowest levels since the start
of the pandemic last year. It’s curbed the spread of the virus, saved
tens of thousands of lives, and allowed tens of millions of Americans to
get back to living their life.  
  
This is a direct result of the Biden Administration’s
whole-of-government, wartime effort that focused on:  
  
**Securing enough supply for all Americans and getting it out the door
as quickly as possible.** When President Biden took office, there was
not enough vaccine supply for all Americans, and states were not getting
the supply allocation and delivery timeline information they requested
and needed to be successful. Thanks to the President’s aggressive
actions, the Biden Administration secured enough supply for all
Americans, dramatically increased supply to states, and gave states more
visibility into allocation numbers to allow for better planning to get
shots into arms much faster. This allowed the President to make all
adults eligible for vaccination in mid-April – months ahead of
expectations – and has positioned the U.S. to help lead the global
efforts to vaccinate the world.  
  
**Mobilizing Americans to get shots in arms.** The Biden Administration
has deployed over 9,000 federal personnel to support vaccinations,
including over 5,100 active duty troops. A total of 2,500 federal staff
have served as vaccinators. Thanks in part to the American Rescue Plan,
the Administration has funded over 30,000 National Guard members who
have supported COVID-19 response efforts in states and territories, with
2,300 National Guard members serving as vaccinators. The President also
used his authority under the Public Readiness and Emergency Preparedness
Act to permit additional health care providers, including retired
doctors and dentists, to administer shots in arms across the country.  
  
**Dramatically increasing the number of vaccination sites so that at
least 90% of Americans have access to a shot within 5 miles of where
they live.** Today, with more than 81,000 vaccination sites in
communities across the country, and thousands of sites offering
no-appointment, walk-in vaccinations, it has never been easier to get
vaccinated in America. The Biden Administration achieved this by:

-   **Launching a federal pharmacy vaccination program and expanding it
    to 42,000 local pharmacies that have administered more than 82
    million shots in arms. **More than 75% of these pharmacies are
    offering no-appointment, walk-in vaccinations, and over 5,600 are
    offering extended hours on Fridays in June, including many open 24
    hours on these days.  
     
-   **Standing up 39 federally-run, high-volume vaccination sites in 27
    states.** These sites – stood up by FEMA and run in conjunction with
    the U.S. military and state and local partners – were all located in
    the most vulnerable neighborhoods in America. More than 5.6 million
    shots have been administered at these sites.  
     
-   **Launching a community health center vaccination program and
    expanding it to about 1,100 centers that have administered almost 5
    million shots. **Two-thirds of the population that these centers
    serve are living at or below the federal poverty line and 60% are
    racial and/or ethnic minorities. More than 70% of shots administered
    through the program have gone to racial and ethnic minorities, and
    these centers have hosted almost 11,000 pop-up clinics to reach the
    most vulnerable communities.  
     
-   **Meeting people where they are.** The Biden Administration has
    supported more than 20,000 community-based pop-up vaccination
    clinics, including through FEMA, Veterans Affairs, and the pharmacy
    and community health center programs. These clinics, which have
    gotten over 3.6 million shots in arms, meet people where they are,
    including at places of work, worship, and recreation.  
     
-   **Providing funding, equipment and/or personnel to help states
    expand and scale up their own vaccination efforts. **Thanks in part
    to the American Rescue Plan, the Biden Administration has provided
    over $4.8 billion in funding to 57 states, localities, Tribes and
    territories to support and increase their vaccination efforts. In
    total, FEMA has provided critical support to over 2,200 community
    vaccination centers nationwide.

**Advancing equity.** The Biden Administration has put equity at the
center of every aspect of its response, including its vaccination
program. More than 70% of the shots provided to community health centers
through the federal program have been administered to people of color
and more than 58% of the shots administered at federally-run sites have
gone to people of color. More than 40% of pharmacies participating in
the federal program are located in high-risk zip codes, and pharmacies
have conducted over 8,100 pop-up vaccination clinics to support
vaccination of essential workers and other communities
disproportionately impacted by COVID-19. And, in the past month alone,
people of color have accounted for 54% of nationwide vaccinations, while
only making up 40% of the U.S. population. The Biden Administration is
also:

-   **Investing in community health centers.** The Administration has
    invested more than $6 billion in American Rescue Plan (ARP) funding
    in Community Health Centers to expand access to COVID-19 vaccines,
    testing, and treatment for vulnerable populations  
     
-   **Bolstering the response in rural communities.** The Administration
    has provided nearly $860 million in ARP funding to help rural health
    clinics and rural hospitals broaden their COVID-19 testing and
    mitigation to slow the spread of the virus in their communities; and
    $100 million in ARP funding to approximately 4,600 rural health
    clinics across the country to support vaccine outreach in rural
    communities.  
     
-   **Combatting COVID-19 in Indian Country.** The Administration has
    invested nearly $6 billion in ARP funding to support Tribal
    communities in their fight against the virus, including $600 million
    for the Indian Health Service to increase vaccinations.  
     
-   **Building vaccine confidence in the hardest-hit and highest-risk
    communities.** The Administration has provided $3 billion to expand
    vaccination outreach to underserved communities through the CDC and
    another $1 billion to help build vaccine confidence.

**Ensuring getting vaccinated is easy and convenient and that the
American people have the information and confidence they need to get
vaccinated.**Thanks in part to the ARP, the Biden Administration has
provided more than $4 billion to state and local health agencies,
national, community- and faith-based organizations to conduct vaccine
education and outreach efforts in communities across the country and
build Americans’ confidence in the vaccines. In addition, the
Administration has worked with the private and public sector to provide
Americans free transportation to and from vaccine sites, increase the
availability of no-appointment, walk-in vaccinations, and promote paid
time-off and free child care for vaccinations, and much more.  These
efforts have paid off: At the beginning of this year, only 34% of
Americans wanted to get vaccinated as soon as possible. Five months
later, we not only increased that number dramatically, the Biden
Administration has vaccinated 65% of adults.  
  
**WHAT AMERICANS WERE READING IN JANUARY**

-   **The Associated Press:** [Governors complain over pace of COVID-19
    vaccine
    shipments](https://apnews.com/article/ap-top-news-kate-brown-coronavirus-pandemic-coronavirus-vaccine-oregon-165e7862074a24e20df2155d128cf0d7)  
     
-   **NPR:** [U.S. Tops 25 Million Confirmed Coronavirus
    Cases](https://www.npr.org/sections/coronavirus-live-updates/2021/01/24/960126270/u-s-tops-25-million-cases-of-the-coronavirus)  
     
-   **NPR: **[Coronavirus: Numbers Rising In Nearly Every
    State](https://www.npr.org/sections/coronavirus-live-updates/2021/01/10/955432645/coronavirus-numbers-rising-in-nearly-every-state-capitol-siege-put-members-at-ri)  
     
-   **The Associated Press:** [U.S. Tops 4,000 Daily Deaths From
    Coronavirus For 1st
    Time](https://apnews.com/article/us-coronavirus-death-4000-daily-16c1f136921c7e98ec83289942322ee4)  
     
-   **NBC News:** [December Was The Deadliest, Most Infectious Month
    Since The Start Of The
    Pandemic](https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/december-was-deadliest-most-infectious-month-start-pandemic-n1252645)  
     
-   **The Wall Street Journal: **[January Was Deadliest Month of
    Coronavirus Pandemic for
    U.S.](https://www.wsj.com/livecoverage/covid-2021-01-28)  
     

**WHAT AMERICANS ARE READING IN JUNE**

-   **Axios:** [COVID-19 Cases Hit Lowest Point In U.S. Since Pandemic
    Began](https://www.axios.com/coronavirus-cases-infections-vaccines-success-fa7673a1-0582-4e69-aefb-3b5170268048.html)  
     
-   **USA Today: **[New Infections Drop Below 15,000 For First Time
    Since March 2020; Vaccinated Americans Get More Travel
    Freedom](https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/health/2021/06/08/covid-vaccine-variant-lab-leak-cdc/7594625002/)  
     
-   **The Washington Post:** [Coronavirus Infections Dropping Where
    People Are Vaccinated, Rising Where They Are Not, Post Analysis
    Finds](https://www.washingtonpost.com/health/2021/06/14/covid-cases-vaccination-rates/)  
     
-   **Barron’s:** [U.S. Covid-19 Cases Drop To Lowest In More Than A
    Year](https://www.barrons.com/articles/us-covid-19-cases-51622551591)  
     
-   **CNBC:** “[More Than 50% Of Americans Got At Least One Covid
    Vaccine Shot As U.S. Cases Fall
    Further](https://www.cnbc.com/2021/06/01/covid-19-cases-deaths-vaccinations-daily-update.html)

\###
