---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-13'
modified_time: 2021-06-13 14:58:46-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/13/fact-sheet-nato-summit-revitalizing-the-transatlantic-alliance/
published_time: 2021-06-13 14:58:45-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: NATO Summit: Revitalizing the Transatlantic\_Alliance"
---
 
*“The transatlantic alliance is the strong foundation on which our
collective security and our shared prosperity are built.  The
partnership between Europe and the United States, in my view, is and
must remain the cornerstone of all that we hope to accomplish in the
21<sup>st</sup> century, just as we did in the 20<sup>th</sup> century…
The United States is fully committed to our NATO Alliance… we’ll keep
faith with Article 5.”*

 – *President Biden, February 19, 2021*

President Biden will participate on June 14 in the NATO Summit in
Brussels that brings together the leaders of all 30 Allied nations.
 During the Summit, the President will reaffirm the enduring
Transatlantic bond through NATO and underscore the United States’
ironclad commitment to Article 5 – an attack on one is an attack on all
and will be met with a collective response.  Allied leaders will launch
an ambitious set of initiatives to ensure NATO continues to provide
security to our citizens through 2030 and beyond.

The Transatlantic relationship is built on a foundation of shared
democratic values.  NATO’s strength comes not only from its military
might, but also its unity and common purpose founded on respect for
democracy, individual liberty, and the rule of law, as enshrined in the
Washington Treaty.  Now in its 73rd year, NATO is the most powerful and
successful Alliance in history.  NATO faced down the Communist bloc in
the Cold War and today provides security for approximately one billion
people in Europe and North America.  As NATO winds down its military
presence in Afghanistan after nearly 20 years, the United States and our
NATO Allies and partners will continue supporting the people of
Afghanistan through civilian and security assistance.  The United States
will also continue to stand shoulder to shoulder with our Allies and
partners in NATO’s non-combat advisory mission in Iraq.

NATO played a pivotal role in coordinating the civilian response to
COVID-19, airlifting hundreds of tons of critical supplies around the
world and building almost 100 field hospitals, while maintaining its
deterrence and defense posture.  This assistance is saving lives and
proves that defense investment and capacity building increase our
nations’ resilience in the face of all kinds of crises, not only against
military threats.

**<u>Key Summit Outcomes</u>**:

**A New Strategic Concept**:  Allies will agree to revise NATO’s
Strategic Concept, a framework that will guide the Alliance’s approach
to the evolving strategic environment, which includes Russia’s
aggressive policies and actions; challenges posed by the People’s
Republic of China to our collective security, prosperity, and values;
and transnational threats such as terrorism, cyber threats, and climate
change.  The new Strategic Concept will be prepared for adoption at the
NATO Summit in 2022.

**Updating Cyber Defenses**: Leaders will endorse a new Cyber Defense
Policy for NATO that will strengthen Allied coordination to ensure the
Alliance is resilient against the increasingly frequent and severe
threats we face from malicious cyber activity perpetrated by state and
non-state actors, including disruptive ransomware attacks against
critical infrastructure.  This updated policy will also provide
strategic guidance for NATO’s political, military, and technical cyber
efforts to deter, defend against, and counter the full spectrum of cyber
threats.  Leaders will also affirm the importance of defending our
networks and ensuring Allies rely on trustworthy providers for next
generation telecommunication networks.

**Preserving our Technological Edge**:  Leaders will affirm that NATO’s
ability to ensure our common defense relies on maintaining our
technological edge.  Allies will launch a Defense Innovation Accelerator
to facilitate their technological cooperation and speed the adoption of
emerging technologies that will enhance the Alliance’s defense and
security. 

**Combatting Climate Change**:  Leaders will agree to a Climate Security
Action Plan and set the ambition for NATO to become the leading
international organization for understanding and adapting to the impact
of climate change on security.  They will agree to reduce greenhouse
gases from military activities and installations in line with national
commitments under the Paris Agreement, and agree to initiate a regular
high-level global climate and security dialogue.

**Strengthened Deterrence and Defense**:  Allies will commit to
implementation of new military concepts and strategies that strengthen
NATO’s deterrence and defense posture to meet threats from Russia and
elsewhere.  NATO also continues to monitor the Russian deployments in
and around Ukraine.

**Greater Sharing of Responsibility**:  Non-U.S. defense spending has
risen for seven consecutive years since the Wales Defense Investment
Pledge adopted during the Obama-Biden Administration in 2014.  Allied
leaders will recommit to the Wales Pledge in its entirety and to
providing NATO with cash, capabilities, and contributions of ready
forces.

**Investing in NATO:**  Allies will also commit to ensuring NATO is led,
staffed, and resourced at levels necessary to deliver on the decisions
taken at the Summit.  Leaders will agree to identify the additional
resources, including through NATO common funding, to enhance NATO’s
ability to meet security challenges today and in the future.

**Increased Consultation and Cohesion**:  Allies will commit to enhance
political coordination at NATO on all matters related to their
individual and collective security.  Leaders will also reaffirm their
commitment to their common values, including individual liberty, human
rights, democracy, and the rule of law.

**Stronger Societies**:  Recognizing the increasingly complex threats to
our security, Allied leaders will affirm that national and collective
resilience are essential for credible deterrence and defense, and vital
to safeguard our societies, citizens, and shared values.  Allied leaders
will issue a Strengthened Resilience Commitment to outline future
priorities, including on the security of supply chains, critical
infrastructure, and energy networks, as well as preparedness for
pandemics and natural disasters.

**Deeper Partnerships**:  Allies will enhance NATO’s ability to
strengthen the rules-based international order by increasing dialogue
and practical cooperation with the Alliance’s partners, including the
European Union and those in the Indo-Pacific (Australia, Japan, New
Zealand, and the Republic of Korea).  Leaders will recommit to NATO’s
Open Door Policy, which provides a path to membership for any European
country that shares our values and meets the necessary responsibilities
and obligations. 

\# \# \#
