---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-04'
modified_time: 2021-06-04 13:51:38-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/04/president-biden-appoints-members-to-presidents-commission-on-white-house-fellowships/
published_time: 2021-06-04 13:51:37-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Appoints Members to President\u2019s Commission on White\_\
  House\_Fellowships"
---
 
Today, President Biden appointed 22 members to the President’s
Commission on White House Fellowships.

The Commission is composed of outstanding citizens who reflect the
diversity and strength of America while representing a broad range of
backgrounds, experiences, and professions. Commissioners are responsible
for recommending a group of candidates to the President for selection as
White House Fellows, a prestigious program for leadership and public
service that provides young Americans experience working at the highest
levels of the federal government.

“These leaders represent the best of America – our collective character,
creativity, and diversity. I am grateful these dedicated and
accomplished Americans will help select and mentor the next class of
White House Fellows who demonstrate exceptional leadership, unwavering
passion, and a strong commitment to public service,” **said President
Biden.**

**<u>President’s Commission on White House Fellows</u>**

**Demetra Lambros, Chair**

Demetra Lambros is a criminal appellate lawyer who, during 20 years at
the Justice Department, handled high-profile murder, public corruption,
drug conspiracy, human trafficking, fraud, and gang-related
prosecutions. During the Obama Administration, she served as Counsel to
then-Vice President Biden. In the 1990s, she was General Counsel for the
Senate Judiciary Committee, under the chairmanship of then-Senator
Biden, where she worked on the Violence Against Women Act, among other
measures. Previously, Demetra was in private practice at Williams &
Connolly. She currently lives in Missoula, Montana where she cooks for
domestic violence survivors and young, single moms. 

**Karen R. Adler**

Karen R. Adler is an independent management consultant working with
high-net-worth families and their foundations. She is Senior Vice
President of the Adler Group, a multi-generational family business, and
President of the Jewish Communal Fund. Karen has spent much of her
career mentoring and encouraging young people to seek out and accept the
challenges and rerewards of a career in public service.

**Raumesh Akbari**

A proud Memphian and passionate advocate for justice and equality,
Senator Raumesh Akbari serves in the Tennessee State Senate for the
29<sup>th</sup> district where her work to improve student outcomes and
reform broken criminal justice policies has earned national and
international recognition. Senator Akbari, an attorney for her family’s
small business, represents the heart of downtown Memphis and parts of
greater Shelby County, but her leadership is felt throughout the state
as the Chairwoman of the Tennessee Senate Democratic Caucus, and her
ideas are heard nationally as a leader on presidential task forces and a
member of organizations advancing women, equity, and solution-oriented
policies.

**Cordell Carter II**

Cordell Carter II leads the Aspen Institute Socrates Program, a global
education forum for leaders, and Expectant Advisory, an equity-focused
consultancy working towards a society where everyone belongs and has an
equitable opportunity to thrive. Previously, he held leadership roles
with the TechTown Foundation, Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation,
Business Roundtable, National Alliance for Public Charter Schools, and
the IBM Corporation. He has been selected as an Eisenhower Fellow
(China), Robert Bosch Stiftung Fellow (Germany), and a Broad Resident in
Urban Education.

**Marco A. Davis**

Marco A. Davis is President and CEO of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus
Institute (CHCI), a national nonprofit organization dedicated to
developing the next generation of Latino leaders. Prior to joining CHCI,
Davis was a partner at New Profit, a national nonprofit venture
philanthropy. He served in the Obama-Biden Administration as Deputy
Director of the White House Initiative on Educational Excellence for
Hispanics and as Director of Public Engagement for the Corporation for
National and Community Service. He is a member of Alpha Phi Alpha
Fraternity, Inc. and holds a B.A. in History and Latin American Studies
from Yale University. Originally from the New York City area, he lives
in the District of Columbia with his wife and daughter.

**Dr. George E. Gabriel**

Dr. George E. Gabriel is a lifelong educator and researcher with over 40
years of demonstrated experience on two continents. He has a strong
belief that higher education is the primary tool for socioeconomic
mobility with equity at the heart of the mobility agenda. Dr. Gabriel is
a first-generation college graduate and an immigrant to the United
States who obtained his doctorate at Vanderbilt University as a
Fulbright Scholar. He has spent over a quarter century as a researcher
and administrator at two large community colleges. His focus has been on
student success in community colleges with the specific goal to narrow
achievement gaps in student outcomes by implementing innovative
practices.

**Robert Hoopes**

Robert Hoopes is founder and president of VOX Global, a DC based
consultancy that works across policy issues including ESG, education,
IOT, and diversity, equity, and inclusion. Robert is passionate about
good government, education, and democracy; he has worked in the U.S.
Senate Office of Joseph R. Biden, Jr. and served as Chief of Staff for
then-Vice President Biden at the 2012 Democratic National Convention.
Robert earned his B.A. in government from Colby College and an MLA from
The George Washington University. He serves on the Board of Trustees at
Colby College and the Board of Advisors at the Graduate School of
Political Management at GWU. Robert is married to Hilary Barnes Hoopes
and they have three children.

**Nomaan “Nomi” K. Husain**

Mr. Nomaan “Nomi” K. Husain is the founder of Husain Law + Associates,
PC, a boutique law firm based in Houston, Texas that focuses on
litigation, immigration, aviation. He currently serves as a Commissioner
on the Harris County Houston Sports Authority, is an Advisor to Harris
County Sheriff Ed Gonzalez, Ft. Bend County District Attorney, and is a
member of the Dean’s Advisory Committee for University of Texas at
Austin’s College of Liberal Arts and University of Texas School of
Dentistry. He has also served as the Chairman of City of Houston’s
Ethics Commission, Chairman and President of the South Asian Chamber of
Commerce, member of the Mayor’s Advisory Committee for South Asia, and
as the legal counsel to Pakistan Chamber of Commerce.

**Joe Kennedy III**

Joe Kennedy III served as a Member of the House of Representatives from
Massachusetts, in the Peace Corps, as a legal aid volunteer, and an
assistant district attorney. He currently resides in Newton,
Massachusetts with his wife Lauren, their children Eleanor and James,
and their dog Banjo.

**Hildy Kuryk**

Hildy Kuryk is a Partner at Artemis Strategies, a boutique consultancy
that helps companies and individuals distill, articulate, and connect
their values to their desired consumer. Prior to Artemis, Hildy was the
Executive Director of Communications at Vogue. Before joining Vogue,
Hildy spent her career in professional politics serving two presidents.
She started in the White House Office of Legislative Affairs for
President Bill Clinton and ended as the National Finance Director of the
Democratic National Committee for President Barack Obama.  She currently
lives in Brooklyn with her husband and two children.

**Deborah Jospin**

Deborah (Deb) Jospin is the founder of Jospin Strategic, a consulting
firm that provides strategic advice for public and private sector
clients. Along with her former business partner Shirley Sagawa, Deb is
the co-author of *The Charismatic Organization: Eight Ways to Grow a
Nonprofit that Builds Buzz, Delights Donors and Engages Employees*,
Jossey-Bass, 2008. Before starting her consulting career, Deb was the
Associate General Counsel and Chief of Staff at the Corporation for
National Service, and she served as the Director of AmeriCorps from
1997-2001.

**Nicole Malachowski**

An inductee into the National Women’s Hall of Fame, Colonel Nicole
Malachowski (USAF, Retired) served over 21 years in the United States
Air Force as an officer and career fighter pilot. During that time, she
had the honor of commanding a fighter squadron, flying as a USAF
Thunderbird pilot, and serving as a White House Fellow and advisor to
the First Lady of the United States. Following her medical retirement
from the military, Nicole became a staunch national-level patient
advocate for those enduring Tick-Borne Illnesses and recently founded
Nicole Malachowski & Associates, LLC where she serves as a professional
speaker and leadership consultant.

**Stacey Mindich**

Stacey Mindich is a Tony, Grammy, and Olivier Award-winning theatrical
producer. She has produced more than 20 plays and musicals, and
originated the international sensation *Dear Evan Hansen*, which will
relaunch its critically-acclaimed productions on Broadway, in London,
and on a national tour this fall, alongside the release of a major
motion picture adaption. Previously a journalist and editor, Stacey is
the co-chair of New York City Center’s Board of Trustees, as well as a
founding member of The Lilly Awards. Her proudest productions are the
three sons she shares with husband, Eric Mindich.

**Courtney O’Donnell**

Courtney Diesel O’Donnell has driven social impact through global public
affairs and partnership development in senior roles in the White House,
at non-profit organizations, national political campaigns, and in the
private sector. Most recently, O’Donnell served as Director of Global
Partnerships at Airbnb where she established alliances to encourage
sustainable tourism, support economic empowerment, and promote female
entrepreneurship around the world. In the Obama-Biden Administration,
she served as Communications Director to Dr. Jill Biden, and on the
Biden-Harris presidential campaign, O’Donnell served as Chief of Staff
to Douglas Emhoff and advised on women’s engagement. O’Donnell serves on
the Advisory Boards of the Beeck Center for Social Impact + Innovation
at Georgetown University and the Thomson Reuters Foundation.

**Katherine Rice**

Katherine Rice is a senior executive, board director, and investment
professional with a passion for advancing the next generation of
successful women leaders Rice is currently a Senior Advisor to
GingerBread Capital, investing in women founders of growth companies.
She is also the Founder and CEO of Rice Advisory Corp., a strategy
consulting business focused on scaling consumer companies.  Active in
community and political affairs, Rice is a long-time advocate for
women’s and LGBTQ+ rights.  Rice holds an M.B.A. from the Stanford
University Graduate School of Business and a B.A. from Vanderbilt
University. Originally from Texas, Rice currently resides in Mill
Valley, California with her partner Jennifer and daughter Avery.

**Ramona Romero**

Ramona Emilia Romero is the Vice President and General Counsel of
Princeton University. Before joining the University in 2014, Romero was
the General Counsel of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Earlier in
her career, Romero worked in a variety of legal roles at DuPont and as a
litigator at Crowell & Moring, LLP. Romero is currently a trustee of
Barnard College and a director of Legal Services of New Jersey. She is a
former National President of the Hispanic National Bar Association
(HNBA). An immigrant from the Dominican Republic, Romero holds a B.A.
from Barnard College and a J.D. from Harvard Law School.  She, her
husband, and their two daughters live in Princeton, NJ. 

**Jennie Rosenthal**

Jennie Rosenthal is a current Board Member and immediate past Chair of
the National Board of The Planned Parenthood Action Fund, Vice President
of the Board of The Ohio Innocence Project, Board Member of The
Democracy Alliance, Member of the Ohio Progressive Collaborative,
Emeritus Trustee of the Contemporary Arts Center in Cincinnati, and
Co-Director of the Rosenthal Family Foundation. The mission is to
improve the social and economic fabric of Cincinnati focusing on
affordable housing, food insecurity, social and criminal justice,
education, women’s rights, and innovative programs in the arts. Jennie
is a fundraiser, grassroots organizer, and advisor for local, state, and
national political campaigns.

**Michael Schrum**

Michael is Political Director for Emerson Collective where he leads
political grantmaking and advocacy efforts in pursuit of a more equal
and just America, with a focus on fair representation and access to
democracy. Prior to joining Emerson, he served as Personal Aide to
then-Vice President Biden, followed by two years as Vice President
Biden’s Director of Intergovernmental Affairs and Special Assistant to
the President. After leaving the White House, he served as Treasurer for
the American Possibilities PAC, and then he helped with the launch of
Biden for President. Prior to his time with then-Vice President Biden,
he was appointed as Deputy Director of the Department of Labor’s Office
of Public Engagement. Michael lives in D.C with his wife Maya and two
kids Eshaan and Neela.

**Kenny Thompson Jr.**

Kenny Thompson, Jr. is Vice President of Corporate Affairs, North
America at PepsiCo. He applies his experience with social impact,
corporate responsibility, sustainability, advocacy, and communications
to generate new business, amplify PepsiCo’s business partnerships, and
grow PepsiCo’s reputation as a responsible corporate citizen. Before
joining PepsiCo, Kenny held several positions in the Obama-Biden White
House, including Director of Message Events for then-Vice President Joe
Biden, Senior Advisor to United States Trade Representative Ron Kirk,
and Special Assistant and Advance Lead for President Barack Obama.A
native Texan, Kenny completed his undergraduate degree at Texas
Christian University where he was a proud member of the Horned Frog
baseball team. He later earned a Master of Business Administration from
Georgetown University.

**Linda Whitlock**

Currently Founder and Principal of The Whitlock Group, providing
management, strategy, and governance consulting to boards and CEOs.
Linda was a transformative CEO of Boys & Girls Clubs of Boston, served
in the administrations of Massachusetts Governors Dukakis and King, and
taught at MIT, Tufts, and the University of Michigan. Now serving on the
boards of the Red Sox Foundation and the National Association of
Corporate Directors New England, Linda has been honored as a
Distinguished Bostonian by the Greater Boston Chamber of Commerce and
has been recognized by many other corporate, civic, and philanthropic
organizations in the region. Linda has an A.B. from Mount Holyoke
College and an A.M. from the University of Michigan, and she completed
Executive Education programs at Harvard Business School, Harvard Kennedy
School, and the Aspen Institute.

**Fidel Vargas**

Fidel A. Vargas is President and CEO of the Hispanic Scholarship Fund
(HSF). Prior to joining HSF, Fidel was a Founding Partner of Centinela
Capital Partners. At the age of 23, Fidel was elected the country’s
youngest mayor of a major city in Baldwin Park, California. Fidel
graduated with honors from Harvard University with an A.B. in Social
Studies and received his M.B.A. from Harvard Business School with a
concentration in Entrepreneurship and General Management.

**Dr. Alfred Yung**

Dr. Yung is a Professor of Neuro-Oncology, Senior Advisor of the Brain
Tumor Center, and a member of the Cancer Moonshot leadership at the
University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center at Houston. He received
his M.D. degree from the University of Chicago Pritzker School of
Medicine. He joined MDACC 1981 and served as Chair of Department of
Neuro-Oncology for 15 years. He was the second Editor-in-Chief of
Neuro-Oncology, Co-Chair of the NCI Brain Malignancy Steering Committee.
Currently, he is serving as Special Scientific Advisor of the National
Brain Tumor Society and a member of the Scientific Advisory Committee of
the Ludwig Institute of Cancer research, among many other roles.

\###
