---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-25'
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/25/president-biden-announces-six-key-nominations/
published_time: 2021-06-25 18:58:02-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Six Key\_Nominations"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following six individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Lisa Carty, Nominee for Representative of the United States of
    America on the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations
    with the rank of Ambassador and Alternate Representative to the
    United Nations General Assembly
-   Ernest DuBester, Nominee for Chair of the Federal Labor Relations
    Authority
-   Dennis DeConcini, Nominee for Member of the Board of Trustees of the
    Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation
-   Joseph Green, Nominee for Member of the Board of Trustees of the
    Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation
-   Barbara George Johnson, Nominee for Member of the Board of Trustees
    of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education
    Foundation
-   Mildred Otero, Nominee for Member of the Board of Trustees of the
    Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Lisa Carty, Nominee for
Representative of the United States of America on the Economic and
Social Council of the United Nations with the rank of Ambassador and
Alternate Representative to the United Nations General
Assembly</span>**  
Lisa A. Carty is Director for Humanitarian Financing and Resource
Mobilization with the United Nations Office for the Coordination of
Humanitarian Affairs.  She has worked for more than three decades in
multilateral diplomacy, including on humanitarian, global health and
development issues.  Carty has had leadership roles in both the public
and non-profit sectors including twenty-five years as a diplomat with
the U.S. Foreign Service with overseas assignments in Asia, the Middle
East and Russia.  Her United Nations career has included work with the
United Nations Relief Works Agency for Palestinian Refugees, as well as
positions with the Joint United Nations Program on AIDS.   
  
Earlier in her career, Ms. Carty helped lead the work of the Bill &
Melinda Gates Foundation’s Global Health Program and was a senior
adviser at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in
Washington, DC.   She holds a Master’s degree in Public Health from
Johns Hopkins University and a Bachelor’s degree from Georgetown
University’s School of Foreign Service.  She speaks French.    
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Ernest DuBester, Nominee for
Chair of the Federal Labor Relations Authority</span>**  
Mr. DuBester has served as a Member of the Federal Labor Relations
Authority (FLRA) since August 2009. On January 21, 2021, he was
designated Chairman by President Joseph R. Biden, Jr.  He was also FLRA
Chairman from January to November 2013.  The FLRA administers the
Labor-Management relations program for 2.1 million non-Postal federal
employees worldwide.  
  
With over 45 years of experience in Labor-Management relations, he began
his career at the National Labor Relations Board as counsel to former
Chairman and Member John Fanning.  He was also a Union attorney with the
firm of Highsaw & Mahoney, and legislative counsel to the AFL-CIO.  From
1993-2001, he was Chairman and Member at the National Mediation Board
(NMB), which oversees labor relations in the airline and railroad
industries. From 2001-2005, Mr. DuBester was the Professor and Director
of the Dispute Resolution Program at the Antonin Scalia Law School.  Mr.
DuBester received his A.B. from Boston College, his law degree from
Catholic University, where he served as Recent Developments Editor of
the Law Review, and his Masters of Law in Labor Law from Georgetown
University Law Center.  He is married to Karen Marie Kremer.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Dennis DeConcini, Nominee for
Member of the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and
Excellence in Education Foundation</span>**  
Dennis DeConcini is a native of Tucson, Arizona and served as a United
States Senator from Arizona for 18 years, from 1977-1995, serving with
both Senators Barry Goldwater and John McCain. During that time he was a
member of the Committees on Appropriations, Judiciary, Veterans’ Aﬀairs,
Rules, and served as Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on
Intelligence.On the Intelligence Committee he was involved in the
restructuring of the Post-War Intelligence community, reviewed security
systems following the Aldrich Ames espionage case, and conducted general
oversight of all technical and human intelligence gathering. DeConcini
was also Co-Chair of the Commission on Cooperation and Security in
Europe (Helsinki Commission) where he was involved in a vast number of
Human Rights Matters and oversight of the Helsinki Accord.  This
included the monitoring of human rights violations in Eastern Europe and
the former USSR by meeting with heads of State and traveling extensively
in those countries and observing elections in newly emerging
democracies. Prior to his service in the United States Senate, he was
elected Pima County Attorney (Tucson, Arizona) where he created one of
the ﬁrst victim-witness programs in the country, which is still
operational.   
  
After retirement from the U.S. Senate, he continued to serve the public
as a member of the Arizona Board of Regents, which governs the three
main universities in Arizona, for eight years.  As a Regent, he was
responsible for overseeing the operations of the universities to enhance
the educational experience and opportunities for the student community. 
He is a member of the Board of the National Center for Missing and
Exploited Children and the International Center for Missing and
Exploited Children where he continues to support the mission of ﬁnding
and preventing the exploitation of children. DeConcini received his
Bachelor of Arts Degree and Law Degree from the University of
Arizona. DeConcini is currently retired and serves as a general partner
of his family real estate business, 4-D Properties, in Tucson, Arizona. 
He is the author of the book, From the Center of the Aisle, published by
Arizona University Press, 2006. Dennis DeConcini is married to Patricia
DeConcini, and has three grown children and seven grandchildren. He
continues to be active in the public policy arena.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Joseph Green, Nominee for
Member of the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and
Excellence in Education Foundation</span>**  
Joseph Michael “Joe” Green, Ph.D., currently works as the Dean of the
University College at North Carolina Central University, where he works
with other campus deans to ensure a quality undergraduate student
experience. Dean Green’s primary role is to lead University College
faculty and staff to develop, implement, assess and continuously improve
the University College, courses, workshops, services, and projects.  
  
Dr. Green previously worked as the Executive Director for Retention,
Progression, and Completion, a Graduate Faculty Member, and head of the
Student Success Center in the Division of Academic Affairs, at the
University of North Carolina at Greensboro (UNCG) a major minority
serving University. Dr. Green has been a leader and Conductor for UNCG’s
Frontier Set Initiative, a partnership of 31 public and private
colleges, Universities, community colleges and university systems
created by the Bill & Melina Gates Foundation to help colleges increase
the number of graduates among under-represented, first-generation,
low-income and non-traditional students.  
Prior to arriving at UNCG, Joe served as the Executive Director for the
nationally recognized Educational Opportunity Program (EOP) at Marquette
University in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Additionally, Dr. Green
conceptualized, and executive produced the documentary film “Answering
the Call for Justice”, a film which chronicles the early TRiO College
Equity, Opportunity, and Access Movement in the United States. Over the
past two and a half decades, Dr. Green was director of four federal TRiO
programs and academic support centers.  
  
Before his time at North Carolina, Dr. Green was Director of
Undergraduate Research, the Ronald E. McNair Program and the Research
and Mentoring Program (RAMP) Scholars Post-Baccalaureate Achievement
Program in the University of Central Florida’s Division of Undergraduate
Studies. He was elected to the Chapel Hill-Carrboro City Schools Board
of Education and served as a member of the State of North Carolina’s
Department of Public Instructions, Advanced Placement Advisory
Council.  
  
Dr. Green earned his undergraduate degree from Bowie State University,
Bowie, Maryland and holds a doctoral degree in political science and
public administration from Howard University in Washington. Joe is a
member of Phi Beta Sigma Fraternity, and he and his wife, Kimberly and
family now reside in Mebane, North Carolina.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Barbara George Johnson,
Nominee for Member of the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater
Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation</span>**  
Barbara George Johnson brings more than 30 years of experience as a
public policy professional in New Jersey and has been a leading voice in
shaping economic, health and social policy in the region. Barbara is the
Vice President of External Affairs and Urban Policy and Research at Kean
University, where she brings her years of public policy analysis
expertise to the newly launched John S. Watson Institute for Urban
Policy and Research.  
  
Previously, Barbara held the title of Executive Director for the John S.
Watson Institute for Public Policy (JSWIPP) at Thomas Edison State
University where she managed the activities of the New Jersey Urban
Mayors Association, the only Association of its kind with over 30 urban
mayors engaged in collective policymaking. Barbara also created the
Newark Kids Initiative project for the Newark Health Department, a
program that focused on healthcare and social services for children
exposed to domestic violence. In addition, she has participated in many
task forces on HIV/AIDS including the Newark Prevention Marketing
Initiative which was a task force created by the Centers for Disease
Control to address the increase of HIV/AIDS in Newark.  Barbara also
served as principal of GOVCONNECTIONS, LLC,  a company she created to
provide government relations, community relations and health care
consulting services to urban communities.   
  
Barbara has spent many years working in health care where she
concentrated on Maternal and Child Health issues, as a Public Health
Adviser for the Department of Health and New York City and later as the
Director for the Family Life Institute of Planned Parenthood of
Metropolitan New Jersey. She also served as Legislative Director for the
American Civil Liberties Union of New Jersey.  
  
Barbara earned a Bachelor of Arts in Biology and Technology from Cornell
University and an MPH from Columbia University School of Public Health,
as well as a Law degree from Rutgers-Newark Law School. A proud member
of the Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority Inc., she resides in Hillside, New
Jersey with her husband and children.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Mildred Otero, Nominee for
Member of the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and
Excellence in Education Foundation</span>**  
Mildred Otero is the Senior Vice President for National Impact at
Leadership for Educational Equity (LEE). In this role, she leads four
national teams committed to developing the leadership skills of LEE
members to pursue leadership opportunities in advocacy, elected,
organizing and policy that empower them to end educational inequities in
the United States. Prior to joining LEE, Mildred served as the Chief
Education Counsel in the U.S. Senate Committee on Health, Education,
Labor and Pensions, where she managed the Senate Majority’s education
agenda and its policy development and strategies for children from
cradle to career. Such efforts included, legislation addressing early
childhood education, elementary and secondary and the workforce.    
  
Previously, Mildred served as a senior policy officer with the Bill and
Melinda Gates Foundation; senior advisor at the United States Department
of State/United States Agency for International Development; senior
policy advisor to then Senator Clinton (D-NY); Legislative Assistant to
Sen. Reed (D-RI) in the US Senate and as Deputy Director for Early
Childhood at the Children’s Defense Fund. Before her work in Washington,
D.C., Mildred was a counselor for child victims of sexual and physical
abuse at the Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office and began her career as
a legislative aide to the New York State Assembly Speaker in Albany,
NY.    
  
Mildred earned a Bachelor of Arts degree from the State University of
New York- Albany and a Master’s degree from New York University, Silver
School of Social Work. 

 ###
