---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-30'
modified_time: 2021-06-30 16:18:53-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/30/readout-of-the-white-house-eviction-prevention-summit/
published_time: 2021-06-30 17:00:00-04:00
title: "Readout of the White\_House Eviction Prevention\_Summit"
---
 
Today the White House hosted a first of its kind virtual Eviction
Prevention Summit. The Summit included two parts: a public plenary on
best practices on eviction prevention and a series of breakout sessions
for local public officials, court officials, legal services
organizations, local bar associations, community-based organizations,
landlord associations, tenant advocates, emergency rental assistance
administrators, and local philanthropies representing 46 cities across
the country to develop eviction prevention action plans for their local
areas. Following the CDC’s announcement last week of a final, one-month
extension of the eviction moratorium until July 31st, the
Administration announced [a series of
actions](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/24/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-initiatives-to-promote-housing-stability-by-supporting-vulnerable-tenants-and-preventing-foreclosures/)
to stabilize families and prevent evictions, including steps to
encourage state and local governments to disburse the more than $46
billion in emergency rental assistance made available to assist
households in need.

Domestic Policy Advisor Susan Rice opened the Summit by welcoming
participants, emphasizing the President’s commitment to assisting
renters, and highlighting the whole-of-government approach being
implemented by the Administration. Deputy Secretary of the Treasury
Wally Adeyemo highlighted the importance of emergency rental assistance
to prevent evictions among the most vulnerable.  White House American
Rescue Plan Coordinator Gene Sperling made the case for why eviction
diversion programs are the best immediate intervention to prevent a wave
of new evictions. Matthew Desmond, one of the country’s leading
researchers on evictions, presented an overview of the latest research,
including on the risk of evictions following the end of the CDC
moratorium and how diversionary programs could mitigate these risks.

The President of the American Bar Association, Patricia Lee Refo, then
moderated a panel to provide examples of how eviction diversion programs
can be paired with emergency rental assistance to keep people housed.
Panelists included Rasheedah Phillips, Managing Attorney of Housing
Policy, Community Legal Services of Philadelphia, the head of the
largest legal services provider in Philadelphia; Rene Solis, Chief
Program Officer at BakerRipley, the Emergency Rental Assistance provider
in Houston-Harris County; Hon. Bridget Mary McCormack, Chief Justice,
Michigan Supreme Court; and Gilbert Winn, CEO of WinnCompanies, a
national landlord with a robust housing stability strategy.  
  
Following the panel, Associate Attorney General Vanita Gupta highlighted
recent recommendations and best practices [from a
letter](https://www.justice.gov/asg/page/file/1405886/download) she sent
to chief justices of state supreme courts and state court
administrators, and Secretary Marcia Fudge concluded the first session
of the Summit by highlighting the Department of Housing and Urban
Development’s work to prevent evictions and underscoring the importance
of keeping people housed.  
  
Speakers at the second session included Erika Poethig, Special Assistant
to the President for Housing and Urban Policy, White House Domestic
Policy Council; Clarence Wardell, Chief Data and Equitable Delivery
Officer, White House American Rescue Plan Implementation; Diane Yentel,
President and CEO, National Low Income Housing Coalition; Emily Benfer,
Visiting Professor of Law, Wake Forest University School of Law; and
Danielle Hirsch, Principal Court Management Consultant, National Center
for State Courts. Following their remarks, attendees split into groups
with others from their city to develop eviction prevention action plans
before sharing their commitments with the larger group and concluding
the Summit.

\###
