---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-08'
modified_time: 2021-06-08 15:05:55-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/08/fact-sheet-u-s-mexico-bilateral-cooperation-2/
published_time: 2021-06-08 15:05:54-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: U.S. -Mexico Bilateral\_Cooperation"
---
 
Following a bilateral meeting with Mexican President Andrés Manuel López
Obrador on June 8, 2021 and in light of the United States and Mexico’s
deep cultural, social, and economic ties and the two governments’ shared
commitment to a prosperous and secure North America, Vice President
Harris announces the following:  
  
**High-Level Economic Dialogue:** The United States and Mexico agreed to
hold a High-Level Economic Dialogue in September, fulfilling President
Biden’s and President López Obrador’s commitment on March 1 to revive
this key forum that will expand bilateral economic cooperation and
collaboration. The proposed agenda will cover key themes, such as trade
facilitation, telecommunications and interconnectivity, and supply chain
resiliency.  
  
**Cabinet-Level Security Dialogue**: The United States and Mexico agreed
to hold a cabinet-level security dialogue to discuss a shared vision for
security. Transnational criminal organizations do not recognize
borders.  They pose a threat to all peoples and require a joint
response. The United States and Mexico are committed to working together
to reduce homicides and drug-related deaths on both sides of the border
and counter the illicit forces that drive them.  
  
**Strengthen Labor Cooperation**: The United States will invest an
additional $130 million in technical assistance and cooperation over the
next three years to work with Mexico as it implements labor legislation
and to fund programs that will support workers, improve working
conditions, and address child and forced labor. President Lopez Obrador
signed historic labor reform legislation into law on May 1, 2019.  
  
**Work Together To Address Root Causes of Migration in Central
America**: The governments of the United States and Mexico signed a
memorandum of understanding to establish a strategic partnership to
address the lack of economic opportunities in northern Central America.
The two governments will work together to foster agricultural
development and youth empowerment programs in El Salvador, Honduras and
Guatemala and will co-create and co-manage a partnership program
enabling them to better deliver, measure, and communicate about
assistance to the region.  
  
**Operations Group on Human Smuggling and Human Trafficking**: U.S. and
Mexican law enforcement agencies will partner to exchange information
and take appropriate actions to address the shared priority of disabling
human trafficking and human smuggling organizations.  These groups prey
on vulnerable individuals, falsely promising them safe passage or a good
job in the United States in exchange for their savings.  In fact, these
organizations often use lies and threats to lure migrants into being
trafficked or leave them stranded in Mexico or at the border, far from
help and without basic supplies. Law enforcement agencies will work
jointly to identify targets, develop investigations, and take
enforcement actions such as freezing bank accounts associated with
criminal groups.   
  
**Attract Investment to Southern Mexico**: The U.S. government has
developed a package of grants, loans, and other commitments that will
help generate broad-based growth in southern Mexico, create jobs and
reduce economic inequality in the region.  The U.S. government will aim
to create $250 million in new investment and sales in southern Mexico by
strengthening rural value chains such as cacao, coffee, and eco-tourism.
The U.S. International Development Finance Cooperation will issue a loan
to support affordable housing and mortgages; 40 to 50 percent of new
homes will be built in southern Mexico. The U.S. Trade and Development
Agency (USTDA) and the Department of Commerce will organize trade and
business development missions that will support infrastructure
development in southern Mexico. USTDA plans to provide a grant to
Mexico’s aviation regulator for technical assistance to improve
efficiencies.  
  
**Partnership to Resolve Disappearances Cases in Mexico:** The United
States and Mexico will work to expand forensic capacity and partnerships
to help solve the more than 82,000 cases of missing persons and
disappearances in Mexico, potentially bringing closure to tens of
thousands of families and ending impunity for offenders. The Department
of State, U.S. Agency for International Development, and the Department
of Justice will continue to train lab technicians and police to enhance
their skills in forensic analysis of decomposed bodies and support
Mexico’s National Search Commission to collect, maintain, and analyze
missing persons registries across the country. As a next step, the
Federal Bureau of Investigation will train genetics experts on a new
system to track forensic information and improve capacity.

\###
