---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-23'
modified_time: 2021-06-22 20:17:02-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/23/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-comprehensive-strategy-to-prevent-and-respond-to-gun-crime-and-ensure-public-safety/
published_time: 2021-06-23 05:00:00-04:00
title: "Fact Sheet: Biden- \u2060 Harris Administration Announces Comprehensive Strategy\
  \ to Prevent and Respond to Gun Crime and Ensure Public Safety"
---
 
President Biden believes that the surge in gun violence that has
affected communities across the country over the last year and a half is
unacceptable, and his Administration is moving decisively to act with a
whole-of-government approach as we enter the summer months when cities
typically experience a spike in violence.  
  
Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is announcing a comprehensive
strategy to combat gun violence and other violent crime. This strategy
implements preventative measures that are proven to reduce violent
crime, and attacks the root causes – including by addressing the flow of
firearms used to commit crimes.  
  
This strategy will use the Rescue Plan’s historic funding levels and
clear guidance to help state, local, territorial, and tribal governments
get the money they need to put more police officers on the beat – with
the resources, training, and accountability they need to engage in
effective community policing – in addition to supporting proven
Community Violence Intervention programs, summer employment
opportunities, and other investments that we know will reduce crime and
make our neighborhoods safer.  
  
The strategy will also address the direct link between gun violence and
the rise in violent crime by taking immediate steps to keep guns out of
the wrong hands, including by strengthening ATF’s efforts to stem the
flow of firearms used in crimes, and by launching multijurisdictional
firearms trafficking strike forces to stop illegal gun trafficking
across state lines.  
  
Combined, the Administration’s comprehensive strategy will:

-   **Stem the flow of firearms used to commit violence, including by
    holding rogue firearms dealers accountable for violating federal
    laws;**
-   **Support local law enforcement with federal tools and resources to
    help address summer violent crime;**
-   **Invest in evidence-based community violence interventions;**
-   **Expanding summer programming, employment opportunities, and other
    services and supports for teenagers and young adults; and**
-   **Help formerly incarcerated individuals successfully reenter their
    communities.**

Now is the time to act. With the secondary consequences of the pandemic
and the proliferation of illegal guns over the same period, we have seen
increased violence over the past year and a half. [Homicides rose 30%,
and gun assaults rose 8% in large cities in
2020.](https://cdn.ymaws.com/counciloncj.org/resource/resmgr/covid_commission/Year_End_Crime_Update_Design.pdf) The
number of [homicides in the first quarter of
2021](https://covid19.counciloncj.org/2021/05/21/impact-report-covid-19-and-crime-4/) was
24% higher than the number of homicides in the first quarter of 2020,
and 49% higher than in the first quarter of 2019. Black and brown
Americans are [disproportionately
harmed](https://efsgv.org/wp-content/uploads/2019CDCdata.pdf) by the
direct and indirect consequences of gun violence.  
  
As the President has repeatedly said, we are experiencing an epidemic of
gun violence in this country. This violence robs us of loved ones and
causes life-altering physical injuries. It causes lasting trauma, with
cascading consequences for children, families, and communities. It
steals our freedom, our sense of belonging and security, and has ripple
effects for our economy.  
  
The President continues to call on Congress to take action to end this
gun violence epidemic. But he knows we cannot afford to wait a single
day while lives are being taken, which is why he has already announced a
set of initial actions to prevent gun violence – including toughening
regulations on ghost guns and moving historically quickly to nominate a
permanent ATF Director – in addition to the steps announced today as
part of this strategy.  
  
**Stem the Flow of Firearms Used to Commit Violence**  
  
The Biden Administration is taking action to help stem the flow of guns
into the hands of those responsible for violence by:  
  
**Establishing zero tolerance for rogue gun dealers that willfully
violate the law.** Gun dealers across the country are regulated by
federal law that is enforced by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms
and Explosives (ATF). Dealers that fail to comply with their obligations
under the law create risks for all of us. Today, the Justice Department
is announcing a new policy to underscore zero tolerance for willful
violations of the law by federally licensed firearms dealers that put
public safety at risk. Absent extraordinary circumstances that would
need to be justified to the Director, ATF will seek to revoke the
licenses of dealers the first time that they violate federal law by
willfully 1) transferring a firearm to a prohibited person, 2) failing
to run a required background check, 3) falsifying records, such as a
firearms transaction form, 4) failing to respond to an ATF tracing
request, or 5) refusing to permit ATF to conduct an inspection in
violation of the law.

In addition, ATF will notify every firearms dealer whose license is
revoked about how to lawfully transfer any remaining inventory, as well
as the potential criminal consequences of continuing to engage in the
business of buying and selling guns without a license. The prior
Administration stopped this important notification practice that helps
deter future unlawful activity.  
  
**Maximizing the efficacy of ATF resources to crack down on rogue gun
dealers violating our laws.** The Administration continues to call on
Congress to increase funding for ATF to hire additional personnel
necessary to increase the number of inspections and enforcement actions
taken against dealers in violation of federal law. The President’s FY 22
budget request would allow ATF to add inspectors in every field division
around the country. In the meantime, ATF is announcing the following
actions to increase the efficacy of its existing, limited resources:

-   **Better coordination with state and local officials with
    on-the-ground knowledge of which dealers are supplying firearms that
    show up at crime scenes.** ATF has designated a specific point of
    contact in every field division for mayors, police chiefs, or other
    local leaders to report concerns about particular dealers’
    compliance with the law. This information may provide valuable leads
    for ATF investigations and serve as a source of information that
    helps focus inspection resources on the places that need them
    most.  
     
-   **Formalizing the use of data-driven prioritization of inspection
    resources.** Starting today, ATF will make clear to investigators in
    every field division—through trainings and guidance—that when
    identifying inspection priorities they must consider a number of
    factors related to public safety, including the extent to which
    firearms sold by the dealer are later used in criminal activity; the
    time between the sale of a firearm and its use in a crime; the
    number of recoveries associated with shootings, domestic violence,
    and other violent offenses; and additional information developed by
    local law enforcement partners. This data-driven prioritization will
    allow ATF to target its limited inspection resources to ensure
    compliance with federal law.
-   **Equipping states that have their own gun dealer licensing systems
    with data from ATF inspections.** Sixteen states license or regulate
    firearms dealers themselves, and their inspection systems can be
    force multipliers in protecting public safety. Starting next month,
    ATF will begin sharing inspection data with these states so that
    officials there can determine whether to take their own steps to
    shut down dealers that fail to live up to their obligations under
    state law.

**Launching multijurisdictional firearms trafficking strike
forces. **The Biden-Harris Administration recognizes that the federal
government has a critical role to play in coordinating
multijurisdictional enforcement efforts to stop the illegal flow of
firearms across state lines. Yesterday, the Justice Department announced
that it is launching five new law enforcement strike forces focused on
addressing significant firearms trafficking corridors that have diverted
guns to New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, the Bay Area, and Washington,
D.C. These strike forces, which will launch within the next 30 days,
will be led by designated United States Attorneys who will coordinate
not only with ATF but also with state and local law enforcement partners
in places where firearms originate and where they are used to commit
crimes. The strike forces will share information and otherwise
coordinate their efforts across districts where firearms trafficking
schemes cross state or jurisdictional boundaries. As part of this
effort, ATF is issuing a best practices guide for law enforcement
agencies that will include specific questions that officers should ask
unlawful firearm possessors to help identify sources of trafficked crime
guns.  
  
**Providing the public with additional data to promote transparency and
accountability in enforcement of federally licensed firearms dealer
policies. **ATF will publicly post more detailed information about
inspection findings and enforcement actions. For the first time, this
publicly posted data will be disaggregated to show the number of
inspections conducted in each field division, the number of inspections
that identified violations, and actions taken by ATF to implement the
willful-violation policy discussed above (including any application of
the extraordinary circumstances exception). This data will promote
transparency and accountability for the enforcement of our existing gun
laws.  
**Stemming the proliferation of “ghost guns” and modified
firearms.** During the April address in the Rose Garden by the President
and Attorney General, the Justice Department announced that it was
beginning the rulemaking process to help stop the proliferation of
dangerous firearms that are currently circumventing our gun laws. The
Justice Department has since issued two proposed rules to follow through
on this commitment. First, the Justice Department issued a proposed rule
to help address the proliferation of “ghost guns,” which are homemade
firearms that are increasingly ending up at crime scenes and often
cannot be traced by law enforcement due to the lack of a serial number.
Second, the Justice Department issued a proposed rule to make clear when
a device marketed as a stabilizing brace effectively turns a pistol into
a short-barreled rifle subject to the requirements of the National
Firearms Act. Modifying a pistol with an arm brace can make a firearm
more stable and accurate while still being concealable.

**Convening state legislators and Attorneys General regarding policy
strategies to hold gun dealers and manufacturers accountable for their
contributions to the flow of crime guns.** The President continues to
call on Congress to repeal the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act
(PLCAA), which gives gun dealers and manufacturers special immunity from
certain liability for their products. In the meantime, the White House
will convene state legislators and Attorneys General to discuss
strategies for enacting and employing state liability laws that can be
used to hold dealers and manufacturers accountable for improper conduct
not covered by PLCAA.

These actions are part of the Biden-Harris Administration’s
comprehensive strategy to reduce gun violence through executive action
and legislation. For example, earlier this month the Justice Department
issued model state “red flag,” or “extreme risk protection order,”
legislation. Extreme risk protection order laws allow family members or
law enforcement to petition for a court order temporarily barring people
in crisis from accessing firearms if they present a danger to themselves
or others. The President urges Congress to pass an appropriate national
“red flag” law, as well as legislation incentivizing states to pass
their own versions of these laws.  
  
The President again strongly urges the Senate to ban assault weapons and
high-capacity magazines, and pass the three House-passed, bipartisan
pieces of legislation which would strengthen our gun background check
system.  
  
**Provide law enforcement the tools and resources needed to tackle gun
violence**  
  
As part of the Justice Department’s [**Comprehensive Strategy for
Reducing Violent
Crime**](https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/attorney-general-merrick-b-garland-announces-new-effort-reduce-violent-crime),
the Justice Department is committed to supporting law enforcement in
local communities in addressing gun violence. In preparation for a
possible increase in violence typically seen over the summer months,
where needed and appropriate, the Justice Department is providing the
following law enforcement support:

-   The FBI is making available cutting-edge analytical resources to
    support state and local law enforcement efforts to identify the most
    violent offenders and most dangerous criminal organizations in
    communities. The FBI is also deploying agents to assist with
    enforcement operations targeting these entities.   
     
-   Where feasible, the ATF is embedding with local homicide units and
    expanding the availability of its National Integrated Ballistic
    Information Network (NIBIN) Correlation Center, which matches
    ballistics from crime scenes to other ballistic evidence
    nationwide.  
     
-   The DEA is focusing its efforts, in coordination with state, local
    and Tribal law enforcement, to disrupt the activities of the most
    violent drug trafficking gangs and egregious drug-trafficking
    organizations operating in the highest-crime areas.  
     
-   The United States Marshals Service, in coordination with state and
    local authorities, is conducting fugitive sweeps throughout the
    country focused on individuals subject to state or local warrants
    for homicide, aggravated assault with a firearm, aggravated robbery,
    robbery with a firearm, rape or aggravated sexual assault.

**Guidance on Using ARP Funds to Reduce Violence.** Today, the [Treasury
Department](https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/136/SLFRPFAQ.pdf#page=19) is
highlighting that communities experiencing a surge in gun violence as a
result of the pandemic may use the American Rescue Plan’s $350 billion
in state and local funding for purposes such as:

-   Hiring law enforcement officials – even above pre-pandemic levels –
    or paying overtime where the funds are directly focused on advancing
    community policing strategies in those communities experiencing an
    increase in gun violence associated with the pandemic.
-   Additional enforcement efforts to reduce gun violence exacerbated by
    the pandemic, including prosecuting gun traffickers, rogue dealers,
    and other parties contributing to the supply of crime guns, as well
    as collaborative federal/state/local efforts to identify and address
    gun trafficking channels.
-   Investing in technology and equipment to allow law enforcement to
    more efficiently and effectively respond to the rise in gun violence
    resulting from the pandemic.

In addition, the Treasury Department is clarifying that any community
may use ARP state and local aid for the above strategies and any other
public safety programs, up to the level of revenue loss the jurisdiction
experienced during the pandemic. And any community may use ARP funds to
rehire police officers and other public servants to restore law
enforcement and courts to their pre-pandemic levels.

**Byrne JAG Funds. **Applications for the Justice Department’s FY21 $276
million Byrne Justice Assistance Grant program are open now. Byrne JAG
provides critical support to State and territory, local, and Tribal
governments across a range of program areas, including crime prevention
and education, law enforcement, prosecution, indigent defense, courts,
corrections and community corrections, drug treatment and enforcement,
technology improvement, crime victim and witness initiatives, and
planning and evaluation. Community violence intervention programs are
eligible uses of the funding.  
  
In soliciting grant applications for this program, the Department has
emphasized the importance of addressing the backlog of cases created
when courts at every level were forced to cancel or scale back
proceedings due to COVID-19. It has made clear that funds could be used,
for example, to purchase technology that would facilitate virtual
outreach and appearances, to enhance case management systems, to build
tools to support diversion and alternatives to incarceration as part of
the review of backlogged cases, or to retrofit courthouses to mitigate
risks to staff.   
  
The President is also seeking a $300 million increase for the Community
Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Hiring program in his recent budget
request. These funds will advance community policing and give police the
resources they need to keep their communities safe.  
  
**Invest in evidence-based community violence interventions**  
  
Community violence intervention (CVI) programs have been shown to reduce
violence by [as much as
60%](https://lawcenter.giffords.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/01/Healing-Communities-in-Crisis.pdf).
These programs are effective because they leverage trusted messengers
who work directly with individuals most likely to commit gun violence,
intervene in conflicts, and connect people to social, health and
wellness, and economic services to reduce the likelihood of violence as
an answer to conflict.  
  
Last month, the Treasury Department announced that the American Rescue
Plan’s $350 billion in state and local funding can be used to invest in
evidence-based community violence interventions. The Department of
Education also released guidance clarifying that ARP’s $122 billion in
K-12 funds can be used for CVI strategies. To date, the Administration
has transferred more than $190 billion of state and local recovery funds
and $81 billion in education funds, and additional support is on the
way.  
  
Today, the President is announcing that the Administration will convene
and support a CVI Collaborative of 15 jurisdictions that are committing
to use a portion of their ARP funding or other public funding to
increase investment in their CVI infrastructure, including to anticipate
and respond to the potential rise in violence this summer. These
jurisdictions include:

-   Atlanta, GA
-   Austin, TX
-   Baltimore, MD
-   Baton Rouge, LA
-   Chicago, IL
-   Detroit, MI
-   King County, WA
-   Los Angeles, CA
-   Memphis, TN
-   Minneapolis & St. Paul, MN
-   Newark, NJ
-   Philadelphia, PA
-   Rapid City, SD
-   St. Louis, MO
-   Washington, DC

Over the next 18 months, the Administration will convene meetings with
officials from these communities, facilitate peer-to-peer learning, and
provide technical assistance. This effort will support both proven and
new strategies that reduce gun violence and strengthen community-based
infrastructure to enhance public safety for children, families, and
communities and to advance equity. A group of philanthropies that have
been leaders on this issue will support this collaborative learning
network by deploying CVI experts to provide training and technical
assistance, identify best practices, integrate proven and innovative
public-health approaches, and help local community-based organizations
scale CVI efforts this summer and beyond. This group includes:

-   Arnold Ventures
-   The California Endowment
-   Annie E. Casey Foundation
-   Emerson Collective
-   Ford Foundation
-   Heising-Simons Foundation
-   Joyce Foundation
-   W.K. Kellogg Foundation
-   Kresge Foundation
-   The John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation
-   Microsoft Corporation
-   Open Society Foundations
-   Charles and Lynn Schusterman Family Philanthropies

Domestic Policy Advisor Susan Rice and Director of Intergovernmental
Affairs Julie Chavez Rodriguez will convene the first meeting of the CVI
Collaborative soon. The President is calling on mayors across the
country to follow the lead of these local officials by using their ARP
funding or other public funds to launch and strengthen CVI programs in
their communities.  
  
Additionally, the Biden-Harris Administration will convene the first CVI
Webinar Series event on June 23. The webinar series will bring together
subject matter experts to discuss immediate steps communities and local
organizations can take to reduce violence.   
  
The Administration is continuing to seek a historic $5.2 billion
investment in new grant funding for CVI programs through the American
Jobs Plan and its FY22 discretionary budget request. The Administration
is also executing on its announced changes to 26 programs across five
agencies to make federal dollars and technical assistance available to
CVI practitioners in the immediate term. For example, this month the
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) will publish
guidance encouraging jurisdictions to use part of their Community
Development Block Grant funds to support CVI efforts needed to combat
violence as a result of the coronavirus pandemic. In July and August,
the Department of Education will publish guidance explaining that school
districts can draw upon the $1.22 billion in Student Support and
Academic Enrichment grants and $1.26 billion in 21st Century Community
Learning Centers grants to support CVI programs that serve students.
This funding will supplement American Rescue Plan funds, providing CVI
programs with multiple potential funding streams to expand their work.  
  
**Expand summer programming, employment opportunities, and other
services and supports, especially for teenagers and young adults**  
  
**American Rescue Plan Funds.** The Administration released guidance
from the [Department of the
Treasury](https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/136/SLFRPFAQ.pdf#page=19) today
and from the [Department of
Education](https://oese.ed.gov/files/2021/06/21-0130-ARP-Public-Safety-ED-FAQ-06-16-2021.pdf) last
week explaining how two buckets of American Rescue Plan funding—$350
billion in state and local funding and the $122 billion in school
funding—can be used for a variety of public safety strategies. Within
the parameters explained in those guidance documents, State and
territory, local, and Tribal governments can:

-   Hire support personnel such as nurses, counselors, and social
    workers;
-   Pay court personnel and operations costs to return to pre-pandemic
    operation levels;
-   Provide and expand employment services, including summer jobs for
    young people and programs that provide training and work experience
    for formerly incarcerated persons and other individuals who live in
    communities most impacted by high levels of violence;
-   Provide and expand summer education and enrichment programs,
    including summer camp;
-   Scale up wraparound services—such as housing, medical and mental
    health care, trauma-informed care, substance use disorder treatment,
    food assistance, and job placement services—for victims of crime,
    young people, formerly incarcerated persons, and individuals and
    households facing economic insecurity due to the pandemic; and
-   Establish or expand full-service community schools.

The President urges jurisdictions to use these resources now for
strategies to prevent violence.  
  
**Youth Workforce Development Funds.** Young people are
disproportionately likely to be involved in gun violence, either as
perpetrators or victims. We also know that youth employment programs,
including summer jobs programs, can reduce their involvement in violence
by as much
as [35%](https://www.brookings.edu/wp-content/uploads/2017/12/metro_2018jan_how-can-summer-jobs-reduce-crime-among-youth-final.pdf) or [45%](https://www.ojp.gov/pdffiles1/ojjdp/grants/251101.pdf).
The Biden Administration is committed to funding workforce development
programs to keep young people safe and give them a path to success.  
  
On June 10, the Department of Labor awarded $89 million through its
YouthBuild program to provide pre-apprenticeship opportunities for young
people ages 16-24. 68 grantee organizations will serve more than 5,000
youth in dozens of cities. The young people will split their time
between workplace training and the classroom, where they earn their high
school diploma or equivalency degree and prepare for postsecondary
opportunities. The grants support training and employment in in-demand
industries, including construction, healthcare, information technology,
manufacturing, logistics, and hospitality. YouthBuild includes a
significant wrap-around support system, such as mentoring,
trauma-informed care, follow-up education, employment, and personal
counseling services.  
  
The Department of Labor on June 10 also awarded $20 million through its
Workforce Pathways for Youth program to expand workforce development
activities that serve youth ages 14-21 during “out of school” time
(non-school hours). Through these grants, four national grantee
organizations will serve approximately 7,000 participants in multiple
cities across the country. The organizations will provide career
exploration services; work readiness training; career counseling; work
experience (internships, summer and year-round employment,
pre-apprenticeships, and registered apprenticeships); mentoring; and
assistance in placing youth in employment, education, or training.  
  
**Help formerly incarcerated individuals successfully reenter their
communities**  
  
Formerly incarcerated individuals face an uphill climb in landing a job.
Many employers are reluctant to hire them out of stigma, fear, or
concern that they lack the skills needed for the job. But employment is
a key to formerly incarcerated individuals’ successful reentry into
their communities. Individuals who secure employment after release have
much lower recidivism rates than those who do not. Good, stable jobs
promote public safety. That is why the Administration is taking concrete
steps to facilitate employment and associated services, such as housing
assistance, for people who are formerly incarcerated.  
  
**Investments to help formerly incarcerated individuals find quality
jobs. **On June 21, the [Department of Labor awarded $85.5
million](https://www.dol.gov/newsroom/releases/eta/eta20210621) to help
formerly incarcerated adults and young people in 28 communities
transition out of the criminal justice system and connect with quality
jobs. This includes $60 million for Pathway Home projects that will
serve approximately 6,000 adults. By enabling services to begin while
participants are still incarcerated and continue services post-release,
the Pathway Home initiative eliminates the gap between release from
incarceration and enrollment into a reentry program. Participants are
taught job readiness and job search strategies and receive
apprenticeships and occupational training. The Department also awarded
$25.5 million in Young Adult Reentry Partnership grants to organizations
that will help provide education and training services to young adults
between 18-24 who were previously involved with the justice system or
who left high school before graduation. The program will serve
approximately 3,000 young people, offering accelerated and work-based
learning such as registered apprenticeships in high-demand occupations
with living wages. Grantees reduce barriers to labor market entry by
providing career exploration activities, case management services, legal
and other supportive services, and both job preparation and
placement. Priority was given to organizations serving communities with
high rates of poverty and crime.  
  
**Expanding Federal Hiring of Formerly Incarcerated Persons:** The
Office of Personnel Management (OPM) will evaluate the existence of any
barriers faced by formerly incarcerated persons in accessing federal
employment and consider whether the federal government should take
further action as appropriate, including creating a new “Schedule A”
excepted service hiring authority for formerly incarcerated persons.
This Schedule A hiring authority would allow federal agencies to hire
qualified individuals for any job opening through the non-competitive,
excepted service hiring process. Schedule A appointments are one-year
temporary appointments with good benefits that can be extended for an
additional year. Schedule A positions equip people with the skills and
experience to become more competitive in the job market. Schedule A
hiring authority has previously been created for veterans, people with
disabilities, individuals on work release from incarceration, and people
hired in direct response to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic.  
  
**Implementing “ban the box” policy.** OPM will also publish proposed
regulations to implement the Fair Chance to Compete for Jobs Act of
2019’s “ban the box” policy. The Fair Chance Act prohibits federal
employers and federal contractors in all three branches of government
from inquiring into arrest and conviction history until they have made a
conditional job offer.  
  
**Hiring Second Chance Act Fellow. **The Department of Justice plans to
post an application next month for a formerly incarcerated individual to
work at DOJ as a Second Chance Act visiting fellow. This is a unique
opportunity to draw on the expertise of a formerly incarcerated person
as a policy advocate, legal or social services provider, or academic
focusing on the successful reintegration of people returning home to
their communities after incarceration. The fellow will develop
innovative strategies that build upon and improve DOJ’s investments in
reentry and reintegration.   
  
**Leveraging tax credits to incentivize hiring of formerly incarcerated
individuals. **The Department of Labor and Department of the Treasury
will help employers leverage the Work Opportunity Tax Credit (WOTC),
which includes incentivizes to hire formerly incarcerated individuals.
Under WOTC, employers can receive up to a $2,400 credit against federal
income taxes for hiring a person within one year of their conviction or
release from prison for a felony offense. The Departments of Labor and
Treasury will encourage employers to take up this opportunity to hire
formerly incarcerated individuals. Specifically, within 90 days, the
Departments will issue guidance, provide technical assistance to state
workforce agencies, and release materials on ways employers can leverage
this tax credit and other resources, such as the Federal Bonding Program
and the American Rescue Plan’s Employee Retention Credit (ERC). For
example, a small business that hires someone who was released in the
last twelve months and employs them through the second half of the year
could qualify for a credit of up to $16,400 per worker by claiming both
the WOTC and the ERC. The Department of the Treasury will also revise
online materials to make it easier to claim the tax credit.  
  
**Addressing the housing needs of returning citizens. **Today, HUD
Secretary Marcia L. Fudge is issuing
a [letter](https://www.hud.gov/sites/dfiles/PA/documents/SOHUD_reentry_housing_letter.pdf) outlining
actions that HUD is taking to improve public safety by addressing the
housing needs of returning citizens, including through the recently
awarded 70,000 emergency housing vouchers funded by the American Rescue
Plan. The letter clarifies that returning citizens that are at-risk of
homelessness are among the eligible populations for these emergency
housing vouchers and encourages public housing authorities and their
Continuum of Care partners to ensure that eligible returning citizens
are given consideration for these vouchers. The letter also discusses
additional steps that HUD is taking to improve access to housing for
returning citizens and people with criminal records.

\###
