---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-10'
modified_time: 2021-06-11 04:53:02-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/10/the-new-atlantic-charter/
published_time: 2021-06-10 13:54:29-04:00
title: "The New Atlantic\_Charter"
---
 
Today, the President of the United States and Prime Minister of the
United Kingdom reaffirm their commitment to work together to realise our
vision for a more peaceful and prosperous future.  
  
Our revitalised Atlantic Charter, building on the commitments and
aspirations set out eighty years ago, affirms our ongoing commitment to
sustaining our enduring values and defending them against new and old
challenges. We commit to working closely with all partners who share our
democratic values and to countering the efforts of those who seek to
undermine our alliances and institutions.  
  
**First**, we resolve to defend the principles, values, and institutions
of democracy and open societies, which drive our own national strength
and our alliances. We must ensure that democracies – starting with our
own – can deliver on solving the critical challenges of our time. We
will champion transparency, uphold the rule of law, and support civil
society and independent media. We will also confront injustice and
inequality and defend the inherent dignity and human rights of all
individuals.   
  
**Second**, we intend to strengthen the institutions, laws, and norms
that sustain international co-operation to adapt them to meet the new
challenges of the 21<sup>st</sup> century, and guard against those that
would undermine them. We will work through the rules-based international
order to tackle global challenges together; embrace the promise and
manage the peril of emerging technologies; promote economic advancement
and the dignity of work; and enable open and fair trade between
nations.   
  
**Third**, we remain united behind the principles of sovereignty,
territorial integrity, and the peaceful resolution of disputes. We
oppose interference through disinformation or other malign influences,
including in elections, and reaffirm our commitment to debt
transparency, sustainability and sound governance of debt relief. So too
will we defend key principles such as freedom of navigation and
overflight and other internationally lawful uses of the seas.  
  
**Fourth, **we resolve to harness and protect our innovative edge in
science and technology to support our shared security and deliver jobs
at home; to open new markets; to promote the development and deployment
of new standards and technologies to support democratic values; to
continue to invest in research into the biggest challenges facing the
world; and to foster sustainable global development.  
  
**Fifth,** we affirm our shared responsibility for maintaining our
collective security and international stability and resilience against
the full spectrum of modern threats, including cyber threats. We have
declared our nuclear deterrents to the defence of NATO and as long as
there are nuclear weapons, NATO will remain a nuclear alliance. Our NATO
Allies and partners will always be able to count on us, even as they
continue to strengthen their own national forces. We pledge to promote
the framework of responsible State behaviour in cyberspace, arms
control, disarmament, and proliferation prevention measures to reduce
the risks of international conflict. We remain committed to countering
terrorists who threaten our citizens and interests.

**Sixth,** we commit to continue building an inclusive, fair,
climate-friendly, sustainable, rules-based global economy for the
21<sup>st</sup> century. We will strengthen financial stability and
transparency, fight corruption and illicit finance, and innovate and
compete through high labour and environmental standards.

**Seventh**, the world has reached a critical point where it must act
urgently and ambitiously to tackle the climate crisis, protect
biodiversity, and sustain nature. Our countries will prioritise these
issues in all our international action.  
  
**Eighth**, we recognise the catastrophic impact of health crises, and
the global good in strengthening our collective defences against health
threats. We commit to continuing to collaborate to strengthen health
systems and advance our health protections, and to assist others to do
the same.  
  
**Joseph R. Biden, Jr.**  
**Boris Johnson, M.P.**  
June 10, 2021

\###
