---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-25'
modified_time: 2021-06-25 17:31:55-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/25/fact-sheet-continued-u-s-support-for-a-peaceful-stable-afghanistan/
published_time: 2021-06-25 17:31:54-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Continued U.S. Support for a Peaceful, Stable\_Afghanistan"
---
 
*The United States continues to use its full diplomatic, economic, and
assistance toolkit to support a peaceful and stable Afghanistan.*

Today, President Biden welcomed Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani and
Chairman of the High Council for National Reconciliation Dr. Abdullah
Abdullah to the White House to discuss enduring United States support,
including through security assistance to the Afghan National Defense and
Security Forces, development and humanitarian assistance to support the
Afghan people, and diplomatic engagement in support of peace.  
  
Our strong support and partnership is designed to prevent Afghanistan
from ever again being used as a safe haven for terrorism; maintain
Afghan stability and build self-reliance; promote economic growth;
preserve social gains in education, health and women’s empowerment and
the rule of law; protect the rights of women, girls, and minorities;
bolster Afghan civil society; and respond to humanitarian needs. 
**Since 2002, the United States has provided nearly $88 billion in
security assistance, $36 billion in civilian assistance, including $787
million specifically intended to support Afghan women and girls, and
nearly $3.9 billion in humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan.**  
  
The United States will continue to provide assistance through its
enduring partnership with Afghanistan to promote a peaceful and stable
future that the Afghan people want and deserve.  This includes:  
  
**Providing COVID-19 vaccines to the Afghan people.**  As part of our
work to end the COVID-19 pandemic worldwide, and in response to a recent
surge in COVID cases in Afghanistan, the United States will donate three
million doses of Johnson and Johnson vaccine to the people of
Afghanistan through COVAX. COVAX is working to ship those doses to
Afghanistan.  
  
**Providingcritical emergency medical assistance to respond to the
COVID-19 crisis**. USAID is also supporting Afghan efforts to respond to
the critical shortfalls in oxygen and medical ventilation support by
providing emergency and structural assistance. USAID has ordered over
300 oxygen cylinders and several months’ worth of ventilator consumables
to be shipped to Afghanistan as quickly as possible.  Additionally,
USAID plans to install oxygen plants in four hospitals that will serve
smaller facilities in the surrounding areas. USAID previously announced
that they are investing $3.7 million to train clinicians to manage
severe cases in the five hardest hit urban cities and provide critical
expertise for vaccine deployment.   
  
**Providing needed assistance to help with the pandemic’s impacts.**
This is in addition to in the past year, the State Department and the
United States Agency for International Development (USAID) have provided
$40 million to directly help Afghanistan respond to the COVID-19
outbreak, expedited $90 million in other COVID-related development
assistance through the World Bank, and reoriented other U.S. development
assistance to support Afghan efforts to deal with the pandemic’s
consequences.  And, USAID recently committed $38 million in emergency
COVID-19 supplemental funding to the UN World Food Program (WFP) to
address the food and nutrition needs of approximately 1.2 million
COVID-impacted vulnerable people in Afghanistan.  WFP will reach over a
million people most affected by the economic impacts of COVID-19 with
in-kind food assistance to help them meet their food needs for four
months. Additionally, with this funding, WFP will reach more than
164,000 children and nearly 28,000 pregnant and lactating women with
essential moderate acute malnutrition treatment.  
  
**Contributing lifesaving humanitarian assistance to Afghans in need**.
The U.S. recently announced more than $266 million in new humanitarian
assistance to address the pressing needs of an estimated 18 million
people in Afghanistan, including more than 4.8 million internally
displaced Afghans.  This funding will allow our partners to provide
lifesaving protection, shelter, livelihood opportunities, essential
health care, emergency food aid, water, sanitation, and hygiene services
to respond to the needs generated by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. 
Furthermore, this assistance will help to address protection needs for
the most vulnerable Afghans.  This includes women and girls facing
particular risks, including gender-based violence, as a result of
decades of conflict and the pandemic.  
  
**Continuing security assistance. ** The Department of Defense’s
Afghanistan Security Forces Fund (ASFF) will provide financial support
to the Afghan National Army, Afghan National Police, Afghan Air Force
and the Afghan Special Security Forces, including the Special Mission
Wing.  Congress appropriated over $3 billion to ASFF in 2021 and the
President has requested over $3.3 billion for 2022.   
  
**Sustaining development assistance to support a secure, stable,
unified, democratic, and self-reliant Afghanistan that is at peace with
itself and its neighbors.**  As part of our commitment to invest in and
support the Afghan people, the United States has recently announced an
additional $300 million in civilian assistance for Afghanistan in 2021
through both the Department of State and USAID.  The President has also
requested an additional $364 million in development assistance for the
State Department and USAID for 2022.  
  
This assistance demonstrates our enduring support for the Afghan
people.  The funding will be targeted at sustaining the gains of the
past 20 years by improving access to essential services for Afghan
citizens, promoting economic growth, fighting corruption and the
narcotics trade, improving health and education service delivery,
supporting women’s empowerment, enhancing conflict resolution
mechanisms, supporting the Afghan-led peace process and bolstering
Afghan civil society.  
  
**Mobilizing diplomatic support for peace and stability.** The United
States continues to press for a just and durable peace in Afghanistan.
The United States recognizes that the best way to protect our interests
and the interests of the Afghan people is through an Afghan-owned and
Afghan-led negotiated settlement. Following intensive efforts by the
State Department and a number of our key allies and partners, formal
Afghanistan Peace Negotiations started last year for the first time
since 2001. We continue to urge all Afghan parties to engage urgently
and meaningfully in peace talks aimed at achieving a just and durable
settlement that includes protections for the rights of all Afghans,
including women and minorities.  The appointment of Mr. Jean Arnault as
the United Nations Secretary General’s personal representative on
Afghanistan and regional issues reflects the critical role of the United
Nations in bringing together Afghan sides and regional stakeholders to
end Afghanistan’s more than 40-year war.  
  
**Standing with Partners in Support of the Afghan people.**  Building on
the broad international support for the Afghan people, the United States
will encourage our partners to continue their security and development
assistance, including through the Afghan National Army Trust Fund
(ANATF), Law and Order Trust Fund for Afghanistan (LOTFA), and the
Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF).  The United States will
also work closely with other major donors to ensure continued
development and humanitarian assistance to help the Afghan people.

\###
