---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-01'
modified_time: 2021-05-31 22:05:00-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/01/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-actions-to-build-black-wealth-and-narrow-the-racial-wealth-gap/
published_time: 2021-06-01 05:00:00-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces New Actions to Build\
  \ Black Wealth and Narrow the Racial Wealth\_Gap"
---
 
One hundred years ago, the thriving Black community of Greenwood in
Tulsa, Oklahoma, known as “Black Wall Street,” was ruthlessly attacked
by a violent white supremacist mob. An estimated 300 Black Americans
were killed and another 10,000 were left destitute and homeless.

The destruction wrought on the Greenwood neighborhood and its families
was followed by laws and policies that made recovery nearly impossible.
The streets were redlined, locking Black Tulsans out of homeownership
and access to credit. Federal highways built through the heart of
Greenwood cut off families and businesses from economic opportunity. And
chronic disinvestment by the federal government in Black entrepreneurs
and small businesses denied Black Wall Street a fair shot at rebuilding.
These are the stories of Greenwood, but they have echoes in countless
Black communities across the country.  
  
Because disparities in wealth compound like an interest rate, the
disinvestment in Black families in Tulsa and across the country
throughout our history is still felt sharply today. The median Black
American family has thirteen cents for every one dollar in wealth held
by White families.  
  
Today, on the centennial of the Tulsa Race Massacre, the Biden-Harris
Administration is announcing new steps to help narrow the racial wealth
gap and reinvest in communities that have been left behind by failed
policies. Specifically, the Administration is expanding access to two
key wealth-creators – homeownership and small business ownership – in
communities of color and disadvantaged communities.

The Administration will:

-   Take action to address racial discrimination in the housing market,
    including by launching a first-of-its-kind interagency effort to
    address inequity in home appraisals, and conducting rulemaking to
    aggressively combat housing discrimination.  
     
-   Use the federal government’s purchasing power to grow federal
    contracting with small disadvantaged businesses by 50 percent,
    translating to an additional $100 billion over five years, and
    helping more Americans realize their entrepreneurial dreams.  
     

The Administration is also releasing new information regarding President
Biden’s American Jobs Plan proposals to create jobs and build wealth in
communities of color:

-   A new $10 billion Community Revitalization Fund to support
    community-led civic infrastructure projects that create innovative
    shared amenities, spark new local economic activity, provide
    services, build community wealth, and strengthen social cohesion.  
     
-   $15 billion for new grants and technical assistance to support the
    planning, removal, or retrofitting of existing transportation
    infrastructure that creates a barrier to community connectivity,
    including barriers to mobility, access, or economic development.  
     
-   A new Neighborhood Homes Tax Credit to attract private investment in
    the development and rehabilitation of affordable homes for low- and
    moderate-income homebuyers and homeowners.  
     
-   $5 billion for the Unlocking Possibilities Program, an innovative
    new grant program that awards flexible and attractive funding to
    jurisdictions that take steps to reduce needless barriers to
    producing affordable housing and expand housing choices for people
    with low or moderate incomes.  
     
-   $31 billion in small business programs that will increase access to
    capital for small businesses and provide mentoring, networking, and
    other forms of technical assistance to socially and economically
    disadvantaged businesses seeking to access federal contracts and
    participate in federal research and development investments.  
     

**Taking Action to End Racial Discrimination in the Housing
Market. ** The Biden-Harris Administration is announcing additional
steps to end discrimination and bias in the housing market. More than 50
years since the Fair Housing Act’s passage, access to wealth through
homeownership remains persistently unequal. In his first week in office,
President Biden issued a memorandum directing the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to address discrimination in our
housing market. Today, the Administration is announcing that it is
taking critical steps towards realizing the President’s directive.  HUD
has now sent both its proposed rule on countering housing practices with
discriminatory effects and its proposed interim final rule on the legal
duty to Affirmatively Further Fair Housing to HUD’s Congressional
authorizing committee in the Senate and the House of Representatives for
review and will publish them in the Federal Register next week. These
proposed rules will align federal enforcement practice with the
congressional promise in the Fair Housing Act to end discrimination in
housing and will collectively provide the legal framework for HUD to
require private and public entities alike to rethink established
practices that contribute to or perpetuate inequities.  
  
Additionally, the Biden-Harris Administration is taking on
discrimination in home appraisals. A [2018 Brookings
study](https://www.brookings.edu/research/devaluation-of-assets-in-black-neighborhoods/) found
that homes in majority-Black neighborhoods are often valued at tens of
thousands of dollars less than comparable homes in similar—but
majority-White—communities. And the crisis is worsening: a [recent
study](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-09-21/race-gap-in-home-appraisals-has-doubled-since-1980?sref=A1Z2GUXp) found
that the gap between the appraised value of homes in predominantly White
neighborhoods compared to comparable homes in predominantly Black and
Latino neighborhoods nearly doubled between 1980 and 2015. The impact of
these disparities in home appraisals can be sweeping, limiting
homeowners’ ability to properly benefit from refinancing or re-selling
their homes at higher valuations and thereby contributing to the
already-sprawling racial wealth gap.  
  
President Biden is charging Secretary of Housing and Urban Development
Marcia Fudge with leading a first-of-its-kind interagency initiative to
address inequity in home appraisals. The effort will seek to utilize,
quickly, the many levers at the federal government’s disposal, including
potential enforcement under fair housing laws, regulatory action, and
development of standards and guidance in close partnership with industry
and state and local governments, to root out discrimination in the
appraisal and homebuying process. These are the kinds of policies and
practices that keep Black families in Greenwood and across the nation
from building generational wealth through homeownership.  
  
**Using the Government’s Purchasing Power to Drive an Additional $100
Billion to Small Disadvantaged Business Owners. **The federal government
is the largest consumer of goods in the world, buying everything from
software to elevator services to financial and asset management, Federal
procurement is one of our most powerful tools to advance equity and
build wealth in underserved communities. And yet, just roughly 10
percent of federal agencies’ total eligible contracting dollars
typically go to small disadvantaged businesses (SDB), a category under
federal law for which Black-owned, Latino-owned, and other
minority-owned businesses are presumed to qualify. Increasing federal
spending with these businesses will help more Americans realize their
entrepreneurial dreams and help narrow racial wealth gaps. In 2019, for
instance, the gap in business ownership between Black and Latino
households, relative to White households, accounted for 25 percent of
the overall racial wealth gap between these groups.  
  
Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is launching an all-of-government
effort to expand contracting opportunities for underserved small
businesses across the country. At its center is a new goal: increasing
the share of contracts going to small disadvantaged businesses by 50
percent by 2026—translating to an additional $100 billion to SDBs over
the 5-year period. To achieve this goal, agencies will assess every
available tool to lower barriers to entry and increase opportunities for
small businesses and traditionally-underserved entrepreneurs to compete
for federal contracts. The impact could be historic: all told,
attainment of the new goal will represent the biggest increase in SDB
contracting since data was first collected more than 30 years ago.  
  
**Detailing the President’s Proposal for Historic Investments to Build
Wealth and Opportunity More Equitably, Including in Communities of
Color. **Today the Biden-Harris Administration is also releasing new
details of President Biden’s American Jobs Plan, which will make
historic investments in building wealth and opportunity in Black and
other communities of color. The American Jobs Plan will:

-   **Create a Community Revitalization Fund to Support Community-Led
    Civic Infrastructure.** The American Jobs Plan calls for a new $10
    billion Community Revitalization Fund based at the Department of
    Housing and Urban Development to support community-led civic
    infrastructure projects in urban, suburban, and rural areas that
    create innovative shared amenities, spark new local economic
    activity, provide services, build community wealth, and strengthen
    social cohesion. The Fund would be targeted to economically
    underdeveloped and underserved communities, including those, like
    Greenwood, that suffer from the effects of persistent poverty,
    historic economic disinvestment, and ongoing displacement of
    longtime residents.

The Community Revitalization Fund will:

-   *Invest directly in community-led projects that benefit
    residents.* The Community Revitalization Fund will provide $500
    million in planning grants and $9.5 billion in implementation funds
    to community-based organizations, non-profits, community development
    corporations (CDCs), and their partners, centering the community as
    direct beneficiaries and drivers of project outcomes. These grants
    will flow to persistent poverty counties, high-poverty census
    tracts, and areas both at risk of or rapidly gentrifying.
    Recognizing that a legacy of underinvestment may mean some
    communities lack capacity to build complex projects or apply for
    federal grants, the Fund will seek partnerships with philanthropy,
    community development financial institutions (CDFIs), and local
    government to provide technical assistance and capacity-building
    support.  
     
-   *Activate vacant land and buildings to create community
    amenities.* The Community Revitalization Fund will support a wide
    range of projects, including: upgrading access to natural areas,
    adaptive reuse of vacant buildings and storefronts to provide
    low-cost space for services and community entrepreneurs (such as
    health centers, arts and cultural spaces, job training programs,
    business incubators, and community marketplaces), and removing toxic
    waste to create new parks, greenways, urban agriculture, and
    community gardens. The Fund will promote the best of American
    equitable and resilient design, advancing the Biden-Harris
    Administration’s Justice40 climate goals and building a strong link
    between past and future. This includes in-fill development that
    reknits areas damaged by urban renewal and the revitalization of
    commercial corridors with locally-owned businesses and services.  
     
-   *Strengthen social cohesion and build community wealth.* The
    Community Revitalization Fund will prioritize projects that
    strengthen social cohesion through shared use and civic engagement,
    and build community wealth and equity for existing residents. The
    Fund will encourage innovative approaches to achieve those goals,
    including land acquisition, creation of new businesses and stronger
    connections to existing employment centers, establishment of
    community investment trusts and similar wealth-building models, and
    projects that provide for intercultural and intergenerational
    mixing.  
     
-   *Spark new local economic activity and unlock private capital.* The
    Community Revitalization Fund will support projects that show
    potential to spark new local commercial activity and unlock private
    investment for further equitable development, with a strong vision
    of continued community benefit. The Fund will encourage
    collaboration with CDFIs to leverage additional resources, and
    integration with existing federal economic development resources and
    tax credits to drive upward community mobility. The Fund will also
    support pilot projects, tactical urbanism projects, pop-up spaces
    for local retail, and other smaller-scale interventions that build
    activity and opportunity for residents.  
     
-   **Retrofit Transportation Infrastructure to Reconnect
    Neighborhoods.**Too often, past transportation investments meant to
    provide greater access instead divided low-income communities,
    displacing and disconnecting people from their homes, work, and
    families. Recognizing this history and committed to redressing it,
    President Biden proposes funding specifically for neighborhoods
    where historic transportation investments cut people off from jobs,
    schools, and businesses. This proposal will support the planning,
    removal, or retrofitting of existing transportation infrastructure
    that creates a barrier to community connectivity, including barriers
    to mobility, access, or economic development.

Specifically, the Reconnecting Neighborhoods Program will provide $15
billion in new competitive grants for planning, technical assistance
(TA) and capital investments:

-   *Planning and TA grants.* These can be used for planning studies and
    public engagement activities to evaluate the feasibility of
    infrastructure removal or retrofitting, building organizational or
    community capacity, transportation planning, and identifying
    innovative solutions to infrastructure challenges, including
    reconnecting communities impacted by disruptive infrastructure or
    those lacking safe, reliable, and affordable transportation choices.
    It will prioritize grantmaking to historically disadvantaged,
    underserved and overburdened communities.  
     
-   *Capital grants.* These may be used to support infrastructure
    construction, demolition, and all necessary feasibility and related
    planning activities, community partnerships, and anti-displacement
    and equitable neighborhood revitalization strategies including land
    banking and equitable transit-oriented development. The minimum
    grant size will be $5 million and will prioritize communities most
    impacted by past inequitable infrastructure development.

The program will begin to correct past harms and reduce pollution,
create more public and green spaces, support local businesses, increase
job opportunities, and lay the groundwork for more equitable transit
systems and affordable housing solutions. The “Highway to Boulevards”
movement has already seen 18 U.S. cities either replace or commit to
replace a freeway with more urban and accessible streets. Cities like
Rochester, NY, have chosen to remove dividing highways and replace the
highway with infrastructure that has revived and reconciled
neighborhoods decades later. President Biden’s proposed investment will
fund and accelerate reconnecting neighborhoods across the country.  
  
In addition, the Department of Transportation will establish a new
Thriving Communities program to support communities with eliminating
persistent transportation barriers and increasing access to jobs,
school, and businesses. This initiative seeks to invest $5 billion in
historically marginalized communities and bring everyone to the table to
ensure that more communities have clean, robust, and affordable
transportation options, including high-quality transit, equitable
neighborhood revitalization, and other enhancements to improve
neighborhood quality of life and address climate change.

-   **<u>Enact a New Neighborhood Homes Tax Credit.</u>** The American
    Jobs Plan calls for a new Neighborhood Homes Tax Credit to attract
    private investment in the development and rehabilitation of
    affordable homes for low- and moderate-income homebuyers and
    homeowners. These tax credits will increase homeownership
    opportunities and asset-building for underserved communities, reduce
    blight and vacant properties, and create thousands of good-paying
    jobs. The Neighborhood Homes Tax Credit will:  
     
-   *Encourage investment in homes that cost more to redevelop than they
    can sell for on the open market.* Across the country, millions of
    homes are in poor condition with property values that are too low to
    support new construction or substantial renovation. Approximately 40
    percent of U.S. housing stock is at least 50 years old and more than
    15 million properties are vacant even as families struggle to find
    affordable housing. In many neighborhoods, these properties make it
    difficult to attract or retain local homebuyers, reducing property
    values and community wealth. Modeled after the Low-Income Housing
    Tax Credit and the New Markets Tax Credit, state housing finance
    agencies would receive an annual allocation of Neighborhood Homes
    Tax Credits based on population. Each state’s housing finance agency
    would then award tax credits to project sponsors—developers,
    lenders, or local governments—through a competitive application
    process. Sponsors would use the credits to raise investment capital
    for their projects, and the investors could claim the credits
    against their federal income tax when the homes are sold and
    occupied by eligible homebuyers. These tax credits would cover the
    difference between total development costs (including acquisition,
    rehabilitation, demolition, and construction) and the sales price.
    This would, for example, make it financially viable to spend
    $120,000 acquiring and rehabilitating a vacant property that would
    only sell for $100,000 on the open market by offering a $20,000 tax
    credit to cover the difference.  
     
-   *Bolster homeownership rates for low- and moderate-income homebuyers
    in underserved communities, while protecting against
    gentrification.* The U.S. is home to stark and persistent
    disparities in homeownership and wealth. Across the country, just 49
    percent of Hispanic Americans and 45 percent of Black Americans own
    their own homes, compared to 74 percent of White Americans. Hispanic
    and Black households also have just a fraction of the wealth of
    their White counterparts. As home prices rise, the Neighborhood
    Homes Tax Credit will make a generational investment in
    homeownership affordability. Specifically, only homes that are
    located in census tracts with poverty rates of at least 130 percent
    of the area poverty rate, median family income below 80 percent of
    area median income, and median home values lower than the area
    median value are eligible for the credit. This covers approximately
    1 in 4 census tracts nationwide – the most underserved communities
    in America. Homes that are redeveloped using the credit may only
    sell for four times the area median family income, and homebuyers
    cannot have incomes exceeding 140 percent of the area median family
    income. This will enable low- and moderate-income buyers – including
    homebuyers of color – to purchase their own homes and build
    wealth.  
     
-   **Incentivize Ending Exclusionary Zoning and Expanding Housing
    Choices.** Exclusionary zoning laws – like minimum lot sizes,
    mandatory parking requirements, and prohibitions on multifamily
    housing – inflate housing and construction costs and lock families
    out of neighborhoods with more opportunities. In the American Jobs
    Plan, President Biden is calling on Congress to enact the Unlocking
    Possibilities Program, an innovative, new $5 billion competitive
    grant program that awards flexible and attractive funding to
    jurisdictions that take concrete steps to eliminate needless
    barriers to producing affordable housing and expand housing choices
    for people with low or moderate incomes.

The fund has several key features to support locally-led efforts to
advance zoning reforms:

-   Grant program for community engagement, technical assistance and
    analysis that will help communities identify the most powerful
    levers to produce more affordable housing;
-   Investment and incentives to implement land-use and zoning policies
    that remove needless barriers to needed housing; and
-   Extensive evaluation and development agenda to identify the policy
    changes that most effectively encourage affordable housing
    production. 

Communities that qualify for implementation and investment awards will
have access to flexible funding that help support public services in
neighborhoods where new affordable housing is being developed and that
benefit all community members. The goal of these efforts will be to
increase the production of affordable housing, expanding access to good
jobs and powering inclusive economic growth.

-   **Invest $31 Billion to Scale Up Efforts to Support Minority-Owned
    Small Businesses.** Too many small businesses owned by people of
    color struggle to access loans and federal programs that can help
    them grow and succeed.  President Biden has proposed a historic
    effort to tackle these persistent challenges and empower small
    business creation and expansion in communities of color.
    Specifically, the President’s American Jobs Plan will invest $30
    billion in new Small Business Administration (SBA) initiatives that
    will reduce barriers to small business ownership and success.  These
    initiatives will increase access to capital by establishing a new
    direct loan program for the smallest businesses, developing new loan
    products to support small manufacturers and businesses that invest
    in clean energy, and launching a new Small Business Investment
    Corporation that will make early stage equity investments in small
    businesses with priority for those owned by socially and
    economically disadvantaged individuals. The American Jobs Plan will
    also invest billions of dollars in SBA technical assistance programs
    that incubate and offer mentoring and technical assistance to 8(a)
    firms, reinforce the American subcontracting network to create
    pathways to prime contracting, encourage Fortune 500 firms to
    diversify their procurements, and bring more socially and
    economically disadvantaged businesses into federal research and
    development programs.  These investments will also include an
    innovative new $1 billion grant program through the Minority
    Business Development Agency that will help minority-owned
    manufacturers access private capital.

\###
