---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-05'
modified_time: 2021-06-04 23:20:24-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/05/statement-by-president-joe-biden-recognizing-the-40th-year-of-the-hiv-aids-epidemic/
published_time: 2021-06-05 10:30:00-04:00
title: "Statement by President Joe\_Biden Recognizing the 40th Year of the HIV/AIDS\_\
  Epidemic"
---
 
Forty years ago today, five young men in Los Angeles were confirmed as
the first known patients stricken with an illness that the world would
later come to know as AIDS. In the decades since, more than 700,000
Americans and 32.7 million people worldwide have been lost to
AIDS-related illnesses – a heartbreaking human toll that has
disproportionately devastated LGBTQ+ communities, communities of color,
and underserved and marginalized people around the world.

On the 40th year of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, we remember the lives that
were cut short by this terrible disease – including so many whose pain
went unacknowledged for far too long. We also celebrate the resilience
and dignity of the over 38 million people worldwide, including
approximately 1.2 million Americans, living with HIV.

Thanks to the tireless dedication of activists, scientific researchers,
and medical professionals, we have made tremendous progress to advance
HIV research, prevention, treatment, and care. And after years of
neglect, discrimination, fear-mongering, and limited action by
government officials and the public, America has grown to become a
leading force in the fight to end the HIV crisis. Through the
President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief – and as the largest donor to
the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria – the U.S. has
invested more than $85 billion since 2002 to support HIV programs around
the world, including $250 million provided in my American Rescue Plan to
address the impacts of COVID-19 on our progress in the fight against
HIV. All told, these efforts are estimated to have saved more than 20
million lives globally. To help accelerate and strengthen our efforts to
end the HIV epidemic in the United States, I have requested $670 million
from Congress, an increase of $267 million over previous levels, to
aggressively reduce new HIV cases by increasing access to treatment,
expanding the use of preexposure prophylaxis (PrEP), and ensuring
equitable access to services free from stigma and discrimination.

Despite the progress we’ve made, our work is not yet finished. In honor
of all those we have lost and all those living with the virus – and the
selfless caregivers, advocates, and loved ones who have helped carry the
burden of this crisis – we must rededicate ourselves to reducing HIV
infections and AIDS-related deaths. We must continue empowering
researchers, scientists, and health care providers to ensure equitable
access to prevention, care, and treatment in every community –
particularly for communities of color and the LGBTQ+ community. And we
must provide moral leadership to eradicate the stigma and discrimination
still faced by those living with HIV, rededicating ourselves to
continuing the vital work of ending this epidemic once and for all.

\###
