---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-30'
modified_time: 2021-06-30 18:42:49-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/30/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-advances-equality-for-transgender-americans/
published_time: 2021-06-30 19:00:00-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Advances Equality for Transgender\_\
  Americans"
---
 
On the last day of Pride Month, we reflect on the decades of leadership
and advocacy of transgender Americans who have led the movement for
LGBTQ+ equality, and have made our Nation stronger and more vibrant.
Every American deserves the freedom to live with dignity, safety, and
opportunity. But many transgender Americans, especially transgender
women and girls of color, continue to face systemic discrimination and
violence. In too many states across the Nation, anti-transgender
legislation has sought to strip away core rights of transgender
Americans, especially transgender children. These legislative efforts
defy our Nation’s values of freedom and equality, and as President Biden
has said, these bills amount to bullying disguised as legislation.

Since his first day in office, President Biden has taken historic
actions to advance equality for transgender Americans and root out
discrimination at the intersection of race, sexual orientation, and
gender identity. Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is announcing
new actions to advance equality, inclusion, and opportunity for
transgender Americans:

**Hosting a White House Virtual Convening on Transgender
Equality. **Today, the White House is releasing a
first-of-its-kind [national
conversation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3WsnZUAXJLA) on equality
for transgender, gender non-conforming, and non-binary Americans. The
convening, hosted by White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki, features
transgender youth advocates from across the country, openly transgender
leaders and athletes, and senior officials from across the Biden-Harris
Administration. The convening highlights the hopes, joys, and successes
of transgender and non-binary people across America, as well as the
impact that systemic discrimination has on transgender youth in
particular. Participants share stories about the impact that state-level
anti-transgender legislation has had on their wellbeing; their
experiences of multiple, intersecting forms of discrimination; and best
practices for advancing acceptance and equality for transgender
Americans.

**Announcing the creation of a new White House-led Interagency Working
Group on Safety, Inclusion, and Opportunity for Transgender
Americans. **Transgender people, especially transgender women and girls
of color, face epidemic levels of violence, discrimination, and stigma.
To help drive a Federal response to these crises, today the White House
Domestic Policy Council and Gender Policy Council announced the
establishment of an Interagency Working Group led out of the White House
that will coordinate policies to advance safety, economic opportunity,
and inclusion for transgender Americans. The Working Group will include
participants from the Departments of Justice, Housing and Urban
Development, Health and Human Services, Education, Homeland Security,
Labor, Interior, Veterans Affairs, and Defense. The Interagency Working
Group will review policies that are upstream drivers of violence and
poverty for transgender individuals, including homelessness, employment
discrimination, violence and abuse, and bullying and rejection at
school. The Department of State and USAID will also participate to
strengthen their efforts to protect transgender individuals from
violence and discrimination around the world. To help inform the
priorities of the Working Group, in the coming weeks the White House
will host listening sessions with transgender women of color and
transgender advocates to hear their policy recommendations for advancing
safety, opportunity, and inclusion.

**Taking steps to expand the availability of accurate Federal IDs for
transgender, gender non-conforming, and non-binary Americans. **Every
American deserves access to forms of Federal identification that respect
and dignify their gender identity. Today, the State Department announced
that it is updating agency procedures to remove burdensome medical
documentation requirements for transgender Americans who wish to update
their gender markers on their passports and other citizenship or
identity documents. The State Department also announced that it is
beginning the process to add a third gender marker for gender
non-conforming, non-binary and intersex Americans, and will work closely
with interagency partners to ensure as smooth a travel experience as
possible for all passport holders.

**Making the Federal government a model employer for transgender public
servants. **The Federal government is at its best when its public
servants reflect the diversity of the American people. On June 25,
President Biden signed an [Executive
Order](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/06/25/executive-order-on-diversity-equity-inclusion-and-accessibility-in-the-federal-workforce/) which
takes historic new steps to ensure the Federal government is a model
employer for transgender, gender non-conforming, and non-binary
employees. The Executive Order charges agencies with building inclusive
cultures for transgender employees by:

-   Expanding the availability of gender-neutral facilities in Federal
    buildings;
-   Ensuring that employee services support transgender employees who
    wish to legally, medically or socially transition;
-   Advancing the use of non-binary gender markers and pronouns in
    Federal employment processes;
-   Strengthening Federal health insurance benefits so that they provide
    comprehensive gender-affirming care;
-   Ensuring that Federal employee benefits, like paid leave programs,
    respect diverse family structures; and
-   Mitigating barriers that transgender employees can face in the
    background investigation process.

**Expanding comprehensive gender-affirming care for our Nation’s
veterans. **Our Nation’s veterans deserve the highest quality of care
available. But for too long, transgender veterans have faced barriers in
accessing comprehensive gender-affirming care through the VA medical
system. This month, the Department of Veterans Affairs announced that is
beginning the regulatory process to removed outdated restrictions that
prevent transgender veterans from accessing the gender-affirming care
they need and deserve.

**Releasing a toolkit on equality and inclusion for transgender
Americans. **Today, the White House released a
new [toolkit](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/06/Trans-Equality-Toolkit_REFORMAT-2_WHCO-fix.pdf)
with best practices for advancing inclusion, opportunity, and safety for
transgender Americans. The toolkit highlights steps that agencies across
the Federal government are taking to combat discrimination on the basis
of gender identity and Federal resources for transgender individuals who
believe they have faced discrimination.

**Today’s announcements build on the Administration’s historic actions
to advance full equality for transgender Americans. **Since taking
office, the Biden-Harris Administration has [taken critical
steps](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/01/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-administration-champions-lgbtq-equality-and-marks-pride-month/) to
advance equality for transgender Americans, including by reversing the
discriminatory ban on transgender servicemembers; expanding
non-discrimination protections for transgender Americans in housing,
healthcare, credit and lending, and education; advancing the human
rights of transgender people around the world;
and [recognizing](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/03/31/a-proclamation-on-transgender-day-of-visibility-2021/)
Transgender Day of Visibility at the White House for the first time.

\###
