---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-29'
modified_time: 2021-06-29 20:11:28-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/29/fact-sheet-bipartisan-infrastructure-framework-will-address-barriers-communities-of-color-face-to-economic-opportunity/
published_time: 2021-06-29 18:30:00-04:00
title: 'Fact Sheet: Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework Will Address Barriers Communities
  of Color Face to Economic Opportunity'
---
 
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework addresses economic disparities
in our economy and the consequences of decades of disinvestment in
America’s infrastructure that have fallen most heavily on communities of
color. Through critical investments, the Bipartisan Infrastructure
Framework increases access to good-paying jobs, affordable high-speed
internet, reliable public transit, clean drinking water and other
resources to ensure communities of color get a fair shot at the American
dream.

These critical investments are first steps in advancing equity and
racial justice throughout our economy. The President believes additional
investments are needed in our nation’s caregiving infrastructure,
housing supply, regional development, and workforce development programs
to ensure that communities of color and other underserved communities
can access economic opportunity and justice. And, earlier this month in
Tulsa, OK, President Biden announced a whole-of-government effort to
increase the share of federal contracts going to small disadvantaged
businesses by 50 percent over the next five years, leveraging the
government’s purchasing power to help more Americans realize their
entrepreneurial dreams.

The Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework:

**DELIVERS HIGH SPEED INTERNET TO EVERY AMERICAN HOUSEHOLD**

There is a stark digital divide in America. Black families are 9% less
likely to have high-speed internet than their white peers, and Latino
Americans are 15% less likely. About 35% of individuals living on Tribal
lands lack access to broadband service. And although studies suggest
high levels of digital access for Asian Americans, these studies are
often limited in scope and don’t identify key inequities. For example,
broadband access and affordability in the Pacific Islands has long been
a challenge. During the COVID-19 pandemic, there were stories of kids
sitting in McDonald’s parking lots to log on to remote school in parts
of the country. The President believes this is unacceptable.

The Framework invests $65 billion to make high-speed broadband available
to all Americans, to bring down high-speed internet prices across the
board, and to close the digital divide. His plan will also invest in
long overdue expansion of broadband on Tribal lands, in consultation
with Tribal Nations. With the 1936 Rural Electrification Act, the
Federal government made a historic investment in bringing electricity to
nearly every home and farm in America, and millions of families and our
economy reaped the benefits. Broadband internet is the new electricity.
It is necessary for Americans to do their jobs, to participate equally
in school learning and health care, and to stay connected.

In addition to achieving President Biden’s goal of connecting every
American to reliable high- speed internet, the Framework will drive down
prices for internet service and close the digital divide by making
broadband more affordable, including in low-income communities and
communities of color.

**ELIMINATES LEAD PIPES AND DELIVERS CLEAN DRINKING WATER TO EVERY
HOUSEHOLD**

Across the country, pipes and treatment plants are aging and polluted
drinking water is endangering public health. There are up to 10 million
homes with lead service lines and pipes. Children in up to 400,000
schools and child care facilities are at risk of exposure to lead.

Across the country, families of color are at the highest risk for lead
exposure at home and in schools. Communities of color in cities like
Chicago, Milwaukee, and Newark are also at particular risk. For kids,
higher exposure to lead can negatively affect academic performance, and
can lead to cardiovascular disease later in life. By some estimates,
each lead service line replaced at a cost of $5,000 per line leads to
$22,000 in health savings.

The Framework makes the largest investment in clean drinking water in
American history, replacing all of the nation’s lead pipes and service
lines. From rural towns to struggling cities, the Framework invests in
water infrastructure across America, including in Tribal Nations and
disadvantaged communities that need it most.

**INVESTS IN MORE PUBLIC TRANSIT OPTIONS AND ADDRESSING THE BACKLOG OF
REPAIRS**

Asian American and African American workers commute by public transit at
nearly 4 times the rate of white workers. For example, low-wage Black
residents in Chicago spend 70 additional minutes commuting to work than
their white peers. In New York City, the average Black resident spends
110 minutes more per week commuting to work than the average white
resident.

The Framework’s historic investment in public transit – the largest
federal investment in history – will reduce commute times and create
more economic opportunities in communities of color.

The Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework invests $48.5 billion to
modernize transit, and improve accessibility for older Americans and
people with disabilities. It will clear the backlog in public transit
repairs, and build new transit. It will replace thousands of transit
vehicles, including buses, with clean, zero emission vehicles.

These investments will yield significant returns for communities of
color. Investments in public transit help people get better jobs and
higher wages, and raise economic growth and productivity. One study
found that a metropolitan area’s 10 percent increase in transit seats or
rail service miles per capita is associated with up to $1.8 billion per
year in increased wages. Another study found that improved transit
access increases labor force participation.

**CREATES A FIRST-EVER PROGRAM TO RECONNECT COMMUNITIES DIVIDED BY
INEQUITABLE TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE**

Significant portions of the interstate highway system were built through
Black neighborhoods, destroying homes, schools, churches, and parks and
causing lasting disconnection and disinvestment for residents who
stayed. More broadly, historic investments in transportation
infrastructure, especially highway construction, cut too many Americans
off from opportunity, dividing and demolishing communities, and
perpetuating economic and racial injustices. The Framework creates a
first-ever program to reconnect

communities divided by transportation infrastructure. The program will
fund planning, design, demolition, and reconstruction of street grids,
parks, or other infrastructure. This is in addition to other major grant
programs that could fund elements of these projects.

**ELECTRIFY SCHOOL BUSES, IMPROVING THE AIR QUALITY FOR KIDS**

The Framework will make a critical down payment on helping the more than
25 million children and thousands of bus drivers who breathe polluted
air on their rides to and from school. Diesel air pollution is linked to
asthma and other health problems that hurt our communities and cause
students to miss school, particularly in communities of color and Tribal
communities. The Framework will deliver more than 35,000 electric school
buses nationwide, helping school districts across the country buy clean,
American-made, zero emission buses, replacing a sizable percent of the
yellow school bus fleet.

**REMEDIATES BROWNFIELD AND SUPERFUND SITES**

26% of Black Americans and 29% of Hispanic Americans live within 3 miles
of a Superfund site, a higher percentage than for Americans overall.
Proximity to a Superfund site can lead to elevated levels of lead in
children’s blood. Recent studies demonstrate that cleaning up these
sites can lead to a decrease in blood levels by approximately 13-26%.

The Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework provides the full American Jobs
Plan funding level — $21 billion – to create good-paying union jobs
plugging orphan oil and gas wells, cleaning up abandoned mines, and
remediating Brownfield and Superfund sites. 26% of Black Americans and
29% of Hispanic Americans live within 3 miles of a Superfund site, a
higher percentage than for Americans overall. As we transition to a
clean energy future, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework will begin
to remedy economic injustice for communities across the country that
have relied on the fossil fuel industry and have been affected most by
the impacts of climate change and pollution, including rural communities
and communities of color.

**SAFEGUARDS COMMUNITIES OF COLOR FROM CLIMATE CRISES AND EXTREME
WEATHER RISKS**

People of color are more likely to live in areas most vulnerable to
flooding and other climate change-related weather events. For example,
in the wake of Hurricane Harvey, Black and Hispanic residents were twice
as likely to report lost income. Tribal lands are significantly at risk
to the effects of climate change and Alaska Natives are particularly
vulnerable, as they face multiple climate impacts.

The Framework invests $52 billion in helping communities build
resilience to wildfires and floods through investments in forest
management and upgrades to critical infrastructure — like elevating
buildings, roads, and bridges, hardening physical infrastructure, and
winterizing the power grid. And, it will fund state and local
infrastructure improvements and emergency response strategies, such as
planning grants to support development of evacuation routes or upgrading
community shelters. The Framework will also make it easier for
low-income families to buy flood insurance.

**INVESTS IN CLEAN ENERGY GRID TO MITIGATE THE DISPARATE IMPACTS OF
POLLUTION ON COMMUNITIES OF COLOR**

Black, Latino, Asian American and Pacific Islander, and Native
communities are more likely to be burdened by pollution. Black people
are almost three times more likely to die from asthma related causes
than their white counterparts. And more than one in three — or over 23
million — Latinos in the U.S. live in counties where the air doesn’t
meet EPA public health standards for smog.

The Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework helps meet this challenge by
making the single largest investment in clean transmission in American
history. It creates a Grid Development Authority at the Department of
Energy to enable a national, clean energy power grid and funds to
support activities that reduce the impacts to the electric grid, and
protect communities from extreme weather, wildfire, and natural
disasters. It deploys long distance, high voltage transmission to
enhance reliability and resilience, lower costs, and integrate the
highest value clean energy resources. It invests in research and
development for advanced transmission and electricity distribution
technologies, and smart grid technologies that deliver flexibility and
resilience. And, it invests more than $22 billion in demonstration
projects and research hubs for next generation technologies like
advanced nuclear reactors, carbon capture for industrial plants, and
green hydrogen.

\###
