---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-03'
modified_time: 2021-06-03 10:50:08-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/03/fact-sheet-establishing-the-fight-against-corruption-as-a-core-u-s-national-security-interest/
published_time: 2021-06-03 10:50:07-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Establishing the Fight Against Corruption as a Core U.S. National\
  \ Security\_Interest"
---
 
The Biden-Harris Administration is committed to tackling corruption as
an economic and national security priority, and has pledged to lead
international efforts to bring transparency to the global financial
system and close loopholes that undermine democracy.  As the Interim
National Security Strategic Guidance states:

  
 “We will take special aim at confronting corruption, which rots
democracy from the inside and is increasingly weaponized by
authoritarian states to undermine democratic institutions…We will crack
down on tax havens and illicit financing that contribute to income
inequality, fund terrorism, and generate pernicious foreign influence.” 

  
Today, in line with this commitment, President Biden is releasing a
National Security Study Memorandum (NSSM) that establishes the fight
against corruption as a core national security interest of the United
States. The NSSM directs a 200-day interagency review that will
culminate in a report and recommendations on how the U.S. government and
its partners can:  
  
**Modernize, Coordinate, and Resource Efforts to Better Fight
Corruption.** Corruption threatens U.S. national security by eroding
citizens’ faith in government, distorting economies, and enabling
authoritarians to weaken democratic institutions. The NSSM therefore
directs departments and agencies to identify and where appropriate
establish new structures and staffing, improve intelligence collection
and analysis, and increase resources aimed at confronting corruption at
home and abroad.  
  
**Curb Illicit Finance.** The Biden-Harris Administration has pledged to
lead efforts internationally to bring transparency to the U.S. and
international financial systems, including by reducing offshore
financial secrecy, seizing stolen assets, and making it more difficult
for those who steal to hide behind anonymity. The NSSM therefore directs
departments and agencies to combat all forms of illicit finance,
including through accelerating ongoing efforts to establish a
“beneficial ownership” registry, so that illicit actors can’t hide the
proceeds of corruption behind anonymous shell companies; limiting the
ability of illicit actors to hide behind anonymity to buy residential
real estate; and closing loopholes in existing regulatory regimes.     
  
**Hold Corrupt Actors Accountable.** The Biden-Harris Administration is
committed to taking new steps to hold accountable corrupt individuals,
transnational criminal organizations, and other actors engaged in
illicit activity. This includes strengthening and building upon targeted
anticorruption sanctions under the Global Magnitsky Act and similar
authorities; and bolstering criminal or civil enforcement actions, such
as under the Department of Justice’s Kleptocracy Asset Recovery
Initiative. It also means increasing support to grow the capacity of
civil society, the media, state and local bodies, international
partners, and other oversight and accountability actors.  
  
**Build International Partnerships.** As part of its commitment to
strengthening America’s alliances and partnerships, the NSSM directs
departments and agencies to work with like-minded international partners
through the UN, G7, Financial Action Task Force (FATF), and similar
bodies to counteract strategic corruption emanating from autocratic and
kleptocratic governments, foreign state-owned or affiliated enterprises,
and transnational criminal organizations. This work will include closing
loopholes exploited by those actors in order to mask the proceeds of
corruption or interfere in democratic processes.   
  
**Improve Foreign Assistance.** The United States partners with foreign
governments and civil society to enhance the capacity of their domestic
institutions to implement transparency, oversight, and accountability
measures. The NSSM therefore directs departments and agencies to focus
on anticorruption best practices and improve enforcement measures in the
implementation of foreign assistance programs and security cooperation.

\###
