---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-12'
modified_time: 2021-06-13 10:59:51-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/12/fact-sheet-g7-to-announce-joint-actions-to-end-public-support-for-overseas-unabated-coal-generation-by-end-of-2021/
published_time: 2021-06-12 11:15:00-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: G7 to Announce Joint Actions to End Public Support for Overseas\
  \ Unabated Coal Generation by End of\_2021"
---
 
*The United States is rallying the world’s democracies to deliver for
our people, meet the world’s biggest challenges, and demonstrate our
shared values*

Today, President Biden and fellow G7 Leaders agreed to a set of concrete
actions to accelerate the global transition away from coal generation as
part of our efforts to combat the climate crisis.   
  
***Accelerating Decarbonization and Transition from Unabated
Coal: ***Confronting the climate crisis presents a historic opportunity
to drive our economic recovery, create millions of good-paying union
jobs, and build back better as we invest in a more resilient,
prosperous, equitable, and secure future. Recognizing that unabated coal
power generation is the single biggest source of greenhouse gas
emissions globally, and consistent with President Biden’s domestic
leadership, G7 Leaders will commit to an end to new direct government
support for unabated international thermal coal power generation by the
end of this year. To support key developing countries in their
transitions away from unabated coal, Canada, Germany, the UK, and the
United States will also include a new collective commitment to provide
up to $2 billion to support the work of the Climate Investment Funds
focused on accelerating the transition from coal for key developing
countries while investing in technology, job training, and
infrastructure to enable the transition to a more reliable and
prosperous clean energy economy.  
  
Hard-to-abate heavy industrial sectors like cement and steel will play a
key role in this transition. Therefore, Leaders are launching the G7
Industrial Decarbonization Agenda, a first-of-its-kind platform to
accelerate innovation, deploy decarbonization technology, and harmonize
standards. The Leaders also will emphasize sectoral decarbonization in
power, transport, agriculture, and buildings.  
  
***Aligning to Confront the Climate Crisis:*** Additionally, for the
first time in history, all G7 Leaders will align their long-term and
short-term climate goals in a manner consistent with keeping the 1.5
degrees Celsius global warming threshold within reach. Leaders will also
resolve to strengthen adaptation and resilience to protect people from
the impacts of climate change and to halt and reverse biodiversity loss,
as well as to mobilize finance and leverage innovation to reach these
goals.  
  
To fully address the climate crisis, we also must recognize and focus on
the role of conservation. This is why the United States supports the G7
goal of conserving or protecting at least 30 percent of global land and
marine areas by 2030 – a commitment grounded in scientific evidence that
has shown increasing conservation is critical for maintaining the health
and productivity of our ecosystems for generations to come.  
  
Domestically, President Biden is advancing policies that will achieve
carbon-pollution free energy in electricity generation by 2035. These
policies will support scale up of technology that captures carbon and
then permanently sequesters or utilizes that captured carbon, which
includes lowering the cost of carbon capture retrofits for existing
power plants — all while ensuring that overburdened communities are
protected from increases in cumulative pollution.

\###
