---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-10'
modified_time: 2021-06-09 18:29:16-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/10/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-historic-vaccine-donation-half-a-billion-pfizer-vaccines-to-the-worlds-lowest-income-nations/
published_time: 2021-06-10 02:00:00-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: President Biden Announces Historic Vaccine Donation: Half a Billion\
  \ Pfizer Vaccines to the World\u2019s Lowest-Income Nations"
---
 
*500 million life-saving vaccines to be delivered by June of next year,
including 200 million to be delivered by the end of 2021  
  
Donation will serve as the foundation for a coordinated effort by the
world’s democracies to vaccinate people around the world  *

  
Today, President Biden will announce that the United States will
purchase and donate half a billion Pfizer vaccines to 92 low- and lower
middle-income countries and the African Union, an historic action that
will help supercharge the global fight against the pandemic. This is the
largest-ever purchase and donation of vaccines by a single country and a
commitment by the American people to help protect people around the
world from COVID-19. President Biden will also call on the world’s
democracies to do their parts in contributing to the global supply of
safe and effective vaccines. The goal of today’s donation is to save
lives and end the pandemic and will provide the foundation for
additional actions to be announced in the coming days.

Thanks to the success of our vaccination program, the United States is
beating COVID-19 here at home. 64% of adult Americans have received at
least one shot in just four and a half months, daily death rates are
lower than at any point in the pandemic, and our economy is rebounding.
Now, the United States is using the power of our democracy, the
ingenuity of American scientists, and the strength of American
manufacturing to beat the pandemic globally by helping to vaccinate the
world.

Today’s historic announcement comes on the heels of President Biden’s
donation of at least 80 million vaccines from the United States’ supply
by the end of June. Additionally, the United States has contributed two
billion dollars to COVAX, more than any other nation—and is supporting
local production capacity abroad for safe and effective COVID-19
vaccines, including through the Quad initiative.

President Biden has been clear that borders cannot keep this pandemic at
bay and has vowed that our nation will be the arsenal of vaccines. The
historic step the President will announce today therefore protects the
health of the American people and the people throughout the world who
will benefit from these life-saving vaccines.

Specifically, the actions the President will announce today will:

**<u>PROVIDE A HALF BILLION PFIZER VACCINES TO LOW-INCOME NATIONS AROUND
THE WORLD:</u>** Today, President Biden will announce that the U.S.
government will purchase half a billion doses of Pfizer–BioNTech
COVID-19 vaccines and donate to 92 low- and lower middle-income
countries and economies as defined by [Gavi’s COVAX Advance Market
Commitment
(AMC)](https://www.gavi.org/news/media-room/92-low-middle-income-economies-eligible-access-covid-19-vaccines-gavi-covax-amc)
and the African Union. The vaccines will start shipping in August 2021. 
200 million doses will be delivered by the end of this year and the
remaining 300 million will be delivered in the first half of 2022. The
U.S. will allocate these doses to low and lower-middle income nations
around the world, working through COVAX to deliver them.

**<u>GIVE LOWER INCOME NATIONS MORE ACCESS TO HIGHLY EFFECTIVE mRNA
VACCINES:</u>** Today’s announcement will provide mRNA vaccines that
have proven to be highly effective against COVID-19, including against
all known variants. Tens of millions of Americans have benefited from
these safe and effective vaccines and this historic donation will bring
the life-saving benefits these vaccines provide to some of the most
vulnerable populations around the world.

**<u>HARNESS THE POWER OF AMERICAN MANUFACTURING TO HELP SAVE LIVES
AROUND THE WORLD.</u>** Pfizer plans to produce these half a billion
doses in the U.S. at their facilities in Kalamazoo, Michigan, which
employs more than 3,000 American workers; McPherson, Kansas, which
employs almost 2,000 workers; Chesterfield, Missouri, and Andover,
Massachusetts, which employ 700 and 1,800 workers. The American workers
who produced vaccines to save American lives will now produce those same
vaccines to save the lives of hundreds of millions of people around the
world.

\###
