---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-15'
modified_time: 2021-06-15 09:04:30-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/15/fact-sheet-national-strategy-for-countering-domestic-terrorism/
published_time: 2021-06-15 06:00:00-04:00
title: 'FACT SHEET: National Strategy for Countering Domestic Terrorism'
---
 
On his first full day in office, President Biden directed his national
security team to lead a 100-day comprehensive review of U.S. Government
efforts to address domestic terrorism, which has evolved into the most
urgent terrorism threat the United States faces today. As a result of
that review, the Biden Administration is releasing the first-ever
**[National Strategy for Countering Domestic
Terrorism](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/06/National-Strategy-for-Countering-Domestic-Terrorism.pdf)**
to address this challenge to America’s national security and improve the
federal government’s response.

Domestic terrorism is not a new threat in the United States, yet it is a
threat Americans have endured too often in recent years. The
comprehensive strategy provides a nationwide framework for the U.S.
Government and partners to understand and share domestic terrorism
related information; prevent domestic terrorism recruitment and
mobilization to violence; disrupt and deter domestic terrorism activity;
and confront long term contributors to domestic terrorism. Our approach
will protect both the nation and the civil liberties of its citizens.

Under Federal law, “**domestic terrorism**” is defined as “activities
that involve acts dangerous to human life that are a violation of the
criminal laws of the United States or of any State; appear to be
intended to intimidate or coerce a civilian population, to influence the
policy of a government by intimidation or coercion, or to affect the
conduct of a government by mass destruction, assassination, or
kidnapping; and occur primarily within the territorial jurisdiction of
the United States.”

The review was **rooted in an expert assessment of the domestic
terrorism threat** provided by the intelligence and law enforcement
communities. An unclassified summary of that assessment was released in
March so the public could see the key findings. It found that the two
most lethal elements of today’s domestic terrorism threat are (1)
racially or ethnically motivated violent extremists who advocate for the
superiority of the white race and (2) anti-government or anti-authority
violent extremists, such as militia violent extremists.

To develop a government-wide strategy to counter domestic terrorists,
the Biden Administration consulted extensively with a wide array of
experts across the U.S. Government as well as with leaders in Congress,
state and local governments, academia, civil society, religious
communities, and foreign governments. Throughout the process, **we
embraced the protection of civil rights and civil liberties as a
national security imperative**. The strategy we are releasing today is
carefully tailored to address violence and reduce the factors that lead
to violence, threaten public safety, and infringe on the free expression
of ideas. It is organized around four pillars – the core elements of how
the Biden Administration will improve the U.S. Government’s response to
this persistent, evolving, and lethal threat to our people, our
democracy, and our national security:

<span style="text-decoration: underline">PILLAR 1: UNDERSTAND AND SHARE
DOMESTIC TERRORISM-RELATED INFORMATION</span>

**The U.S. Government will enhance domestic terrorism analysis and
improve information sharing throughout law enforcement** at the federal,
state, local, tribal, and territorial levels, and, where appropriate,
private sector partners. The Department of Justice (DOJ) and Federal
Bureau of Investigation (FBI) have implemented a robust system to
methodically track domestic terrorism cases nationwide. The Department
of State as well as the intelligence and law enforcement communities are
learning more from foreign partners about the international dimensions
of this threat.

  
The Department of State will continue to **assess whether additional
foreign entities linked to domestic terrorism can be designated** as
Foreign Terrorist Organizations or Specially Designated Global
Terrorists under relevant statutory criteria. The Department of the
Treasury, in coordination with law enforcement, is exploring ways to
enhance the identification and analysis of financial activity of
domestic terrorists. The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) is
enhancing its analysis of open-source information to identify threats
earlier and will create a structured mechanism for receiving and sharing
within government credible non-governmental analysis.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">PILLAR 2: PREVENT DOMESTIC
TERRORISM RECRUITMENT AND MOBILIZATION TO VIOLENCE</span>

Drawing on the expertise of a variety of departments and agencies, **the
U.S. Government has revamped support to community partners who can help
to prevent individuals from ever reaching the point of committing
terrorist violence**. The U.S. Government will **strengthen domestic
terrorism prevention resourcesand services**. For the first time, the
Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has designated “Domestic Violent
Extremism” as a National Priority Area within the Department’s Homeland
Security Grant Program, which means that over $77 million will be
allocated to state, local, tribal, and territorial partners to prevent,
protect against, and respond to domestic violent extremism. DHS and FBI
are working to strengthen local prevention, threat assessment, and
threat management frameworks. The Department of Defense (DOD) is
incorporating training for servicemembers separating or retiring from
the military on potential targeting of those with military training by
violent extremist actors. The U.S. Government will **improve public
awareness** of federal resources to address concerning or threatening
behavior before violence occurs.

The U.S. Government will augment its efforts to **address online
terrorist recruitment and mobilization to violence by domestic
terrorists** through increased information sharing with the technology
sector and the creation of innovative ways to foster digital literacy
and build resilience to recruitment and mobilization. **The United
States also recently joined the *Christchurch Call to Action to
Eliminate Terrorist and Violent Extremist Content Online***, an
international partnership between governments and technology companies
that works to develop new multilateral solutions to eliminating
terrorist content online while safeguarding the freedom of online
expression.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">PILLAR 3: DISRUPT AND DETER
DOMESTIC TERRORISM ACTIVITY</span>

The work of Federal law enforcement as well as our state, local, tribal,
and territorial law enforcement partners is critical to countering
domestic terrorism. The U.S. Government will increase **support to
Federal, state, and local law enforcement in addressing domestic
terrorism nationwide**. U.S. Attorney’s Offices and FBI field offices
across the country have formally made domestic terrorism a top priority
and are tracking comprehensively domestic terrorism-related cases,
reallocating or requesting appropriate funding and resources as needed
to target the threat. That includes over $100 million in additional
resources for DOJ, FBI, and DHS included in the President’s Fiscal Year
2022 Budget to ensure that the Federal Government has the analysts,
investigators, prosecutors, and other personnel and resources it needs
to thwart domestic terrorism and do justice when the law has been
broken. State, local, tribal, and territorial law enforcement will have
access to increased intelligence sharing and training on domestic
terrorism and associated threats. **DOJ is closely examining whether new
legislative authorities that balance safety and the protection of civil
liberties are necessary and appropriate.  
  
**The U.S. Government is improving employee screening to enhance methods
for **identifying domestic terrorists who might pose insider threats**.
The Office of Personnel Management will consider updates to the forms
used to apply for sensitive roles in the Federal Government that could
assist investigators in identifying potential domestic terrorism
threats. DOD, DOJ, and DHS are similarly pursuing efforts to **ensure
domestic terrorists are not employed** within our military or law
enforcement ranks and improve screening and vetting processes. Training
and resources will be developed for state, local, tribal, and
territorial law enforcement partners as well as sensitive private sector
partners to enable them to enhance their own employee screening programs
and prevent individuals who pose domestic terrorism threats from being
placed in positions of trust.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">PILLAR 4: CONFRONT LONG-TERM
CONTRIBUTORS TO DOMESTIC TERRORISM</span>

**Every component of the government has a role to play in rooting out
racism and bigotry** and advancing equity for all Americans. The U.S.
Government, in close partnership with civil society, will **address the
long-term contributors that are responsible for much of today’s domestic
terrorism.** This includes reducing and protecting Americans from
racial, ethnic, and religious hatred, and stemming the flow of firearms
to individuals intending to commit acts of domestic terrorism. **We will
work to ensure that law enforcement operates without bias** in
countering domestic terrorism and provides for the public safety of all
Americans. In a true democracy, **violence cannot be an acceptable mode
of seeking political or social change**.

The U.S. Government is committed to **strengthening trust in** American
democracy and its ability to deliver for the American people, including
through relief and opportunity provided by the American Rescue Plan, the
American Jobs Plan and the American Families Plan. The U.S. Government
will also work to find ways to **counter the polarization often fueled
by disinformation, misinformation, and dangerous conspiracy theories
online**, supporting an information environment that fosters healthy
democratic discourse.

In implementing this strategy, and at the direction of President Biden,
we will remain focused on addressing violence and reducing the threat of
violence while vigilantly safeguarding peaceful expression of a wide
range of views and freedom of political association. 

\# \# \#
