---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-23'
modified_time: 2021-07-07 12:21:01-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/23/president-biden-announces-17-key-nominations/
published_time: 2021-06-23 16:47:41-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces 17 Key\_Nominations"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following 17 individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Michael Carpenter, Nominee for U.S. Representative to the
    Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), with
    rank of Ambassador
-   Claire Cronin, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to Ireland
-   Jack Markell, Nominee for Representative of the United States of
    America to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
    Development, with rank of Ambassador
-   Cindy Hensley McCain, Nominee for U.S. Representative to the United
    Nations Agencies for Food and Agriculture, with rank of Ambassador
-   Homer Wilkes, Nominee for Under Secretary for Natural Resources and
    the Environment, Department of Agriculture
-   Raymond Limon, Nominee for Vice Chair of the Merit Systems
    Protection Board of Directors
-   Max Vekich, Nominee for Member of the Federal Maritime Commission
-   Stacey Brandenburg, Nominee for Trustee of the Harry S. Truman
    Scholarship Foundation
-   Robert Garcia, Nominee for Trustee of the Harry S. Truman
    Scholarship Foundation
-   Kamilah Forbes, Nominee for Member of the National Council on the
    Arts
-   Christopher Morgan, Nominee for Member of the National Council on
    the Arts
-   Ismael Ahmed, Nominee for Member of the National Council on the Arts
-   Kinan Azmeh, Nominee for Member of the National Council on the Arts
-   Huascar Medina, Nominee for Member of the National Council on the
    Arts
-   Jake Shimabukuro, Nominee for Member of the National Council on the
    Arts
-   Constance Williams, Nominee for Member of the National Council on
    the Arts
-   Fiona Whelan Prine, Nominee for Member of the National Council on
    the Arts

**<u>Michael Carpenter, Nominee for U.S. Representative to the
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), with rank of
Ambassador</u>**

Michael Carpenter is the Managing Director of the Penn Biden Center for
Diplomacy and Global Engagement at the University of Pennsylvania.  He
is a former Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Russia, Ukraine
and Eurasia, and previously was Special Advisor for Europe and Eurasia
in the Office of the Vice President.   He also served as Director for
Russia in the National Security Council.  A former Foreign Service
officer, Carpenter served in the Department of State as Deputy Director
of the Office of Russian Affairs, Special Assistant for the Under
Secretary for Political Affairs, Political-Military officer in the
Office of European Security and Political Affairs, and Advisor on
Regional Conflicts in the Office of Caucasus Affairs and Regional
Conflicts.  He served overseas in Barbados, Slovenia and Poland.   He
has received numerous professional distinctions, including the Jamestown
Foundation Distinguished Service Award and fellowships from the John D.
and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation and the International Research &
Exchanges Board.  Carpenter earned a B.A. at Stanford University, and an
M.A. and Ph.D. at the University of California, Berkeley.  He speaks
Polish, Slovenian, Czech, French and German.

**<u>Claire Cronin, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to Ireland</u>**

Claire Cronin currently serves as a Representative, and as Majority
Leader, in the legislature of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. During
her service as a legislator, Cronin was also Vice Chair, and then Chair,
of the Committee on the Judiciary. As Chair of the Committee Cronin was
the architect of significant pieces of legislation, including major
criminal justice reform and police reform. Cronin has also served since
2003 as a Mediator/Arbitrator for Commonwealth Mediation in Brockton,
MA. Prior to her election as Representative, Cronin maintained the Law
Office of Claire Cronin in Brockton, Massachusetts.  Earlier she was
first a law clerk, and then an Associate Attorney at Wynn & Wynn, P.C.
in Raynham, Massachusetts.  Before that she worked in Liaison and
Constituent Services in the Office of Massachusetts Governor, Edward
King.  Cronin earned her B.A. from Stonehill College and her J.D. degree
from Suffolk University.  She is the recipient of multiple honors and
awards including the Jewish Community Relations Council Legislative
Leadership Award (2020) and the Emerge Massachusetts 2020 Woman of the
Year.

**<u>Jack Markell, Nominee for Representative of the United States of
America to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development,
with rank of Ambassador</u>**

Jack Markell, a former Governor and State Treasurer of Delaware, is the
President of Jack Markell Consulting, LLC.  He is a former Senior Vice
President of Comcast Corporation and Nextel Communications.  He also has
served as Chair of the National Governors Association, President of the
Council of State Governments, and Chair of the Democratic Governors
Association.  Markell earned a Bachelors Degree in Development Studies
and Economics at Brown University and an M.B.A. at the University of
Chicago.

**<u>Cindy Hensley McCain, Nominee for U.S. Representative to the United
Nations Agencies for Food and Agriculture, with rank of Ambassador</u>**

Cindy Hensley McCain is Chairman and Director of the Hensley Beverage
Company in Phoenix, Arizona.  She chairs the Board of Trustees and is a
member of the Human Trafficking Council at the McCain Institute for
International Leadership at Arizona State University.  She is a Member
of the Leadership Council at the Too Small to Fail Initiative in New
York City, in addition to leadership roles in numerous other civic and
philanthropic organizations. McCain is also Co-Chair of the Arizona
Human Trafficking Council, and a member of the Phoenix Mayor’s Human
Trafficking Task Force. McCain received her Bachelor’s and Master’s
degrees at the University of Southern California.

**<u>Homer Wilkes, Nominee for Under Secretary for Natural Resources and
the Environment, Department of Agriculture</u>**

Dr. Homer Wilkes, a native of Port Gibson, Mississippi, currently serves
as Director of Gulf of Mexico Ecosystem Restoration Team.  He is one of
the five Federal Executive Council member to oversee the rebuilding of
the Ecosystem of the Gulf of Mexico after the BP Oil Spill of 2010.  He
served as the Acting Associate Chief of USDA/Natural Resources
Conservation Service (NRCS) in Washington during the period of
2010-2012.  Dr. Wilkes’ tenure with the United States Department of
Agriculture span’s over 41 years. During his tenure he has served as
State Conservationist for Mississippi; Chief Financial Officer for NRCS
in Washington, DC; Deputy State Conservationist for Mississippi; and
Chief of Administrative Staff for the South Technical Center for NRCS in
Fort Worth, Texas.

Dr. Wilkes also served as Naval Supply Officer in the United States Navy
Reserves from November 1984 – Aprl-2007. 

He received his Bachelors, Master of Business Administration, and Ph.D.
in Urban Higher Education from Jackson State University.  He also
successfully completed the USDA Senior Executive Service Candidate
Development Program (SES CDP) through American University’s Key
Executive Leadership Certificate in Public Policy. Dr. Wilkes and his
wife Kim, currently reside in Ridgeland, MS. They have three sons,
Justin, Austin, and Harrison.  He enjoys fishing, restoring antique
vehicles and family activities. 

**<u>Raymond Limon, Nominee for Vice Chair of the Merit Systems
Protection Board of Directors</u>**

Raymond A. Limon is the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Human Capital and
Diversity, and Chief Human Capital Officer, and he is a career member of
the Senior Executive Service at the Department of the Interior (DOI). 
His Directorate provides strategic human capital; safety/health; and
training policies and services for the Department’s 70,000 plus
employees serving in over 350 occupations and 2,400 locations.  Before
joining DOI, Limon led the State Department’s Civil Service HR
Management office.  Ray has also served as the Chief Human Capital
Officer at AmeriCorps (or the Corporation for National and Community
Service), and chaired the Small Agency Human Resources Council,
representing approximately 100 Federal agencies and organizations.  He
was also an attorney at the U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM)
Office of General Counsel specializing in employment litigation and
policy review; and he served as OPM’s Director of the Office of
Administrative Law Judges (ALJs), where he managed the government-wide
personnel system for ALJs.  Limon received his J.D. from Indiana
University, Bloomington, and he is a former Peace Corps Volunteer
(Honduras).

**<u>Max Vekich, Nominee for Member of the Federal Maritime
Commission</u>**

Max Vekich a native of Aberdeen, Washington and the son to a father who
was an army Staff Sergeant in the Pacific, Philippines, and Korea, with
the Sixth and later the Second Infantry Divisions and mother who managed
the production of Landmines and hand grenades at Lamb’s Grays Harbor.

Vekich is a former elected official at the State House and won four
straight terms to the Washington State House of Representatives.  When
elected, he was the youngest Democrat in the State House.  Vekich served
as chair of three committees during his tenure: Agriculture, Trade &
Economic Development and Commerce & Labor. The Washington Historical
Society recognized his efforts by awarding him the Robert Gray Medal. In
2004 Vekich moved to Seattle for work.  He was promoted to “Supercargo”
in 2005 where he worked in all Washington State Ports.  In the public
arena, he stayed engaged on matters of Port infrastructure and
operations and  was lured back into politics in 2009 as a candidate for
Port of Seattle Commission.  Vekich garnered 185,000 votes as a runner
up.  Since then, the Northwest Seaport Alliance, which he advocated for,
has come into being combining Seattle and Tacoma container operations.
He has weighed in on numerous port issues, like the reactivation of
Terminal 5, which will be a reality in 2022.

Vekich is married to Marcee Stone, they have three adult children and
four grandchildren.

**<u>Stacey Brandenburg, Nominee for Trustee of the Harry S. Truman
Scholarship Foundation</u>**

Stacey M. Brandenburg is a distinguished privacy and technology lawyer,
currently practicing as a shareholder at ZwillGen PLLC. Brandenburg has
focused her career on emerging legal issues surrounding technology,
including privacy, data, and consumer protection. She previously served
as an attorney in the Federal Trade Commission’s Division of Privacy and
Identity Protection, and now works with clients to navigate new
regulations and implement best practices for their consumer-facing
policies and activities. Brandenburg also developed and taught a seminar
on privacy law as an adjunct professor at American University’s
Washington College of Law.

Brandenburg has a long history with the Truman Foundation and believes
strongly in its mission – a 1995 Truman Scholar from Georgia, she spent
a year working for the Foundation before law school, where she helped
nurture and sustain the Scholar community and its programming.  She has
continued to support the Foundation’s efforts through Friends of the
Truman Foundation. Brandenburg is a graduate of New York University Law
School and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, where she
was a John Motley Morehead Scholar. Brandenburg is married to Derek
Ludwin, and they have two children — Andrew and Elizabeth.

**<u>Robert Garcia, Nominee for Trustee of the Harry S. Truman
Scholarship Foundation</u>**

Dr. Robert Garcia is an educator and the 28th Mayor of Long Beach. Mayor
Garcia immigrated to the United States at age 5 and was raised in
Southern California. The Mayor, a college and university educator, holds
an M.A. from the University of Southern California and an Ed.D. in
Higher Education from Cal State Long Beach, where he also earned his
B.A. in Communications. Mayor Garcia leads a city made up of nearly
500,000 residents, 6,000 city employees, an airport and the second
largest container seaports in the world. He is focused on making the
City of Long Beach a leader in education, public health and climate
protection. As Mayor, he has championed progressive education policy,
launched an aggressive climate plan, supported workers by increasing
wages; and fought to expand and protect rights for immigrants, the
LGBTQ+ community and women — including appointing a female majority to
serve on city commissions for the first time in history. 

During the COVID-19 pandemic, Mayor Garcia launched a national model for
COVID-19 testing and vaccinations. His city became the first
jurisdiction in the State of California to vaccinate public school
teachers, which allowed one of the largest school districts in the state
to reopen campuses. Mayor Garcia was the first mayor in the country to
rollout a comprehensive city economic recovery plan — the Long Beach
Recovery Act — to reinvigorate the economy, build a healthier community
and get people back to work. To date, 99% of all senior residents in
Long Beach have been vaccinated and the city has been hailed by Governor
Newsom and national news outlets as a model for its public health and
economic response. He is married to Matthew Mendez Garcia, a professor
of political science at California State University, Long Beach.

**<u>Kamilah Forbes, Nominee for Member of the National Council on the
Arts</u>**

Kamilah Forbes is an esteemed award-winning director and producer for
theater and television who currently serves as the Executive Producer at
the world-famous Apollo Theater. Forbes is noted for having a strong
commitment to the development of creative works by, for, and about the
Hip-Hop generation. In addition to her work at the Apollo, Forbes’
directing credits include *By the Way, Meet Vera Stark,* written by
two-time Pulitzer prize-winning writer Lynn Nottage; *The Blood Quilt,*
written by Katori Hall; and *Sunset Baby,* by MacArthur Genius recipient
Dominique Morisseau. She has also worked as associate director on the
Tony Award-winning *A Raisin in the Sun*, and Emmy Award-winning “The
Wiz Live” for NBC. Other Broadway credits include *The Mountaintop* and
*Stick Fly.* 

Forbes’ most recent directorial work, “Between the World and Me” aired
as a special event on HBO and HBO Max in November 2020. Her directorial
work on “Between the World and Me” has brought her a host of acclaim and
recognition, including a nomination for Best Direction for an NAACP
Image Award and a Critics Choice Award nomination. 

Throughout her career Forbes has won numerous awards for both directing
and producing, including the 2019 NBTF Larry Leon Hamlin Producer Award,
a Root 100 Award, an NAACP Image Award, a Helen Hayes and Barrymore
Award, and an Audelco. Forbes’ recent projects include directing the
sold-out world premiere, tour, and theatrical adaption of Ta-Nehisi
Coates’ New York Times best-selling novel *Between the World and Me*,
which premiered at the Apollo Theater in 2018 and returned for encore
performances in 2019. In addition to her work at the Apollo Theater,
Forbes is set to direct the Broadway premiere of Soul Train alongside
producer Questlove, playwright Dominique Morisseau, and choreographer
Camille A. Brown.  

**<u>Christopher Morgan, Nominee for Member of the National Council on
the Arts</u>**

Christopher K. Morgan is a choreographer, educator, facilitator,
curator, and arts administrator. Known as a thoughtful advocate for
cultural integrity, inclusivity, and diverse representation in the
studio and on stage, his Native Hawaiian ancestry and wide-ranging
international performance career influence all aspects of his work. As
Executive Artistic Director of Dance Place in Washington, D.C., Morgan
stewarded the organization through the triple pandemics of 2020
maintaining the entire staff with no layoffs or furloughs, while
continuing to pay artists and teachers.

Since 2006 Morgan has directed Art Omi: Dance, an annual collaborative
residency for international choreographers in New York, where he created
an utterly unique international cultural exchange program. Frequently
sought as a speaker and grants reviewer, he has been at the forefront of
national discussions on equity in the arts. He currently serves on the
board of the National Performance Network, is a member of the
Association of Performing Arts Professionals’ Equitable Partnership
Working Group, and on the Association of Performing Arts Professionals
2022 Conference Planning Committee. Born in Orange County, CA, he
resides in Takoma Park, MD with his husband, opera director Kyle Lang.

**<u>Ismael Ahmed, Nominee for Member of the National Council on the
Arts</u>**

Ismael Ahmed most recently served as the Associate Provost for
Metropolitan Impact at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. In this
position, Ahmed was responsible for connecting academic initiatives for
9,000 students and 540 full and part-time faculty with over 500
community, business, and governmental partners. Prior to that, he served
in Governor Jennifer M. Granholm’s administration as Director of the
Michigan Department of Human Services, the state’s second-largest
department. He co-founded the Arab Community Center for Economic and
Social Services (ACCESS) in 1971 and was appointed executive director in
1983, growing it into a national human service and advocacy agency with
affiliates in 24 cities.

The son of first-generation immigrants, Ahmed is co-founder of The Arab
American National Museum in Dearborn and serves as an executive member
of its advisory board. Since 1984, he has lead Detroit’s Concert of
Colors – one of the largest world music festivals in the United States –
which he co-curates and co-chairs. He also produces and hosts “This
Island Earth” on WDET Public Radio Detroit, where he conducts
multi-cultural music & arts programs with music and guests that
represent culture from across the planet.

**<u>Kinan Azmeh, Nominee for Member of the National Council on the
Arts</u>**

Originally from Damascus, Syria, Kinan Azmeh brings his music to all
corners of the world as a soloist, composer and improviser. Notable
appearances include the Opera Bastille, Paris; Tchaikovsky Grand Hall,
Moscow; Carnegie Hall and the UN General Assembly, New York; the Royal
Albert hall, London; Teatro Colon, Buenos Aires; Der Philharmonie,
Berlin; the Library of Congress, the Kennedy Center, Washington DC; the
Mozarteum, Salzburg, Hamburg’s Elbphilharmonie; and in his native Syria
at the opening concert of the Damascus Opera House.

He has appeared as a soloist with the New York Philharmonic, the Seattle
Symphony, the Bavarian Radio Orchestra, the West-Eastern Divan
Orchestra, the Qatar Philharmonic and the Syrian Symphony Orchestra
among others, and has shared the stage with such musical luminaries as
Yo-Yo Ma, Daniel Barenboim, Marcel Khalife, John McLaughlin, Francois
Rabbath Aynur and Jivan Gasparian.

Azmeh serves as artistic director of the Damascus Festival Chamber
Players, a pan-Arab ensemble dedicated to contemporary music form the
Arab world.  He has also been playing with the Silkroad Ensemble since
2012, whose 2017 Grammy Award-winning album “Sing Me Home” features
Azmeh as a clarinetist and composer. Azmeh is a graduate of New York’s
Juilliard School as a student of Charles Neidich, and of both the
Damascus High institute of Music where he studied with Shukry Sahwki,
Nicolay Viovanof and Anatoly Moratof, and Damascus University’s School
of Electrical Engineering. Azmeh earned his doctorate degree in music
from the City University of New York in 2013.

**<u>Huascar Medina, Nominee for Member of the National Council on the
Arts</u>**

Huascar Medina is the 7th Poet Laureate of Kansas. He currently works
with the Kansas Creative Arts Industries Commission reimagining and
developing innovative programming for the poet laureateship. He is a
peer facilitator for Mid-America Arts Alliance’s Artist INC program.
Artist INC is dedicated to the professional development of artists of
all disciplines in the Midwestern region and connects them to the
resources, tools, and opportunities necessary to build entrepreneurial
skills and strengthen their artistic practice. As Literary Editor for
seveneightfive magazine, he provides a platform for Kansas writers by
reviewing and spotlighting their work. He is the host and creator of
Kansas is Lit on KSEF-DB, an online radio show specifically created to
increase the visibility and reach of Kansas writers. He serves as a
Staff Editor at South Broadway Press out of Denver, Colorado. He is also
an Op-Ed writer at Kansas Reflector, a nonprofit news organization
providing in-depth reporting and diverse opinions to all Kansans. Medina
proudly serves on the ArtsConnect board and Kansas Book Festival
council. He takes pride in the rise of Midwest artists and has dedicated
himself to the emergence of “The Prairie Renaissance”.

**<u>Jake Shimabukuro, Nominee for Member of the National Council on the
Arts</u>**

Jake Shimabukuro is a career ukulele player who wide experience in the
arts. Hefirst gained notice in the late 19902 with the popular musical
group Pure Heart . After the group dissolved, his fame as a solo artist
spread throughout Hawaii and eventually to Japan. There, in 2001,
Shimabukuro signed a historic deal with Epic Records/Sony Music, which
formed the basis of a career punctuated by a string of hit albums and
standing room audiences.

Shimabukuro has also played with world-renowned orchestras and at
prestigious venues such as the Hollywood Bowl, Lincoln Center, and
Sydney Opera House, and at music festivals including Bonnaroo, SXSW and
Fuji Rock Festival. He has also performed for Her Majesty Queen
Elizabeth II.

Shimabukuro continues to write and record, while maintaining an
international concert schedule of 140 live performances a year. He is a
loving husband and proud father of two boys. In addition to balancing
his career with family, Shimabukuro also remains firmly rooted in his
commitment to community, frequently performing at schools in Hawaii and
overseas to urge kids to “say no to drugs” and inspire them to find
their passion. In the process, Shimabukuro has served as a Pied Piper in
the booming popularity of the ukulele, spreading his belief that the
world would be a better place if everyone played the ukulele.

**<u>Constance Williams, Nominee for Member of the National Council on
the Arts</u>**

Constance Hess Williams has deep and varied experience as an
entrepreneur and consultant in the private sector and as an elected
official in the public sector. She graduated from Barnard College with a
B.A. in English and earned her M.B.A. from The Wharton School of the
University of Pennsylvania. Following graduation from college, Williams
worked in New York as an editorial assistant at Doubleday & Company,
answered viewer mail at NBC, and began a photographic stock house. 
After she married and moved to Philadelphia, Williams worked for Running
Press, as a consultant for the Wharton Small Business Development Center
and as a program officer for the  Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships. With
a background in publishing, marketing, and small business and financial
consulting, Williams was the economic development and small business
coordinator for Pennsylvania’s 13th Congressional District

Williams is widely known throughout her community for her strong record
of involvement with a special focus on education, the arts, and economic
development across broadly diverse regional organizations. She served as
the Chair of the Board of The Philadelphia Museum of Art and is now
Chair Emerita.  She was also a trustee of the National Museum of
American Jewish History,  Steppingstone Scholars Inc. Barnard College,
The Episcopal Academy, The Baldwin School, and Pine Manor College  and
The Kimmel Center of Performing Arts in Philadelphia.  She is a
Distinguished Daughter of Pennsylvania.

Williams resides in Haverford, Pennsylvania with her husband, Sankey
Williams. They have two daughters and five grandchildren.

**<u>Fiona Whelan Prine, Nominee for Member of the National Council on
the Arts</u>**

Fiona Whelan Prine brings an expansive viewpoint to the American roots
music community as President of Oh Boy Records, the country’s
second-oldest independent record label still in operation. In that role,
she oversees the multiple Grammy Award-winning recordings and publishing
copyrights of her late husband, American songwriter John Prine. She also
serves as Founder and President of the newly established Hello in There
Foundation. As one of Nashville’s most prominent and dedicated
philanthropists, Whelan Prine has volunteered countless hours on behalf
of Thistle Farms, a global nonprofit social enterprise dedicated to
helping women survivors recover and heal from poverty, prostitution,
trafficking, and addiction. Through unique annual fundraising events,
often with an appearance by John Prine, her initiatives have helped
raise more than $3 million for the organization. In the last year alone,
her community involvement has raised more than $1 million for important
social causes, including those related to the Covid-19 pandemic.

Born and raised in Ireland, Whelan Prine is the eldest of six daughters
born to Donal and Mary Whelan. She served as Business Manager for
Windmill Lane Studios in Dublin, considered Ireland’s premiere recording
studio. Whelan Prine met John while working there with artists such as
U2, Van Morrison and many others, and they later married in Nashville,
Tennessee, where together they raised their three sons. Whelan Prine
received her U.S. citizenship in 2004.

\###
