---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-11'
modified_time: 2021-06-11 09:09:45-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/11/readout-of-deputy-national-security-advisor-for-cyber-anne-neuberger-meeting-with-the-bipartisan-national-association-of-attorneys-general/
published_time: 2021-06-11 09:09:44-04:00
title: "Readout of Deputy National Security Advisor for Cyber Anne Neuberger Meeting\
  \ with the Bipartisan National Association of Attorneys\_General"
---
 
Yesterday, as part of her ongoing engagement with stakeholders across
the country, Deputy National Security Advisor for Cyber and Emerging
Technology Anne Neuberger met with the bipartisan National Association
of Attorneys General (NAAG) to speak to the cybersecurity challenges
facing the nation, including the threat from ransomware. Neuberger
stressed the important role state and local governments play in the
nation’s cybersecurity, and emphasized the essential role attorneys
general play in legal actions aimed at protecting state networks,
ensuring consumer privacy, and prosecuting cybercrimes. She listened to
the Attorneys General on the cyber challenges their states are facing,
and briefed them on the measures that the public and private sector can
immediately take to bolster cyber defenses.

Neuberger outlined the measures the Biden Administration has already
taken to modernize cyber defenses, including the recent “Improving the
Nation’s Cybersecurity” Executive Order and the Administration’s ongoing
efforts to partner with the public and private sectors to strengthen
critical infrastructure cyber defenses. She spoke about the recent
public-private Cybersecurity Industrial Control Systems Initiative and
its pilot program to strengthen cyber resilience in the electric sector,
noting the electric sector pilot will soon be followed by similar
initiatives to strengthen the cyber resilience of other critical sectors
like pipelines, water, and chemicals. Neuberger described the Biden
Administration’s ransomware strategy which includes four lines of
effort: disruption of ransomware infrastructure and actors by working
closely with the private sector; international cooperation to hold
countries who harbor ransom actors accountable; expanding cryptocurrency
analysis to find and pursue criminal transactions; and reviewing the
USG’s ransomware payment policies and approaches. She also underscored
the President’s commitment to modernizing existing infrastructure while
simultaneously investing in the infrastructure of the future.

In a reference to her [open
letter](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/06/Memo-What-We-Urge-You-To-Do-To-Protect-Against-The-Threat-of-Ransomware.pdf)
to the private sector, Neuberger reiterated the need for private and
public sector partnership to effectively guard against ransomware,
recalling that much of U.S. critical infrastructure is owned and
operated by the private sector. She reiterated her call to action that
corporate leaders implement the discrete, high-impact cybersecurity
measures contained in her open letter, and those referenced in the
President’s Executive Order. Investing in cybersecurity is a far better
investment for our economy and for companies than paying the funds in
ransom.

\###
