---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-13'
modified_time: 2021-06-13 08:22:28-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/13/fact-sheet-g7-to-announce-joint-actions-on-forced-labor-in-global-supply-chains-anticorruption-and-ransomware/
published_time: 2021-06-13 08:22:27-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: G7 to Announce Joint Actions on Forced Labor in Global Supply\
  \ Chains, Anticorruption, and\_Ransomware"
---
 
*The United States is rallying the world’s democracies to deliver for
our people, meet the world’s biggest challenges, and demonstrate our
shared values*

Today President Biden and leaders from G7 will demonstrate that we are
unified by our shared values and a collective resolve among major
democracies to meet today’s challenges.  President Biden and leaders
agreed to a set of concrete actions around key priorities responding to
forced labor in global supply chains, the ransomware threat, and
fighting corruption.    
  
****United States and G7 Commit to Removing Forced Labor from Global
Supply Chains**:** The United States and our G7 partners remain deeply
concerned by the use of all forms of forced labor in global supply
chains, including state-sponsored forced labor of vulnerable groups and
minorities and supply chains of the agricultural, solar, and garment
sectors—the main supply chains of concern in Xinjiang.  Leaders agreed
on the importance of upholding human rights and of international labor
standards, and committed to protect individuals from forced labor.  We
welcome the commitment of our G7 partners to ensure all global supply
chains are free from the use of forced labor.  We look forward
to identifying areas for strengthened cooperation and collective efforts
to eradicate the use of all forms of forced labor in global supply
chains, in accordance with international and national law.  
  
**Commitment to Fight Ransomware:** Ransomware is a longstanding global
challenge, and the threat continues to escalate in both scale and
sophistication. In just the last few weeks there have been several
significant cyber intrusions affecting many G7 and other nations’
critical infrastructure, manufacturing and electronics firms, and
hospitals. These transnational criminal enterprises leverage
infrastructure, virtual currency, and money laundering networks, and
target victims all over the globe, often operating from geographic
locations that offer a permissive environment for carrying out such
malicious cyber activities. The international community—both governments
and private sector actors—must work together to ensure that critical
infrastructure is resilient against this threat, that malicious cyber
activity is investigated and prosecuted, that we bolster our collective
cyber defenses, and that States address the criminal activity taking
place within their borders. The United States and our G7 partners are
committed to working together to urgently address the escalating shared
threat from criminal ransomware networks.

**Taking Collective Action to Combat Corruption:** On June 3, 2021
President Biden declared efforts to curb corruption a core U.S. national
interest, and issued a National Security Study Memorandum on the Fight
Against Corruption to elevate this vital work. Corruption corrodes
public trust; makes government less effective; wastes public resources;
and eats away at the foundations of democratic societies. Corruption
exerts a massive cost on economies and is fundamentally unfair to
citizens. As a group of the world’s leading economies, G7 members must
do more to make sure that proceeds of corruption do not end up in
untraceable accounts, obscured by shell companies or in real estate.  
  
Together with our G7 partners, the United States is resolved to taking
meaningful actions to effectively combat corruption, such as tackling
the misuse of shell companies, limiting the ability of bad actors to
launder dirty money in real estate purchases, improving
corruption-related information sharing, and reforming foreign assistance
to focus on anticorruption as a cross-cutting priority. We welcome the
G7 commitment to take collective action in combatting corruption.  
  
More detail will be included in the G7 Leaders’ Communique.

\###
