---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-08'
modified_time: 2021-06-08 17:27:32-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/08/readout-of-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-and-director-of-the-national-economic-council-brian-deese-meeting-with-cabinet-members-on-100-day-supply-chain-reports/
published_time: 2021-06-08 17:27:31-04:00
title: "Readout of National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan and Director of the National\
  \ Economic Council Brian Deese Meeting with Cabinet Members on 100 Day Supply Chain\_\
  Reports"
---
 
Today, National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan and Director of the
National Economic Council Brian Deese met with Secretary of the Interior
Deb Haaland, Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack, Secretary of Commerce
Gina Raimondo, Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg, Secretary of
Energy Jennifer Granholm, Secretary of Homeland Security Mayorkas, U.S.
Trade Representative Katherine Tai, Small Business Administrator Isabel
Guzman, Deputy Secretary of State Wendy Sherman, Deputy Secretary of the
Treasury Wally Adeyemo, Deputy Secretary of Defense Kathleen Hicks, and
Acting Commissioner of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration Dr. Janet
Woodcock to discuss the Biden Administration’s whole-of-government
effort to build diverse, resilient supply chains essential to our
national security, our economic security, and our competitiveness.
Sullivan and Deese thanked the Cabinet members and their teams for their
work to deliver immediate next steps and robust recommendations to
strengthen our supply chains in both the short-term and the long term.

Sullivan, Deese, and the cabinet members stressed the importance of
using all available tools across the United States government and
continuing partnerships with all stakeholders—including business, labor,
and environmental groups—to identify further actions we can continue to
take to strengthen our supply chains.

In the meeting, they also discussed the importance of being nimble to
address emerging supply chain issues resulting from a rapid return of
economic activity, in part due to President Biden’s historic vaccination
program and economic relief efforts. They thanked Secretaries Raimondo,
Buttigieg, and Vilsack for taking lead on the new Supply Chain
Disruptions Task Force, which will work closely with the White House
including the Domestic Policy Council, the National Economic Council,
the National Security Council, and Council of Economic Advisers, to
tackle near-term bottle-necks in the semiconductor, homebuilding and
construction, transportation, and agriculture and food industries.

Lastly, they discussed the broad bipartisan agreement for strengthening
supply chains, including the bipartisan bill to investment more than $50
billion in domestic production and R&D to advance U.S. leadership in the
semiconductor industry. The participants also discussed how the findings
of the reports reinforce the need for the transformative investments
proposed in the President’s American Jobs Plan. The American Jobs Plan
will make a once-in-a-generation capital investment to create millions
of good-paying jobs, rebuild our country’s infrastructure, and position
the U.S. to compete globally in key industries.

\###
