---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-18'
modified_time: 2021-06-18 12:31:03-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/18/president-biden-announces-five-key-nominations-2/
published_time: 2021-06-18 12:31:02-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Five Key\_Nominations"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following seven individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Xochitl Torres Small, Nominee for Under Secretary of Rural
    Development, Department of Agriculture
-   Laura Daniel-Davis, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Land and
    Minerals Management, Department of Interior
-   Hampton Dellinger, Nominee for Assistant Attorney General for the
    Office of Legal Policy, Department of Justice
-   M. Camille Calimlim Touton, Commissioner, Bureau of Reclamation,
    Department of Interior
-   Christi Grimm, Nominee for Inspector General, Department of Health
    and Human Services

**<u>Xochitl Torres Small, Nominee for Under Secretary of Rural
Development, Department of Agriculture</u>**

The granddaughter of migrant farmworkers, Xochitl Torres Small grew up
in the borderlands of New Mexico.  In 2008, she came home from college
to work as a field organizer, working in colonias in southern New
Mexico.  She continued serving rural New Mexico as a field
representative for Senator Tom Udall, where she collaborated with local
grassroots leaders, business owners, elected officials, and regional and
state economic development officials to help communities access American
Recovery and Reinvestment Act funds.  Inspired by Senator Udall’s work
on water in the West, Torres Small studied water law and worked closely
with rural water utilities. In 2018, Torres Small became the first woman
and first person of color to represent New Mexico’s second congressional
district, the largest district that isn’t its own state.

In the midst of the COVID-19 crisis, Representative Torres Small kept a
rural hospital from closing its doors, improved constituent access to
healthcare over the phone, and helped secure tens of millions of dollars
for broadband in New Mexico through USDA’s ReConnect Program. Prior to
the coronavirus pandemic, Torres Small raised the alarm on broadband
disparities, serving on Majority Whip James Clyburn’s Rural Broadband
Taskforce and as an original cosponsor of the Accessible, Affordable
Internet for All Act. As a member of the House Agriculture Committee,
Torres Small helped build the case for dairy farmers harmed by Canada’s
violation of the United States Mexico Canada Agreement, and drafted
legislation to help local farmers and rural communities invest in
infrastructure to navigate new markets. Torres Small also partnered with
Senator Udall to introduce the Western Water Security Act, and helped
secure key provisions of the legislation in the FY 2021 Appropriations
Omnibus.  In addition, Torres Small worked closely with the House
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure to secure New Mexico
water priorities in the Water Resources Development Act, including Rio
Grande ecosystem restoration from Sandia Pueblo to Isleta Pueblo and
increased authorization for the Tribal Partnership Program within the
United States Army Corps of Engineers. Throughout her career, Torres
Small has employed her experience organizing in vulnerable, rural
communities to achieve lasting investments that combat persistent
poverty.

**<u>Laura Daniel-Davis, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Land and
Minerals Management, Department of Interior</u>**

Laura Daniel-Davis currently serves as Principal Deputy Assistant
Secretary for Lands and Minerals Management, overseeing the important
activities of the Department of the Interior’s Bureau of Land
Management, Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of Safety and
Environmental Enforcement and the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation
and Enforcement.

Daniel-Davis has worked to conserve public lands, protect wildlife and
address climate change for three decades, prioritizing a collaborative
and partnership-based approach.  She previously served in the Interior
Department during the Clinton and Obama Administrations, serving as
Chief of Staff to Interior Secretaries Sally Jewell and Ken Salazar in
the Obama administration and Chief of Staff to the Deputy Secretary of
the Interior in the Clinton Administration.

She was most recently the Chief of Policy and Advocacy for the National
Wildlife Federation and led NWF’s bipartisan efforts on implementing
natural infrastructure solutions, including habitat restoration work,
along with supporting enactment of the historic Great American Outdoors
Act.  Daniel-Davis also has experience working in the U.S. House of
Representatives, serving as Deputy Chief of Staff to Rep. Mark Udall
(D-CO).

Daniel-Davis lives in Alexandria, VA with her husband, daughter, two
dogs and a cat, and enjoys hiking on public lands and identifying bird
calls. She holds a BA in Political Science from Wake Forest University.

**<u>Hampton Dellinger, Nominee for Assistant Attorney General for the
Office of Legal Policy, Department of Justice</u>**

Hampton Dellinger is a former Deputy Attorney General in the North
Carolina Department of Justice and served as Chief Legal Counsel in the
Office of the North Carolina Governor from 2001-2003 where his
responsibilities included overseeing the judicial appointment process. 
In the private sector, he has devoted a significant amount of time to
pro bono matters including representing an international coalition of
women’s soccer players challenging gender discrimination at the 2015
World Cup.

Dellinger has written on a wide range of legal topics including
publications in the Harvard Law Review, the North Carolina Law Review,
and for SCOTUSBlog.  Other essays he has authored have appeared in
Atlantic.com, Politico, Slate, and the National Law Journal.

Dellinger received his B.A. from the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor
in 1989.  He graduated from Yale Law School in 1993 and served as a
senior editor on the Yale Law Journal.  He was a law clerk for United
States Court of Appeals Judge J. Dickson Phillips, Jr.  He and his
spouse, Professor Jolynn Childers Dellinger, live in Durham, N.C. and
have two grown children.

**<u>M. Camille Calimlim Touton, Commissioner, Bureau of Reclamation,
Department of Interior</u>**

M. Camille Calimlim Touton is a Nevadan who has spent her career
focusing on water policy. Prior to joining Interior, Camille served as
Senior Professional Staff for the U.S. House Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure. Camille’s congressional experience also includes
serving as Professional Staff for the Senate Energy and Natural
Resources Committee and the U.S. House Natural Resources Committee, the
authorizing committees for the Department of the Interior. Camille also
served as the Department of the Interior Deputy Assistant Secretary for
Water and Science under the Obama Administration.

Camille holds a BS in Engineering (Civil) and a BA in Communication
Studies from the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, and a Master of Public
Policy from George Mason University.  While her heart is in the west,
Camille, her husband Matthew, and their daughters call Arlington, VA
home.  

**<u>Christi Grimm, Nominee for Inspector General, Department of Health
and Human Services</u>**

Christi A. Grimm is the Department of Health and Human Services’
Principal Deputy Inspector General (PDIG) and has been performing the
duties of the Inspector General since January 2020.  As the senior-most
executive for the largest federal Office of Inspector General, Ms. Grimm
leads an independent and objective organization of more than 1,600
auditors, evaluators, investigators, lawyers, and management
professionals who carry out OIG’s mission of protecting the integrity of
HHS programs as well as the health and welfare of program
beneficiaries.  Ms. Grimm has more than 20 years of experience leading
organizations, individuals, and teams to deploy creative solutions,
overcome challenges, and achieve positive outcomes. 

Ms. Grimm began her career with the Department of Health and Human
Services at the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services before joining
HHS-OIG in 1999.  She has held a number of leadership roles during her
service at HHS-OIG including, Senior Policy Advisor to the Principal
Deputy and Inspector General, Director of Policy and Programs, and Chief
of Staff.  In her current role, Ms. Grimm has led HHS-OIG through great
challenges, while sustaining the agency’s mission and impact.  She has
been a crucial voice in guiding and informing key stakeholders,
including those in the Executive and Legislative Branches, on important
topics such as oversight of the Unaccompanied Children Program, federal
health and human services’ response to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic,
and the intersection of healthcare and technology. Further, she is a
leading expert in HHS program integrity issues and has authored more
than a dozen articles and delivered multiple speeches that have
established her at the forefront of developments in the healthcare
arena.  In addition, Ms. Grimm spearheaded several programs within
HHS-OIG to strengthen the organization and better serve the American
people through important efforts such as creating the first-ever OIG
Executive Engagement Committee and building OIG’s capacity to address
diversity, equity, and inclusion.  Ms. Grimm provides valuable
healthcare oversight and program integrity expertise to the Pandemic
Response Accountability Committee (PRAC) as HHS-OIG’s representative to
the PRAC and the leader of the Health Care Subgroup.

Ms. Grimm has received numerous awards for her leadership and
achievements, including the Council of the Inspectors General on
Integrity and Efficiency Award for Excellence in Management in 2019 and
the Secretary’s Award for Excellence in Management in 2015.  Ms. Grimm
holds a Master of Public Administration from New York University and a
Bachelor of Arts from the University of Colorado, Denver.  She is a
graduate of Harvard University’s Kennedy School of Senior Managers in
Government.  Ms. Grimm is a native of Denver, Colorado and currently
resides in Alexandria, Virginia, with her husband and daughter.

\###
