---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-08'
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/08/fact-sheet-executive-order-blocking-property-and-suspending-entry-into-the-united-states-of-certain-persons-contributing-to-the-destabilizing-situation-in-the-western-balkans/
published_time: 2021-06-08 16:42:51-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Executive Order Blocking Property and Suspending Entry Into the\
  \ United\_States of Certain Persons Contributing to the Destabilizing Situation\
  \ in the Western\_Balkans"
---
 
Today, President Biden signed an Executive Order to further address the
ongoing national emergency declared in Executive Order (E.O.) 13219 of
June 26, 2001, and continued in E.O. 13304 of May 28, 2003, related to
the Western Balkans.  Today’s E.O. provides additional sanctions
authorities, including to target individuals who threaten the peace,
security, stability, or territorial integrity of any area or state in
the Western Balkans as well as those responsible for or complicit in, or
who have directly or indirectly engaged in, serious human rights abuse
in the Western Balkans, among other things.  The E.O. the President is
signing today builds on the existing national emergency and expands the
designation criteria, to address such challenges as corruption, and
other actions that obstruct key institutions and international
agreements.  

Corruption anywhere directly damages the foreign policy, national
security, and economic health of the United States and our partners and
allies.  That is why the United States is committed to promoting
accountability and combating impunity for those involved in significant
corruption in the Western Balkans and throughout the world.  By
definition, corruption serves the interests of those few who engage in
it, lining their own pockets and accountable only to their own personal
interests, not the interests of a country or its people.  Corruption
saps economic growth, facilitates organized crime, and undermines
confidence in democratic processes.  These forces open the door for our
strategic adversaries to undermine democracy, stymie progress toward
effective and accountable governance and prevent the Western Balkans
region from achieving full integration into transatlantic institutions. 
They allow individuals to exploit weak rule of law and to profit from
systemic corruption at the expense of ordinary citizens.  They thereby
constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security
and foreign policy of the United States. 

Specifically, the E.O. the President is signing today:

-   Underscores the United States’ longstanding commitment to
    implementation of the post-war agreements and institutions
    established following the breakup of the former Socialist Federal
    Republic of Yugoslavia;  
-   Expands sanctions designation criteria to include activities, among
    others, related to:  threatening the peace, security, stability, or
    territorial integrity of any area or state in the Western Balkans;
    undermining democratic processes or institutions in the Western
    Balkans; engaging in serious human rights abuse in the Western
    Balkans; and engaging in corruption related to the Western
    Balkans;  
-   Expands our ability to target actors engaged in a violation of, or
    an act that has obstructed or threatened the implementation of, any
    regional security, peace, cooperation, or mutual recognition
    agreement or framework or accountability mechanism related to the
    Western Balkans beyond previous E.O.s, to include the Prespa
    Agreement, the Conclusions of the Peace Implementation Conference,
    and the International Residual Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals, the
    successor to the International Criminal Tribunal for the former
    Yugoslavia; and  
-   Clarifies that the geographic scope of the Western Balkans includes
    the territory of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
    and the Republic of Albania.

All property and interests in property of persons designated pursuant to
this E.O. that are or come within the United States or the possession or
control of U.S. persons are blocked, and U.S. persons are generally
prohibited from engaging in transactions with them.  In addition,
individuals sanctioned under this E.O. will be banned from entering the
United States or holding a U.S. visa.  Ensuring the security and
political stability of the Western Balkans region is consistent with the
Biden Administration’s commitment to advancing core U.S. national
security interests, including the protection of democratic institutions.
 The Administration will continue to address the challenges in the
region head on.  The Department of the Treasury, in consultation with
the Department of State will continue to update the list of individuals
subject to sanctions under this order. 

\###
