---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-13'
modified_time: 2021-06-13 09:29:06-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/13/carbis-bay-g7-summit-communique/
published_time: 2021-06-13 09:29:05-04:00
title: "CARBIS BAY G7 SUMMIT COMMUNIQU\xC9"
---
 
We, the leaders of the Group of Seven, met in Cornwall on 11-13 June
2021 determined to beat COVID-19 and build back better.  We remembered
everyone who has been lost to the pandemic and paid tribute to those
still striving to overcome it. Inspired by their example of
collaboration and determination, we gathered united by the principle
that brought us together originally, that shared beliefs and shared
responsibilities are the bedrock of leadership and prosperity.  Guided
by this, our enduring ideals as free open societies and democracies, and
by our commitment to multilateralism, we have agreed a shared G7 agenda
for global action to:

-   **End the pandemic and prepare for the future** by driving an
    intensified international effort, starting immediately, to vaccinate
    the world by getting as many safe vaccines to as many people as
    possible as fast as possible. Total G7 commitments since the start
    of the pandemic provide for a total of over two billion vaccine
    doses, with the commitments since we last met in February 2021,
    including here in Carbis Bay, providing for one billion doses over
    the next year. At the same time we will create the appropriate
    frameworks to strengthen our collective defences against threats to
    global health by: increasing and coordinating on global
    manufacturing capacity on all continents; improving early warning
    systems; and support science in a mission to shorten the cycle for
    the development of safe and effective vaccines, treatments and tests
    from 300 to 100 days.  
-   **Reinvigorate our economies** by advancing recovery plans that
    build on the $12 trillion of support we have put in place during the
    pandemic. We will continue to support our economies for as long as
    is necessary, shifting the focus of our support from crisis response
    to promoting growth into the future, with plans that create jobs,
    invest in infrastructure, drive innovation, support people, and
    level up so that no place or person, irrespective of age, ethnicity
    or gender is left behind. This has not been the case with past
    global crises, and we are determined that this time it will be
    different.  
-   **Secure our future prosperity** by championing freer, fairer trade
    within a reformed trading system, a more resilient global economy,
    and a fairer global tax system that reverses the race to the bottom.
    We will collaborate to ensure future frontiers of the global economy
    and society, from cyber space to outer space, increase the
    prosperity and wellbeing of all people while upholding our values as
    open societies. We are convinced of the potential of technological
    transformation for the common good in accordance with our shared
    values.  
-   **Protect our planet** by supporting a green revolution that creates
    jobs, cuts emissions and seeks to limit the rise in global
    temperatures to 1.5 degrees. We commit to net zero no later than
    2050, halving our collective emissions over the two decades to 2030,
    increasing and improving climate finance to 2025; and to conserve or
    protect at least 30 percent of our land and oceans by 2030. We
    acknowledge our duty to safeguard the planet for future
    generations.   
-   **Strengthen our partnerships** with others around the world. We
    will develop a new partnership to build back better for the world,
    through a step change in our approach to investment for
    infrastructure, including through an initiative for clean and green
    growth. We are resolved to deepen our current partnership to a new
    deal with Africa, including by magnifying support from the
    International Monetary Fund for countries most in need to support
    our aim to reach a total global ambition of $100 billion.  
-   **Embrace our values** as an enduring foundation for success in an
    ever changing world. We will harness the power of democracy,
    freedom, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights to
    answer the biggest questions and overcome the greatest challenges.
    We will do this in a way that values the individual and promotes
    equality, especially gender equality, including by supporting a
    target to get 40 million more girls into education and with at least
    $2¾ billion for the Global Partnership for Education. 

We shall seek to advance this open agenda in collaboration with other
countries and within the multilateral rules-based system. In particular,
we look forward to working alongside our G20 partners and with all
relevant International Organisations to secure a cleaner, greener,
freer, fairer and safer future for our people and planet.  
  
**INTRODUCTION**  
  
1. We, the Leaders of the Group of Seven, met together in Cornwall,
United Kingdom on 11-13 June 2021 at a critical juncture for our people
and planet.   
  
2. We acknowledge the ongoing impacts of COVID-19 in our own societies
and around the world, and that those impacts have not been felt evenly.
We remember all those who have died as a result of the pandemic and pay
tribute to all those continuing to work to overcome the virus.  
  
3. United as open societies and economies and guided by our shared
values of democracy, freedom, equality, the rule of law and respect for
human rights, we commit to beating COVID-19 everywhere and building back
better for all. We are firmly convinced that these values remain the
best foundation for the social and economic advancement of all humanity.
We affirm that by investing in our people, tackling inequalities,
including gender inequality, promoting dignity and championing freedoms,
we will release innovation capable of tackling the great challenges of
our time.  
  
4. Our agenda for global action is built on our commitment to
international cooperation, multilateralism and an open, resilient,
rules-based world order. As democratic societies we support global
institutions in their efforts to protect human rights, respect the rule
of law, advance gender equality, manage tensions between states, address
conflict, instability and climate change, and share prosperity through
trade and investment. That open and resilient international order is in
turn the best guarantor of security and prosperity for our own
citizens.  
  
5. We were joined in Cornwall by the Leaders of Australia, India, the
Republic of Korea and South Africa, with whom we have agreed a shared
statement on the value and role of open societies. We will continue to
work together with these and all our partners in tackling global
challenges. We reaffirm our commitment to multilateralism and to working
with the G20, UN and wider multilateral system to deliver a strong,
sustainable, resilient and inclusive recovery.  
  
**HEALTH**  
  
6. Our immediate focus is beating COVID-19 and we set a collective goal
of ending the pandemic in 2022. The COVID-19 pandemic is not under
control anywhere until it is under control everywhere. In an
interconnected world global health and health security threats respect
no borders. We therefore commit both to strengthen global action now to
fight COVID-19, and to take further tangible steps to improve our
collective defences against future threats and to bolster global health
and health security. This includes strengthening the World Health
Organization (WHO) and supporting it in its leading and coordinating
role in the global health system.  
  
7. We recognise that the pandemic has left no one untouched, impacting
not only physical health but also mental health and social wellbeing. We
pay tribute to the extraordinary efforts of first responders, health
workers, paid and unpaid care workers, scientists, and manufacturers who
have developed and deployed COVID-19 medical tools at a pace few thought
possible, opening up a path out of the pandemic. At the same time, we
recognise that we have a long way to go to achieve global equitable
access to these medical tools, and to manage the risks from new COVID-19
variants which have the potential to reverse our progress.  
  
8. Recognising that ending the pandemic in 2022 will require vaccinating
at least 60 per cent of the global population, we will intensify our
action to save lives. Our international priority is to  accelerate the
rollout of safe and effective, accessible and affordable vaccines for
the poorest countries, noting the role of extensive immunisation as a
global public good. We reiterate our endorsement of the G20 Rome
Declaration and the statement agreed by our Foreign and Development
Ministers on equitable access. We will work together and with others,
leveraging the full spectrum of the capability and capacity we can each
deploy to support the global vaccination effort, through finance for and
sharing of doses, science, ensuring accessibility through voluntary
licensing, manufacturing and ensuring availability through exports,
opening supply chains, and supporting final mile delivery.  
  
9. We reaffirm our support for the ACT-A and its COVAX Facility as the
primary route for providing vaccines to the poorest countries. Since the
start of the pandemic, we have committed $8.6 billion to the vaccines
pillar of ACT-A to finance the procurement of vaccines, including $1.9
billion since we last met in February.  This provides for the equivalent
of over one billion doses. We welcome the recent successful COVAX Summit
co-hosted by Japan and Gavi which mobilised financing pledges exceeding
the COVAX AMC target. Recognising the urgent need to speed up delivery
of doses, we are committing to share at least 870 million doses directly
over the next year. We will make these doses available as soon as
possible and aim to deliver at least half by the end of 2021 primarily
channelled through COVAX towards those in greatest need. Taken together,
the dose equivalent of our financial contributions and our direct dose
sharing mean that the G7’s commitments since the start of the pandemic
provide for a total of over two billion vaccine doses. The commitments
since we last met in February 2021 including here in Carbis Bay provide
for one billion doses over the next year. We will work together with the
private sector, the G20 and other countries to increase this
contribution over the months to come.  
  
10. These commitments build on our wider contributions to the global
vaccination effort. These include exports from domestic production, with
at least 700 million doses exported or to be exported this year, of
which almost half have gone or will go to non-G7 countries, with a
commitment to continue exporting in significant proportions; and the
promotion of voluntary licensing and not-for-profit global production,
which has so far accounted for over 95 per cent of the COVAX supply.  
  
11. We reaffirm our support for all pillars of the ACT-A across,
treatments, tests and strengthening public health systems as well as
vaccines. As the G7, since our meeting in February, we have committed
over $2 billion in total to the ACT-Accelerator (including vaccines),
taking our collective commitment since the start of the pandemic to over
$10 billion. We support discussions regarding the extension of the ACT-A
mandate into 2022, noting the planned comprehensive review to optimise
its effectiveness and accountability. Efforts on this scale require
close monitoring of progress made by ACT-A with reliable, transparent,
up-to-date and clear information on procurement and delivery to both
donor and recipient countries in close partnership with regional
organisations. Progress should be reported to the G20 in Rome.  
  
12. In support of achieving our goal, we commit to an end-to-end
approach to boost supply of COVID-19 tools, including vaccines, raw
materials, tests, therapeutics, and personal protective equipment (PPE),
through more production in more places  to sustain a global supply
network for this pandemic and the next. This will be based on the
principles of open trade and transparency, including through terminating
unnecessary trade restrictive measures and supporting open, diversified,
secure and resilient supply chains. It will be backed up by a practical
and pragmatic approach to breaking down bottlenecks that are holding
back the efficient use of current production capacity, as well as
promoting partnerships to increase capacity further. To this end, we
will support the ACT-A Facilitation Council Working Group together with
the World Health Organisation (WHO), the World Trade Organisation (WTO),
Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), Gavi, UNICEF and
other partners such as the Medicines Patent Pool and the private sector,
to coordinate a global vaccine supply network to optimise manufacturing
capacities for safe and effective vaccines and other pandemic tools, and
to share information about supply chains. Emphasising the need for
equitable access to COVID-19 vaccines, we will support manufacturing in
low income countries and, noting the importance of intellectual property
in this regard, we will engage constructively with discussions at the
WTO on the role of intellectual property, including by working
consistently within the TRIPS agreement and the 2001 Doha Declaration on
the TRIPS agreement and Public Health. We note the positive impact that
voluntary licensing and technology transfer on mutually agreed terms
have already made to increasing global supply. We note the positive
impact that voluntary licensing and technology transfer on mutually
agreed terms have already made to increasing global supply. We will
explore all options to ensure affordable and accessible COVID-19 tools
for the poorest countries, including non-profit production, tiered and
transparent pricing, and sharing by manufacturers of a proportion of
production with COVAX, noting the previous precedent of the 10 per cent
target in relation to influenza. We support efforts to accelerate
manufacturing capacities of COVID-19 tools on all continents,
encouraging new partnerships based on voluntary licensing and technology
transfer on mutually agreed terms and in particular will strive to
support African efforts to establish regional manufacturing hubs. We
will continue to work with partners, regional organisations and
recipient countries, including through COVAX, to boost
country-readiness, and will maintain our efforts to support vaccine
confidence.  
  
13. To get and stay ahead of the virus, we commit to continue our
investment in cutting edge research and innovation, seeking to ensure
that global vaccines remain effective against variants of concern, and
that effective tests and treatments are available. To this end, we will
boost global surveillance  and genomic sequencing and swift information
sharing needed to enable the rapid detection to combat the virus and its
emerging variants. G7 countries should extend every effort to achieve,
wherever possible, a level of genomic sequencing of at least 10 per cent
of all new positive COVID-19 samples during the pandemic phase and share
genomic sequencing information with existing global databases.  
  
14. Alongside the above, we will continue and enhance our commitments
to  support fragile countries in dealing with the pandemic and other
health challenges. This includes supporting ACT-A partners such as The
Global Fund and Unitaid which have played a crucial role in delivering
lifesaving medical and other supplies, including oxygen, tests,
therapeutics and PPE, and assisting countries together with WHO to
strengthen their health systems, build capacity, manage outbreaks and
prevent disease spread. We call on the World Bank Group and the other
Multilateral Development Banks (MDBs) to increase the speed of their
financial support, and will continue to support ACT-A in this regard.  
  
15. Alongside responding to the current pandemic, we must act now to
strengthen the global health and health security system to be better
prepared for future pandemics and to tackle long standing global health
threats, including Antimicrobial Resistance. We welcome the Rome
Declaration, the measures set out within the ‘Strengthening WHO
preparedness for and response to health emergencies’ Resolution as
adopted at the 74th World Health Assembly, acknowledge the bold
recommendations of the Independent Panel for Pandemic Preparedness and
Response (IPPPR), and the work of the International Health Regulations
Review Committee (IHR Review Committee) and Independent Oversight and
Advisory Committee (IOAC). We look forward to continuing to work with
the G20, UN, WHO, WTO and other relevant international organisations, in
accordance with their mandates and rules for decision making, to make
progress in the swift implementation of recommendations, and to seek the
necessary multilateral action, including exploring the potential value
of a treaty. We look forward to the special session on pandemic
preparedness in the Autumn, as agreed at the World Health Assembly.  
  
16. As G7 countries, we acknowledge our particular role and
responsibilities in international efforts to strengthen the global
health system, and commit to harnessing our unique strengths to support
this. We endorse the G7 Carbis Bay Health Declaration and the G7 Health
Ministers’ Communique, and the concrete actions outlined to ensure all
countries are better equipped to prevent, detect, respond to and recover
from health crises including in alignment with the International Health
Regulations (IHR). We place particular emphasis on:

-   Improving integration, by strengthening a “One Health” approach
    across all aspects of pandemic prevention and preparedness,
    recognising the critical links between human and animal health and
    the environment.
-   Strengthening transparency and accountability, including reiterating
    our commitment to the full implementation of, and improved
    compliance with, the International Health Regulations 2005. This
    includes investigating, reporting and responding to outbreaks of
    unknown origin. We also call for a timely, transparent, expert-led,
    and science-based WHO-convened Phase 2 COVID-19 Origins study
    including, as recommended by the experts’ report, in China.
-   Improving the speed of response by developing global protocols which
    trigger collective action in the event of a future pandemic.
-   Ensuring fairness, inclusion and equity, including the empowerment
    and leadership of women and minorities in the health and care
    sectors, and addressing the links between health crises and wider
    social determinants of health such as poverty and structural
    inequalities, and leaving no one behind by advancing the achievement
    of Universal Health Coverage.
-   Increasing the resilience of global health systems to deal with
    outbreaks of emerging and enduring pathogens, including by investing
    in the health and care workforce worldwide to build capacity and
    keep health care workers safe.
-   Strengthening financing models to support longer-term preparedness,
    sustainable global health and health security, in particular but not
    limited to the WHO. We will explore options for building consensus
    this year, around sustainable global health and health security
    financing, supported by robust financial reporting, increased and
    defined accountability, and oversight. We ask our Finance Ministers
    to work with others, the G20 and its High Level Independent Panel
    (HLIP) to make progress in this regard. We will explore options to
    strengthen global accountability, tracking and allocation of global
    health security financing, including the IPPPR recommendation toward
    a Global Health Threats Council.

17\. The G7 has a leading role to play in deploying our collective
scientific capabilities as part of an enhanced global health response.
Data can play a transformative role in supporting effective early
warning and rapid response to health crises. We therefore need to
improve the quality and coverage of international, regional and national
pathogen surveillance to enable us to gather, share and analyse data to
identify new variants in our fight against the current pandemic, and to
detect and monitor future pathogens with pandemic potential. We support
the establishment of the international pathogen surveillance network – a
global pandemic radar – and welcome the WHO’s commitment to work with
experts and countries to help achieve this, based on a common framework,
including standards and rules for sharing data, that builds on existing
detection systems such as the influenza and polio programmes but with
greater capacity for genomic sequencing and broader in coverage. We note
the report to the Presidency on pathogen surveillance by Sir Jeremy
Farrar. To this end we welcome the WHO’s Global Hub for Pandemic and
Epidemic Intelligence, as well as additional centres as part of this
network. This will also need to be supported by capability building at
the regional level, thereby increasing global sequencing and pathogen
surveillance capacities across the world. We ask that the WHO reports
back to Leaders on the progress of the network by the end of this year
as part of the G20 process.  
  
18. It is essential that we maintain and build upon the extraordinary
innovation, scientific power, and collaboration that we have seen in the
response to this pandemic, including the development of COVID-19
vaccines in just over 300 days. As G7 members we have a particular role
to play in seeking to make safe and effective diagnostics, therapeutics
and vaccines even more quickly available in the future. Recognising the
unpredictable nature of future health emergencies, in the event of a
future pandemic we will seek to create an adequate framework to have
safe and effective vaccines, therapeutics and diagnostics available
within 100 days, consistent with our core principles around trade and
transparency of equitable access, and high regulatory standards. We
thank the UK’s Chief Scientific Adviser and his G7 counterparts, the
international organisations, industry representatives and expert
advisers involved in the partnership on pandemic preparedness convened
by the UK Presidency and note their practical proposals. We welcome the
100 Days Mission, and recognise that this will require continued,
concerted collaboration between the public and private sectors, and the
leadership of international health organisations, to make what has been
exceptional during this crisis become routine in the future. We invite
G7 Chief Scientific Advisers or equivalents to review progress and
report to Leaders before the end of the year.  
  
**ECONOMIC RECOVERY AND JOBS**  
  
19. Our plans for the recovery from COVID-19 need to put us on a path to
strong, sustainable, balanced, inclusive and resilient growth by not
only addressing the immediate challenges arising from the pandemic, but
also the long-term shifts in the global economy and society, including
demographic, technological, and environmental trends, and inequalities
between and within countries, many of which have been magnified by the
COVID-19 pandemic. Recognising the interconnected nature of these global
challenges, we are taking an integrated approach to our shared
commitments.  
  
20. To mitigate the impact of the pandemic, we have provided
unprecedented support to citizens and businesses, including to retain
jobs and support incomes and keep businesses afloat, totalling over $12
trillion including fiscal support and liquidity measures. We will
continue to support our economies for as long as is necessary, shifting
the focus of our support from crisis response to promoting strong,
resilient, sustainable, balanced and inclusive growth into the future.
Once the recovery is firmly established, we need to ensure the long-term
sustainability of public finances to enable us to respond to future
crises and address longer-term structural challenges, including for the
benefit of future generations.  
  
21. We share key priorities including protecting, supporting and
creating decent jobs, and investing in quality infrastructure,
innovation, training and skills and addressing inequalities. We will
continue to exchange ideas and share best practices to ensure we learn
from each other and update our approaches through different phases of
the recovery. We thank Lord Nick Stern for his paper on “G7 leadership
for sustainable, resilient and inclusive economic recovery and growth”
as commissioned by the UK G7 Presidency. At the heart of our agenda for
economic growth and recovery is a green and digital transformation that
will increase productivity, create new decent and quality jobs, cut
greenhouse gas emissions, improve our resilience, and protect people and
the planet as we aim for net zero by 2050.  
  
22. We need a tax system that is fair across the world. We endorse the
historic commitment made by the G7 on 5 June. We will now continue the
discussion to reach consensus on a global agreement on an equitable
solution on the allocation of taxing rights and an ambitious global
minimum tax of at least 15 per cent on a country-by-country basis,
through the G20/OECD inclusive framework and look forward to reaching an
agreement at the July meeting of G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank
Governors. With this, we have taken a significant step towards creating
a fairer tax system fit for the 21st century, and reversing a 40-year
race to the bottom. Our collaboration will create a stronger
<s>l</s>evel playing field, and it will help raise more tax revenue to
support investment and it will crack down on tax avoidance.  
  
23. We recognise the importance to the global economy of safely
restarting international travel, by land, air and sea, and multilateral
efforts to achieve this, including new public health guidance on
international travel by the WHO, International Civil Aviation
Organisation and International Maritime Organisation. We recognise that
this will need a set of common standards for travel including
interoperability and mutual recognition of digital applications, 
testing requirements, recognition of vaccination status including
exemptions and comparable criteria for when responsive measures may be
required. We welcome G7 Transport and Health Ministers’ ongoing
discussions and ask them to deepen cooperation to support a safe
reopening.  
  
24. As leaders accountable to all our citizens, we are determined to
ensure our plans for recovery build back better for all including by
strengthening education and upskilling, and facilitating labour market
participation and transitions to ‘level up’ our economies so that no
geographic region or person, irrespective of their gender, age,
disability, ethnicity, sexual orientation or economic status, is left
behind. We recognise this has not always been the case with recoveries
from previous global crises, and are together united in our resolve that
this time our response should continue to be different.  
  
25. While our support during the pandemic has helped to keep millions of
people in employment, the crisis has meant that many have still lost
their jobs, and the impact has not been felt equally, including with
respect to young people, women and disadvantaged groups, as well as
atypical and low-skilled workers. The crisis has also shown the
importance of social protection systems and the critical role and
incredible contribution of caregivers in our societies, often unpaid and
often disproportionately women, and the importance of improving decent
working conditions for these caregivers as part of our recovery plans.
At the same time, technological change is profoundly changing our labour
markets. We welcome the contributions of the G7 Employment Taskforce on
building back better, greener and more inclusively, including their
discussions with social partners and G7 Engagement Groups, including
Labour 7, Youth 7, Women 7 and Business 7 covering how we can prepare
our labour markets for the future. One of the highest priorities for our
ongoing cooperation will be ensuring our labour markets continue to
evolve to respond to these changes and deliver decent jobs and equal
opportunities for everyone, while fully respecting the ILO Fundamental
Principles and Rights at Work, and taking into account relevant
international labour standards.  
  
26. The COVID-19 pandemic has illustrated the risk to economic
resilience posed by global crises and shocks. These can manifest from
acute shocks, for example as a result of pandemics, and chronically,
from challenges such as market imbalances and distortions. Our
recoveries must ensure we build back more resilient. As we recover,
these risks need addressing in a more coordinated way. We will
collaborate more strongly between us and with allies on a new approach
to economic resilience. We recognise climate change and growing
inequalities as key risks for the global economy. We will consider
mechanisms and share best practices to address risks to the resilience
of the critical global supply chains, in areas such as critical minerals
and semiconductors, reflecting on models used elsewhere such as
stress-testing. We will also enhance our cooperation on investment
security within our G7 Investment Screening Expert Group, to ensure we
are resilient in our openness to all, able to tackle risks in keeping
with our shared principles of open markets, transparency and
competition. Our solutions will be built on our shared principles of
openness, sustainability, inclusion, innovation and competition will
help retain and reinforce the benefits of open markets; without them, we
risk a future of normalised volatility and fragmentation in the global
economy. To this end we appreciate the work by the G7 Panel on Economic
Resilience, and thank the OECD for its work in support, and we will
continue to work on the issues highlighted by the Panel.  
  
**FREE AND FAIR TRADE**  
  
27. We stand united in our commitment to free and fair trade as
foundational principles and objectives of the rules-based multilateral
system. We agree on the need for the world’s leading democratic nations
to unite behind a shared vision to ensure the multilateral trading
system is reformed, with a modernised rulebook and a reformed World
Trade Organization (WTO) at its centre, to be free and fair for all,
more sustainable, resilient and responsive to the needs of global
citizens. We will maintain a particular focus on ensuring that the
prosperity trade can bring is felt in all parts of our countries and by
all peoples across the globe, especially the poor.  
  
28. We support multilateral and plurilateral agendas to address issues
in the global trading system itself and shared global challenges. We
support G7 Trade Ministers’ efforts in this regard, and look forward to
further work in the G20. Looking ahead to the 12th WTO Ministerial
Conference (MC12) in November, we will work with other WTO members to
make progress on immediate issues, including reaching a meaningful
conclusion to the multilateral negotiation on fisheries subsidies and
advancing negotiations on e-commerce. We also welcome the work
undertaken towards the conclusion of the negotiations under the Joint
Statement Initiative on Services Domestic Regulation by its
participants. We support G7 Trade Ministers’ commitments to review our
trade policy to ensure it supports women’s economic empowerment, and
recognise the importance of developing a strong evidence base of
gender-disaggregated data and analysis. We invite Trade Ministers to
support the wider WTO membership to deliver an ambitious outcome at MC12
to bolster women’s participation in trade and economic empowerment. We
endorse the conclusions of G7 Trade Ministers on promoting the
transition to sustainable supply chains, and acknowledge the risk of
carbon leakage, and will work collaboratively to address this risk and
to align our trading practices with our commitments under the Paris
agreement. We also welcome G7 Trade Ministers’ call to work in the WTO
to formulate pragmatic, effective and holistic solutions to support
trade in health, as well as their support for open, diversified, secure,
and resilient supply chains in the manufacture of COVID-19 critical
goods and vaccines and their components.  
  
29. We are concerned by the use of all forms of forced labour in global
supply chains, including state-sponsored forced labour of vulnerable
groups and minorities, including in the agricultural, solar, and garment
sectors. We agree on the importance of upholding human rights and of
international labour standards, including those deriving from
International Labour Organisation membership, throughout global supply
chains and tackling instances of forced labour. We commit to continue to
work together including through our own available domestic means and
multilateral institutions to protect individuals from forced labour and
to ensure that global supply chains are free from the use of forced
labour. We therefore task G7 Trade Ministers to identify areas for
strengthened cooperation and collective efforts towards eradicating the
use of all forms of forced labour in global supply chains, ahead of the
G7 Trade Ministers’ meeting in October 2021.  
  
30. We will provide the sustained effort and momentum necessary to
ensure progress is made in the modernisation of the WTO to promote fair
competition and help secure shared prosperity for all. We will work
together at the WTO and with the wider WTO membership ahead of MC12 to
advance the following points:

-   modernisation of the global trade rulebook so that it both better
    reflects, with new rules, the transformations underway in the global
    economy, such as digitalisation and the green transition; and
    strengthens rules to protect against unfair practices, such as
    forced technology transfer, intellectual property theft, lowering of
    labour and environmental standards to gain competitive advantage,
    market-distorting actions of state owned enterprises, and harmful
    industrial subsidies, including those that lead to excess capacity;
-   stronger adherence to the existing and modernised rulebook,
    including through greater respect for and compliance with
    transparency obligations, and a strengthened WTO monitoring and
    deliberating function;
-   a fairer approach to countries’ different responsibilities under the
    rulebook, including through addressing the arrangements for special
    and differential treatment so they reflect developments in the
    global economy but continue to account for the special needs of the
    least developed and low-income developing countries;
-   proper functioning of the WTO’s negotiating function and dispute
    settlement system, requiring addressing long-standing issues; and,
-   support for the interests of the least developed and low-income
    developing countries, including in the full implementation of WTO
    rules to integrate into the world trading system, so that any
    modernisation of the global trading system supports the social and
    economic growth and development of these countries.

**FUTURE FRONTIERS**  
  
31. Future frontiers of the global economy and society – from cyber
space to outer space – will determine the future prosperity and
wellbeing of people all over the world in the decades ahead. As we are
witnessing an increasing divergence of models, this transformation
raises important questions about the interaction between economic
opportunity, security, ethics, and human rights, and the balance between
the role of the state, businesses and individuals.  
  
32. We will work together as part of an ongoing agenda towards a
trusted, values-driven digital ecosystem for the common good that
enhances prosperity in a way that is sustainable, inclusive, transparent
and human-centric. In doing so we will make it a sustained strategic
priority to update our regulatory frameworks and work together with
other relevant stakeholders, including young people, to ensure digital
ecosystems evolve in a way that reflects our shared values. We commit to
preserve an open, interoperable, reliable and secure internet, one that
is unfragmented, supports freedom, innovation and trust which empowers
people. If used properly, technologies can help us strengthen health
capacities, tackle environmental threats, widen access to education and
open new economic opportunities. We will leverage these technologies to
advance tech for the common good and promote digital literacy worldwide.
We will strengthen coordination on and support for the implementation
and development of global norms and standards to ensure that the use and
evolution of new technologies reflects our shared democratic values and
commitment to open and competitive markets, strong safeguards including
for human rights and fundamental freedoms. We also affirm our opposition
to measures which may undermine these democratic values, such as
government-imposed internet shutdowns and network restrictions. We
support the development of harmonised principles of data collection
which encourage public and private organisations to act to address bias
in their own systems, noting new forms of decision-making have surfaced
examples where algorithms have entrenched or amplified historic biases,
or even created new forms of bias or unfairness.  
  
33. We call on the private sector to join us in our efforts and reaffirm
our support for industry-led inclusive multi-stakeholder approaches to
standard setting, in line with our values and principles which underpin
these standards. As such, we welcome the Presidency’s initiative of a
‘Future Tech Forum’ in September 2021 with the support of the OECD. The
Forum will convene like-minded democratic partners to discuss the role
of technology in supporting open societies and tackling global
challenges. The Forum will support efforts to mitigate the risk of
regulatory fragmentation and to facilitate coherency of our emerging
technology ecosystems, and it will invite proposals for Leaders to
consider in appropriate global fora. We support the aim to facilitate
dialogue between governments, industry, academia, civil society and
other key stakeholders. As such we will continue to take bold action to
build more transparency in our technologies, building on the Open
Government Partnership. Building on the work of the Global Partnership
for Artificial Intelligence (GPAI) advanced by the Canadian and French
G7 Presidencies in 2018 and 2019, we will aim to rally all partners
around our open and human centric approach to artificial intelligence
looking forward to the GPAI Summit in Paris in November 2021. To support
effective standard-setting that reflects our core values and principles,
we will strengthen our coordination, including by consulting with
industry, with regards to engagement with and appointments to Standard
Developing Organisations, where appropriate. We commit to better sharing
of information and best practice, including between our national
standards bodies, enhanced capacity building and support for
multi-stakeholder participation in standard-setting. To this end, we
endorse the Framework for G7 Collaboration on Digital Technical
Standards.  
  
34. We will support cooperation on specific areas in relation to the
evolution of future frontiers. Based on the work of our Digital and
Technology Ministers, we agree the focus of our cooperation for this
year will be a structured dialogue around specific areas:

-   Championing data free flow with trust, to better leverage the
    potential of valuable data-driven technologies while continuing to
    address challenges related to data protection. To that end we
    endorse our Digital Ministers’ Roadmap for Cooperation on Data Free
    Flow with Trust.
-   Enabling businesses to use electronic transferable records in order
    to generate efficiencies and economic savings to support the global
    economic recovery. In support of this aim we endorse the Framework
    for G7 Collaboration on Electronic Transferable Records.
-   Taking further steps to improve internet safety and counter hate
    speech, while protecting human rights and fundamental freedoms,
    including free expression. We will protect our citizens online and
    offline, including children and vulnerable at-risk groups, and
    especially women and girls. We therefore endorse our Digital
    Ministers’ Internet Safety Principles which aim to set out common
    approaches to improving online safety. We invite Interior Ministers
    to work on a G7 agreement on sharing of information and best
    practice on tackling existing and emerging online forms of
    gender-based violence, including forms of online abuse. We affirm
    our support of the Christchurch Call, emphasising the need for
    respecting freedoms of speech and peoples’ reasonable expectation of
    privacy and further invite G7 Interior Ministers to continue work on
    preventing and countering Violent Extremist and Terrorist Use of the
    Internet begun in Ischia in 2017 and continued in Toronto in 2018
    and Paris in 2019. We commit to work together to further a common
    understanding of how existing international law applies to
    cyberspace and welcome the work of our Foreign Ministers to promote
    this approach at the UN and other international fora. We also commit
    to work together to urgently address the escalating shared threat
    from criminal ransomware networks. We call on all states to urgently
    identify and disrupt ransomware criminal networks operating from
    within their borders, and hold those networks accountable for their
    actions.
-   Securing supply chains. Recognising the foundational role that
    telecommunications infrastructure, including 5G and future
    communication technologies, plays and will play in underpinning our
    wider digital and ICT infrastructure we will promote secure,
    resilient, competitive, transparent and sustainable and diverse
    digital, telecoms, and ICT infrastructure supply chains.
-   Deepening cooperation on Digital Competition in order to drive
    innovation across the global economy, enhancing consumer choice. We
    recognise that there is increasing international consensus that
    participants with significant market power can exploit their power
    to hold back digital markets and the wider economy. Therefore,
    building on the 2019 French G7 Presidency’s common understanding on
    ‘Competition and the Digital Economy’, we will work together through
    existing international and multilateral fora to find a coherent way
    to encourage competition and support innovation in digital markets.

35\. Beyond these priorities, we will review whether other areas of
collaboration with respect to future frontiers are appropriate. We are
committed to the safe and sustainable use of space to support humanity’s
ambition now and in the future. We recognise the importance of
developing common standards, best practices and guidelines related to
sustainable space operations alongside the need for a collaborative
approach for space traffic management and coordination. We call on all
nations to work together, through groups like the United Nations
Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space, the International
Organization for Standardization and the Inter-Agency Space Debris
Coordination Committee, to preserve the space environment for future
generations.  
  
36. Underpinning all of these future frontiers, and wider challenges of
the coming century, is the importance of scientific discovery and its
deployment. We will therefore work together to promote stronger
collaboration on research and development, and promote principles of
research security and integrity and open science building off the
historical levels of collaboration seen in the past year to
internationally beneficial results. Central to this should be building a
diverse and resilient science and research community, inclusive for all
groups  including women. Domestically we will seek to redress the
imbalance in women’s and girls’ under-representation in science,
technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) which acts as a barrier
to access to these growing industries. We will explore how existing and
potential new mechanisms and initiatives can support risk reduction,
prevention and response to future systemic crises, natural disasters and
pace of technological change. As such we endorse the G7 Compact on
Research Collaboration and its commitment to: support policies, legal
frameworks and programmes to promote research collaboration; promote
sharing of research data; explore enhancements to research assessment
and rewards for collaboration and knowledge sharing; and develop a
common set of principles which will help protect research and innovation
ecosystem across the G7 to open and reciprocal research collaboration.  
  
**CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENT**  
  
37. The unprecedented and interdependent crises of climate change and
biodiversity loss pose an existential threat to people, prosperity,
security, and nature. Through global action and concerted leadership,
2021 should be a turning point for our planet as we commit to a green
transition that cuts emissions, increases adaptation action worldwide,
halts and reverses biodiversity loss, and, through policy and
technological transformation, creates new high quality jobs and
increases prosperity and wellbeing. Ahead of the 15th Conference of the
Parties of the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD COP15), the 26th
UN Climate Change Conference of the Parties (UNFCCC COP26) and the
fifteenth session of the Conference of the Parties to the UN Convention
to Combat Desertification (CCD COP15), we commit to accelerating efforts
to cut greenhouse gas emissions and keep the 1.5°C global warming
threshold within reach, strengthening adaptation and resilience to
protect people from the impacts of climate change, halting and reversing
biodiversity loss, mobilising finance and leveraging innovation to reach
these goals. We welcome and encourage business, civil society and
regional commitments to global climate and biodiversity ambition through
science based targets, including the Race to Resilience and Race to Zero
campaigns. Together we welcome the active role and participation of
vulnerable communities, underrepresented groups and will work towards
achieving equality, including gender equality, in the climate and
environment sector. We will continue our efforts to progress the Equal
by 30 Campaign for gender equality in the energy sector.  
  
38. As G7 members, we all reaffirm our commitment to the Paris Agreement
and to strengthening and accelerating its implementation through robust
national policies and measures and scaled up international cooperation.
To this end we collectively commit to ambitious and accelerated efforts
to achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions as soon as possible and by
2050 at the latest, recognising the importance of significant action
this decade. In line with this goal, we have each committed to increased
2030 targets and, where not done already, commit to submit aligned
Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) as soon as possible ahead of
COP26, which will cut our collective emissions by around half compared
to 2010 or over half compared to 2005. We also commit to submit 2050
Long Term Strategies (LTSs) by COP26 and to regularly update these as
needed in line with the Paris agreement to reflect the latest science,
technological advances and market developments. Recognising the
importance of adaptation in our own national planning, we also commit to
submitting adaptation communications as soon as possible, and if
feasible by COP26. In fulfilling these commitments we will continue to
increase our efforts to keep a limit of 1.5°C temperature rise within
reach and chart a G7 pathway towards Net Zero economies. We call on all
countries, in particular major emitting economies, to join us in these
goals as part of a global effort, stepping up their commitments to
reflect the highest possible ambition and transparency on implementation
under the Paris Agreement. We also note the value of supporting
international initiatives such as the OECD’s International Programme for
Action on Climate Mechanism (IPAC).  
  
39. To be credible, ambitions need to be supported by tangible actions
in all sectors of our economies and societies. We will lead a
technology-driven transition to Net Zero, supported by relevant
policies, noting the clear roadmap provided by the International Energy
Agency and prioritising the most urgent and polluting sectors and
activities:

-   In our **energy sectors**, we will increase energy efficiency,
    accelerate renewable and other zero emissions energy deployment,
    reduce wasteful consumption, leverage innovation all whilst
    maintaining energy security. Domestically, we commit to achieve an
    overwhelmingly decarbonised power system in the 2030s and to actions
    to accelerate this. Internationally, we commit to aligning official
    international financing with the global achievement of net zero GHG
    emissions no later than 2050 and for deep emissions reductions in
    the 2020s. We will phase out new direct government support for
    international carbon-intensive fossil fuel energy as soon as
    possible, with limited exceptions consistent with an ambitious
    climate neutrality pathway, the Paris Agreement, 1.5°C goal and best
    available science. To be credible, ambitions need to be supported by
    tangible actions in all sectors of our economies and societies. We
    will lead a technology-driven transition to Net Zero, noting the
    clear roadmap provided by the International Energy Agency and
    prioritising the most urgent and polluting sectors and activities.
-   Recognising that **coal** power generation is the single biggest
    cause of greenhouse gas emissions, and consistent with this overall
    approach and our strengthened NDCs, domestically we have committed
    to rapidly scale-up technologies and policies that further
    accelerate the transition away from unabated coal capacity,
    consistent with our 2030 NDCs and net zero commitments. This
    transition must go hand in hand with policies and support for a just
    transition for affected workers, and sectors so that no person,
    group or geographic region is left behind. To accelerate the
    international transition away from coal, recognising that continued
    global investment in unabated coal power generation is incompatible
    with keeping 1.5°C within reach we stress that international
    investments in unabated coal must stop now and we commit now to an
    end to new direct government support for unabated international
    thermal coal power generation by the end of 2021, including through
    Official Development Assistance, export finance, investment, and
    financial and trade promotion support. This transition must also be
    complemented by support to deliver this, including coordinating 
    through the Energy Transition Council. We welcome the work by the
    Climate Investment Funds (CIFs) and donors plan to commit up to $2
    billion in the coming year to its Accelerating the Coal Transition
    and Integrating Renewable Energy programs. These concessional
    resources are expected to mobilize up to $10 billion in
    co-financing, including from the private sector, to support
    renewable energy deployment in developing and emerging economies. We
    call on other major economies to adopt such commitments and join us
    in phasing out the most polluting energy sources, and scaling up
    investment in the technology and infrastructure to facilitate the
    clean, green transition. More broadly, we reaffirm our existing
    commitment to eliminating inefficient fossil fuel subsidies by 2025,
    and call on all countries to join us, recognising the substantial
    financial resource this could unlock globally to support the
    transition and the need to commit to a clear timeline.
-   In our **transport sectors**, we commit to sustainable, decarbonised
    mobility and to scaling up zero emission vehicle technologies,
    including buses, trains, shipping and aviation. We recognise that
    this will require dramatically increasing the pace of the global
    decarbonisation of the road transport sector throughout the 2020s,
    and beyond. This includes support for accelerating the roll out of
    necessary infrastructure, such as charging and fueling
    infrastructure and enhancing the offer of more sustainable transport
    modes, including public transport, shared mobility, cycling and
    walking. We commit to accelerate the transition away from new sales
    of diesel and petrol cars to promote the uptake of zero emission
    vehicles.
-   In our **industrial and innovation sectors** we will take action to
    decarbonise areas such as iron and steel, cement, chemicals, and
    petrochemicals, in order to reach net zero emissions across the
    whole economy. To this end, we will harness our collective strengths
    in science, technological innovation, policy design, financing, and
    regulation including through our launch of the G7 Industrial
    Decarbonisation Agenda to complement, support and amplify ambition
    of existing initiatives. This includes further action on public
    procurement, standards and industrial efforts to define and
    stimulate demand for green products and enhance energy and resource
    efficiency in industry. We will focus on accelerating progress on
    electrification and batteries, hydrogen, carbon capture, usage and
    storage, zero emission aviation and shipping, and for those
    countries that opt to use it, nuclear power. We therefore fully
    support launching Mission Innovation phase two and the Clean Energy
    Ministerial third phase.
-   In our **homes and buildings,** and also industry, we recognise the
    need for an urgent step change in the deployment of renewable
    heating and cooling and reduction in energy demand. This complements
    required shifts in building design, sustainable materials and
    retrofits. We therefore welcome the Super-Efficient Equipment and
    Appliance Deployment (SEAD) initiative’s goal of doubling the
    efficiency of lighting, cooling, refrigeration and motor systems
    sold globally by 2030.
-   In our **agricultural, forestry and other land use sectors**, we
    commit to ensuring our policies encourage sustainable production,
    the protection, conservation, and regeneration of ecosystems, and
    the sequestration of carbon. We welcome the opportunity to discuss
    these issues at the COP26 Transition to Sustainable Agriculture
    Policy Dialogue and UN Food Systems Summit in September.

40\. Achieving our collective ambitions of a global green and resilient
recovery offers the greatest economic opportunity of our time to boost
income, innovation, jobs, productivity and growth while also
accelerating action to tackle the existential threat of climate change
and environmental degradation. To close the gap between the funds needed
and actual finance flows requires mobilising and aligning finance and
investment at scale towards the technologies, infrastructure,
ecosystems, businesses, jobs and economies that will underpin a net-zero
emissions resilient future that leaves no one behind. This includes the
deployment and alignment of all sources of finance: public and private,
national and multilateral. We recognise the particular challenges of
financing the transition to net zero economies poses for developing
countries and stand by our bilateral and multilateral commitments to
support these partners, in the context of meaningful and transparent
decarbonisation efforts. We reaffirm the collective developed country
goal to jointly mobilise $100 billion per year from public and private
sources, through to 2025 in the context of meaningful mitigation actions
and transparency on implementation. Towards this end, we commit to each
increase and improve our overall international public climate finance
contributions for this period and call on other developed countries to
join and enhance their contributions to this effort. We welcome the
commitments already made by some of the G7 to increase climate finance
and look forward to new commitments from others well ahead of COP26 in
Glasgow. This increase in quantity and predictability is complemented by
improved effectiveness and accessibility, and includes more finance
contributing to adaptation and resilience, disaster risk and insurance,
as well as support for nature and nature-based solutions. We are
committed to further enhance synergies between finance for climate and
biodiversity and to promote funding that has co-benefits for climate and
nature and are working intensively towards increasing the quantity of
finance to nature and nature-based solutions. We welcome efforts of the
MDBs to scale up their climate and nature finance, urge them to mobilise
increased finance including from the private sector, and call on them,
Development Finance Institutions (DFIs), multilateral funds, public
banks and relevant agencies to publish before COP26 a high-level plan
and date by which all their operations will be fully aligned with and
support the objectives of the Paris Agreement and the multilateral
environmental agreements we support.  
  
41. We also support the transformation underway to mobilise further
private capital towards these objectives in particular to support
developing countries and emerging markets in making the most of the
opportunities in the transition; whilst mitigating and adapting to
climate change. We call upon the MDBs and our DFIs to prioritise capital
mobilization strategies, initiatives and incentives within their
operations. The G7 commits to leverage different types of blended
finance vehicles including through our greater strategic approach to
development finance, greater collaboration between our DFIs and billions
worth of planned commitments towards CIF and Green Climate Fund, all of
which will mobilise billions more in private finance. We also encourage
further development of disaster risk finance markets. Towards this, G7
members have committed hundreds of millions worth of new financing for
early action, disaster risk and insurance in line with the
InsuResilience Global Partnership and Risk-Informed Early Action
Partnership (REAP). We commit to establishing the necessary market
infrastructure for private finance to support and incentivise the net
zero transition. Developing the global green finance market will help
mobilise private sector finance, and reinforce government policy to meet
our net zero commitments. We support the recently launched Glasgow
Finance Alliance for Net Zero, and call on swift, robust delivery of
their commitments to reduce real economy emissions. We emphasise the
need to green the global financial system so that financial decisions
take climate considerations into account. We support moving towards
mandatory climate-related financial disclosures that provide consistent
and decision-useful information for market participants and that are
based on the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
framework, in line with domestic regulatory frameworks. We also look
forward to the establishment of the Taskforce on Nature-related
Financial Disclosures and its recommendations. These initiatives will
help mobilise the trillions of dollars of private sector finance needed,
and reinforce government policy to meet our net zero commitments. We
recognise the potential of high integrity carbon markets and carbon
pricing to foster cost-efficient reductions in emission levels, drive
innovation and enable a transformation to net zero, through the optimal
use of a range of policy levers to price carbon. We underline their
importance towards the establishment of a fair and efficient carbon
pricing trajectory to accelerate the decarbonisation of our economies,
to achieve a net zero global emissions pathway. In all this, we will
develop gender-responsive approaches to climate and nature financing,
investment and policies, so that women and girls can participate fully
in the future green economy.  
  
42. Biodiversity loss is an intrinsically linked, mutually reinforcing,
and equally important existential threat to our planet and our people
alongside climate change. In this context, we acknowledge as the G7 our
contribution to the decline of biodiversity and pledge to play our part
in its restoration and conservation. We support an ambitious post-2020
global biodiversity framework to be adopted by parties at CBD COP15
which sets ambitious goals, strengthens implementation, and enhances
regular reporting and review. We acknowledge our responsibility to
support the world in reversing the trajectory of the loss of
biodiversity and the natural environments that support it, alongside
ensuring that the impact on nature is fully taken into account in our
policy decision making.  
  
43. In support of strong outcomes for nature at the Convention on
Biological Diversity COP-15 in Kunming and COP26 this year, and noting
the Leaders’ Pledge for Nature launched at the 75th session of the UN
General Assembly 2020, we adopt the G7 2030 Nature Compact in support of
the global mission to halt and reverse biodiversity loss by 2030. The
Nature Compact commits us to take action across four key pillars:

-   First, we commit to champion ambitious and effective global
    biodiversity targets, including conserving  or protecting at least
    30 per cent of global land and at least 30 per cent of the global
    ocean by 2030. We will contribute by conserving or protecting  at
    least 30 per cent of our own land, including terrestrial and inland
    waters, and coastal and marine areas by 2030 according to national
    circumstances and approaches. These actions will help stem the
    extinction crisis, safeguard water and food supplies, absorb carbon
    pollution, and reduce the risks of future pandemics. We also fully
    support the commitment of the Commission for the Conservation of
    Antarctic Marine Living Resources (CCAMLR) to develop a
    representative system of Marine Protected Areas (MPAs) in the
    Convention area in the Southern Ocean based on the best available
    scientific evidence.
-   Second, we will support the transition to sustainable management and
    use of natural resources, and use appropriate levers to address
    unsustainable and illegal activities negatively impacting nature,
    and therefore livelihoods. This includes stepping up action to
    tackle increasing levels of plastic pollution in the ocean,
    including working through the UN Environment Assembly (UNEA) on
    options including strengthening existing instruments and a potential
    new agreement or other instrument to address marine plastic litter,
    including at UNEA-5.2.
-   Third, we will work intensively towards increasing investment in the
    protection, conservation and restoration of nature, including
    committing to increase finance for nature based solutions through to
    2025, maximising synergies of climate and biodiversity finance, and
    ensuring prominence of nature in both policy and economic
    decision-making.
-   Finally, we will prioritise strengthened accountability and
    implementation mechanisms of Multilateral Environmental Agreements
    to which we are parties. We will implement the Compact and review
    our progress against it regularly through existing G7 mechanisms,
    including at the G7 Leaders’ Summit in five years when we will
    review options to  ratchet up our action and ambition, as needed, to
    ensure delivery of our 2030 vision. Those G7 members party to the
    CBD will also champion successful implementation of the post-2020
    global biodiversity framework to be agreed at COP15.

**GENDER EQUALITY**  
  
44. Gender equality is at the heart of an open, inclusive, and just
society. Persistent gaps in gender equality affect access to basic
services as well as decent work, equal pay, social protection,
education, technology and many other areas. Unequal division of unpaid
care responsibilities in the home and low pay for paid care work also
limits women’s empowerment, social and economic participation and
leadership. Gender equality intersects with other characteristics and
our actions need to take account of these intersections in a meaningful
way, including tackling racism in all forms and violence and
discrimination against LGBQTI+ populations. We recognise the devastating
and disproportionate impact of COVID-19 on women and girls, which risks
reversing hard-won gains especially with regards to gender-based
violence, sexual and reproductive health and rights, education and
jobs.  
  
45. The advancement of gender equity and equality are a central pillar
of our plans and policies to build back better, informed by three key
priorities: educating girls, empowering women and ending violence
against women and girls. Achieving gender equality needs to be
underpinned by the full, equal and meaningful participation of women in
all aspects of  decision-making. We are committed to close alignment
with the Generation Equality Forum (GEF) and commend the organisation of
the first G20 Ministerial Conference on women’s empowerment. We thank
the Gender Equality Advisory Council (GEAC) for its work and
recommendations, and look forward to receiving the GEAC’s full report in
the Autumn. We agree to a consistent and sustained focus on gender
equality to project our global leadership on this issue, and intend to
convene the GEAC as a standing feature of all G7 Presidencies. We know
that we cannot make true progress towards gender equality without robust
data and a way to track it over time. We invite the GEAC to work with
existing accountability mechanisms such as the Accountability Working
Group and the Taormina Roadmap to monitor G7 commitments to achieve
gender equality on an annual basis.  
  
46. We reaffirm our full commitment to promote and protect the sexual
and reproductive health and rights (SRHR) of all individuals, and
recognise the essential and transformative role they play in gender
equality and women’s and girls’ empowerment, and in supporting
diversity, including of sexual orientations and gender identities. We
commit to working together to prevent and address the negative impacts
on access to SRHR from the COVID-19 pandemic, with specific attention to
the most at risk, marginalised and inadequately served groups. In
recognition of increased violence against women and girls during the
COVID-19 crisis, we commit to preventing, responding to and eliminating
all forms of sexual and gender-based violence (GBV). We will achieve
this through women’s empowerment and by scaling-up implementation of
evidence-based, accessible survivor and victim-centred policies,
prevention and support programmes, including through our pandemic
response and recovery at home, in partner countries and in conflict
zones. We acknowledge our collective responsibility to beneficiaries and
partners, their communities, and survivors to do more to address sexual
exploitation and abuse in international aid. We condemn GBV against
women and girls and denounce the use of sexual violence in conflict
situations and underscore that such acts may constitute crimes against
humanity or war crimes. We note the varied legal and institutional
frameworks which currently address conflict and invite Foreign and
Development Ministers to consider how best to strengthen international
architecture around conflict-related sexual violence.  
  
47. COVID-19 has exacerbated underlying inequalities, leading to one of
the worst education crises in history for children around the world, but
especially for the most marginalised and at risk girls. Around 11
million girls from pre-primary to secondary school are at risk of not
returning to school. We commit to two new global SDG4 milestone girls’
education targets: 40 million more girls in education by 2026 in low and
lower-middle income countries; and 20 million more girls reading by age
10 or the end of primary school by 2026, in low and lower-middle income
countries. We endorse the G7 Foreign and Development Ministers’ Girls
Education Declaration. These targets should be underpinned by
sustainable financing and so today G7 members commit to a combined total
pledge of at least $2¾ billion funding over the next 5 years for the
Global Partnership for Education (GPE) ahead of its replenishment in
July. We call on others to join with the G7 and make ambitious pledges
to a fully funded GPE.  
  
**GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY AND INTERNATIONAL ACTION**  
  
48. We will work together to promote our shared values as open societies
in the international system, as reflected in the Statement on Open
Societies signed with the Leaders of countries from the Indo-Pacific
region and Africa, who have joined us at Carbis Bay, namely, Australia,
India, South Africa and the Republic of Korea. Further to this, we
commit to: increase cooperation on supporting democracy, including
through strengthening the G7 Rapid Response Mechanism to counter foreign
threats to democracy including disinformation; strengthen media freedom
and ensure the protection of journalists; support freedom of religion or
belief; condemn racism in all its forms; address human rights abuses,
including the failure to protect civilians in conflict; oppose the
practice of arbitrary detention, including by amplifying the Declaration
Against Arbitrary Detention in State-to-State Relations and welcoming
its Partnership Action Plan; and recognise the need for action on
corruption, including by sharing information on illicit financial
activities, tackling the misuse of shell companies, and curtailing the
ability of illicit actors to hide wealth, including in real estate. We
support the growth of peaceful, just and inclusive societies by ensuring
safe and vibrant civic spaces. For our own part, our discussions have
benefited from input from the perspectives and expertise of external
engagement groups representing all sectors of society, including the
Business 7, Civil Society 7, Labour 7, Science 7, Women 7 and Youth 7.
We thank them for their consideration and recommendations across the
breadth of our policy priorities.  
  
49. We recognise the particular responsibility of the largest countries
and economies in upholding the rules-based international system and
international law. We commit to play our role in this, working with all
partners and as members of the G20, UN and wider international
community, and encourage others to do the same. We will do this based on
our shared agenda and democratic values. With regard to China, and
competition in the global economy, we will continue to consult on
collective approaches to challenging non-market policies and practices
which undermine the fair and transparent operation of the global
economy. In the context of our respective responsibilities in the
multilateral system, we will cooperate where it is in our mutual
interest on shared global challenges, in particular addressing climate
change and biodiversity loss in the context of COP26 and other
multilateral discussions. At the same time and in so doing, we will
promote our values, including by calling on China to respect human
rights and fundamental freedoms, especially in relation to Xinjiang and
those rights, freedoms and high degree of autonomy for Hong Kong
enshrined in the Sino-British Joint Declaration and the Basic Law.  
  
50. We endorse the statement made by our Foreign and Development
Ministers in May. Building on this, in particular to reflect recent
developments, we have reviewed the following live issues.  
  
51. We reiterate our interest in stable and predictable relations with
Russia, and will continue to engage where there are areas of mutual
interest. We reaffirm our call on Russia to stop its destabilising
behaviour and malign activities, including its interference in other
countries’ democratic systems, and to fulfil its international human
rights obligations and commitments. In particular, we call on Russia to
urgently investigate and credibly explain the use of a chemical weapon
on its soil, to end its systematic crackdown on independent civil
society and media, and to identify, disrupt, and hold to account those
within its borders who conduct ransomware attacks, abuse virtual
currency to launder ransoms, and other cybercrimes.  
  
52. We reiterate our support for the independence, sovereignty and
territorial integrity of Ukraine within its internationally recognised
borders. We call on Russia to alleviate tensions and act in accordance
with its international obligations, and to withdraw the Russian military
troops and materiel at the eastern border of Ukraine and on the Crimean
peninsula. We remain firmly of the view that Russia is a party to the
conflict in Eastern Ukraine, not a mediator. We affirm our support for
the Normandy Process to secure the implementation of the Minsk
agreements, and call on Russia and the armed formations it backs to
engage constructively and recommit to the ceasefire. We reaffirm our
efforts to strengthen Ukraine’s democracy and institutions, encouraging
further progress on reform.  
  
53. We are deeply concerned by the Belarusian authorities’ continuing
attacks on human rights, fundamental freedoms and international law, as
exemplified by the forced landing of flight FR4978 and the arrest of an
independent journalist and his partner. We will work together to hold
those responsible to account, including through imposing sanctions, and
to continue to support civil society, independent media and human rights
in Belarus. We call on the regime to: change course and implement all
the recommendations of the independent expert mission under the
Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe’s (OSCE) Moscow
Mechanism; enter into meaningful dialogue with all sectors of society;
and hold new free and fair elections.  
  
54. We are deeply concerned by the ongoing conflict in Ethiopia’s Tigray
region and reports of an unfolding major humanitarian tragedy, including
potentially hundreds of thousands in famine conditions. We condemn
ongoing atrocities, including widespread sexual violence, and we welcome
the ongoing Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human
Rights (OHCHR) investigations and call for full accountability for
reported human rights violations in Tigray and for the perpetrators to
be brought to justice. We call for an immediate cessation of
hostilities, unimpeded humanitarian access to all areas and the
immediate withdrawal of Eritrean forces. We urge all parties to pursue a
credible political process, which is the only solution to the crisis. We
further call upon Ethiopia’s leaders to advance a broader inclusive
political process to foster national reconciliation and consensus toward
a future based on respect for the human and political rights of all
Ethiopians.  
  
55. While acknowledging the increased international mobilisation and the
progress in the fight against terrorism in the Sahel, we express our
concern about the continuing attacks targeting civilian populations, and
the deepening humanitarian crisis. We urge all actors to respect human
rights and international humanitarian law. We will deliver on our
commitments to renew efforts to address drivers of instability, with a
focus on political and civilian dimensions of the “civil surge” agreed
upon by the governments of the G5 Sahel and their partners, gathered in
the Sahel coalition, at the N’Djamena summit in February 2021. We
support the efforts of the African Union and Economic Economic Community
of West African States (ECOWAS) in response to recent events in Chad and
Mali. We reiterate the necessity to create the conditions for timely
civilian-led transitions to democratic, constitutional rule in both
countries.  
  
56. We confirm our full support for the interim executive authority as
it pursues Libyan-led and Libyan-owned stabilisation, facilitated by the
UN in the framework of the Berlin Process. We reaffirm the importance of
free, fair and inclusive elections to be held on 24 December. We
reiterate the urgent need to  implement in full the 23 October ceasefire
agreement, including through the withdrawal of all foreign fighters and
mercenaries from Libya.  All states must comply with UN Security Council
Resolutions 2570 and 2571.  
  
57. We call on all Afghan parties to reduce violence and agree on steps
that enable the successful implementation of a permanent and
comprehensive ceasefire and to engage fully with the peace process. In
Afghanistan, a sustainable, inclusive political settlement is the only
way to achieve a just and durable peace that benefits all Afghans. We
are determined to maintain our support for the Afghan government to
address the country’s urgent security and humanitarian needs, and to
help the people of Afghanistan, including women, young people and
minority groups, as they seek to preserve hard-won rights and
freedoms.  
  
58. We call for the complete denuclearisation of the Korean peninsula
and the verifiable and irreversible abandonment of the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea’s (DPRK) unlawful weapons of mass destruction
and ballistic missile programmes in accordance with all relevant UN
Security Council resolutions. We call on all states to fully implement
these resolutions and their associated sanctions. We welcome the
readiness of the United States to continue its diplomatic efforts in
coordination with all relevant partners and call on the DPRK to engage
and resume dialogue. We once again call on DPRK to respect human rights
for all and to resolve the issue of abductions immediately.  
  
59. We condemn in the strongest terms the military coup in Myanmar, and
the violence committed by Myanmar’s security forces, and we call for the
immediate release of those detained arbitrarily. We pledge our support
to those advocating peacefully for a stable and inclusive democracy.
Recalling ASEAN’s central role, we welcome its Five Point Consensus and
urge swift implementation. We reiterate our commitment to ensuring that
neither development assistance nor the sale of arms will benefit the
military, and urge businesses to exercise due diligence in their trade
and investment in the same vein. We reaffirm G7 unity on pursuing
additional measures should they prove necessary. We are also deeply
concerned by the humanitarian situation, call for unfettered
humanitarian access to vulnerable and displaced populations, support the
Humanitarian Response Plan, and encourage others to contribute.  
  
60. We reiterate the importance of maintaining a free and open Indo
Pacific, which is inclusive and based on the rule of law. We underscore
the importance of peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait, and
encourage the peaceful resolution of cross-Strait issues. We remain
seriously concerned about the situation in the East and South China Seas
and strongly oppose any unilateral attempts to change the status quo and
increase tensions.  
  
61. We are committed to ensuring that Iran will never develop a nuclear
weapon. We welcome the substantive discussions between Joint
Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPoA) participants, and separately with
the United States, to accomplish a return of the United States and Iran
to their JCPoA commitments. We support the goal of restoring the
nonproliferation benefits of the JCPoA and of ensuring the exclusively
peaceful nature of Iran’s nuclear programme. We urge Iran to stop and
reverse all measures that reduce transparency and to ensure full and
timely cooperation with the International Atomic Energy Agency. A
restored and fully-implemented JCPoA could also pave the way to further
address regional and security concerns. We condemn Iran’s support to
proxy forces and non-state armed actors, including through financing,
training and the proliferation of missile technology and weapons. We
call on Iran to stop all ballistic missile activities and proliferation
inconsistent with UNSCR 2231 and other relevant resolutions, refrain
from destabilising actions and play a constructive role in fostering
regional stability and peace. We support efforts to pursue transparency,
accountability and justice for the victims of Ukraine International
Airlines Flight 752, shot down by Iran in January 2020. We reiterate our
deep concern over the continued human rights violations and abuses in
Iran.  
  
62. We commend the Iraqi Security Forces, including the Kurdish
Peshmerga, and Government of Iraq in their success against ISIS and
affirm continuing support for those efforts, including stabilisation in
liberated areas. We also affirm our support for Iraq’s sovereignty,
independence, and territorial integrity. We fully endorse UNSCR 2576 and
its call for election monitors to help ensure free and fair elections in
October, and encourage all Iraqis to participate in those elections.
Finally, we welcome the efforts of the Government of Iraq to hold
illegal armed groups accountable for attacks against Iraqi citizens and
Coalition personnel who are in Iraq at its invitation solely to train
and advise Iraqi forces in their fight against ISIS.  
  
63. We acknowledge the far-reaching impacts of COVID-19 on the poorest
countries who already were grappling with the effects of conflict,
climate change, socio-economic shocks and a chronic lack of resources
and infrastructure. As we advance recovery plans to support our
economies and build back better, in line with the 2030 Agenda for
Sustainable Development, including through innovative measures and
massive budgetary support, developing partner countries, especially in
Africa, cannot be left behind. We are deeply concerned that the pandemic
has set back progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals and
continues to exacerbate global inequalities, and therefore recommit to
enhance our efforts to achieve the SDGs by 2030, including by supporting
the Addis Ababa Action Agenda (AAAA) and aligning financial flows with
the SDGs. We take note of the policy options developed through the
Financing for Development in the Era of COVID-19 and Beyond
Initiative.  
  
64. The IMF estimates that, between now and 2025, low income countries
will need around $200 billion to respond to the pandemic and $250
billion in investment spending for convergence with advanced economies.
We reiterate our commitment to implement the G20 and Paris Club Common
Framework for Debt Treatments beyond the Debt Service Suspension
Initiative. We support fair and open lending practices, and call on all
creditors to adhere to these. We underline the importance of information
sharing, and reiterate the need for comparability of treatment for
private and other official bilateral creditors in debt treatments. We
urge the MDBs to explore all options to unlock additional financing for
developing countries, including more efficient and effective use of
their resources, further work on balance sheet optimisation and further
analysis of their capital adequacy frameworks.  
  
65. We welcome the agreement by G7 Finance Ministers and Central Bank
Governors to support a new $650 billion allocation of IMF Special
Drawing Rights, urging implementation by the end of August 2021
accompanied by transparency and accountability measures. We encourage
the IMF to work quickly with all relevant stakeholders to explore a menu
of options for channelling SDRs to further support health needs,
including vaccinations, and to help enable greener, more robust
recoveries in the most affected countries, supporting the poorest and
most vulnerable countries in tackling these urgent challenges. G7
countries are actively considering options that we can take as part of a
global effort to magnify the impact of this general allocation for
countries most in need, especially in Africa, including through
voluntarily channelling SDRs and/or budget loans, in line with national
circumstances and legal requirements. This includes scaling up financing
to the IMF’s Poverty Reduction and Growth Trust and the IMF’s review of
concessional financing and policies to strengthen its capacity to
support low income countries. To support our aim to reach a total global
ambition of $100 billion, we call for contributions from other countries
able to do so, alongside the G7. We task G7 Finance Ministers and
Central Bank Governors to urgently consider the detail of this,
including by working with the G20 and other stakeholders.  
  
66. We note with grave concern that the world faces an unprecedented
humanitarian crisis as the UN reports that over 34 million people are
already facing emergency levels of food insecurity and are one step from
catastrophe or famine. In this light, we endorse the G7 Famine
Prevention and Humanitarian Crises Compact committed to by G7 Foreign
and Development Ministers. We reaffirm our commitment to provide $7
billion in humanitarian assistance, take diplomatic action to promote
humanitarian access and the protection of civilians, including women and
girls, and strengthen anticipatory and early action in partnership with
the UN and World Bank Group. We call attention to the rise in poverty,
hunger and malnutrition globally, noting the exacerbating role of the
COVID-19 pandemic, climate change, economic shocks, biodiversity loss
and increased conflict, and agree further action is needed to reverse
these trends and strengthen global food systems. We reaffirm our
commitment to the Broad Food Security and Nutrition Development Approach
made at Elmau in 2015, and note that responsible investments in food
security, food systems, and nutrition are essential to support SDG2 and
World Health Assembly nutrition targets. We further encourage strong
commitments in these areas to be announced at the G20, the UN Food
Systems Summit, COP26 and the Tokyo Nutrition for Growth Summit later
this year.  
  
67. We recognise the significant infrastructure needs across low and
middle income countries, which have been exacerbated by the COVID-19
pandemic. Reflecting our shared values and shared vision, we will aim
for a step change in our approach to infrastructure financing, notably
on quality infrastructure and investment, to strengthen partnerships
with developing countries and help meet their infrastructure needs.
Working together and with others, and by building on and going beyond
our existing action, we will develop a partnership to build back better
for the world with the aim of maximising impact on the ground to meet
the needs of our partners, and to ensure our collective effort is
greater than the sum of its parts. This partnership will orient
development finance tools toward the range of challenges faced by
developing countries, including in resilient infrastructure and
technologies to address the impacts of climate change; health systems
and security; developing digital solutions; and advancing gender
equality and education. A particular priority will be an initiative for
clean and green growth to drive a sustainable and green transition in
line with the Paris Agreement and Agenda 2030.  Underpinning our
approach will be the following key principles:

-   values-driven vision: we believe that infrastructure development,
    implementation and maintenance – carried out in a transparent and
    financially, environmentally, and socially sustainable manner – will
    lead to beneficial outcomes for recipient countries and communities.
-   intensive collaboration: we will each pursue the necessary actions
    through our own DFIs, and other relevant bodies, while strengthening
    collaboration to determine how we can increase the scale and scope
    of our collective offer to developing partner countries.
-   market-led: we believe current funding and financing approaches are
    not adequate to address the infrastructure financing gap and are
    committed to enhancing the development finance tools at our
    disposal, including by mobilising private sector capital and
    expertise, through a strengthened and more integrated approach
    across the public and private sector, to reduce risk, strengthen
    local capacities, and support and catalyse a significant increase in
    responsible and market-based private capital in sectors with
    anticipated returns, and to strengthen local capacities, in a
    sustainable manner, in line with the Addis Ababa Action Agenda on
    Financing for Development.
-   strong standards: to ensure our approach and values are upheld, and
    to drive a race to the top, we will make high standards – across
    environmental, social, financial, labour, governance and
    transparency – a central plank of our approach, including by
    building on multilateral agreed standards on quality infrastructure
    such as the G20 Principles for Quality Infrastructure Investment.
    This will help to provide citizens of recipient communities with the
    long-run benefits they expect and deserve. We emphasise the
    importance of transparent, open, economically efficient, fair and
    competitive standards for lending and procurement, also in line with
    debt sustainability, and the adherence of international rules and
    standards for major creditor countries.
-   enhanced multilateral finance: we recognise that many MDBs and other
    International Financial Institutions (IFIs) have evolved to embody
    the highest standards for project planning, implementation, social
    and environmental safeguards, and analytical capability. We will
    work with the IFIs to enhance their catalytic impact and increase
    the mobilisation of capital needed for impactful and sustainable
    infrastructure investment, and ensure that the pace of project
    development and disbursement meets the needs of partner countries.
-   strategic partnerships: we will ground this initiative in strategic
    and substantial partnerships between countries, to support
    innovation and technological development, focused on the most
    pressing needs.

We will work together to take forward an agenda based on these
principles and work closely with others, including developing country
partners, to ensure that it is developed in an open and collaborative
way. We will establish a taskforce to develop practical proposals and
report back to us in the Autumn.  
  
68. A central focus of our new strategic approach will be supporting
sustainable growth in Africa. Building on the conclusions of the Summit
on Financing African Economies that was held in Paris on 18 May 2021 and
on the needs expressed by our African partners, we are resolved to
deepen our current partnership to a new deal with the African continent,
with African states, institutions and expertise at its core. In line
with these ambitions, our DFIs and multilateral partners intend to
invest at least $80 billion into the private sector in Africa over the
next five years to support sustainable economic recovery and growth in
line with the AAAA. This builds on the 2X Challenge partnership between
G7 DFIs launched in 2018 and the target of an additional $15 billion of
new funding for this as announced by G7 Foreign and Development
Ministers in May 2021 to help address the disproportionate barriers that
women face to access capital, leadership roles, quality employment and
affordable care. We welcome the Alliance for entrepreneurship in Africa
that was launched on May 18 and look forward to its first meeting by the
end of the year, under the auspices of the International Financing
Corporation and in full partnership with all public and private partners
willing to invest more in Africa’s future and to leverage its growth
opportunities. We ask the MDBs and especially the World Bank to mobilise
more private financing into Africa by developing and reinforcing the
relevant risk sharing instruments for the benefit of African small and
medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). We reiterate our support to the G20
Compact with Africa as a key framework to enhance the business
environment in Africa and call on reform orientated partners to join and
strengthen this initiative. We invite G7 Foreign and Development
ministers to continue to work with developing country partners and DFIs
at the second Foreign and Development Ministers meeting.  
  
69. As open societies we are committed to accountability and
transparency, and to upholding the promises we have made. In this
spirit, we endorse the 2021 Carbis Bay Progress Report from the G7
Accountability Working Group, reporting on G7 commitments to strengthen
health systems to advance universal health coverage and global health.
We look forward to the next Comprehensive Progress Report from the G7
Accountability working group in 2022.  
  
**CONCLUSION**  
  
70. In Cornwall we have revitalised our G7 partnership. Our Shared
Agenda for Global Action is a statement of our shared vision and
ambition as we continue to collaborate this year and under future
Presidencies. As we do so we look forward to joining with others to
ensure we build back better, in particular at the G20 Summit, COP26, and
CBD15 and the UN General Assembly, and reiterate our support for the
holding of the Olympic and Paralympic Games Tokyo 2020 in a safe and
secure manner as a symbol of global unity in overcoming COVID-19.

\###
