---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-12'
modified_time: 2021-06-12 11:57:38-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/12/statement-by-president-joe-biden-on-the-5th-anniversary-of-the-pulse-nightclub-shooting/
published_time: 2021-06-12 11:57:37-04:00
title: Statement by President Joe Biden on the 5th Anniversary of the Pulse Nightclub
  Shooting
---
 
Five years ago today in Orlando in the middle of Pride Month, our nation
suffered the deadliest attack affecting the LGBTQ+ community in American
history, and at the time, the deadliest mass shooting by a single
gunman.

Within minutes, the Pulse nightclub that had long been a place of
acceptance and joy turned into a place of unspeakable pain and loss.
Forty-nine people were there celebrating Latin night were murdered, even
more injured, and countless others scarred forever – the victims were
family members, partners and friends, veterans and students, young,
Black, Asian and Latino – our fellow Americans.

A few days later, I traveled with President Obama to pay respects to
them and their families, to thank the brave first responders and the
community who found strength and compassion in each other, and to pledge
that what happened would not be forgotten. 

Over the years, I have stayed in touch with families of the victims and
with the survivors who have turned their pain into purpose, and who
remind us that we must do more than remember victims of gun violence and
all of the survivors, family members, and friends left behind; we must
act.

In the coming days, I will sign a bill designating Pulse Nightclub as a
national memorial, enshrining in law what has been true since that
terrible day five years ago: Pulse Nightclub is hallowed ground.

But there is more we must do to address the public health epidemic of
gun violence in all of its forms – mass shootings and daily acts of gun
violence that don’t make national headlines.

It is long past time we close the loopholes that allow gun buyers to
bypass background checks in this country, and the Senate should start by
passing the three House-passed bills which would do exactly that. It is
long past time we ban assault weapons and high capacity magazines,
establish extreme risk protection orders, also known as “red flag” laws,
and eliminate gun manufacturers’ immunity from liability.

We must also acknowledge gun violence’s particular impact on LGBTQ+
communities across our nation. We must drive out hate and inequities
that contribute to the epidemic of violence and murder against
transgender women – especially transgender women of color. We must
create a world in which our LGBTQ+ young people are loved, accepted, and
feel safe in living their truth. And the Senate must swiftly pass the
Equality Act, legislation that will ensure LGBTQ+ Americans finally have
equal protection under law.

In the memory of all of those lost at the Pulse nightclub five years
ago, let us continue the work to be a nation at our best – one that
recognizes and protects the dignity and safety of every American.

\# \# \#
