---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-16'
modified_time: 2021-06-16 17:49:15-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/16/statement-from-senior-advisor-and-chief-spokesperson-symone-sanders-on-vice-president-kamala-harriss-meeting-with-texas-state-legislators-on-voting-rights/
published_time: 2021-06-16 17:49:14-04:00
title: "Statement From Senior Advisor and Chief Spokesperson Symone Sanders on Vice\
  \ President Kamala\_Harris\u2019s Meeting with Texas State Legislators on Voting\_\
  Rights"
---
 
The right to vote is fundamental to our democracy—and defending that
fundamental right is the most important work we can do as a nation.
Today Vice President Harris met with 16 members of the Texas State
Senate and Texas House of Representatives, who in May blocked passage of
legislation that would have made it significantly harder for the people
of Texas to vote. They discussed the restrictive voting measures that
already exist in Texas, the measures that would have been added under
Texas Senate Bill 7 (SB7), and the path forward to make voting more
accessible.

Members spoke about the real impact and effects of denying people the
right to vote – including that it could lead to denial of health care,
underfunding education, and failure to prepare the state to address
emergency situations such as when the state had a power outage.

Members also spoke about the strength of building diverse coalitions
around common values such as faith, education, and economic opportunity.

Members thanked the Vice President for lifting up the work to protect
the right to vote and to make it more accessible to all Texans – and by
extension – all Americans.

Over the last few weeks, the Vice President has spoken with a number of
local and national leaders. On Monday, the Vice President held her first
meeting on the ground regarding voting rights while she was in
Greenville, South Carolina. Today’s meeting continued that work. The
Vice President’s work moving forward will focus on educating the
American people about voting rights attacks, building a coalition to
bring together Americans concerned about their right and ability to
vote, advancing federal legislation, registering voters per the
President’s Executive Order on March 7th, and advocating for democratic
principles worldwide.

The Biden-Harris Administration will protect the fundamental right to
vote for all Americans regardless of where they live—by working to make
voting accessible for all Americans and make sure every vote is counted
through a transparent process.

\###
