---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-15'
modified_time: 2021-06-15 09:17:09-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/15/fact-sheet-u-s-eu-understanding-on-a-cooperative-framework-for-large-civil-aircraft/
published_time: 2021-06-15 09:17:08-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: U.S. \u2013 EU Understanding on a Cooperative Framework for Large\
  \ Civil Aircraft"
---
 
*United States and EU Reach Agreement to Address Shared Challenges from
China*

  
At the outset of his trip, the President was clear that his goal was to
demonstrate the capacity of democracies to both meet the challenges and
deter the threats of this new age. And, he was clear that he wanted to
demonstrate that the United States could lead the world’s democracies in
a foreign policy for the middle class. Today’s announcement that the US
and European Union (EU) have reached an agreement in the Boeing-Airbus
dispute and agreed to address shared challenges from China does just
that. The US and EU will suspend tariffs for five years and work
together to challenge and counter China’s non-market practices in this
sector in specific ways that reflect our standards for fair competition.
This includes collaboration on inward and outbound investment and tech
transfer.    
  
Today’s agreement represents a model the US can build on for other
challenges posed by China. The President routinely says that we are
strongest when we work with our friends and allies — today’s
announcement is a demonstration of that in action.   
  
And, this deal will shore up the longer-term competitiveness and
innovation of a key sector that is one of most important sources of
middle-class jobs at home. The aerospace sector employs over 500,000
workers directly and supports over 700,000 jobs in related
industries. Boeing itself employs over 140,000 workers across all 50
states. Through its supply chain, it purchases over a billion parts from
over ten thousand American businesses.  
  
The US and the EU are home to 780 million people who share democratic
values and the largest economic relationship in the world. Together, we
wrote the rules of the road based on democratic values, fair
competition, and transparency after World War II and we need to work
together to update these rules. This announcement comes on the day of
the US-EU Summit, an opportunity to rebuild U.S.-EU ties, raise the
ambition of the relationship, and commit to working together on the
global stage.  
  
The United States and the European Union agreed to a framework to
promote a level playing field, overcome longstanding differences,
and address common challenges — including our shared concerns with
China’s unfair and coercive economic practices. The strengthening of our
trade and investment relationship with the European Union is a top
priority for the Administration, and our early efforts have been
successful.  
  
Both sides agreed to the following general principles to guide their
future cooperation:  
  
**Suspend the tariffs related to this dispute for five years. **This
signals a mutual determination to embark on a fresh start in the
relationship. The agreement also retains flexibility for the United
States to reapply tariffs if we’re no longer competing on a level
playing field.   
  
**Establish a Working Group to analyze and overcome any disagreements
that may arise between the sides.** The Working Group will collaborate
on and continue discussing and developing these principles and
appropriate actions. The Trade Ministers leading the Working Group will
consult at least yearly. The Working Group will meet on request or at
least every 6months.  
  
**Ensure that our workers and industries can compete on a level playing
field.** The U.S. and EU agreed to clear statements on acceptable
support for large civil aircraft producers that affirm the outcomes of
the disputes and the intention of the parties to ensure that our workers
and industries can compete on a level playing field.  
  
**Confront the threat we face from China’s ambitions to build a sector
upon non-market practices, including:**

-   Meaningful cooperation on countering (1) investments in the EU and
    the United States by non-market actors, which can lead to the
    appropriation of technology; and (2) outward investments into China
    that are influenced by non-market forces.   
-   Identifying where joint work is needed to take parallel action
    against non-market practices.  
-   Sharing information regarding these and other areas to forge a
    common approach in the large civil aircraft sector.

\# \# \#
