---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-03'
modified_time: 2021-06-03 16:15:45-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/03/president-biden-announces-key-nominations/
published_time: 2021-06-03 16:15:44-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Nominations"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following seven individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Paloma Adams-Allen, Nominee for Deputy Administrator for Management
    and Resources, United States Agency for International Development
-   Isobel Coleman, Nominee for Deputy Administrator for Policy and
    Programming, United States Agency for International Development
-   Grant Harris, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Industry and
    Analysis, Department of Commerce
-   Neil MacBride, Nominee for General Counsel, Department of the
    Treasury
-   Caral Spangler, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of the Army
    (Financial Management and Comptroller), Department of Defense
-   Julieta Valls Noyes, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Population,
    Refugees, and Migration, Department of State
-   David Weil, Nominee for Wage and Hour Administrator, Department of
    Labor

**<u>Paloma Adams-Allen, Nominee for Deputy Administrator for Management
and Resources, United States Agency for International Development</u>**

Paloma Adams-Allen joined the Inter-American Foundation (IAF), a US
agency supporting community-led development in Latin America and the
Caribbean, in April 2017 as president and chief executive officer. Prior
to joining the IAF, Adams-Allen was Sr. Director for global private
sector partnerships initiatives at the international NGO, Winrock
International. Before that, she served as deputy assistant administrator
for the United States Agency for International Development’s (USAID)
Latin America and Caribbean (LAC) Bureau. From 2010 to 2014, Adams-Allen
served as Senior Adviser, during which she led the LAC Bureau’s
public-private partnerships for development practice. She also spent a
decade at the Organization of American States (OAS) in several
hemispheric development policy, programming, and leadership roles. Early
in her career she did short stints at the international law firm Coudert
Brothers, and the advocacy organization Caribbean-Central American
Action. Adams-Allen, who was born in Jamaica, spent her childhood
between rural Jamaica and rural New England in the U.S. She holds a
bachelor’s degree in development studies and African American studies
from Brown University, a master’s in international affairs from Johns
Hopkins University’s School of Advanced International Studies, and a
Juris Doctorate from Georgetown University Law Center. An avid runner
and gardener, Adams-Allen lives in Washington, D.C., with her husband,
their puppy, and two awesome daughters.

**<u>Isobel Coleman, Nominee for Deputy Administrator for Policy and
Programming, United States Agency for International Development</u>**

Ambassador Isobel Coleman is a foreign policy and global development
expert with more than 25 years of experience working in government, the
private sector and non-profits.  Most recently, she served on the Biden
Transition Team, leading the review of the U.S. Mission to the United
Nations. From 2014-2017, she was the U.S. Ambassador to the United
Nations for Management, Reform and Special Political Affairs.  During
that time, she represented the United States in the UN General Assembly
on budgetary matters and in the UN Security Council on Africa and
peacekeeping issues. From 2018-2020, she was the Chief Operating Officer
of GiveDirectly, an international non-profit tackling poverty by
providing unconditional cash transfers to the extreme poor.

Previously, Dr. Coleman spent more than a decade as a senior fellow at
the Council on Foreign Relations where she directed CFR’s Women and
Foreign Policy program and wrote extensively about global development
and the advantages of women’s empowerment. Her writings have appeared in
many publications, including The Atlantic, Foreign Policy, Foreign
Affairs, The New York Times and The Washington Post. She is the author
and co-author of numerous books including Pathways to Freedom: Political
and Economic Lessons from Democratic Transitions (Council on Foreign
Relations, 2013), and Paradise Beneath Her Feet: How Women are
Transforming the Middle East (Random House, 2010). She graduated from
Princeton University and earned MPhil and DPhil degrees in International
Relations from Oxford University, which she attended on a Marshall
Scholarship. She started her career at McKinsey & Co. in New York,
becoming a partner in the firm’s financial institutions group.

**<u>Grant Harris, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Industry and
Analysis, Department of Commerce</u>**

Grant T. Harris is CEO of Connect Frontier LLC, a consulting firm that
advises companies on doing business in emerging and frontier markets
globally. Harris teaches on strategy and political risk in emerging
markets as an Adjunct Professor of Global Management at Kellogg School
of Management, Northwestern University, and a Lecturer at Haas School of
Business, University of California, Berkeley. From 2011-2015, Harris
served as Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for
African Affairs at the White House. In this role, he conceived of the
historic U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit, which generated $37 billion in
commitments to support trade, investment, and development across Africa.
Harris also initiated President Obama’s Doing Business in Africa
Campaign and launched the President’s Young African Leaders Initiative.
Harris was later appointed by President Obama to serve as a Member of
the United States Holocaust Memorial Council.

Previously, Harris served as Deputy Chief of Staff and Counselor to U.S.
Ambassador to the United Nations Susan Rice. Earlier, Harris was an
attorney at the global law firm of Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP,
where he focused on cross-border transactions in Latin America. Harris
also served in the African Affairs Directorate at the White House under
President Bill Clinton and in the U.S. Mission to the United Nations
under Ambassador Richard Holbrooke. Harris holds a law degree from Yale
Law School, a Master’s in Public Affairs, with Distinction, from
Princeton University, and a B.A., summa cum laude, from the University
of California, Berkeley. Harris grew up in California.

**<u>Neil MacBride, Nominee for General Counsel, Department of the
Treasury</u>**

Neil H. MacBride is a currently a litigation partner in the law firm of
Davis Polk & Wardwell, where he serves as head of its Washington, DC
office and as co-head of the Firm’s Government Investigations Practice. 
Before entering private practice, Mr. MacBride spent extensive time as a
government official on law enforcement, national security, and financial
enforcement matters.  He served in the Obama-Biden Administration, first
as an Associate Deputy Attorney General for criminal enforcement in the
U.S. Department of Justice and then as the United States Attorney for
the Eastern District of Virginia overseeing all criminal enforcement and
civil litigation on behalf of the United States.  Mr. MacBride earlier
served as Chief Counsel to then-Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr. on the
Senate Judiciary Committee and as a federal prosecutor in the United
States Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia.  Mr. MacBride
also served on the Biden-Harris and the Obama-Biden Transition Teams. 
Earlier in his career, Mr. MacBride served as General Counsel to the
Business Software Alliance and practiced law at the Washington, DC law
firm of Verner, Liipfert, Bernhard, McPherson & Hand.  He began his
public service career clerking for the Honorable Henry C. Morgan, Jr. in
the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia. 

A native of Oneonta, New York, MacBride graduated from the University of
Virginia School of Law and Houghton College.  He lives in Northern
Virginia with his wife Christina Jackson MacBride and their three
children. 

**<u>Caral Spangler, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of the Army,
Financial Management and Comptroller, Department of Defense </u>**

Caral E. Spangler retired from government service in September 2020
after 39 years with the Department of Defense, serving as a career
member of the Senior Executive Service in every Military Service and the
Office of the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller). She began her
career as a summer hire in the Office of the Assistant Secretary of the
Navy (Financial Management and Comptroller) and advanced during postings
with the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) and as a
Legislative Fellow in the office of Congressman Norman Y. Mineta
(D-CA).  Promoted to an SES in 1997, she served as the Director of the
Investment Directorate within the Office of the Under Secretary of
Defense (Comptroller); the Director of the Budget Coordination Division
in the Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Navy (Financial
Management and Comptroller (FM&C); the Deputy for Budget, Office of the
Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (FM&C); the Principal Deputy
Assistant Secretary of the Army (FM&C); and retired as the Assistant
Deputy Commandant, Programs and Resources (USMC).  In these capacities,
she has had oversight of every aspect of programming, budgeting,
accounting, finance, financial systems, program and cost analysis in the
Department of Defense. She has also served in acting capacities as the
Auditor General, Department of the Navy, and as the Assistant Secretary
of the Army (FM&C). She was the recipient of a Presidential Meritorious
Rank Award in 2015.

While Ms. Spangler was born in Minnesota, she spent her formative years
in the Deep South, and graduated from Michigan State University with a
Bachelor of Science in Economics.  She has a Master’s Degree in Public
Administration from the Maxwell School at Syracuse University.  Ms.
Spangler currently lives in Virginia with her husband.

**<u>Julieta Valls Noyes, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for
Population, Refugees, and Migration, Department of State</u>**

Julieta Valls Noyes, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service,
class of Career Minister, is Deputy Director of the Department of
State’s Foreign Service Institute, and a former U.S. ambassador to the
Republic of Croatia.  She previously served as a Deputy Assistant
Secretary in the Bureau of European and Eurasian Affairs in the
Department of State, Deputy Executive Secretary of the Department, and
as Deputy Chief of Mission and Charge d’Affaires a.i. at the U.S.
Embassy to the Holy See.  She also was Deputy Director of the
Department’s Operations Center, and Director of the Office of
Multilateral and Global Affairs in the Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights
and Labor.  Earlier, Noyes served as Deputy Director, Office of Policy
Planning and Coordination, Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs, as
Political Section Chief, U.S. Embassy Panama City, and as Political
Officer at U.S. Embassy Madrid.  Noyes earned a B.A. from Wellesley
College, and a Master’s from the Industrial College of the Armed
Forces.  She speaks Spanish, Italian, Portuguese and French.  Noyes is a
first-generation American whose parents entered the United States as
refugees.

**<u>David Weil, Nominee for Wage and Hour Administrator, Department of
Labor</u>**

David Weil is Dean and professor at The Heller School for Social Policy
and Management at Brandeis University. Prior to joining the Heller
School in August 2017, he served as Administrator of the Wage and Hour
Division at the United States Department of Labor under President Obama
from 2014 to 2017. Weil is an internationally recognized expert in
employment and labor market policy along with regulation, transparency
policy, and the impacts of industry restructuring on employment, work,
and business performance.

Dean Weil has advised government agencies at the state and federal
levels as well as international organizations on employment, labor, and
workplace policies. He co-founded the Transparency Policy Project at the
Harvard Kennedy School of Government that examines how information
disclosure can be used to improve private and public decisions. He is
the author of more than 125 articles and five books including The
Fissured Workplace. He has received numerous awards including the
Frances Perkins Intelligence and Courage Award (2019). He holds a
Bachelor of Science degree from Cornell University and Masters and Ph.D.
degrees in public policy from Harvard University.

\###

------------------------------------------------------------------------
