---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-26'
modified_time: 2021-06-26 16:23:04-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/26/statement-by-president-joe-biden-on-the-bipartisan-infrastructure-framework/
published_time: 2021-06-26 16:23:03-04:00
title: "Statement by President Joe\_Biden on the Bipartisan Infrastructure\_Framework"
---
 
On Thursday, I reached a historic agreement with a bipartisan group of
Senators on a $1.2 trillion plan to transform our physical
infrastructure. The plan would make the largest investment in
infrastructure in history, the biggest investment in rail since the
creation of Amtrak, and the largest investment in transit ever. It would
fix roads and bridges, make critical investments in our clean energy
future, and help this country compete with China and other economic
rivals. It would replace lead water pipes in our schools and houses, and
connect every American to high-speed internet. It would create millions
of high-paying jobs that could not be outsourced.  
  
In the days since, the primary focus in Washington has not been about
the Plan’s scope, scale or provisions—but rather, how it relates to
other legislation before Congress: my American Families Plan. The
American Families Plan—which would make historic investments in
education, health care, child care, and tax cuts for families, coupled
with other investments in care for our seniors, housing, and clean
energy—has broad support with the American people, but not among
Republicans in Congress.  
  
I have been clear from the start that it was my hope that the
infrastructure plan could be one that Democrats and Republicans would
work on together, while I would seek to pass my Families Plan and other
provisions through the process known as reconciliation. There has been
no doubt or ambiguity about my intention to proceed this way.  
  
At a press conference after announcing the bipartisan agreement, I
indicated that I would refuse to sign the infrastructure bill if it was
sent to me without my Families Plan and other priorities, including
clean energy. That statement understandably upset some Republicans, who
do not see the two plans as linked; they are hoping to defeat my
Families Plan—and do not want their support for the infrastructure plan
to be seen as aiding passage of the Families Plan. My comments also
created the impression that I was issuing a veto threat on the very plan
I had just agreed to, which was certainly not my intent.

So to be clear: our bipartisan agreement does not preclude Republicans
from attempting to defeat my Families Plan; likewise, they should have
no objections to my devoted efforts to pass that Families Plan and other
proposals in tandem. We will let the American people—and the
Congress—decide.

The bottom line is this: I gave my word to support the Infrastructure
Plan, and that’s what I intend to do. I intend to pursue the passage of
that plan, which Democrats and Republicans agreed to on Thursday, with
vigor. It would be good for the economy, good for our country, good for
our people. I fully stand behind it without reservation or hesitation.

Some other Democrats have said they might oppose the Infrastructure Plan
because it omits items they think are important: that is a mistake, in
my view. Some Republicans now say that they might oppose the
infrastructure plan because I am also trying to pass the American
Families Plan: that is also a mistake, in my view. I intend to work hard
to get both of them passed, because our country needs both—and I ran a
winning campaign for President that promised to deliver on both. No one
should be surprised that that is precisely what I am doing.

I will ask Leader Schumer to schedule both the infrastructure plan and
the reconciliation bill for action in the Senate. I expect both to go to
the House, where I will work with Speaker Pelosi on the path forward
after Senate action. Ultimately, I am confident that Congress will get
both to my desk, so I can sign each bill promptly.

\###
