---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-30'
modified_time: 2021-06-29 21:27:29-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/30/president-biden-names-fifth-round-of-judicial-nominees/
published_time: 2021-06-30 06:15:00-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Names Fifth Round of Judicial\_Nominees"
---
 
As he continues to move at an historic pace with respect to judicial
nominees, the President is announcing eight new candidates for the
federal bench and one new candidate for District of Columbia courts, all
of whom are extraordinarily qualified, experienced, and devoted to the
rule of law and our Constitution.

These choices also continue to fulfill the President’s promise to ensure
that the nation’s courts reflect the diversity that is one of our
greatest assets as a country — both in terms of personal and
professional backgrounds.  
  
For example, this slate includes:

-   A woman who would be the first federal judge of South Asian descent
    in Michigan
-   A labor lawyer and former union organizer who would also be the
    first AAPI judge from Oregon on the Ninth Circuit
-   An Assistant U.S. Attorney who would be the second woman of color to
    ever serve on the federal bench in Virginia
-   A former prosecutor with the Department of Justice’s Public
    Integrity Section who would be the first Hispanic judge on the Court
    of Federal Claims

This is President Biden’s fifth round of names for federal judicial
positions, bringing the number of announced federal judicial nominees to
32.  
  
President Biden has spent decades committed to strengthening the federal
bench, which is why he continues to move at an unparalleled speed with
respect to judicial nominations. His first judicial nominations
announcement was made faster than that of any new President in modern
American history, and today’s announcement continues that trend.

**<u>CIRCUIT COURTS</u>**

**TOBY J. HEYTENS**  
***Nominated to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth
Circuit***

Toby Heytens has served as the Solicitor General for the Commonwealth of
Virginia since his appointment in 2018. Mr. Heytens previously served as
a Professor of Law at the University of Virginia School of Law from 2014
to 2018 and as an Associate Professor of Law from 2010 to 2014 and from
2006 to 2007. During his tenure at the University of Virginia School of
Law, he also frequently served as a co-director of its Supreme Court
Litigation Clinic. From 2007 to 2010, Mr. Heytens served as an Assistant
to the Solicitor General at the U.S. Department of Justice. From 2003 to
2006, Mr. Heytens worked in the Supreme Court and Appellate Practice
Group at O’Melveny & Myers LLP in Washington, D.C. Mr. Heytens served as
a Bristow Fellow in the Office of the Solicitor General at the U.S.
Department of Justice from 2001 to 2002. Mr. Heytens served as a law
clerk for Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg on the U.S. Supreme Court from
2002 to 2003 and for Judge Edward R. Becker on the U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Third Circuit from 2000 to 2001.  
  
Mr. Heytens received his B.A. from Macalester College in 1997 and his
J.D. from the University of Virginia School of Law in 2000.

**JENNIFER SUNG**  
***Nominated to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit***

Jennifer Sung has been a member of the Oregon Employment Relations Board
since her appointment in 2017. Previously, she was a partner at McKanna
Bishop Joffe LLP in Portland, where she worked from 2013 to 2017. From
2007 to 2013, Ms. Sung worked at Altshuler Berzon LLP in San Francisco.
While in private practice, she was a litigator specializing in labor,
employment, and constitutional law, and she represented labor
organizations and employees in arbitrations, administrative proceedings,
and civil litigation in state and federal courts. From 2005 to 2007, Ms.
Sung was a Skadden Fellow at the Brennan Center for Justice at New York
University School of Law. Ms. Sung served as a law clerk for Judge Betty
Binns Fletcher on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit from
2004 to 2005. Before law school, she was an organizer with the Service
Employees International Union Local 1199 from 1998 to 2001 and with the
Service Employees International Union Local 74 from 1996 to 1998.  
  
Ms. Sung received her J.D. from Yale Law School in 2004 and her B.A.
from Oberlin College in 1994.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">DISTRICT COURTS</span>**  
  
**JANE M. BECKERING  
*Nominated to the United States District Court for the Western District
of Michigan***

Judge Jane M. Beckering has served on the Michigan Court of Appeals
since 2007, where she oversees both civil and criminal proceedings.
Judge Beckering is the Chief Judge Pro Tempore of the Court. She is also
President-Elect of the Grand Rapids Bar Association and previously
served on the Michigan Supreme Court Committee on Model Civil Jury
Instructions. Prior to becoming a judge, Judge Beckering was a trial
lawyer in private practice for 17 years. She founded the law firm of
Buchanan & Beckering, PLC in Grand Rapids, Michigan, primarily focused
on representing plaintiffs in civil litigation. She began her law career
as an associate with McDermott, Will & Emery, P.C. in Chicago. Judge
Beckering received her J.D. from the University of Wisconsin in 1990 and
her B.A. from the University of Michigan in 1987.

**PATRICIA TOLLIVER GILES**  
***Nominated to the United States District Court for the Eastern
District of Virginia***

Patricia Tolliver Giles has served in the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the
Eastern District of Virginia since 2003, and currently serves as
Managing Assistant U.S. Attorney. She previously served as an Assistant
U.S. Attorney in the Major Crimes Unit from 2003 to 2019. She also
serves on the Attorney General’s Transnational Organized Crime Task
Force, MS-13 Subcommittee. From 2000 to 2003, Ms. Giles was an associate
at Cooley Godward LLP. Her work included a wide variety of commercial
cases in the areas of contracts, intellectual property, securities, and
employment law. Ms. Giles served as a law clerk for Judge Gerald Bruce
Lee on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia from
1998 to 2000. Ms. Giles received her J.D. from the University of
Virginia School of Law in 1998 and her B.A. from University of Virginia
in 1995.

**SHALINA D. KUMAR**  
***Nominated to the United States District Court for the Eastern
District of Michigan***

Chief Judge Shalina D. Kumar has served on the Oakland County Sixth
Circuit Court since 2007. She was appointed Chief Judge of the Circuit
Court by the Michigan Supreme Court in January of 2018. In addition to
her chief judge duties, Judge Kumar retains a full caseload covering
both civil and criminal matters. Throughout her years on the bench,
Judge Kumar has served as a presiding judge of the Adult Treatment
Court, the Chairperson of the Oakland County Criminal Assignment
Committee, the bench liaison to the Oakland County Bar Association
Circuit Court Committee, a member of the Michigan State Bar
Professionalism Committee, and a member of the Executive Committee of
the Michigan Judges’ Association. Prior to taking the bench, Judge Kumar
was a civil litigator in private practice from 1997 to 2007, including
as an associate with Weiner & Cox P.L.C. from 2004 to 2007 and Sommers,
Schwartz, Silver & Schwartz P.C. from 2000 to 2004. Judge Kumar
graduated from the University of Michigan in 1993 and the University of
Detroit-Mercy School of Law in 1996.

  
**MICHAEL S. NACHMANOFF**  
***Nominated to the United States District Court for the Eastern
District of Virginia***

Judge Michael S. Nachmanoff has served as a U.S. Magistrate Judge for
the Eastern District of Virginia since 2015. Before his appointment to
the bench, Judge Nachmanoff served for 13 years in the Office of the
Federal Public Defender for the Eastern District of Virginia, serving as
Chief Federal Public Defender from 2007 to 2015, Acting Federal Public
Defender from 2005 to 2007, and First Assistant Public Defender from
2002 to 2005. Prior to serving as a federal defender, Judge Nachmanoff
was a partner at Cohen, Gettings & Dunham, P.C. He joined the firm as an
associate in 1996 and was a partner from 2000 to 2002. At the firm,
Judge Nachmanoff’s practice consisted of complex civil litigation, white
collar federal criminal defense, and state court criminal cases. Judge
Nachmanoff served as a law clerk for Judge Leonie Brinkema on the U.S.
District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia from 1995 to 1996.
Judge Nachmanoff received his J.D. from the University of Virginia
School of Law in 1995 and his B.A. from Wesleyan University in 1991. 

**<u>COURT OF FEDERAL CLAIMS</u>**

**ARMANDO O. BONILLA  
*Nominated to the United States Court of Federal Claims***

Armando O. Bonilla has been the Vice President of Ethics and
Investigations at Capital One since 2018. Bonilla previously served at
the U.S. Department of Justice in a variety of roles from 1994 to 2018.
He served as Associate General Counsel for the U.S. Marshals Service
from 2017 to 2018; as Associate Deputy Attorney General from 2010 to
2017; as a prosecutor in the Public Integrity Section of the Criminal
Division from 2002 to 2010 and in the Asset Forfeiture and Money
Laundering Section of the Criminal Division from 2001 to 2002; and as a
trial and appellate attorney in the Civil Division’s Commercial
Litigation Branch from 1994 to 2001. Mr. Bonilla served as a law clerk
for Judge Garrett E. Brown, Jr. on the U.S. District Court for the
District of New Jersey from 1992 to 1994.  
  
Mr. Bonilla received his J.D., *magna cum laude*, from Seton Hall
University School of Law in 1992 and his B.A. from West Virginia
University in 1989.

**CAROLYN N. LERNER**  
***Nominated to the United States Court of Federal Claims***

Carolyn N. Lerner is currently the Chief Circuit Mediator for the U.S.
Courts of the D.C. Circuit, a position she has held since 2017. She was
previously unanimously confirmed to head the U.S. Office of Special
Counsel, where she served from 2011 to 2017. Ms. Lerner is an adjunct
law professor at Georgetown University Law Center, and was previously an
adjunct law professor at George Washington University Law School. Ms.
Lerner was a founding partner of the civil rights and employment law
firm Heller, Huron, Chertkof, Lerner, Simon & Salzman, where she
practiced from 1997 to 2011. While at her law firm, from 2003 to 2005,
Ms. Lerner served as the federal court-appointed Special Inspector for
the Office of Special Inspector at the D.C. Department of Corrections.
From 1991 to 1996, Ms. Lerner was a litigation attorney at Kator, Scott,
Heller & Huron, a civil rights and employment law firm. She began her
legal career as a law clerk for Chief Judge Julian Abele Cook, Jr. on
the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan.  
  
Ms. Lerner received her J.D. from New York University Law School in
1989, where she was a Root-Tilden Scholar, and her B.G.S, with
distinction, from the Honors College at the University of Michigan in
1986.

**<u>LOCAL D.C. COURTS</u>**

**SEAN C. STAPLES  
*Nominated to the Superior Court of the District of Columbia***

Judge Sean C. Staples is a Magistrate Judge assigned to the Criminal and
Domestic Violence Divisions on the Superior Court of the District of
Columbia. Before his appointment to the bench, Judge Staples was an
attorney with the Children’s Law Center from 2006 to 2013, last serving
as the Guardian ad Litem Project Director. From 2000 to 2006, Judge
Staples was a clinical professor in the Criminal Division of the D.C.
Law Students in Court Program, supervising law students in the
representation of adults and juveniles in D.C. Superior Court. Judge
Staples served as a law clerk for Judge Robert E. Morin of the D.C.
Superior Court from 1998 to 1999. Judge Staples received his J.D. from
the Catholic University of America Columbus School of Law in 1996 and
his B.S. from Syracuse University in 1991.

\###
