---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-25'
modified_time: 2021-06-25 17:33:49-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/25/fact-sheet-president-biden-signs-executive-order-advancing-diversity-equity-inclusion-and-accessibility-in-the-federal-government/
published_time: 2021-06-25 18:30:00-04:00
title: 'FACT SHEET: President Biden Signs Executive Order Advancing Diversity, Equity,
  Inclusion, and Accessibility in the Federal Government'
---
 
Today, President Biden signed an Executive Order to advance diversity,
equity, inclusion, and accessibility (DEIA) in the Federal workforce.
This Executive Order reaffirms that the United States is at its
strongest when our Nation’s public servants reflect the full diversity
of the American people.

Even with decades of progress building a Federal workforce that looks
like America, the enduring legacies of employment discrimination,
systemic racism, and gender inequality are still felt today. Too many
underserved communities remain under-represented in the Federal
workforce, especially in positions of leadership. This Executive Order
establishes an ambitious, whole-of-government initiative that will take
a systematic approach to embedding DEIA in Federal hiring and employment
practices.

When public servants reflect the communities they serve, the government
is more effective and successful. That is why the Biden-Harris
Administration has appointed [an historic number of  diverse
leaders](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/29/fact-sheet-100-days-in-biden-harris-administration-makes-history-with-presidential-appointees/).
Today’s Executive Order will help develop a Federal workforce that looks
like America where qualified people from every background and walk of
life have an equal opportunity to serve our Nation.

The Executive Order:

**Establishes a government-wide initiative to advance diversity, equity,
inclusion, and accessibility in all parts of the Federal workforce.**
This initiative will be led by the Office of Personnel Management and
the Office of Management and Budget, in close partnership with the White
House and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. The initiative
will reinvigorate the whole-of-government approach to DEIA first
established in the Obama-Biden Administration. The initiative will
advance opportunity for communities that have historically faced
employment discrimination and professional barriers, including: people
of color; women; first-generation professionals and immigrants;
individuals with disabilities; LGBTQ+ individuals; Americans who live in
rural areas; older Americans who face age discrimination when seeking
employment; parents and caregivers who face employment barriers; people
of faith who require religious accommodations at work; individuals who
were formerly incarcerated; and veterans and military spouses.

**Charges all agencies with assessing the current state of diversity,
equity, inclusion and accessibility within their workforces, and
developing strategic plans to eliminate any barriers to success faced by
underserved employees.** The Order charges all Federal agencies with
reviewing within 100 days whether employees who are members of
underserved communities face barriers to employment, promotion, or
professional development within their workforce.

**Directs agencies to seek opportunities to establish or elevate Chief
Diversity Officers within their organizations.** To help ensure the
coordination of DEIA initiatives across the Federal government, the
Executive Order directs all agencies to look for opportunities to
establish senior leaders to promote diversity and inclusion within the
workforce.

**Expands diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility training
throughout the Federal workforce.** On his first day in office,
President Biden rescinded a ban that prevented Federal employees from
participating in diversity and sensitivity trainings. Today’s Executive
Order builds on that by directing all Federal agencies to expand the
availability of DEIA trainings for their workforce, so that Federal
employees are supported in building skillsets to promote respectful and
inclusive workplaces and have increased understanding of implicit and
unconscious bias. These types of trainings equip public servants to best
serve the American public, and the many diverse communities that make
American strong.

**Addresses workplace harassment, including sexual harassment.** 
Requires a government-wide, comprehensive plan to address workplace
harassment, including sexual harassment.  The plan will outline policies
and practices to prevent report, respond to, and investigate harassment,
and address training, education, and monitoring to create a culture that
does not tolerate harassment or other forms of discrimination.

**Reduces the Federal government’s reliance on unpaid internships, which
can create barriers for low-income students and first-generation
professionals.** The Federal government must be an engine of opportunity
for Americans from every walk of life to serve our Nation through public
service. But too often, unpaid Federal internships prevent hardworking
and talented students and professionals from participating in Federal
career advancement opportunities. The Executive Order directs key
agencies to take steps to reduce the reliance on unpaid internships,
fellowships, and apprenticeships to ensure that more Americans can take
advantage of these opportunities.

**Advances pay equity to ensure that all public servants are fairly
compensated for their work and their talents.** Many workers continue to
face racial and gender pay gaps, and pay inequity disproportionately
affects women of color.  The Order directs the Office of Personnel
Management to review Government-wide regulations and guidance that set
pay and wage standards for public servants. It also directs the Office
of Personnel Management to consider taking steps to prohibit agencies
from seeking or relying on an applicant’s salary history during the
hiring process and compensation decisions, an important component of
advancing pay equity. 

**Advances equity in the workplace for individuals with disabilities.**
The Federal government is stronger and more successful when individuals
with disabilities have equal opportunities to lead at every level. In
spite of decades of progress in removing barriers to employment for
employees with disabilities, people with disabilities remain
under-represented throughout the Federal government, and particularly in
positions of leadership. The Executive Order directs the government to
become a model employer for individuals with disabilities. It charges
key agencies, including the Department of Labor and the U.S. Access
Board, to coordinate across the Federal government to ensure that all
Federal workplaces and technologies are fully accessible; improve the
process for requesting reasonable accommodations; and ensure that all
Federal employees understand their rights to request reasonable
accommodations. The Executive Order also directs a review of Schedule A
Hiring Authority for individuals with disabilities to assess
opportunities to enhance employment opportunities and financial security
for employees with disabilities. And the Executive Order directs the
Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Labor to take steps to expand
the use of the Workforce Recruitment Program for college students and
recent graduates with disabilities.

**Advances equity in the workplace for LGBTQ+ public servants.** For too
long, LGBTQ+ employees have faced discrimination and harassment in the
workplace. To advance opportunity for LGBTQ+ employees in the Federal
workforce, the Executive Order directs agencies to ensure that the
Federal health benefits system equitably serves LGBTQ+ employees and
their dependents by expanding access to comprehensive gender-affirming
health care. Agencies are also directed to take steps to ensure that
federal benefits like sick leave and life insurance equitably serve
LGBTQ+ individuals and all families with diverse family structures.  The
Order charges all agencies to ensure that the usage of gender markers
and pronouns in the Federal employment process respects transgender,
gender non-conforming and non-binary employees, and directs all agencies
to take steps to expand access to gender-neutral facilities inside
federal workplaces. Finally, the Order charges all agencies with
ensuring that their employee support services equitably serve LGBTQ+
employees, including, transgender and gender non-conforming and
non-binary employees who wish to legally, medically, or socially
transition.

**Builds a more diverse pipeline into public service through new
recruitment partnerships.** Historically Black Colleges and
Universities, Hispanic Serving Institutions, Tribal Colleges and
Universities, Minority Serving Institutions, and women’s colleges are
engines of opportunity and innovation in our Nation. The Executive Order
charges agencies with developing new recruitment partnerships to ensure
that the Federal government can recruit our Nation’s best talent.

**Expands Federal employment opportunities for formerly incarcerated
individuals.** Individuals with prior convictions experience must be
supported in accessing employment as they fully re-enter society. The
Federal government has an important role to play in supporting formerly
incarcerated individuals in fully reintegrating into society and making
meaningful contributions to our country. The Executive Order directs the
Office of Personnel Management to assess the barriers that formerly
incarcerated individuals face when seeking Federal jobs.  The Executive
Order also tasks the Office of Personnel Management with considering
creating new Hiring Authorities to expand job opportunities for
individuals with past convictions.

**Advances equity in professional development.** The Executive Order
directs agencies to improve the collection of demographic data about
which employees are able to access professional development and
advancement opportunities to ensure that these programs equitably serve
all Federal public servants.

**Improves the collection of demographic data about the Federal
workforce.** The Executive Order charges key agencies with reviewing and
improving guidance on the collection of demographic data about Federal
employees. With improved data on the Federal government’s workforce
composition, agencies will be better able to take an evidence-informed
approach to reducing inequitable barriers in hiring, promotion,
professional development, and retention practices.

\###
