---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-11'
modified_time: 2021-06-11 14:53:03-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/11/president-biden-announces-seven-key-nominations/
published_time: 2021-06-11 14:53:02-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Seven Key\_Nominations"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following seven individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Carlos Del Toro, Nominee for Secretary of the Navy
-   Sandra Bruce, Nominee for Inspector General of the Department of
    Education
-   Carlton Waterhouse, Nominee for Assistant Administrator of Land and
    Emergency Management, Environmental Protection Agency
-   Margaret Burnham, Nominee for Member of the Civil Rights Cold Case
    Review Board
-   Clayborne Carson, Nominee for Member of the Civil Rights Cold Case
    Review Board
-   Gabrielle Dudley, Nominee for Member of the Civil Rights Cold Case
    Review Board
-   Henry Klibanoff, Nominee for Member of the Civil Rights Cold Case
    Review Board

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Carlos Del Toro, Nominee for
Secretary of the Navy</span>  
**  
Carlos Del Toro is a retired Commander in the U.S. Navy with nearly 40
years’ experience in national security and naval operations, budgeting,
and acquisition. Over the course of a 22-year career in the U.S. Navy,
Del Toro held a series of critical appointments – including Senior
Executive Assistant to the Director for Program Analysis and Evaluation
in the Office of the Secretary of Defense; First Commanding Officer of
the guided missile destroyer USS Bulkeley; and Special Assistant to the
Director and Deputy Director of the Office of Management and Budget –
before founding SBG Technology Solutions, Inc. He has served as CEO and
President of SBG Technology Solutions for the last 17 years. As CEO and
President of SBG Technology Solutions, Del Toro has supported defense
programs across a host of immediate and long-term Navy issue areas,
including shipbuilding, AI, cybersecurity, acquisition programs, space
systems, health, and training. Having earned a Masters in National
Security Studies from the Naval War College and a Masters in Legislative
Affairs from George Washington University, Del Toro has also supported
military programs addressing policy and strategic studies.  
  
Born in Havana, Cuba, Carlos Del Toro immigrated to the U.S. with his
family as refugees in 1962. Raised in the Hell’s Kitchen neighborhood of
New York City, he attended public schools and received an appointment to
the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, where he earned a Bachelor
of Science Degree in Electrical Engineering. He was the first Hispanic
President of the White House Fellows Foundation and Alumni association
and serves on the Board of Directors of the Stimson Center. He was
recently appointed to the U.S. Naval Academy Alumni Association’s
Special Commission on Culture, Diversity, and Inclusion. Del Toro is
married to Betty Del Toro, with whom they have four children and a
granddaughter.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sandra Bruce, Nominee for
Inspector General of the Department of Education</span>**  
  
Sandra D. Bruce, Acting Inspector General of the U.S. Department of
Education Office of Inspector General, is a results-oriented leader with
more than 30 years of experience directing, overseeing, managing, and
conducting complex audit, inspections, and investigative-related
programs. Bruce joined the OIG in 2014 as Deputy Inspector General and
has been leading the office since 2018 when Inspector General Kathleen
S. Tighe retired.  
  
Prior to joining OIG, Bruce was the Assistant Inspector General for
Inspections at the U.S. Department of Energy, a position she also held
at the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency from 2006 to 2009. From
1997 to 2006, Bruce was a leader with the U.S. Postal Service Office of
Inspector General, directing its Law Enforcement and Postal Service
Security unit and its Computer Assisted Audit Techniques unit. From 1986
to 1997, Bruce was with the U.S. Army Audit Agency, where she began her
public service career as an auditor, rising to an Audit Supervisor and
Associate Program Director. Bruce was also a Legislative Fellow for
Senator Carl Levin.  
  
Acting Inspector General Bruce has received numerous awards for her
work, including a Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and
Efficiency (CIGIE) Award for Excellence, Distinguished Achievement
Awards, Exceptional Performance Award, and is a recipient of the
Excellence in Government Leadership Award presented by the Association
of Government Accountants-Philadelphia Chapter. Bruce is active in the
inspector general community, currently serving as a member of Pandemic
Response Accountability Committee (PRAC) where she chairs the PRAC’s GAO
and State and Local Oversight Subcommittee and is a member of the PRAC’s
Financial Sector Work Group. Bruce also serves as chair of the new CIGIE
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Work Group, and is a member of the
CIGIE Audit Committee and CIGIE Information Technology Committee. Bruce
previously served on the CIGIE Deputy Inspector General Work Group and
the Intelligence Community Inspector General’s Assistant Inspectors
General for Inspections Work Group.  
  
Bruce earned her Master of Science in Information Systems from Hawaii
Pacific University and her Bachelor of Science in Business
Administration with a Concentration in Accounting from Fayetteville
State University.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Carlton Waterhouse, Nominee
for Assistant Administrator of Land and Emergency Management,
Environmental Protection Agency</span>  
**  
Carlton Waterhouse is an international expert on environmental law and
environmental justice, as well as reparations and redress for historic
injustices. He has lectured globally on climate justice and group-based
inequality. In 2019, he testified before the InterAmerican Commission on
Human Rights of the Organization of American States, and in 2018 he
completed a Fulbright research fellowship in Brazil examining race and
police violence. His views have been published in the New York Times,
the Wall Street Journal, and many other media outlets. His scholarship
includes essays, articles, and book chapters focused on the ethical and
legal dimensions of environmental justice and reparations. After
completing law school, Dr. Waterhouse began his career as an attorney
with the United States Environmental Protection Agency where he served
in the Office of Regional Counsel in Atlanta, Georgia and the Office of
General Counsel in Washington, D.C. While at the EPA, he served as the
chief legal counsel for the agency in several significant cases and as a
national and regional expert on environmental justice, earning three of
the Agency’s prestigious national awards.  
  
Dr. Waterhouse earned a Ph.D. in Social Ethics from Emory University. He
is also a graduate of the Howard University School of Law, the Candler
School of Divinity and the Pennsylvania State University. He is
currently on a leave of absence from the Howard University School of Law
where he serves as a Professor of Law and as the inaugural director the
school’s Environmental Justice Center which is under development. Before
joining the Howard University faculty in 2019, he served as a Professor
of Law at the Indiana University Robert H. McKinney School of Law where
he directed the Environment, Energy, and Natural Resources Law Program.
Drawing from his unique background, Dr. Waterhouse examines civil
rights, human rights, and environmental issues from a multidisciplinary
approach. He actively participates in national, local, and international
organizations protecting civil rights and addressing environmental
issues. In February 2021, he was appointed to serve in the Biden-Harris
Administration as the Deputy Assistant Administrator for the Office of
Land and Emergency Management at the EPA.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Margaret Burnham, Nominee for
Member of the Civil Rights Cold Case Review Board</span>  
**  
Margaret Burnham has served as a state court judge (appointed by
Governor Michael Dukakis, 1977), civil rights lawyer, and human rights
commissioner. A graduate of Tougaloo College in Jackson, MS and the
University of Pennsylvania Law School, she has been on the Northeastern
University faculty since 2002.  She was named to the 2016 class of
Andrew Carnegie Fellows, an honor recognizing a select group of scholars
for their significant work in the social sciences and humanities.   
  
Professor Burnham views her work as part of a global reconceptualization
that seeks to historicize personal memory by connecting citizens to the
past in ways that inform the ongoing conversation about the present. In
this democratizing project to create an inclusive and authentic national
history, the distinctive role of researchers is to provide accurate
accounts of past events. If well carried out, the work should clarify
events and experiences, yield new readings of the past, and alter
understandings about present imperatives.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Clayborne Carson, Nominee for
Member of the Civil Rights Cold Case Review Board</span>  
**  
Clayborne Carson has devoted most of his professional life to the study
of Martin Luther King, Jr. and the movements King inspired. Since
receiving his doctorate from UCLA in 1975, Dr. Carson has taught at
Stanford University, where he is Martin Luther King, Jr., Centennial
Professor of History (Emeritus). In 1985 the late Coretta Scott King
invited Dr. Carson to direct a long-term project to edit and publish the
authoritative edition of her late husband’s speeches, sermons,
correspondence, publications, and unpublished writings. Under Carson’s
direction, the King Papers Project has produced seven volumes of The
Papers of Martin Luther King, Jr. In 2005 Carson founded the Martin
Luther King, Jr. Research and Education Institute to endow and expand
the educational outreach of the King Papers Project. Although he is
completing his final year directing the King Institute, he will continue
his research and teaching as a Senior Fellow at Stanford’s Center on
Democracy, Development, and the Rule of Law of the Freeman Spogli
Institute for International Studies.  
  
Born in Buffalo, New York, Dr. Carson spent his childhood years in Los
Alamos, New Mexico, where his father worked as a security inspector at
the Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory. Since moving to Los Angeles in
1964 to attend UCLA, he has resided in California. As a student, he
participated in civil rights and antiwar protests, and many of his
subsequent writings reflect these experiences by stressing the
importance of grassroots organizing and nonviolent resistance to
injustice within the African-American freedom struggle  
  
Dr. Carson has been married for more than five decades to Susan Ann
Carson, who until her retirement in 2008 was the managing editor of the
King Papers Project. His son, Malcolm, graduated from Howard University
and the University of California’s Boalt School of Law and is Senior
Vice President and General Counsel for the Trust for Public Land in San
Francisco. His daughter Temera graduated from San Jose State University
with a master’s degree in social work and is a social work supervisor
for the County of Santa Clara, California. His grand-daughter Dalila
Adofo is a project coordinator of San Francisco’s Southeast Community
Council for Bayview Hunters Point Community Advocates.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Gabrielle Dudley, Nominee for
Member of the Civil Rights Cold Case Review Board</span>  
**  
Gabrielle M. Dudley is Instruction Archivist at the Stuart A. Rose
Manuscript, Archives, and Rare Book Library at Emory University. In this
role, she partners with faculty and other instructors to develop courses
and archives research assignments for both undergraduate and graduate
students. She has taught courses on archives reference, access, and
outreach for Clayton State University and courses on Black print culture
for the California Rare Book School. She has authored several
professional articles on the intersection of pedagogy and archives
including the book chapter “For When They Arrive: Using Black Women
Writers Collections to Advance Engagement in Special Collections
Libraries” forthcoming in Critical Ethnic Studies in Academic and
Research Libraries.  
  
Gabrielle is a founding member of the Atlanta Black Archives Alliance
and has held leadership positions in the Society of American Archivists,
Society of Georgia Archivists, and the Rare Book and Manuscript Section
of the Association of College and Research Libraries (ACRL).  Gabrielle
earned her M.A. in Public History and MLIS with a concentration in
Archival Studies and Preservation Management from the University of
South Carolina. She also holds a B.A. in History from the University of
Montevallo.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Henry Klibanoff, Nominee for
Member of the Civil Rights Cold Case Review Board</span>  
**  
Hank Klibanoff, a veteran journalist who won a Pulitzer Prize in History
in 2007 for a book he co-wrote about the news coverage of the civil
rights struggle in the South, is the creator and host of Buried Truths,
a narrative history podcast produced by WABE (NPR) in Atlanta. A native
of Florence, Alabama, Klibanoff joined Emory at the close of a 36-year
career in newspapers in Mississippi and at *The Boston Globe, The
Philadelphia Inquirer* and *The Atlanta Journal-Constitution*, where he
was managing editor for news. He is a professor of practice in the
Creative Writing Program at Emory, where he teaches non-fiction.  
  
Klibanoff and his co-author, Gene Roberts, won the Pulitzer Prize in
history for their book, The Race Beat: The Press, the Civil Rights
Struggle and the Awakening of a Nation, published by Knopf (2006),
Vintage (2007) and Brilliance Audio (2007). The Race Beat explores news
coverage of civil rights from the 1930s through the late 1960s,
particularly the impact of the black press, the Northern press, the
Southern liberal and segregationist press, television and
photojournalism. Buried Truths, his podcast, focused in Season 1 on
Isaiah Nixon, a black farmer in Alston, Georgia, who was killed by two
white men on Election Day in 1948 after he voted in defiance of threats.
The second season was about A.C. Hall, a black 17-year old who was shot
in the back and killed by two white police officers in Macon, Georgia,
in 1962 after a white woman misidentified him. Season 3 went outside the
modern civil rights era to examine the shooting death last February of
Ahmaud Arbery of Brunswick, Georgia; he was jogging through a
neighborhood when he was shot and killed as three white men in two
trucks chased him.  
  
Klibanoff spent six years as a reporter in Mississippi, three years at
*The Boston Globe* and 20 years at *The Philadelphia Inquirer*, three of
which were as the Midwest correspondent based in Chicago. Between
Mississippi and Boston, he took a year to backpack in Europe and the
Middle East. He joined *TheAtlanta Journal-Constitution* as managing
editor for news in 2002 and left the paper in 2008, after which he
joined Emory. Klibanoff and his wife, Laurie A. Leonard, who is a speech
therapist, have three daughters: Caroline, Eleanor, and Corinne.

\###
