---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-08'
modified_time: 2021-06-08 16:29:39-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/08/letter-to-certain-congressional-committees-regarding-afghanistan/
published_time: 2021-06-08 16:29:38-04:00
title: Letter to Certain Congressional Committees Regarding Afghanistan
---
 
Dear Mr. Chairman:  
  
Consistent with section 1215(d) of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law
116-283), I have determined that a waiver of the limitation under
subsection 1215(a) is important to the national security interests of
the United States.  
  
As I announced on April 14, 2021, after almost 20 years, it is time to
end America’s longest war and bring our troops home.  I reached this
conclusion after conducting a rigorous policy review process and
consulting closely with our allies and partners, with our military
leaders and intelligence personnel, with our diplomats and our
development experts, with the Congress and the Vice President, and with
the President of Afghanistan and many other leaders around the world.  
  
We went to Afghanistan in 2001 for a clear and just purpose: 
to apprehend those who attacked our country on September 11, 2001; to
root out al-Qa’ida; and to prevent future attacks against the United
States from Afghanistan.  As a Senator, I supported sending our military
to Afghanistan for those reasons.  Our original mission had overwhelming
support in the Congress and our allies and partners rallied to our side
and stood with us in Afghanistan.  
  
We have long since accomplished the objectives that sent us to
Afghanistan.  It has been 10 years since we delivered justice to Osama
bin Laden.  The terrorist threat from al-Qa’ida in Afghanistan is
significantly degraded.  
  
Over the last 20 years, however, the terrorist threat to the United
States has become more dispersed around the globe.  Keeping thousands of
troops concentrated on the ground in Afghanistan no longer makes sense
as the most effective counterterrorism strategy when the threat has
metastasized across the Middle East, Africa, and Asia.  Our focus and
posture need to adapt accordingly.  
  
As we draw down United States troops, we will not take our eye off
the terrorist threat in Afghanistan.  The United States will reorganize
our counterterrorism capabilities and assets in the region to prevent
the reemergence of a terrorist threat in Afghanistan.  We will hold the
Taliban and the Afghan government accountable to their commitments not
to allow terrorists to threaten the United States or its allies from
Afghan soil.  And we will refine our national strategy to monitor and
disrupt terrorist threats wherever they arise.  
  
Over the past few decades, the United States and our partners have
trained hundreds of thousands of Afghan troops.  The Afghan National
Defense and Security Forces currently number close to 300,000, and they
will continue to fight valiantly to protect the Afghan citizens.  With
the support of the Congress, we will continue to support the Afghan
National Defense and Security Forces.  We will also continue to support
the rights of Afghan women and girls and to maintain significant
humanitarian and development assistance to Afghanistan.  
  
We will continue to pursue diplomacy and fully support peace talks
between the Government of Afghanistan and the Taliban, facilitated by
the United Nations.  And we will encourage other nations in the region,
especially Pakistan, to do more to support Afghanistan and to support
stability in the country.  But we will not allow United States troops to
be a bargaining chip between warring parties in other countries.  That
is a recipe for staying indefinitely in Afghanistan.   
  
We will withdraw responsibly, deliberately, and safely, in full
coordination with our allies and partners.  Our NATO allies and
operational partners, who have stood shoulder-to-shoulder with us for
almost 20 years and who have also made great sacrifices, will now
withdraw alongside our forces as we stand by our enduring principle of
“in together, out together.”  
  
Finally, I want to acknowledge the tremendous debt of gratitude we owe
as a Nation to the women and men who have served honorably in
Afghanistan since 2001.  They and their families have made incredible
sacrifices for our Nation that we can never fully repay. I look forward
to working with the Congress to continue supporting our forces and
veterans and on countering the challenges our Nation faces across the
globe.

        Sincerely,  
  
                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
