---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-25'
modified_time: 2021-06-25 10:53:11-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/25/fact-sheet-the-equality-act-will-provide-long-overdue-civil-rights-protections-for-millions-of-americans/
published_time: 2021-06-25 14:00:00-04:00
title: 'FACT SHEET: The Equality Act Will Provide Long Overdue Civil Rights Protections
  for Millions of Americans'
---
 
Freedom and equality are fundamental American values. But today,
millions of Americans lack basic non-discrimination protections just
because of who they are or whom they love. President Biden believes that
every American must be able to live freely, openly, and safely. That’s
why he continues to call on the Senate to swiftly pass the Equality Act,
legislation which will provide long overdue federal civil rights
protections to LGBTQ+ Americans and their families, while strengthening
some key civil rights laws for people of color, women, people with
disabilities, and people of faith.

**Despite the progress our Nation has made towards full equality, LGBTQ+
Americans still lack full non-discrimination protections in 29 states.**
In the absence of a Federal non-discrimination law, more than half of
all U.S. states lack laws on the book prohibiting discrimination against
LGBTQ+ individuals and families. The lack of federal non-discrimination
protections for LGBTQ+ people means that millions of Americans can be
denied housing, education, credit and more just because of who they are
or whom they love. In states across the country, LGBTQ+ Americans can
get married on Sunday, and denied a rental lease on Monday.  
  
**The Equality Act will provide long overdue civil rights protections on
the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity – ensuring LGBTQ+
Americans are finally afforded equal protection under law.** The
Equality Act amends the Civil Rights Act of 1964 to provide explicit
non-discrimination protections on the basis of sex, sexual orientation,
and gender identity. The bill builds on the Supreme Court’s ruling in
*Bostock v. Clayton County* by making explicit that non-discrimination
protections for LGBTQ+ people in employment settings apply to other
areas of life.

**The Equality Act will help protect LGBTQ+ Americans who continue to
report facing discrimination.**
[Studies](https://www.hsph.harvard.edu/news/press-releases/poll-lgbtq-americans-discrimination/)
show that majority of LGBTQ+ Americans say they have personally
experienced discrimination because of their sexual orientation or gender
identity. Transgender Americans, especially transgender women of color,
continue to face rampant discrimination in housing, employment, and in
public. These types of discrimination cause LGBTQ+ Americans to face
higher rates of poverty, violence, and unemployment than other
Americans.

**Discrimination isn’t just wrong. It also is detrimental to the
physical health and safety of LGBTQ+ Americans, especially transgender
women of color.** LGBTQ+ Americans still face discrimination when
seeking medical care or visiting a doctor. In surveys, nearly 29% of
transgender people in the United States say they’ve been refused medical
care because of their identity, which can lead to avoidance of medical
care.  That is why the Department of Health and Human Services
[announced](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2021/05/10/hhs-announces-prohibition-sex-discrimination-includes-discrimination-basis-sexual-orientation-gender-identity.html)
that it is taking steps to address and prevent discrimination against
LGBTQ+ Americans in healthcare settings, but Federal legislation is
needed to codify these protections. Discrimination also leads to
violence. Transgender women of color face epidemic levels of violence.
Too often, this violence stems from institutional discrimination in
healthcare settings, housing, and employment.

**Anti-LGBTQ+ discrimination also contributes to mental health
inequities faced by LGBTQ+ youth.** [75
percent](https://www.thetrevorproject.org/survey-2021/?section=Introduction)
of LGBTQ+ youth say they’ve experienced discrimination because of their
sexual orientation or gender identity. Discrimination and bullying are
detrimental to the mental health of any young person, and more than half
of all transgender and non-binary youth say they have seriously
considered commitment suicide in the past year. To address bullying and
discrimination at school, the Department of Education has
[announced](https://www.ed.gov/news/press-releases/us-department-education-confirms-title-ix-protects-students-discrimination-based-sexual-orientation-and-gender-identity)
that it is taking steps to expand protections for LGBTQ+ students in our
Nation’s schools, but Federal legislation is needed to codify these
protections.

**The Equality Act will also expand public accommodations protections
for people of color, women, and people of faith.** The Equality Act
would also strengthen civil rights protections for other protected
groups, including people of color, women, people with disabilities, and
people of faith by expanding where non-discrimination protections apply
to public accommodations.

\###
