---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-24'
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/24/president-biden-announces-seven-key-nominations-2/
published_time: 2021-06-24 18:09:22-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Seven Key\_Nominations"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following seven individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Bathsheba Nell Crocker, Nominee for Representative of the United
    States of America to the Office of the United Nations and Other
    International Organizations in Geneva, with the rank of Ambassador
-   Claire A. Pierangelo, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Madagascar and to the Union of
    the Comoros
-   Julia Gordon, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Housing, Federal
    Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development
-   Dave Uejio, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and
    Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development
-   Sara Bronin, Nominee for Chair of the Advisory Council on Historic
    Preservation
-   Fagan Harris, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors of
    AmeriCorps
-   Alvin Warren, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors of
    AmeriCorps

**<u>Bathsheba Nell Crocker, Nominee for Representative of the United
States of America to the Office of the United Nations and Other
International Organizations in Geneva, with the rank of Ambassador</u>**

Bathsheba Nell Crocker is currently a Senior Advisor at the Department
of State and served on the Biden-Harris Transition team.  From
2017-2020, she was a Vice President covering humanitarian issues at CARE
USA.  Ms. Crocker was the Assistant Secretary of State for International
Organization Affairs from 2014-2017.  She previously served as a Senior
Advisor to the Secretary of State, as the Principal Deputy Director in
the State Department’s Office of Policy Planning, and as Chief of Staff
to the Deputy Secretary of State.  Earlier in her career, Ms. Crocker
was an Attorney-Adviser in the State Department’s Office of the Legal
Adviser; Deputy U.S. Special Representative for Southeast Europe
Affairs; and Executive Assistant to the Deputy National Security Advisor
at the White House.  She also held senior roles at the Bill & Melinda
Gates Foundation, the United Nations, the UN Development Program, and
the Center for Strategic and International Studies.   Ms. Crocker served
as a Fellow at the University of Pennsylvania and the Brookings
Institution; at the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University;
and at the Council on Foreign Relations, as an International Affairs
Fellow.  She taught at Johns Hopkins University, George Washington
University, and American University.  A native of Washington, D.C., Ms.
Crocker received a B.A. from Stanford University, an M.A. from the
Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, and a J.D. from Harvard Law
School.

**<u>Claire A. Pierangelo, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Madagascar and to the Union of the
Comoros</u>**

Claire A. Pierangelo, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service,
class of Minister-Counselor, currently serves as the Principal Officer
at the U.S. Consulate General, Lagos Nigeria. Previously, Pierangelo was
an Assistant Professor at the National Defense University and prior to
that, the Director of the Office of Performance Evaluation in the State
Department’s Bureau of Human Resources. Earlier, she was the Deputy
Chief of Mission of the U.S. Embassy in Hanoi, Vietnam in addition to
other positions, including multiple assignments in the Bureau of
European and Eurasian Affairs in the State Department and service as
Principal Officer at the U.S. Consulate General, Surabaya, Indonesia.
Pierangelo earned an M.S. degree in National Security and Resource
Strategy from the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, National
Defense University, an M.A. degree from the Johns Hopkins University
School of Advanced International Studies and a B.A. degree from the
University of California, Santa Cruz.  She speaks Italian, Indonesian,
Vietnamese and French.

**<u>Julia Gordon, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Housing, Federal
Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development</u>**

Julia Gordon is the president of the National Community Stabilization
Trust (NCST), a nonprofit organization that supports neighborhood
revitalization and affordable homeownership through facilitating the
rehabilitation of residential properties in underserved markets. In
addition to managing NCST’s programmatic work, Gordon specializes in
federal policy related to homeownership, community development, and the
nation’s housing finance system. 

Previously Gordon has served as the senior director of housing and
consumer finance at the Center for American Progress, manager of the
single-family policy team at the Federal Housing Finance Agency, and
senior policy counsel at the Center for Responsible Lending. She also
has worked in the civil legal aid sector and as a litigation associate
and pro bono coordinator at the law firm of WilmerHale. Gordon received
her bachelor’s degree in government from Harvard College and her J.D.
from Harvard Law School. She resides in Silver Spring, Maryland with her
husband, Geoffrey Berman, and her daughter, Rochelle.

**<u>Dave Uejio, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and
Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development</u>**

Dave Uejio was announced as the Acting Director of the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau by President Joseph R. Biden, Jr., on
January 20, 2021. As the Bureau’s Acting Director, Mr. Uejio oversees a
$600 million budget and a 1,600-member workforce dedicated to protecting
consumers from unfair, deceptive, and abusive practices, in the
financial marketplace, through the enforcement of federal consumer
financial law. Currently, the Bureau supervises over 150 depository
institutions with assets totaling more than $10 billion. The Bureau also
supervises mortgage originators and servicers and payday lenders, as
well as companies from the consumer reporting, consumer debt collection,
student loan servicing, international money transfer, and automobile
financing financial marketplaces.

Prior to becoming Acting Director, Mr. Uejio served the Bureau as Acting
Chief of Staff, as Lead for Talent Acquisition, and, most recently, as
the Bureau’s Chief Strategy Officer. As Chief Strategy Officer, Acting
Director Uejio led the development of an integrative approach to
strategic planning, policy prioritization, enterprise risk management,
organizational performance, and program evaluation. Acting Director
Uejio utilized this integrative approach to improve the strategic advice
provided to the Director and to better translate the Director’s
priorities into tangible, reportable, and auditable programs and
initiatives.

In addition, to his experience at the Bureau, Acting Director Uejio has
served in Human Resources capacities at the National Institutes of
Health, the Office of Personnel Management, and the Office of the
Secretary of Defense. Acting Director Uejio began his career in
government service in 2006, when he joined the NIH as a Presidential
Management Fellow.

Acting Director Uejio is devoted to public service both as a profession
and a calling. He co-chairs the Federal Innovation Council, which is a
leading federal government interagency body to drive public sector
innovation. He also co-founded the largest event to connect, develop,
and inspire emerging public service leaders, the Next Generation of
Government Summit. Acting Director Uejio received a master’s degree in
public policy from the University of Minnesota and a Bachelor of Arts
degree from the University of California, Santa Barbara.

**<u>Sara Bronin, Nominee for Chair of the Advisory Council on Historic
Preservation</u>**

Sara Bronin is a Mexican-American architect, attorney, and policymaker
specializing in historic preservation, property, land use, and climate
change.  She is an incoming Professor at the Cornell College of
Architecture, Art, and Planning and an Associated Faculty Member of the
Cornell Law School, and she has held visiting positions at the Yale
School of Architecture, University of Pennsylvania, and the Sorbonne,
among other places.  Among other scholarly service, Bronin is an elected
member of the American Law Institute and a past chair of the State &
Local Government Section of the American Association of Law Schools.

Bronin’s interdisciplinary research focuses on how law and policy can
foster more equitable, sustainable, well-designed, and connected
places.  She has published books and articles on historic preservation
law and currently leads the research team behind the groundbreaking
Connecticut Zoning Atlas.  

Active in public service, Bronin is a board member of Latinos in
Heritage Conservation and an advisor for the National Trust for Historic
Preservation and the Sustainable Development Code.  As the founder of
Desegregate Connecticut, she leads a coalition that successfully
advanced the first major statewide zoning reforms in several decades.
Previously, she chaired Preservation Connecticut, served on the city of
Hartford historic preservation commission, and led Hartford’s
nationally-recognized efforts to adopt a climate action plan and city
plan, and to overhaul the zoning code.  

Bronin won several design awards for the rehabilitation of her family’s
National-Register-listed 1865 brownstone.  She holds a J.D. from Yale
Law School (Harry S Truman Scholarship), M.Sc. from the University of
Oxford (Rhodes Scholarship), and B.Architecture/B.A. from the University
of Texas.  While in law school, she clerked for then-Judge Sonia
Sotomayor on the Second Circuit Court of Appeals.  

**<u>Fagan Harris, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors of
AmeriCorps</u>**

Fagan Harris is a social entrepreneur, writer, and researcher who has
dedicated his career to advancing impact career opportunities for
underestimated communities.  
  
As the co-founder and CEO of Baltimore Corps, Fagan has led his team to
re-imagine recruiting, hiring, and career advancement for underestimated
communities. In 2020, Baltimore Corps played a leading role in the
Baltimore Health Corps, a $12M initiative that enlisted hundreds of city
residents in Baltimore’s pandemic response as full-time public health
professionals. The Health Corps earned national attention as a model for
centering racial equity in large-scale workforce development. Since its
inception, Baltimore Corps has engaged thousands in public service and
social entrepreneurship. In 2021, Baltimore Corps launched citycorps.us,
which will deploy the organization’s model in cities across the United
States.  
  
Fagan is an active civic leader. He currently serves as the Assistant
American Secretary for the Rhodes Trust where he helps to oversee the
scholarships annual recruitment and selection process. He is a Trustee
at the Johns Hopkins Hospital at Bayview and the Enoch Pratt Free
Library. He serves as the national Board President of Lead for America.
Fagan is also a board member at several Baltimore-based social
enterprises including B-360, Infinite Focus, and H.O.P.E (Helping
Oppressed People Excel). Fagan chairs an impact consultancy that guides
leading institutions to integrate “ESG” into their core practices and
operations.  
  
Previously, Fagan co-directed the Impact Careers Initiative at The Aspen
Institute where he led a team of researchers to publish scholarship on
talent pipelines in the public and social sectors. He started his career
at College Track where he helped build its College Success strategy and
program. In 2011, Fagan staffed the White House Council for Community
Solutions in the Obama Administration.  
  
For his work in social entrepreneurship, Fagan was named a Fellow at
Ashoka and Echoing Green. In 2020, he was awarded the Dial Fellowship by
the Emerson Collective. Fagan has given the keynote address at several
national conferences including CEO for Cities Conference and MCON.  
  
Fagan is a writer who elevates stories of Black excellence. He has
worked with several New York Times best-selling authors, including Wes
Moore. He is currently co-authoring several memoirs with leading Black
luminaries.  
  
Fagan is a proud graduate of Maryland Public Schools. He is an Honors
graduate of Stanford University where he was the recipient of its top
undergraduate honor. He has a Master in Philosophy from the University
of Oxford where he was a Rhodes scholar.

**<u>Alvin Warren, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors of
AmeriCorps</u>**

Alvin is a member of Santa Clara Pueblo where he lives with his wife
Pamela, an Isleta Pueblo tribal member, and their children. He’s vice
president of Career Pathways and Advocacy for the LANL Foundation in
Espanola, NM. In this role he’s responsible for expanding students’
access to academic and technical opportunities by supporting the growth
of college and career readiness in districts, schools, communities and
Native American Pueblos, Tribes and Nations. He leads the foundation’s
work with secondary schools, universities, colleges, industry leaders
and government representatives to develop and support a seamless
educational continuum of well-articulated steps, cradle to career,
coupled with strong supports and connections to employment
opportunities. Alvin is a former cabinet secretary of Indian Affairs for
the State of New Mexico, lieutenant governor of Santa Clara, program
officer for the W.K. Kellogg Foundation, national Tribal Lands Program
director for The Trust for Public Lands and land claims / water rights
coordinator for Santa Clara.

During his career Alvin has helped tribes across the United States
regain and protect traditional lands; ensured that over $120 million in
state dollars flowed to tribes to build essential infrastructure;
enacted state legislation establishing a framework for collaborative
state-tribal governmental relations; developed and sustained tribal
immersion and dual language schools and positively transform public
narratives about indigenous peoples. Alvin is the president of the
Kha’p’o Community School Board; co-chair of the New Mexico Broadband
Collective, an advisory committee member for the Native American Relief
Fund; and on the board of directors for the International Funders for
Indigenous Peoples. He’s a longtime farmer who’s actively involved in
the cultural life of his tribal community. Alvin earned a BA in History
from Dartmouth College and a Master of Public Administration from
Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School of Government.

\###
