---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-21'
modified_time: 2021-06-21 10:57:16-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/21/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-allocation-plan-for-55-million-doses-to-be-shared-globally/
published_time: 2021-06-21 12:00:00-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces Allocation Plan for\
  \ 55 Million Doses to be Shared\_Globally"
---
 
*These doses are the remaining part of the 80 million President Biden
pledged to allocate by the end of June*

Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is announcing the distribution
list for 55 million of the 80 million doses of America’s own vaccine
supply President Biden has pledged to allocate by the end of June in
service of ending the pandemic globally.  As we continue to fight the
COVID-19 pandemic at home and work to end the pandemic worldwide,
President Biden has promised that the United States will be an arsenal
of vaccines for the world. Part of that plan is donating vaccine from
our domestic supply, and the President has pledged 80 million doses to
be allocated by the end of June. Earlier this month, the Administration
announced the plan for [the first 25
million](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/03/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-unveils-strategy-for-global-vaccine-sharing-announcing-allocation-plan-for-the-first-25-million-doses-to-be-shared-globally/)
doses that we have begun shipping, and today’s announcement completes
the list for the remaining 55 million doses. For all of these doses,
those most at risk, such as health care workers, should be prioritized,
based on national vaccine plans.  
  
In addition to sharing doses from our own vaccine supply, the
Biden-Harris Administration is also committed to working with our U.S.
manufacturers to produce more vaccine to share with the world. To that
end, ahead of the G7, President Biden announced that the U.S. will
purchase [half a billion Pfizer
doses](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/10/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-historic-vaccine-donation-half-a-billion-pfizer-vaccines-to-the-worlds-lowest-income-nations/) and
donate them to 92 low- and lower middle-income countries and members of
the African Union. In total, the G7+ agreed to provide an additional
more than 1 billion doses starting summer 2021. In addition, the U.S. is
committed to [expanding local production of
vaccines](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/13/fact-sheet-united-states-and-g7-partners-will-provide-more-than-2-billion-vaccines-for-the-world/),
and through our Quad partnership and the International Development
Finance Corporation’s support for vaccine manufacturing, more than 1
billion doses will be produced in Africa and India in 2021 and 2022.
This vaccine strategy is a vital component of our overall global effort
to lead the world in the fight to defeat COVID-19 and to achieve global
health security.  
  
For these 80 million doses, the U.S. will share 75% through COVAX and
25% will be targeted to help deal with surges around the world.  Our
goals are to increase global COVID-19 vaccination coverage, prepare for
surges and prioritize healthcare workers and other vulnerable
populations based on public health data and acknowledged best practice,
and help our neighbors and other countries in need.  And, as we have
previously stated, the United States will not use its vaccines to secure
favors from other countries.   
  
Based on this framework and pending legal and regulatory
approvals, **the allocation plan for these 55 million doses will be as
follows:  **

-   Approximately 41 million will be shared through COVAX, with the
    following allocations:
    -   Approximately 14 million for Latin America and the Caribbean to
        the following: Brazil, Argentina, Colombia, Peru, Ecuador,
        Paraguay, Bolivia, Uruguay, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras,
        Haiti, and other Caribbean Community (CARICOM) countries,
        Dominican Republic, Panama, and Costa Rica.
    -   Approximately 16 million for Asia to the following:  India,
        Nepal, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Afghanistan, Maldives,
        Bhutan, Philippines, Vietnam, Indonesia, Thailand, Malaysia,
        Laos, Papua New Guinea, Taiwan, Cambodia, and the Pacific
        Islands. 
    -   Approximately 10 million for Africa to be shared with countries
        that will be selected in coordination with the African Union. 
-   Approximately 14 million – or 25% of these 55 million vaccines –
    will be shared with regional priorities and other recipients, such
    as: Colombia, Argentina, Haiti, other CARICOM countries, Dominican
    Republic, Costa Rica, Panama, Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Pakistan,
    Philippines, Vietnam, Indonesia, South Africa, Nigeria, Kenya,
    Ghana, Cabo Verde, Egypt, Jordan, Iraq, Yemen, Tunisia, Oman, West
    Bank and Gaza, Ukraine, Kosovo, Georgia, Moldova, and Bosnia. 

Sharing millions of U.S. vaccines with other countries signals a major
commitment by the U.S. Government.  Just like we have in our domestic
response, we will move as expeditiously as possible, while abiding by
U.S. and host country regulatory and legal requirements, to facilitate
the safe and secure transport of vaccines across international borders. 
This will take time, but the President has directed the Administration
to use all the levers of the U.S. government to protect individuals from
this virus as quickly as possible.  The specific vaccines and amounts
will be determined and shared as the administration works through the
logistical, regulatory and other parameters particular to each region
and country.

\###
