---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-15'
modified_time: 2021-06-14 19:20:03-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/15/fact-sheet-rebuilding-revitalizing-and-raising-the-ambition-of-u-s-eu-relations/
published_time: 2021-06-15 01:00:00-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Rebuilding, Revitalizing, and Raising the Ambition of U.S.-EU\_\
  Relations"
---
 
The United States and the European Union represent 780 million people
who share democratic values and the largest economic relationship in the
world.  Together the U.S. and EU laid the foundations of the world
economy and the rules-based international order after World War II.  We
share a deep commitment and investment in the multilateral system, which
was built based on enduring universal values, including the strong
protection of human rights, and which remains indispensable to
addressing global challenges.  The U.S. and EU also wrote the rules of
the road based on openness, fair competition, transparency, and
accountability.  The U.S.-EU Summit will begin the work of updating
those rules—to protect our health, to protect our climate, and to ensure
democracy delivers and technology improves our lives.  
  
President Biden’s participation underscores the U.S. commitment to a
strong Transatlantic partnership based on shared interests and values. 
The United States is committed to working with the EU to ensure global
health security, stimulate global economic recovery, tackle climate
change, enhance digital and trade cooperation, strengthen democracy, and
address mutual foreign policy concerns.   
  
**Launching the U.S-EU Trade and Technology Council:**  The leaders will
launch the U.S.-EU Trade and Technology Council to write the rules of
the road for the economy of the 21st century. They will expand and
deepen trade and investment ties, align key policies on technology and
standards, launch a new initiative on biotechnology and genomics, and
drive a digital transformation that boosts innovation and is based on
democratic values.   
  
**Fight and End the COVID-19 Pandemic and Drive a Sustainable Global
Economic Recovery:** The leaders will reiterate support for COVAX and
commit to reforming the World Health Organization. They are also
launching an expert working group to determine how best to reopen travel
safely.  
  
**Protect Our Planet and Foster Green Growth:** The leaders will commit
to leading by example in the fight against climate change, including by
becoming net zero greenhouse gas economies by 2050.  They will re-affirm
their commitment to the Paris Agreement, and to conserving at least 30
percent of land and sea areas by 2030. To this end, the U.S.-EU Climate
Working Group will tackle climate change and environmental degradation,
promote green growth, and urge ambitious action by all other major
players. Additionally, the EU-US Energy Council will continue to
coordinate on strategic energy issues, including decarbonization of the
energy sector, energy security, and sustainable energy supply chains.  
  
**Build a Stronger, More Democratic, and Peaceful World:**  The leaders
will commit to support democracy, uphold transparency, combat
corruption, end forced labor, and protect the human rights of all
people.  The U.S. will work with the EU on shared foreign policy
priorities, including Belarus, China, the Eastern Mediterranean,
Ethiopia, Iran, Russia, Venezuela, and the Western Balkans. They will
launch U.S.-EU dialogues on Russia, on cyber issues, and migration.  

\# \# \#
