---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-24'
modified_time: 2021-06-23 21:00:09-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/24/fact-sheet-new-u-s-government-actions-on-forced-labor-in-xinjiang/
published_time: 2021-06-24 06:00:00-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: New U.S. Government Actions on Forced Labor in\_Xinjiang"
---
 
At the recent G7 Summit in Cornwall, United Kingdom, the world’s leading
democracies stood united against forced labor, including in Xinjiang,
and committed to ensure global supply chains are free from the use of
forced labor. The United States is translating these commitments into
action. The Biden-Harris administration is taking additional steps to
hold those who engage in forced labor accountable and ensure that we
continue to remove goods made with forced labor from our supply chains
through actions by the Department of Homeland Security’s U.S. Customs
and Border Protection, the Department of Commerce, and the Department of
Labor.  
  
These actions demonstrate our commitment to imposing additional costs on
the People’s Republic of China (PRC) for engaging in cruel and inhumane
forced labor practices and ensuring that Beijing plays by the rules of
fair trade as part of the rules-based international order. The United
States believes that state-sponsored forced labor in Xinjiang is both an
affront to human dignity and an example of the PRC’s unfair economic
practices. The PRC’s use of forced labor in Xinjiang is an integral part
of its systematic abuses against the Uyghur population and other ethnic
and religious minority groups, and addressing these abuses will remain a
high priority for the Biden-Harris administration. The systematic abuses
go beyond forced labor to include sexual violence and large-scale forced
detentions, and the PRC continues to commit genocide and crimes against
humanity in Xinjiang.  
  
The PRC’s forced labor practices run counter to our values as a nation
and expose American consumers to unethical practices. They also leave
American businesses and workers to compete on an uneven playing field by
allowing firms to gain advantage over their competitors by exploiting
workers and artificially suppressing wages. The United States will not
tolerate forced labor in our supply chains and will continue to stand up
for our values and for U.S. workers and businesses. This includes
maintaining support for the development of transparent and diverse clean
energy supply chains at home free of forced labor — and supporting
President Biden’s commitment to bold climate action, the domestic solar
industry, and the jobs this vital industry creates.   
  
**U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Issues Withhold Release Order
(WRO):** CBP has issued a WRO on silica-based products made by Hoshine
Silicon Industry Co., Ltd., a company located in Xinjiang, and its
subsidiaries. This WRO is based on information reasonably indicating
that Hoshine used forced labor to manufacture silica-based products. As
a result, personnel at all U.S. ports of entry have been instructed to
immediately begin detaining shipments that contain silica-based products
made by Hoshine or materials and goods derived from or produced using
those silica-based products. CBP investigates allegations of forced
labor in U.S. supply chains and will continue investigating allegations
in the polysilicon industry and other industries in Xinjiang and
elsewhere.  
  
CBP’s forced labor investigations have produced six Withhold Release
Orders in Fiscal Year 2021, including one on cotton and tomato products
from the Xinjiang region, another on cotton products originating from
the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps (XPCC), and one on the
Dalian Ocean Fishing Co., Ltd. As demonstrated by the Dalian WRO, the
United States is also taking action to combat the PRC’s use of forced
labor beyond Xinjiang – including in the seafood industry. Currently, 35
of 49 active WROs are on goods from the PRC, and 11 WROs are on goods
made by forced labor from Xinjiang.  
  
**Department of Commerce Updates its Entity List:** The Department of
Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security added to the Entity List five
PRC entities: Hoshine Silicon Industry (Shanshan); Xinjiang Daqo New
Energy; Xinjiang East Hope Nonferrous Metals; Xinjiang GCL New Energy
Material Technology, and XPCC— for participating in the practice of,
accepting, or utilizing forced labor in Xinjiang and contributing to
human rights abuses against Uyghurs and other minority groups in
Xinjiang. This action, which follows the 48 PRC entities previously
added to the Entity List for their connections to human rights abuses in
Xinjiang, restricts the export, reexport, or in-country transfer of
commodities, software, and technology subject to the Export
Administration Regulations where such entities are a party to the
transactions (e.g., end-user, purchaser, intermediate or ultimate
consignee).  
  
**Department of Labor Updates the “List of Goods Produced by Child Labor
or Forced Labor”:** The Department of Labor has published a Federal
Register Notice updating its “List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or
Forced Labor,” to include polysilicon produced with forced labor in the
PRC. Every two years, the Department of Labor publishes an updated list
of goods produced by child labor or forced labor in violation of
international standards. This update is the first time a good has been
added outside of that two-year cycle, highlighting its strong response
to the severity of the ongoing human rights abuses against Uyghurs and
other minority groups in Xinjiang. The report currently includes other
products from the PRC that have links to forced labor in Xinjiang or by
Uyghur workers transferred to other parts of the PRC, including cotton,
garments, footwear, electronics, gloves, hair products, textiles,
thread/yarn, and tomato products.

\###
