---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-24'
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/24/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-initiatives-to-promote-housing-stability-by-supporting-vulnerable-tenants-and-preventing-foreclosures/
published_time: 2021-06-24 11:12:45-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces Initiatives to Promote\
  \ Housing Stability By Supporting Vulnerable Tenants and Preventing\_Foreclosures"
---
 
Across America, a strong economic recovery is taking hold. Since
President Biden took office, more than two million jobs have been
created. The American Rescue Plan is working, jumpstarting the economy
and getting Americans back to work. And critically, 70% of Americans
ages 30 and older have received at least one dose of the COVID-19
vaccine. In every state, jobs are up, the pandemic is in retreat, and
American workers and families are looking ahead to a brighter future.  
  
Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is announcing a number of steps
to keep people in their homes by protecting renters and homeowners who
are still experiencing shocks from the pandemic and its economic
fallout. Following the CDC’s decision to extend the eviction moratorium
for one final month through July 31, 2021, the Administration is
announcing a series of actions to help state and local governments
prevent evictions. The Administration is also taking action to stabilize
homeowners and support a return to a more stable housing market,
including by extending the foreclosure moratorium for federally-backed
mortgages by a final month, until July 31st.  
  
**<u>Biden-Harris Administration Actions to Help State and Local
Governments Prevent Evictions</u>**  
  
The American Rescue Plan allocated an additional $21.5 billion for
Emergency Rental Assistance (ERA) that can be used by renters to cover
arrears and make landlords whole. This is on top of $25 billion
allocated under the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021, bringing the
total amount of ERA available to more than $46 billion and creating an
economic and moral imperative for state and local governments to rise to
the challenge of building a new infrastructure for getting emergency
rental assistance to vulnerable renters and landlords. The Biden-Harris
Administration’s [May
7<sup>th</sup> guidance](https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/136/FACT_SHEET-Emergency-Rental-Assistance-Program_May2021.pdf) has
helped state and local governments move more funds to more renters in
need. But state and local governments must do better. Money is available
in every state to help renters who are behind on rent and at risk of
eviction.  
  
Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is announcing a series of actions
to help state and local governments prevent evictions and promote
housing stability. The Administration is also calling for the
acceleration of ERA funds to renters and landlords in need in addition
to an all hands-on-deck effort by local governments, courts, community
organizations, and the legal community to create alternatives to
evictions.  
  
Specifically, the Biden-Harris Administration is providing the following
support and guidance to:  
  
**Urge State and Local Courts to Participate in Eviction Diversion
Efforts.** Today, Associate Attorney General Vanita Gupta is sending a
letter to state courts encouraging them to adopt anti-eviction diversion
practices that will benefit families, tenants, landlords, and the courts
themselves. Establishing diversion programs will help landlords and
tenants reach agreement and access emergency rental assistance in
addition to other available resources to keep families hard-pressed by
the COVID crisis in their homes while helping make landlords whole.
Avoiding legal action helps tenants and landlords avoid the costs of
such action and relieves strain on the courts themselves. The Justice
Department letter points to actions that courts can implement
immediately to help confront this problem. The letter also directs
courts to federal resources they can use to support diversion programs
and to tools developed by the National Center for State Courts that can
help judges ensure landlords and tenants have an opportunity to tap into
available resources and mediate their dispute.  
  
**Highlight that American Rescue Plan Funds for State and Local
Governments and for Emergency Rental Assistance Can Be Used to Fund
Eviction Diversion Plans, Including Counseling, Navigator, and Legal
Services.** The American Rescue Plan delivered critical and historic
support to states and localities to help them address the COVID-19
public health emergency and its economic fallout. Today, the Treasury
Department is making clear that states and localities, in partnership
with their court systems, can tap two sources of Federal support for
funding their eviction diversion efforts: the $350 billion Coronavirus
State and Local Fiscal Recovery Funds and billions of additional dollars
available for housing stability services through the Emergency Rental
Assistance Program.  
  
**Convene a White House Summit for Immediate Eviction Prevention
Plans. **Effective prevention of unnecessary evictions through
deployment of ERA funds requires local strategies that strongly
encourage alternatives to evictions. Eviction diversion strategies,
where local legal systems require landlords and tenants to seek
mediation—a process that is particularly likely to be successful with
the deployment of ERA funds—are among the most effective strategies for
accomplishing that goal.  The White House, in collaboration with the
American Bar Association (ABA), Legal Services Corporation (LSC), and
National Conference of Bar Presidents (NCBP), is convening local
government, judicial, legal, and community leaders from 50 cities to
develop community-specific solutions to provide vulnerable families
access to counsel, divert evictions, and connect renters and landlords
to available resources. Drawing on local leaders from across the court
system, legal services and legal advocacy communities, philanthropy,
non-profit services, and local government, the White House will support
and facilitate coordination among these stakeholders in developing
locally-tailored solutions that incentivize the use of emergency rental
assistance and keep tenants stably housed, while also providing a model
for the coordination required in communities across the country to fully
address the eviction crisis.  
  
**Accelerate and Broaden State and Local Delivery of Emergency Rental
Assistance by Providing Clarity on Bulk Payments, Aiding Americans
Experiencing Homelessness, and Overcoming Language and Disability
Barriers. **Building off the enhanced
policies [announced](https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/136/FACT_SHEET-Emergency-Rental-Assistance-Program_May2021.pdf) on
May 7, today, Treasury is highlighting promising practices of
communities implementing effective rental assistance programs, as well
as releasing new guidance to support states’ and localities’ rapid
deployment of Emergency Rental Assistance to protect vulnerable families
from the threat of eviction. Treasury’s guidance:

-   **<u>Strongly encourages partnerships with courts to actively
    prevent evictions and develop eviction diversion
    programs.</u>** Emergency rental assistance can be used to help
    families at-risk of eviction remain in their homes, especially when
    programs work with courts to connect such families and their
    landlords with mediation and emergency rental assistance resources,
    engage providers of housing stability services for active support,
    and enter into agreements with courts to cover the costs of eviction
    diversion activities.  
     
-   **<u>Helps families experiencing homelessness gain access to
    assistance.</u>** For vulnerable families without a current rental
    obligation—necessary for emergency rental assistance
    eligibility—Treasury is creating a commitment letter process to help
    those families gain access to assistance. ERA can help families who
    have lost, or are at imminent risk of losing, their housing, to get
    stably housed by paying for relocation assistance, prospective rent,
    security deposits, and temporary hotel accommodations.  
     
-   **<u>Drives towards equal access by removing language and cultural
    barriers in securing emergency rental assistance.</u>** Treasury is
    strongly encouraging grantees to provide culturally and
    linguistically-relevant housing stability services and to conduct
    outreach in multiple languages so that eligible families do not face
    unnecessary barriers to access. Grantees who cannot provide such
    services themselves should be engaging partners with the capacity to
    do so to ensure equal access to emergency rental assistance for all
    eligible households.  
     
-   **<u>Provides a streamlined payment option for </u><u>utility
    providers and large landlords to make accessing emergency rental
    assistance on behalf of multiple tenants easier and more
    attractive.</u>** Treasury is clarifying how grantees may achieve
    economies of scale by obtaining information in bulk from utility
    providers and landlords with multiple units to help speed
    determination of eligibility of households and to bundle, in a
    single payment, approved amounts for the benefit of multiple
    tenants.  
     
-   **<u>Pushes grantee coordination to reduce the confusion, burdens,
    and delays in providing assistance created by differences in
    locally-imposed requirements among programs operating in the same
    regions</u>**. Grantees providing services to overlapping or
    neighboring areas should collaborate to develop consistent or
    complementary policies to avoid unnecessary confusion or burdens for
    families or landlords seeking aid.  
     
-   **<u>Lifts up grantees implementing effective practices to ensure
    that assistance quickly reaches the renters who need it
    most.</u>** Treasury is highlighting promising practices from the
    field, including successful examples of partnership with local court
    systems and legal services to divert evictions and prevent housing
    insecurity as well as programs taking advantage of options to reduce
    documentation barriers that keep eligible families from benefiting
    from ERA. This could include automating application processing and
    approaches for verifying income to simplify and speed eligibility
    determinations, such as leveraging fact-specific proxies like area
    median incomes.

**Ensure that the 30-day Eviction Notice Requirement for
Federally-Backed Properties is Enforced**. HUD/FHA and USDA will ensure
that no landlord (public or private) whose underlying financing is
backed by the federal government (e.g., HUD/FHA or USDA), purchased or
securitized by the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac)
or the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae), or that is
receiving assistance from the federal government may require a tenant to
vacate their unit for non-payment of rent until 30 days after the
landlord has provided the tenant with a notice to vacate.  
  
**Make Clear the Fair Housing Act Must Be Followed. **Evictions
disproportionately affect communities of color, people with
disabilities, women, and other members of protected classes. Tenants
with disabilities who are facing eviction are entitled to reasonable
accommodations in the eviction process. In some cases, in bringing
eviction actions, housing providers may also engage in practices that
violate the federal Fair Housing Act. The Department of Housing and
Urban Development (HUD) is providing guidance to help prevent Fair
Housing Act violations and collaborating with DOJ to publicize this
guidance. Landlords and renters can visit hud.gov/fairhousing for
details on guidance.  
  
**Leverage Government Information Channels to Reach Vulnerable Tenants
and Landlords: **The administration is implementing a
whole-of-government effort to raise awareness about emergency rental
assistance, including tapping multiple federal agencies to take actions
to inform tenants and landlords of available emergency rental assistance
including:

-   **<u>Publishing on Treasury’s website a list of more than 590 links
    to state, local and tribal government ERA
    programs. </u>**Treasury’s [website](https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/coronavirus/assistance-for-state-local-and-tribal-governments/emergency-rental-assistance-program/program-index) will
    also link to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s (CFPB)
    interagency housing hub, where CFPB has published information about
    ERA designed to be easily accessible to consumers.  
     
-   **<u>Lifting up</u><u> consumerfinance.gov/housing.</u>** The
    website is a one-stop, go-to resource for up-to-date information on
    their relief options, protections, and key deadlines for renters.
    Visit [cfpb.gov/housing](http://www.cfpb.gov/housing) to learn
    more.  
     
-   **<u>Conducting outreach to HUD grantees, HUD-assisted households,
    and housing providers who receive HUD assistance.</u>** HUD is
    working to encourage housing providers who receive HUD assistance to
    send information on the emergency rental assistance program in their
    community to tenants, ensuring HUD grantees are collaborating with
    the emergency rental assistance program in their community, and
    continuing to provide guidance that explains how the emergency
    rental assistance program can help HUD-assisted households.  
     
-   **<u>Sharing program information with the U.S. Department of
    Agriculture’s SNAP beneficiaries and the Social Security
    Administration’s SSI recipients</u>. **USDA will encourage State
    Departments of Social Services to share information on Treasury’s
    ERA and HUD’s Emergency Housing Vouchers with SNAP recipients. The
    Social Security Administration will support external outreach
    efforts by directly sharing information with SSI recipients as well
    as elevating awareness through their websites and social media
    platforms.  
     
-   **<u>Conducting targeted outreach to vulnerable tenants.</u>** HUD
    is working closely with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
    (CFPB) to step up outreach efforts to vulnerable tenants and inform
    them of federal assistance available to avoid eviction through
    extensive earned and paid media campaigns, close collaboration with
    state and local housing offices and public housing authorities, and
    the promotion of resources—such as toolkits and renter-oriented
    materials—for tenants and guidance to housing providers about
    eviction prevention best practices and emergency rental
    assistance.  
     
-   **<u>Aligning philanthropic supports.</u>** Philanthropy can play a
    key role in supporting outreach efforts to vulnerable tenants and
    helping communities stand up new programs. HUD is developing a
    Memorandum of Understanding with Melville Charitable Trust (MCT) to
    build the capacity of community-based organizations, cities, states,
    and Tribes to administer federal relief dollars efficiently and
    equitably. MCT is the largest foundation in the U.S. devoted
    exclusively to preventing and ending homelessness. In this new
    collaborative partnership, MCT will coordinate the philanthropic
    sector to target new capacity building resources in communities
    disproportionately impacted by the pandemic to fill gaps in service
    of new federal programs.

**<u>Biden-Harris Administration Actions to Prevent Foreclosures</u>**  
  
In addition to the actions outlined to support tenants and landlords,
today, the Biden-Harris Administration is also announcing efforts to
support homeowners. Three federal agencies that back mortgages – the
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), Department of
Veterans Affairs (VA), and Department of Agriculture (USDA) – will
extend their respective foreclosure moratorium for one, final month,
until July 31, 2021. The Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) will also
announce that it has extended the foreclosure moratorium for mortgages
backed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac until July 31, 2021.  
  
Once the moratoria end, HUD, VA, and USDA will take additional steps to
prevent foreclosures on mortgages backed by those agencies until
borrowers are reviewed for COVID-19 streamlined loss mitigation options
that are affordable, while FHFA will continue to work with Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac to ensure that borrowers are evaluated for home
retention solutions prior to any referral to foreclosure.   
  
In addition, HUD, VA, and USDA will also continue to allow homeowners
who have not taken advantage of forbearance to date to enter into
COVID-related forbearance through September 30, 2021, while homeowners
with Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac-backed mortgages who have COVID-related
hardships will also continue to be eligible for COVID-related
forbearance. Finally, HUD, VA, and USDA will be announcing additional
steps in July to offer borrowers payment reduction options that will
enable more homeowners to stay in their homes.

\###
