---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-30'
modified_time: 2021-06-30 09:57:21-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/30/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-administration-acts-to-address-the-growing-wildfire-threat/
published_time: 2021-06-30 11:00:00-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: The Biden- \u2060 Harris Administration Acts to Address the Growing\
  \ Wildfire Threat"
---
 
The National Interagency Fire Center forecast predicts above normal fire
potential for much of the West, in large part driven by severe drought
conditions that are impacting nearly ninety percent of the region.
 Since 2015, the United States has experienced, on average, roughly 100
more large wildfires every year than the year before – and this wildfire
season is already outpacing last season in terms of the number of large
fires to date. Climate change is driving the devastating intersection of
extreme heat, drought, and wildland fire danger across the United
States.  Decades of shifting development patterns, land and fire
management decisions, and climate change have resulted in wildfires that
move with a speed and intensity previously unseen.  This has created
conditions in which wildfires overwhelm response capabilities, resulting
in billions of dollars in economic losses, damage to natural resources,
devastation to communities, and the tragic loss of human life.    
  
In preparation for this wildfire season, the Biden Administration has
convened a series of meetings on wildfire preparedness and prevention
efforts to determine what more can be done to prepare for and prevent
wildfires.  President Biden met last week with FEMA Administrator Deanne
Criswell and his White House Homeland preparedness team to discuss
ongoing efforts to prevent, prepare for and respond to extreme weather
events and to underscore the importance of prompt delivery of support to
communities in need.  
  
Today, President Biden and Vice President Harris will meet with
Governors from Western states, Cabinet officials and private sector
partners to discuss specific actions the public and private sector are
each taking to strengthen prevention, preparedness, mitigation, and
response efforts – and to protect communities across our country from
wildfires and their devastating impacts.  During today’s meeting, the
President will direct a number of actions, in close coordination with
State and local governments and the private sector, to ensure the
Federal Government can most effectively protect public safety and
deliver assistance to our people in times of urgent need.   
  
The President will also highlight the need to invest in wildfire
prevention and risk mitigation efforts, including the nearly $50 billion
in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework.   
  
**<u>The Biden-Harris Administration Is Taking Action to Respond to
Wildfires this Year:</u>**

***Building a More Responsive and Resilient Wildland Firefighting
Workforce***  
  
**Bolster firefighter pay.**  Firefighters must be fairly paid for the
grueling work they are willing to take on.  From supporting COVID-19
efforts to fighting wildfires, our Federal wildland firefighters have
been on nearly nonstop deployments since January 2020.  That is why
today we are announcing that we are fulfilling the President’s
commitment that firefighters will not make less than $15 an hour this
year.  In addition, permanent firefighters working on the front lines
paid at up to a GS-9 level will receive up to a 10 percent retention
incentive and temporary workers who commit to continue this season would
receive a $1000 Spot/Star Award this year.  These are short-term
solutions to support our Federal wildland firefighters, especially due
to the multiple impacts of COVID and climate change this year.  The
Administration will work with Congress on longer-term much needed
compensation, benefit, and work-life balance reforms for Federal
wildland firefighters.  
  
**Extend hiring of temporary firefighters to ensure effective response
throughout this year’s fire season.  **To mitigate concerns about
Federal firefighter capacity this year, today we are announcing that the
Office of Personnel Management (OPM) has approved an exemption to extend
seasonal Department of Agriculture (USDA) and Department of Interior
(DOI) wildland fire employees to work additional hours beyond their
term.  Because of climate change, wildland firefighting is no longer a
seasonal endeavor.  Fires are burning later into the season and
temporary employees often reach their limited hours earlier in the
year.  This week, OPM also approved an extension of the Forest Service’s
(USFS) direct hire authority for wildland firefighters and support
personnel.  These proactive personnel management actions will help
sustain the Nation’s vital Federal wildland firefighting capacity.  We
also recognize the need for a sustainable long-term staffing approach
into the future that offers more permanent, stable employment.  
  
**Continue transition to a more permanent firefighting
workforce.  **With fire seasons turning into fire years, it is
imperative to have a year-round workforce that is available to respond
at any time, that is supported and equitably compensated, and is
available to undertake preventive actions like hazardous fuels
management treatments during periods of low fire activity.  DOI has
committed to hiring 210 new employees and converting 575 employees from
career seasonal to full-time employees during this fiscal year. 
Additionally, DOI is providing funding for 42 new tribal positions and
the conversion of 153 tribal positions from career seasonal to full-time
employees to support wildfire response.  USFS will continue to
prioritize expanding its permanent wildland firefighting workforce.  
  
***Improving Wildfire Response Capabilities***  
  
**Provide robust response through 15,000 Federal firefighters and
additional surge capacity.  **Wildland firefighting is a complex,
multi-agency effort, and our Federal firefighters work side-by-side with
their State, Tribal, and local counterparts on a daily basis.  USFS and
DOI maintain a capacity of over 15,000 Federal firefighters who are able
to respond to wildfires across the nation.  USFS and DOI can also
activate up to 13,000 additional employees throughout their departments
to support wildfire response.  These surge employees provide additional
capacity to the response, ranging from firefighting capabilities for
qualified employees, to critical response support through incident
management, acquisition, and human resources.  USFS and DOI have
additional capacity to call 11,000 administratively determined personnel
from outside their departments to support the response.  These employees
are generally retired agency personnel who can be dispatched to support
incident management teams and other firefighting functions.  
  
**Train and equip military personnel to be ready to quickly support
wildland fires as needed.  **Congress made Federal funding available to
train and equip the National Guard to conduct firefighting operations to
support state response to wildfires.  All eleven states who requested
this support have received the funding and training is underway.  The
Department of Defense (DOD) has also pre-identified two military units,
with 200 personnel each, to receive training and specialized equipment
to support firefighting operations if required.   
  
**Increase aviation capacity to support immediate response.  **Aviation
assets are critical in the management of wildfires to slow or decrease
the intensity of the fire and enable safe operations for firefighters on
the ground.  This year, the USFS has increased the overall capacity of
airtankers and helicopters to ensure their availability during peak fire
activity.  USFS and DOI share aviation resources, which includes up to
34 air-tankers and over 200 helicopters to boost our Nation’s wildfire
response capabilities.  When needed, DOD is able to provide aviation
support through National Guard and Air Force Reserve C-130 crews and
helicopter transport crews and equipment to support medical evacuation
or water drops for fire response.       
  
**Provide critical financial support to assist in wildfire
response.  **This Administration is ready to assist communities at the
start of severe fires with critical Fire Management Assistance Grants
(FMAGs).  Issued through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA),
FMAGs assist states, local, and tribal governments with the mitigation,
management, and control of fires which threaten such destruction as
would constitute a major disaster.  FEMA has approved 9 FMAGs since the
start of 2021.   
  
***Utilizing Data and Technology to Protect Communities***  
  
**Leverage satellite and emerging technologies to rapidly detect new,
often remote, wildland fires.  **The Federal government has a number of
new, innovative ways to detect and notify emergency personnel when
wildfires start.  The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
(NOAA) uses satellite-based early wildfire detection to provide initial
location information to first responders, allowing them to attack fires
more quickly.  NOAA is partnering with other Federal Departments and
Agencies and state governments to expand the use of this technology and
its associated notification system.  The [FY 2022 President’s
Budget](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/05/budget_fy22.pdf) includes
$15 million to support fire weather activities, including a new NOAA
Fire Weather Testbed to provide improved operations, service delivery,
and decision making based on the latest science and research.  This
virtual and onsite infrastructure will bring together fire weather
community researchers, operational experts, and emergency managers
across Federal, state, local, territorial, and tribal governments,
academia, and the private sector to develop new, impact-based decision
support tools, products, and models to address wildfires. The
President’s Budget also proposes a new wildfire applications program
within NASA to develop innovative tools and applications using satellite
data and the latest science to assist with wildland fire management.
Working with the wildland fire management agencies, this program will
support community-based consortiums to co-develop and pilot applications
in all phases of wildfires.  
  
**Use research to improve early detection wildfire sensors.**  The
Department of Homeland Security (DHS) is also focusing its research
agenda on innovations that will improve the Nation’s ability to predict,
detect, and control wildfires.  Just two weeks ago, DHS Science and
Technology announced successful Phase II trials of four prototype early
detection wildfire sensors.  Through a variety of sampling sensors and
advanced algorithms, these technologies, once deployed, will provide
early warning to fire-vulnerable communities, ultimately providing
valuable time that will aid responders and save lives.   
  
**Use the latest science and technologies to enhance our wildfire
response.  **The Federal government manages all fires using a risk-based
suppression strategy.  As we head into the peak of a long, arduous
season, it is more important than ever we deploy firefighters when they
have the highest probability of success.  USFS and DOI are using the
latest science and technologies to enhance our operational capability
and decision making so when firefighting resources are used, they are
able to work safely and effectively and protect critical infrastructure
and natural resources. USFS researchers have specifically created a
mapping unit called “Firesheds” that aggregates areas that have similar
fire behavior and community risk characteristics, allowing USFS to more
effectively prioritize hazardous fuel treatments.  The Department of
Energy (DOE), through the National Labs, have a variety of programs
underway to develop sensors and patches to help prevent structural
energy infrastructure failures that have the potential to ignite
wildfires.   
  
**Prepare to address potential power impacts as a result of
wildfires.  **Approximately 10 percent of wildfire ignitions are sparked
by faults on electrical grid infrastructure or electric equipment
failures.  There is also a growing risk of intentional power shutoffs in
anticipation of or due to wildfires.  In order to minimize rolling
blackouts during extreme heat and wildfire risk, DOE is prepared to
authorize utilities to run power plants at their maximum capacity to
best meet emergency needs.  DOE also uses its Environment for Analysis
of Geo-Located Energy Information (EAGLE-I) tool to give first
responders and State Emergency Management Officials information on the
status of the power grid, which is critical in facilitating response and
recovery efforts.  Finally, DOE will leverage the analytical
capabilities of the National Laboratories to provide tools for damage
assessments, predictive analysis, and grid management to support
response efforts.  This tool is available to Federal, state, local,
tribal governments and first responders and will include wildfire data
in its analysis in 2022.  
  
**Use research and modeling to protect firefighters and residents from
smoke and dangerous air.  **Wildfires can lead to smoke and water
quality concerns that may impact public health, and the Administration
is undertaking a number of efforts to mitigate these concerns.  NOAA
uses satellite data and models to forecast smoke and communicate areas
of dangerous air quality and low visibility.  During a wildfire, the
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) also monitors and models smoke,
develops smoke outlooks, and supports community public health
notifications and guidance.  EPA is developing and expanding
availability of the Vehicle Add-on Mobile Monitoring System (VAMMS) for
use in heavy smoke impacted areas to provide ground truth on smoke plume
and air quality models.  EPA is also evaluating how filtration devices,
such as facemasks and portable air cleaners, can reduce exposures during
smoke episodes.  With funding from the American Rescue Plan, EPA is
piloting a project with Western states to use schools as clean air
shelters and cooling centers during heat and smoke events.  
  
**Provide actionable information to help Americans stay safe during a
wildfire. **  
FEMA recently redesigned its Wildland Urban Interface website to
highlight resources and information to assist states and local
communities in preventing and preparing for wildfires.  EPA developed a
wildfire smoke guide, in collaboration with a range of Federal and State
partners, to provide specific information on the impacts of smoke and
actions individuals can take to reduce their exposure.  EPA and the USFS
launched the [AirNow Fire and Smoke Map](https://fire.airnow.gov/),
which combines data from EPA’s air monitoring network with data from
low-cost sensors, to improve air quality and smoke information available
to the public during fire events.  In July, the EPA will add the Fire
and Smoke Map to the AirNow mobile app, making this information more
readily available to the public.  
  
***Reducing the Risk of Wildfires throughHazardous Fuels Management and
Mitigation Investments***  
  
**Provide assistance to mitigate the impacts of future wildfires and
protect communities**. The Building Resilient Infrastructure and
Communities (BRIC) program provides a critical opportunity for
governments to invest in resilience before a disaster.  In FY 2020, $500
million was made available through the BRIC program to support states,
local communities, tribes, and territories for pre-disaster mitigation.
 In May, the Administration doubled FEMA BRIC program resources – to $1
billion – for FY 2021.  Today, FEMA is announcing that one of the FY
2020 BRIC projects selected will provide $37 million in federal funds
for an innovative wildfire mitigation project in Sonoma, CA that focuses
on mitigation activities at both the large wildland-scale and the
neighborhood-scale in order to build more resilient communities.  FEMA
will soon announce additional FY 2020 BRIC projects selected for Federal
funding. FEMA also provides assistance to mitigate future wildfires
under the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program (HMGP) Post-Fire for
communities.  FEMA Regional offices are coordinating with state and
tribal partners to highlight the opportunities made available through
these grant programs.  
  
**The Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework invests nearly $50 billion to
build resilience to wildfires and helps western communities prepare for
droughts. ** Last year, the United States faced 22 extreme weather and
climate-related disaster events with loses over $1 billion – a
cumulative price tag of nearly $100 billion.  The bipartisan
infrastructure framework will help the country prepare for those events
by investing in forest management and upgrades to critical
infrastructure — like elevating buildings, roads, and bridges, hardening
physical infrastructure, and winterizing the power grid – as well as
funding state and local infrastructure improvements and emergency
response strategies, such as planning grants to support development of
evacuation routes or upgrading community shelters.  The Framework will
also make it easier for low-income families to buy flood insurance.  And
it will help Western farmers, ranchers, tribes, families, and
communities better prepare for future droughts. It will invest in
ecosystem restoration, such as the restoration of wetlands that can
reduce flood risk for communities.  
  
**Invest in extreme wildfire protection through the FY 2022
Budget.  **The [FY 2022 President’s
Budget](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/05/budget_fy22.pdf) includes
over $30 billion in FY 2022 to support wildfire management and related
activities and disaster relief.  This funding is necessary in order to
ensure we have the resources necessary to better prepare and respond to
wildfires and protect communities.  
  
**More effective treatment of hazardous fuels.  **This Administration
understands the need to address forest management in the prevention of
wildfires.  The President’s FY 2022 Budget has proposed a 62% increase
in hazardous fuels funding across USFS and DOI.  This funding is used to
reduce wildfire hazards by addressing the excessive accumulation of
biomass (i.e., “hazardous fuels”) in targeted locations.  Investments in
FY 2022 will be informed by a scientific, outcome-based national
investment model that targets land treatments to areas where they can be
most effective in protecting communities.  The USFS and DOI have
identified more than 4 million acres that could be treated this year
with the funding requested in the FY 2022 Budget.  The Administration
looks forward to working with Congress to fully fund this critical
program.

\###
