---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-08'
modified_time: 2021-06-08 16:02:09-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/08/letter-to-the-speaker-of-the-house-of-representatives-and-the-president-of-the-senate-on-blocking-property-and-suspending-entry-into-the-united-states-of-certain-persons-contributing-to-the-destabiliz/
published_time: 2021-06-08 16:02:08-04:00
title: "Letter to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President of\
  \ the Senate on Blocking Property And Suspending Entry Into The United\_States Of\
  \ Certain Persons Contributing To The Destabilizing Situation In The Western\_Balkans"
---
 
Dear Madam Speaker: (Dear Madam President:)  
  
Pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C.
1701 *et seq.*), I hereby report that I have issued an Executive Order
in order to expand the scope of the national emergency declared in
Executive Order 13219 of June 26, 2001 (Blocking Property of Persons Who
Threaten International Stabilization Efforts in the Western Balkans), as
amended by Executive Order 13304 of May 28, 2003 (Termination of
Emergencies With Respect to Yugoslavia and Modification of Executive
Order 13219 of June 26, 2001), finding that the situation in the
territory of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the
Republic of Albania (the Western Balkans), over the past two decades,
including the undermining of post-war agreements and institutions
following the breakup of the former Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia, as well as widespread corruption within various governments
and institutions in the Western Balkans, stymies progress toward
effective and democratic governance and full integration into
transatlantic institutions, and thereby constitutes an unusual and
extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the
United States.  
  
The order broadens the geographic scope of the existing sanctions regime
to include Albania and augments designation criteria for current threats
to United States national security and foreign policy interests in the
region, including obstruction of democratic and judicial processes,
corruption, and organized crime.   
  
Actions undermining post-war agreements and institutions following the
breakup of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, as well
as widespread corruption within various governments and institutions in
the Western Balkans, stymies progress toward effective and democratic
governance and full integration into transatlantic institutions, and
thereby constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national
security and foreign policy of the United States.  I have therefore
determined that it is necessary to block the property and interests in
property of any persons who are determined by the Secretary of the
Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, to have
undermined democratic processes or institutions, undermined any regional
security, peace, cooperation, or mutual recognition agreement or
framework or accountability mechanism, engaged in serious human rights
abuse, or directly or indirectly engaged in corruption related to the
Western Balkans.  All executive departments and agencies are directed to
take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the
provisions of the order.  
  
I am enclosing a copy of the Executive Order I have issued.

        Sincerely,  
  
                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
