---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-03'
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/03/statement-by-president-joe-biden-on-global-vaccine-distribution/
published_time: 2021-06-03 11:10:34-04:00
title: "Statement by President Joe\_Biden on Global Vaccine\_Distribution"
---
 
As the United States continues our efforts to get every eligible
American vaccinated and fight COVID-19 here at home, we also recognize
that ending this pandemic means ending it everywhere. As long as this
pandemic is raging anywhere in the world, the American people will still
be vulnerable. And the United States is committed to bringing the same
urgency to international vaccination efforts that we have demonstrated
at home.  
  
Already the United States has committed $4 billion to support COVAX, and
we have launched partnerships to boost global capacity to manufacture
more vaccines. My administration supports efforts to temporarily waive
intellectual property rights for COVID-19 vaccines because, over time,
we need more companies producing life-saving doses of proven vaccines
that are shared equitably. We have already shared more than 4 million
doses of vaccine with Canada and Mexico, and last month, I announced
that, by the end of June, the United States will share 80 million doses
of our vaccine supply with the world.  
  
Today, we’re providing more detail on how we will allocate the first 25
million of those vaccines to lay the ground for increased global
coverage and to address real and potential surges, high burdens of
disease, and the needs of the most vulnerable countries. At least 75
percent of these doses—nearly 19 million—will be shared through COVAX,
including approximately 6 million doses for Latin America and the
Caribbean, approximately 7 million for South and Southeast Asia, and
approximately 5 million for Africa, working in coordination with the
African Union and the Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention.
The remaining doses, just over 6 million, will be shared directly with
countries experiencing surges, those in crisis, and other partners and
neighbors, including Canada, Mexico, India, and the Republic of Korea.  
  
We are sharing these doses not to secure favors or extract concessions.
We are sharing these vaccines to save lives and to lead the world in
bringing an end to the pandemic, with the power of our example and with
our values. And we will continue to follow the science and to work in
close cooperation with our democratic partners to coordinate a
multilateral effort, including through the G7.   
  
Strong American leadership is essential to ending this pandemic now, and
to strengthening global health security for tomorrow—to better prevent,
detect, and respond to the next threat. The United States will be the
world’s arsenal of vaccines in our shared fight against this virus. In
the days to come, as we draw on the experience of distributing the
vaccine doses announced today, we will have more details to provide
about how future doses will be shared. And we will continue to do all we
can to build a world that is safer and more secure against the threat of
infectious disease.

\###
