---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-06-01'
modified_time: 2021-07-02 19:58:20-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/01/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-administration-champions-lgbtq-equality-and-marks-pride-month/
published_time: 2021-06-01 08:00:00-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: The Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Champions LGBTQ+ Equality\
  \ and Marks Pride\_Month"
---
 
Today, President Biden issued a proclamation affirming June 2021 as
Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer (LGBTQ+) Pride Month,
marking a time a time of hope, progress, and promise for LGBTQ+
Americans across the country. After four years of relentless attacks on
LGBTQ+ rights, the Biden-Harris Administration has taken historic
actions to accelerate the march toward full LGBTQ+ equality. From
protecting the civil rights of every LGBTQ+ American, enabling all
qualified Americans – including transgender Americans – to serve their
country in uniform, ensuring that LGBTQ+ Americans are leaders at every
level of the federal government, to protecting and defending the human
rights of LGBTQ+ persons around the world, the Biden-Harris
Administration is a consistent and reliable partner in the fight for
equality at home and abroad.

Too many LGBTQ+ Americans across our nation continue facing
discrimination and hate, especially LGBTQ+ people of color and
transgender Americans, and some states are attempting to roll back the
clock on equality with discriminatory bills that target LGBTQ+ people
and families. The Biden-Harris Administration reaffirms that no one
should face discrimination or harassment because of who they are or whom
they love. As President Biden said during his first joint address to
Congress, the President has the back of LGBTQ+ people across the country
and will continue fighting for full equality for every American –
including through continuing to urge the U.S. Senate to pass the
Equality Act and provide overdue civil rights protections to LGBTQ+
people and families across the country.   

This Pride Month, the Biden-Harris Administration celebrates the
historic progress made towards LGBTQ+ equality since President Biden
took office, including:

**Signing One of the Most Comprehensive Executive Orders in History on
LGBTQ+ Rights on His First Day in Office. **Within hours of taking the
oath of office, President Biden signed an [Executive
Order](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/20/executive-order-preventing-and-combating-discrimination-on-basis-of-gender-identity-or-sexual-orientation/) Preventing
and Combating Discrimination on the Basis of Gender Identity or Sexual
Orientation. The Executive Order established that it is the official
policy of the Biden-Harris Administration to prevent and combat
discrimination against LGBTQ+ individuals, and to fully enforce civil
rights laws to prevent discrimination on the basis of gender identity or
sexual orientation. The President directed all federal agencies to
implement fully all federal laws that prevent discrimination on the
basis of sex, to include sexual orientation and gender identity. This
Executive Order is one of the most consequential policies for LGBTQ+
Americans ever signed by a U.S. President. As a result of that Order,
agencies have already taken key steps to advance LGBTQ+ equality.

-   The Department of Health and Human Services
    (HHS) [announced](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2021/05/10/hhs-announces-prohibition-sex-discrimination-includes-discrimination-basis-sexual-orientation-gender-identity.html) it
    will interpret and enforce Section 1557 of the Affordable Care Act
    and Title IX to prevent discrimination on the basis of sexual
    orientation and gender identity.  
     
-   To address the pervasive discrimination LGBTQ+ families continue to
    face in housing, the Department of Housing and Urban
    Development [announced](https://www.hud.gov/press/press_releases_media_advisories/hud_no_21_021) it
    will interpret the Fair Housing Act to prevent discrimination in
    housing and rental assistance against LGBTQ+ people. HUD will
    require state and local jurisdictions who receive funding through
    its Fair Housing Assistance Program to apply the same protections.  
     
-   In response to the continuing discrimination many LGBTQ+ individuals
    face in credit and lending services, the Consumer Financial
    Protection
    Bureau [announced](https://www.consumerfinance.gov/about-us/newsroom/cfpb-clarifies-discrimination-by-lenders-on-basis-of-sexual-orientation-and-gender-identity-is-illegal/) that
    it will enforce against discrimination on the basis of sexual
    orientation or gender identity in credit and lending services.  
     
-   The Department of Justice [issued new
    guidance](https://www.justice.gov/crt/page/file/1383026/download) to
    agencies clarifying that Title IX sex discrimination protection
    includes protection on the basis of sexual orientation and gender
    identity.  
     
-   To ensure that LGBTQ+ Veterans are treated with dignity and respect,
    the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has undertaken
    an [agency-wide
    review](https://blogs.va.gov/VAntage/85152/secretary-orders-review-vas-transgender-policies/) of
    its policies and practices to remove barriers that transgender
    veterans and their families face.  
     
-    It is DOJ’s position that the Constitution requires prisons to
    provide reasonable protection to all prisoners, including
    transgender prisoners, from serious harm, including sexual abuse.

**Launching a Whole-Of-Government Initiative to Advance Equity and
Justice for Underserved Communities, Including LGBTQ+ Communities. **On
his first day in office, President Biden signed a historic [Executive
Order](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/20/executive-order-advancing-racial-equity-and-support-for-underserved-communities-through-the-federal-government/) establishing
a cross-government initiative to advance equity and justice for
communities who have been left behind, underserved, or discriminated
against by federal policies, laws, and programs, including LGBTQ+
communities. The President directed all agencies to take steps to
advance equity by taking comprehensive action to root out bias from
federal programs and policies, engage with underserved communities, and
ensure that federal resources equitably reach all Americans, including
LGBTQ+ Americans.

**Enabling All Qualified Americans to Serve Their Country in
Uniform. **In his first week in office, President
Biden [signed](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/01/25/fact-sheet-president-biden-signs-executive-order-enabling-all-qualified-americans-to-serve-their-country-in-uniform/) an
Executive Order reversing the ban on openly transgender servicemembers
serving in the Armed Forces, enabling all qualified Americans to serve
their country in uniform. President Biden believes that gender identity
should not be a bar to military service, America’s strength is found in
its diversity, and an inclusive military strengthens our national
security As a result of his Executive Order, the Department of Defense
issued
new [policies](https://www.defense.gov/Newsroom/Releases/Release/Article/2557220/dod-announces-policy-updates-for-transgender-military-service/) which
prohibit discrimination against transgender servicemembers, provide a
path for transgender servicemembers to access gender-affirming medical
care, and require that all transgender servicemembers are treated with
dignity and respect. Patriotic transgender servicemembers are once again
able to openly and proudly serve our Nation in uniform.

**Advancing an Equitable Recovery from COVID-19 for LGBTQ+ Americans
across the Country. **President Biden knows that LGBTQ+ individuals and
families have been disproportionately burdened by the COVID-19 health
crisis and economic crisis. Even before COVID-19, LGBTQ+ Americans were
more likely to be uninsured and unemployed, and were more likely to
experience poverty, have a pre-existing condition, and experience food
insecurity. These barriers have posed unique risks to the physical and
financial health of LGBTQ+ people during this crisis. The President’s
American Rescue Plan makes significant investments in an equitable
recovery, and is helping LGBTQ+ families across the country recover from
COVID-19 by:

-   Addressing food insecurity among LGBTQ+ communities by increasing
    the value of nutrition assistance by 15 percent.
-   Advancing health equity for LGBTQ+ Americans, who remain more likely
    to be uninsured, by improving access to and affordability of health
    coverage through the Marketplace, and expanding mental health
    resources.
-   Supporting LGBTQ+ Americans, who are more likely to experience
    unemployment and continue to face discrimination in the job market,
    by extending unemployment insurance benefits critical to helping
    many families, including LGBTQ+ families, stay afloat.
-   Addressing the disproportionate rates of housing insecurity and
    homelessness faced by LGBTQ+ Americans, especially transgender
    youth, by expanding emergency rental assistance programs.

**Signing and Leading Implementation of a Presidential Memorandum on
Advancing the Human Rights of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender,
Queer, and Intersex Persons Around the World. **President
Biden [directed](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/02/04/memorandum-advancing-the-human-rights-of-lesbian-gay-bisexual-transgender-queer-and-intersex-persons-around-the-world/) all
agencies engaged abroad to ensure that United States diplomacy and
foreign assistance promote and protect the human rights of LGBTQ+
persons. His Memorandum establishes that it “shall be the policy of the
United States to pursue an end to violence and discrimination on the
basis of sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, or sex
characteristics, and to lead by the power of our example in the cause of
advancing the human rights of LGBTQ+ persons around the world.” As
previously [highlighted](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/05/17/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-administration-is-advancing-lgbtqi-human-rights-at-home-and-across-the-globe/) by
the White House, Departments and Agencies are already making progress in
areas towards the goals outlined in the  Presidential Memorandum,
including: strengthen existing efforts to combat the criminalization by
foreign governments of LGBTQ+ people and expand efforts to combat
discrimination, homophobia, transphobia, and intolerance on the basis of
LGBTQ+ status or conduct; protect vulnerable LGBTQ+ refugees and asylum
seekers; help ensure the Federal Government has a swift and meaningful
response to serious incidents that threaten the human rights of LGBTQ+
persons abroad; and build coalitions with like-minded nations to counter
discrimination against LGBTQ+ people around the world.

**Establishing the White House Gender Policy Council to Advance Gender
Equity and Equality. **President Biden signed an [Executive
Order](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/03/08/executive-order-on-establishment-of-the-white-house-gender-policy-council/) establishing
the White House Gender Policy Council to advance gender equity and
equality across the whole of the government, including by addressing
barriers faced by LGBTQ+ people, in particular transgender women and
girls, across our country.    
  
**Ensuring Educational Environments are Free from Sex Discrimination and
Protecting LGBTQ+ Students from Sexual Harassment. **President Biden
signed an [Executive
Order](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/03/08/executive-order-on-guaranteeing-an-educational-environment-free-from-discrimination-on-the-basis-of-sex-including-sexual-orientation-or-gender-identity/) recommitting
the Federal Government to guarantee educational environments free from
sex discrimination, including sexual harassment and including
discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity,
and directing the Department of Education to review and as necessary
consider revising agency actions that are inconsistent with that policy.
The Executive Order charged the Department of Education with reviewing
the significant rates at which students who identify as LGBTQ+ are
subject to sexual harassment, including sexual violence.

**Signing a National Security Memorandum Supporting Federal Employees
Serving Overseas, including LGBTQ+ Employees. **President Biden signed
a [National Security
Memorandum](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/02/04/memorandum-revitalizing-americas-foreign-policy-and-national-security-workforce-institutions-and-partnerships/) on
Revitalizing America’s Foreign Policy and National Security Workforce,
Institutions, and Partnerships. The Memorandum directs agencies to take
steps to retain, develop, promote, and support LGBTQ+ and other national
security employees, and employees with LGBTQ+ family members.  
  
**Ensuring Transgender Americans Can Access Emergency Shelter That
Dignifies and Respects Their Identity. **The Department of Housing and
Urban Development [restored
protections](https://www.hud.gov/press/press_releases_media_advisories/HUD_No_21_069) for
transgender individuals seeking emergency shelter and homeless services.
HUD reaffirmed its commitment that no person be denied access to housing
or other critical services because of their gender identity.  
  
**Creating a Historically Diverse Cabinet and Administration. ** The
Biden-Harris Administration includes barrier-breaking LGBTQ+ leaders,
including Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg, who is the first
openly gay Cabinet Secretary confirmed by the U.S. Senate, and Assistant
Secretary for Health Dr. Rachel Levine, who is the first openly
transgender person ever confirmed by the U.S. Senate. President Biden
has assembled the most diverse Administration in our Nation’s history,
and is proud to serve alongside the [14
percent](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/29/fact-sheet-100-days-in-biden-harris-administration-makes-history-with-presidential-appointees/) of
all appointees who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and
queer.

**Issuing the First White House Proclamation for Transgender Day of
Visibility. **On March 31, 2021 President Biden became the first U.S.
President to issue
a [proclamation](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/03/31/a-proclamation-on-transgender-day-of-visibility-2021/) commemorating
Transgender Day of Visibility. The proclamation honored and celebrated
the achievements and resiliency of transgender individuals and
communities, and recognized the generations of struggle, activism, and
courage that have brought our country closer to full equality for
transgender and gender non-binary people in the United States and around
the world. 

**Ensuring Pride Flags Fly on U.S. Embassies Around the World. **The
State Department announced it will allow U.S. diplomatic outposts to fly
the Pride flag on the same flagpole as the U.S. flag at their embassy or
consulate, demonstrating that the United States will lead on LGBTQI+
human rights around the world.

\###
