---
date: '2023-02-22'
published_time: 2023-02-22 10:25:47-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/02/22/remarks-by-president-biden-before-meeting-with-the-leaders-of-the-bucharest-nine/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden Before Meeting with the Leaders of the Bucharest\_\
  Nine"
---
 
Presidential Palace  
Warsaw, Poland

2:55 P.M. CET  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, thank you all very much.  And I’m delighted to be
here.   
  
As some of you may remember, years ago, when we were expanding NATO, I
was the one in the United States Senate who was pushing the hardest to
expand NATO for membership of many of you sitting around this table.   
  
And the irony is that one of the last conversations I had with the — our
friend in Russia was I said, “You keep asking for the Finlandization of
NATO.  You’re going to get the NATOization of Finland.”   
  
Well, it happened.  Not only are we strong as we were, we’re
stronger.   
  
And I say to my fellow presidents that I’m honored to be with you here —
and so many strong NATO Allies — and the Secretary General, who I think
has done an incredible job — an incredible job — for a long time, and I
rely on his judgment a great deal.   
  
You know, the B9 was founded in 2015, after Russia attempted annexation
of Crimea.  And today, as we approach the one-year anniversary of
Russia’s further invasion, it’s even more important that we continue to
stand together.  And I think this is proof of this — how strongly we
feel.   
  
That’s why I wanted to meet all of you in person here today.  As NATO’s
eastern flank, you’re the frontlines of our collective defense.  And you
know better than anyone what’s at stake in this conflict not just for
Ukraine, but for the freedom of democracies throughout Europe and around
the world.   
  
You know, when — that’s what President Zelenskyy and I spoke about when
I was in Kyiv two days ago.   
  
And the leaders around this table have repeatedly stepped up to reaffirm
our shared commitment to all these values.  We provided critical
security assistance to Ukraine and critical support to literally
millions of refugees.  We’ve helped ensure Ukrainians can access basic
services.  And together, we’ll continue our enduring support for Ukraine
as they defend their freedom.  
  
Over the past year, with your countries — with countries around this
table providing collective leadership, we’ve also strengthened NATO.  
  
The commitment of the United States to NATO — and I’ve said it to you
many times; I’ll say it again — is absolutely clear.  Article Five is a
sacred commitment the United States has made.  We will defend literally
every inch of NATO — every inch of NATO.  
  
And it’s — this is an important moment.  And I look forward to the
discussion and the next steps we can take together and — to keep our
alliance strong and to further deter aggression.   
  
Because what literally is at stake is not just Ukraine, it’s freedom. 
The idea that over 100,000 forces would invade another country — after
War — since World War Two, nothing like that has happened.  Things have
changed radically.  And we have to — we have to make sure we change them
back.   
  
So, thank you all very much for allowing me to be with you. And I look
forward to our private discussions.  
  
2:59 P.M. CET
