---
date: '2023-02-08'
modified_time: 2023-02-09 10:29:09-05:00
published_time: 2023-02-08 18:32:07-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/02/08/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-economy-6/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the\_Economy"
---
 
LIUNA Training Center  
DeForest, Wisconsin

12:49 P.M. CST

THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, hello, hello!  (Applause.)  If you have a seat,
take one.  If you don’t, come on up on stage with me.  (Laughter.)  
  
Well, thank you very much.  You know — (picks up a different handheld
microphone) — got it over here.  
  
Hey, folks.  How are you?  (Applause.)  (Looks at audience on balcony.) 
Don’t jump.  Don’t jump.  
  
Well, hello, Madison.  Hello, Laborers.  And hello, hello, hello, Terry
O’Sullivan — one of my best buddies in labor in my entire career. 
(Applause.)  
  
The thing about Terry is: Whatever he says, he does, even when
circumstances change.  I love the people that say, “I’ll be there with
you,” and then they say, “Oh, I can’t anymore.  Things have changed.” 
Whatever he tells you, he does.  Whatever he tells you, he does.  And
we’ve been working together since he was 12 years old.  
  
No, I’m only joking. 

But, you know, every time I have a problem in Delaware, Gov, I just go
across the river to New Jersey and make sure everything got squared
away.  (Laughter.)  You think I’m joking.  This is the most reliable guy
and one of the most reliable guys in labor or business.  And I really
appreciate it.  
  
So, look, I want to thank Sarah for that introduction.  And, boy, can
she wield a mean hockey stick.  (Laughter.)  
  
I tell you, I was in the back — the reason we were taking a little
longer is I have a granddaughter who’s a hell of an athlete.  She’s
going to graduate this year from college.  But she’s — she played
lacrosse and — and field hockey.  I mean, excuse me, lacrosse and
soccer.  All-State in both subjects — in both sports.  And she went off
to school and she said, “I can’t…” — “I can’t work 40 hours a week on
the field and still do well in school.”  So, she decided to stay.  I was
hoping she’d go pro.  But, anyway, you know what I mean.  
  
But I was telling — I was telling my introducer she reminds me very much
of my granddaughter.  She even looks like her.  
  
Any rate — Madam Mayor, thanks for the passport into town.  Appreciate
it.  (Applause.)  Where is she?  And — there you are.  
  
And, Governor Evers, you’re the — you’re a great partner, man.  You’ve
been a great partner when I — all the way back when I was Vice
President, and even now.  And I can’t tell you how much I appreciate
your leadership.  I really, really mean it.  Thank you.  Thank you. 
(Applause.)  
  
And Representative Mark Pocan — a great congressman, a friend who’s
always fighting for working families.  And you helped us get so much
done for union members in the last couple years.  
  
Look, you know, she couldn’t be here today, but Tammy Baldwin —
(applause) — Tammy Baldwin is — fights so damn hard for this state.  If
I do anything that doesn’t start off with the word “Wisconsin,” I get a
note from Tammy.  But all kidding aside, she’s incredible.  
  
Before we get started, I want to take a moment to — on behalf of the
American people, our thoughts and prayers go out to the people of Turkey
and Syria.  You know, they’re — the death toll is rising.  It’s one of
the worst earthquakes in that region in over 100 years.  And we mourn
the loss of so many lives, and we offer our deepest condolences.  
  
You know, it’s amazing watching these people try to pull out — pulling
out of — from under this rubble and these terrible buildings.  But all
the — the earthquake was incredibly powerful, significant aftershocks,
and a second quake.  But you see dads and moms pulling little babies out
from underneath the — this rubble.  So many people dying.  And our
thoughts are also with the survivors who’ve been torn apart by this
tragedy.  
  
As I told President Erdoğan when I called him immediately when the first
quake hit, that the United States is offering our full support — full
support — rescue and recovery teams, and our NATO Ally deploying teams,
with U.S. Agency of International Development drawing additional
resources, including our armed forces in Europe to assist Turkey’s teams
on the ground.  
  
In Syria, the U.S. is supporting humanitarian partners.  We’re
responding with equipment and assistance and have been conducting
urgent, urgent search and rescue missions from day one, even in the face
of staff members’ death and injuries on that first day.  
  
The United States is a leading donor — leading donor across all the
areas of Syria, no matter who controls the territory.  It’s about saving
human life.  
  
We remain steadfast in our commitment to supporting the people of Turkey
and Syria in this time of need.  
  
Last night — last night, I reported on the state of the Union.  It is
strong.  It is strong.  (Applause.)  And it’s strong because of you,
because the soul of this nation is strong, the backbone of this nation
is strong, and the people of this nation are strong.

And I’ve said so many times — often told the Democrats and Republicans —
we can actually work together.  We actually work together. 

All the things we did were bipartisan — all the major initiatives.  And
besides, I signed over 300 bipartisan bills beyond the big ones.

Folks, look, last night I said if we couldn’t work together the last
Con- — if we could work together last Congress, there’s no reason we
can’t get things done as well with this Congress.  And I mean that.

You know, people sent us a clear message: Fighting for the sake of
fighting gets us nowhere.  We are getting things done.  (Applause.) 
It’s always been my vision for this country. 

And today I’m here to talk about one part of that vision: the economy
that works for working people.  This is a blue-collar blue change we’re
seeing.  You know, an economy where we’re building si- — we’ve built
more in the last two years, since I’ve taken office, than you can
imagine. 

We’ve created 12 million new jobs.  A half a million jobs just last
month.  (Applause.) 

And we’ve now created more jobs in two years — more jobs in two years
than any President has created in a single four-year term.

Look, the unemployment rate is 3.4 percent, a 50-year low.

Gas prices are down more than $1.50, and we’re going to make sure the
oil companies start playing their honest role.  It’s going to go down
further. 

Inflation has fallen six months straight.  And inflation is coming down,
and take-home pay to workers is going up slightly.

Manufacturing is rebounding at the fastest rate in almost 40 years.

The economy is growing at a solid clip.

Folks, I hate to disappoint them, but the Biden economic plan is
working.  It’s working.  (Applause.)

But that’s not news to any of you.  The Laborers here in Wisconsin, the
union workers across the country are seeing it firsthand.  Because for
the first time in a long time, we’re building an economy from the bottom
up and the middle out — from the bottom up and the middle out, with
products made in America, with union labor.  Not “labor.”  Union labor. 
(Applause.)  I mean it.  

My American plan — my economic plan is for the middle- and working-class
Americans that get up every morning and go to work and bust their necks
just trying to get an honest living.

You know, my dad used to have an expression.  He wasn’t a college guy. 
He regretted he never got to go to college.  But my dad worked like
hell.  My dad used to say — and I mean this sincerely — and all the kids
in the family know it.  He’d say, “Joey, a job is about a lot more than
a paycheck.  It’s about your dignity.  It’s about respect.  It’s about
being able to look your kid in the eye and say, ‘Honey, it’s going to be
okay,’ and mean it.”  And mean it.  (Applause.)

Look, I’ve said many times, Wall Street did not build this country; the
middle class built the country.  And unions built the middle class. 
(Applause.)  And that’s a fact.  And for real, that’s the God’s truth.

And, by the way, and now you’re rebuilding the country.

I signed a once-in-a-generation investment in putting Americans to work
rebuilding our national infrastructure.  It was bipartisan. 

Republicans signed on to it too — not all of them but enough to get it
passed.

And, by the way, I told them — even those that didn’t vote for it called
and say, “We need a project in my district.”  I say, “Okay, good.  We’ll
do it.  See you at the groundbreaking.”  (Laughter.)  You know.  But
really.  (Applause.)

I’m President for all of America.

You know, at the Port of Green Bay, we’re helping turn an old water
plant site into a new port terminal.  Going to create thousands of jobs
over time.  This is big deal.

You know, we’re just up the road in Columbia County — just up the road,
funds from the infrastructure are going to replace the Wisconsin River
Bridge.

Here in Madison, the mayor can tell you, we’re using the funding to buy
46 electric buses, replacing dirty diesel buses that are bad health for
the environment.  (Applause.)

Each of these projects means jobs for laborers, plumbers, pipefitters,
electricians, carpenters, cement masons, iron workers, and so many
more.  These are good jobs.  Jobs you can raise a family on.  And most
don’t require a college degree.

Jobs where people don’t have to leave home in search of an opportunity. 
But they do require at least four years of trained apprenticeships,
which is one of the reasons the United States has the best-trained
workers in the world, like you.  (Applause.)

And, by the way, the vast majority of Americans don’t know that.  We
ought to tell them — keep telling them.  Every time they say, “Why are
you so pro labor?”  Because you’re the best workers in the world.  And
they say, “How’s that?”  Nobody decides “I want to be a laborer,” “I
want to be a plumber,” or “I want to be an electrician.”  It takes you
four years busting your neck, basically going back to school, to be able
to become certified.  That’s why you’re the best.  You’re the best
educated in what you do. (Applause.) I really mean it.

I spoke with members of the Business Roundtable — the big business
guys.  And they asked why am I so pro labor.  Because you save them
money.  What you do lasts.  What you do lasts.

And through the American Rescue Plan, we’re funding workforce
development programs, including 128 million here in Wisconsin — dollars
in Wisconsin, so American workers are prepared to compete in the economy
we’re building. 

This is a blue-collar blueprint to rebuild America.  (Applause.)

And we’re also doing something that for years people just talked about. 
We’re going to buy American for everything we build.  (Applause.)

Last night, I announced we’re proposing new standards to require all
construction materials used on federal infrastructure projects be made
in America.  (Applause.)  American lumber, American glass, American
drywall, American fiber optics, American roads, bridges, highways made
with American products.

My first two years in office, we’ve created 800,000 manufacturing jobs. 
(Applause.)  Where — I mean it sincerely — with jobs you can live on. 
Where is it written America can’t lead the world in manufacturing
again?  I didn’t see it written anywhere.

Our economic — our economic agenda has ignited a new manufacturing boom.

Just outside of Madison, Arrowhead Pharmaceuticals is going to hire 250
workers at a drug manufacturing facility.

Georgia-Pacific has committed to a major expansion of the Green Bay
paper production facility bringing in 100 new employees and hiring 500
construction workers. 

For decades, we’ve imported a project — we’ve imported products from
abroad and sent jobs overseas, because they thought it was cheaper to
have a cheaper labor.

Now America is exporting product overseas and creating jobs here at
home.  (Applause.)

Look, I didn’t come from a poor family.  I came from a typical
middle-class family: split-level home, four kids, a grandpop living with
us.  It wasn’t so private for my mom and dad, but we thought it was
good.  (Laughter.)  But all kidding aside, typical middle-class family. 

For decades, the backbone of America — the middle class — had been
hollowed out.  It’s been hollowed out.  Good-paying manufacturing jobs
moved overseas — production — because it was cheaper there.

When jobs moved overseas, factories at home closed down.  You saw it in
Janesville, where Sarah, a woman you just heard from is from.  When the
last assembly line was shut down at a GM plant two days before Christmas
in 2008, thousands of people lost their jobs at the plant and the
surrounding businesses that the plant kept alive.

Look, think about how many moms and dads had to have that conversation
with their kids: “Honey, I just lost my job.  We got to move, honey. 
I’m not sure where.  We can’t live here anymore.  No job.”

Once-thriving cities and towns became shadows of what they used to be. 
And when those towns were hollowed out, something else was lost: pride,
self-esteem, a sense of self-worth.  But now we’re going to turn that
around.

We’re building an economy where no one is going to be left behind.  My
economic plan is about investing in places, people that had been
forgotten.

As part of that plan, I talked last night about things we’re going to do
for families.  Just a little more breathing room.  Just to give them, as
my dad would say, “just a little more breathing room.”  At the end of
the month, when everything is paid, do you have just a little more
breathing room? 

We’re going to lower the cost of everyday products for you all. 

And we’re talking — taking on what we call “junk fees,” those hidden
surcharges businesses use to make you pay more.

We’re making airlines show just how the full price of the ticket costs
upfront, not after the fact, and refund your money if your flight is
cancelled.

We’ve reduced the ex- — the exporta- — excuse me — the exorbitant bank
overdraft fees, saving an American taxpayer a millio- — a billion
dollars a year, just those fees that were exorbitant for an overdraft.

We’re proposing to cut credit card fees by 75 percent, and now they
average — if it’s — if you’re over — if you’re late on a payment by a
day, it’s 30 bucks.  Guess what?  It’s going to be $8 now.

I heard a commentator on the way, flying out here on Air Force One — the
television was on — talking about little things, like junk fees.  He
says, “Why isn’t Biden talking about important things, important
issues?  Well, the next thing he’s going to be talking about is taking
in your garbage.” 

Well, let me tell you something: Junk fees may not matter to the wealthy
people, but they matter to most folks, like the home I grew up in. 
(Applause.)  They add hundreds of dollars — they add hundreds of dollars
a month and make it harder to pay your bills or afford that family trip.

I know how unfair it feels when a company overcharges you and think they
can get away with it.  They play us for suckers.  And it makes you
angry, at least it does me.  Frankly, it offends me to think about it.

So I’m calling on Congress to pass a Junk <s>Free</s> \[Fee\] Prevention
Act so we can do more <s>than</s> \[to\] crack down on these junk fees.

For too long, workers have been getting stiffed.  You know, 30 million
workers, the vast majority of them on an hourly wage, had to sign
non-compete agreements when they took their job.  Thirty million.  These
aren’t trade secrets they’re hiding.  They are hourly wages.

That’s when a construction worker on a job site can’t cross the street
and take a job with another outfit to make a couple more bucks.

We’re banning these agreements for companies that comp- — compete —
won’t compete, so they pay people the fair share.  Why in God’s name do
you tell a worker — an hourly worker — that they have to sign an
agreement, that they will not take a similar job in — anywhere in the
area?

Look, one of my objectives is to store the dignity of work — to restore
it.

You know, we’ve made a lot of progress over the past two years.  Many of
you have seen we’ve had a spirited debate last night with my Republican
friends.  (Laughter.)  (Applause.) 

My Republicans friends, they seemed shocked — (laughter) — when I raised
the plans of some of their members and their caucus to cut Social
Security.  And Marjorie Taylor Greene and others stood up and said,
“Liar!  Liar!”  It reminds of that “Liar, liar, house on fire.”  Yeah. 

Well, guess what?  You know, I remind you that Rick Scott from Florida,
the guy who ran the U.S. Senate campaign, has a plan.  I got his
brochure right here.  It has a plan.  Here’s what he says in his plan. 
Let me open it up here.  Sorry. 

(Holds up and reads from paper.)  He says, “All federal legislation
sunsets every five years.  If the law is worth keeping, Congress can
pass it again.”  Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid.

And, by the way, you have Senator — (clears throat) — (laughter) — named
Ron Johnson.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE PRESIDENT:  Ron Johnson, on Social Security and Medicare, quote: “We
should transfer everything so we have to consider everything every
year.”

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE PRESIDENT:  Come on, man.

And then — and then we found there was a — you know, there’s a senator
named Mike Lee, who was also yelling, you know, “Liar, liar, house on
fire” kind of stuff last night.  Well, I didn’t even know this, but they
played a video showing him — he said — when I said they wanted — I
didn’t say the whole part.  I said, “Republicans…” — “Leading
Republicans want to cut Social Security and Medicare.”

And so, they played last night something I didn’t even know existed: a
video of him saying, “I’m here right now to tell you one thing you
probably never heard from a politician.  It’ll be my objection to phase
out Social Security, pull it up by its roots, get rid of it.”  Then he
added — I’m quoting this now –“Medicare and Medicaid are the same sort. 
They need to be pulled up.”  It sounds pretty clear to me.  How about
you?

But they sure didn’t like me calling them on it.

Look, a lot of Republicans, their dream is to cut Social Security and
Medicare.  Well, let me just say this: It’s your dream, but I’m going to
— my veto pen make it a nightmare.  (Applause.)

But here’s — but here’s, actually, the good news.  There’s a lot of good
Republicans.  I found it interesting that when I called them out on it
last night, it sounded like they agreed to take these cuts off the
table.

Remember I said — no, I’m serious.  Remember what I said?  I said, “So
you’re not going to cut it, huh?”  “No!”  I said, “Okay, we got a
deal.”  (Applause.)  Well, I sure hope that’s true.  I’ll believe it
when I see it and their budget is laid down with their cuts they’re
proposing.

But it looks like we negotiated a deal last night on the floor of the
House of Representatives.  (Laughter.)  Seriously.  You see them all
standing up, saying, “We’re not going cut anything”?  Well, that’s
good.  Because, by the way, we got a lot of good bipartisan stuff done
in the previous year.  Why can’t we do it again?

Here’s the bottom line: All of you have been paying into the system with
every single paycheck you’ve had since you started working.  These
benefits belong to you, the American worker.  You earned it.  And I will
not allow anyone to cut them — not today, not tomorrow, not ever —
period.  (Applause.)

You know, some Republicans in Congress are even threatening to have
America default on its debt if I don’t agree to the cuts they want. 
Democrats have never, ever done that, by the way.

Now, let’s talk about what our national debt is.  Everybody thinks it’s
like what we spend this year versus last.

The national debt is the total debt and interest accumulated over 220
years.  You hear me?  Two hundred — over 200 years.  Every single year
that we went and spent more than we took in, it added up.  So the
federal debt you’re hearing about is not the yearly debt, it’s 220 or so
years of accumulated debt.  Democrats, Republicans, everybody.

But here’s the deal: Our credit has been good.  We’ve never missed a
payment as a nation on the debt we have.  Why in God’s name would
America give up the progress we’ve made for the chaos they’re
suggesting? 

This nation has done — gone through too much.  We’ve come too far to let
that happen.  I won’t — not on my watch.

And while there’s more work to do, it’s clear our plan is working
because of the — because of the grit and resolve of the American worker.

And I’m not trying to just be nice to you.  I’ve been saying this my
whole career.

We’re going to keep lowering costs for families.  We’re going to keep
putting shovels in the ground to rebuild our infrastructure, our supply
chains, and manufacture more here at home.

You know, in the communities across the country that were too easily
written off for dead, we’re going to see not only jobs and economic
opportunity return, but a sense of pride. 

I’m from Scranton, Pennsylvania.  I was raised in a little steel town
called Claymont, Delaware.  There’s no more steel being made.  Scranton,
because of coal — everyone is from Scranton.  And just like you’re going
to see here in Wisconsin, we’re going to make sure that what we do is we
rebuild these communities.

Let me close with this.  I’ve long said it’s never been a good bet to
ge- — bet against America.  Not a joke.  That’s what I’ve told all —
I’ve been doing foreign policy for a long time.  I know every major
world leader for the last 35 years.  I know them face-to-face.  I did it
for the previous President, my President, Barack Obama.  And I’m doing
it now.

I can say honestly, as I stand here today, I have never, ever been more
optimistic about America’s future than I am today.  We just have to
remember who in God’s name we are.  We’re the United States of America. 
We’re the best-positioned nation in the world to lead the world in the
21st century.

There’s nothing — nothing beyond our capacity if we work together.  And
it’s my hope we’re going to find enough Republicans who want to do that.

And God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.  Thank you. 
Thank you.  (Applause.)

1:14 P.M. CST
