---
date: '2023-02-11'
published_time: 2023-02-11 23:55:45-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/02/11/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-governors-ball-dinner/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at the Governors Ball\_Dinner"
---
 
State Dining Room

7:27 P.M. EST  
   
THE PRESIDENT:  Please, everyone, have a seat.  Let me begin by saying
thank you, thank you, thank you for being here.  It’s a long trip for a
lot of you, and I — I hope you have found it worth it so far.

And good evening, everyone.  I felt like we had a decent meeting
yesterday.  That felt good.

And, you know, the thing I like about working with governors: You’re
used to having to get things done — (trips over object on stage) — like
tripping this President.  (Laughter.)  Okay?  That’s okay.  All right.

But all kidding aside, you know, I served in the Senate for a long, long
time and Vice president for eight years.  But, governors, you got to get
it done.  You got to — you got to fix the potholes.  You got to take
care of the crime in your street.  You got to do everything.

And you can’t say, “We’re going to put it off.  We’re going to debate it
for about six months.”  (Laughter.) 

No, but I really mean it. 

So, thank you.  It’s a pleasure working with you all. 

And Jill, Kamala, and Doug and I, we — we are really happy to have you
here in the White House.  
Folks, you know, I want to thank Brad for sharing his time with us —
talent tonight.  Looking forward to it.  (Applause.)

Brad, I have no talent.  None.  (Laughter.)  My dad used to have a band
when he was college age.  He didn’t go to college, but when he was in
high school and college.  And he used to look at me, and he said, “Joey,
I don’t know where the hell you came from.  You have no…”  He played the
clarinet.  He said, “You have no lip, number one.”  (Laughter.)  “Number
two, you have two left feet.  And number three, you can’t carry a tune
in a wheelbarrow.  But I still love you.”  (Laughter.) 

But, look, and I want to thank the first spouses.  And this is not —
this is not hyperbole.  I really mean this from the bottom of my heart. 
Especially if you’re a local, meaning local in your state, all the time
— you can’t go to the grocery store, you can’t walk out the door, you
can’t go anywhere without being questioned.  Whatever is going on in the
office, you got to — you have to be ready to answer it.  And it’s not
your job, but it is your job, in effect, because you keep the governors
moving.  And I really mean it. 

So I think people vastly underestimate how difficult it is to be a
spouse of an elected official.  (Applause.)

As Jill would tell you, being my spouse is difficult even if I weren’t
elected.  (Laughter.)

But all kidding aside, I want to thank you.  And, you know, and we’ve
gone through a couple tough last two to six years.  I mean, things have
— things have been up and down.  And — and so you’ve really had to — you
had to be on your toes, and you had to be ready to answer all the
questions that you get asked.

And I — you know, I — as I said, I don’t think it’s been a tougher two
years being a governor.  That’s why we started off with a controversial
piece of legislation, making sure you had enough money, each one of
you.  (Applause.)  No, I mean it.

And, look, I think that the partnership that we’ve had is — I don’t want
to ruin anybody’s reputation here, but the partnership has been
thoughtful — I mean, whether you’re Republican or Democrat — on the
things that affect your state.

I said I wanted to be President for everybody, not just blue states or
red states, but for everybody.  And — and I think, to the best we can,
we’ve tried like hell to step up, particularly to the governors and
mayors that — people every day are looking at people straight in the
eye, face to face, and wanting to know what’s going on, what’s going to
happen.

And, you know, I think our partnership — I think we’re beginning, not
because of me or my administration, but I think hopefully, where value
added, begin to rebuild the economy.  We went through a heck of a tough
time.  And the pandemic made it a whole lot worse.  And the pandemic — I
think we’re going to find that they’re going to be writing about this. 
Your grandkids are going to be writing about the pandemic in terms of
the impact it had on the psychology of the country, on the mental health
of the country, and so much more.  And you’ve dealt with it every
single, solitary day.

You know, I know we’re not going to always agree.  I think you’re going
to agree — we’re going to agree more than you pretend, but I don’t blame
you if you don’t say we agree.

But, look, I — I think that when we work together, we’re able to get
things done.  Now, I know I don’t talk about bipartisanship all the
time.  I’m ready to fight.  I’m ready, as you all are.  And I’ve spent a
lot of time in Congress and then as Vice President.

But, you know, one of the things I found is — one of the reasons I made
sure we had so many governors in my administration and mayors — I mean
it sincerely — because you got to get things done.

And I kid Jennifer Granholm: If she were born in the United States,
she’d be standing here talking to you, and I’d be — (laughter) — I’d be
taking care of things.

But all kidding aside, you know, I think we’ve made some bipartisan
progress.  And — and a lot of it — for example, the idea that we have
over a trillion 200 billion dollars in infrastructure to rebuild this
country over the next 10 years — (applause) — is because of a bipartisan
action.  And — and it matters.  This matters.

And the good news is — not — well, I shouldn’t say “good news.”  I think
the most important thing we have to do is let people know what we’ve
done, because it’s just starting.  I mean, people are — like, for
example, when we did the legislation dealing with pharma, people are now
coming up, and I imagine they may come up to you too, and say, “You mean
my — it only cost me 35 bucks and not 450 bucks?”  Or we’re able to
negotiate drug pri- — we pay the highest drug prices in the world.  And
because of a number of Republicans crossing over and joining us to make
sure we got the legislation done, things are changing.  Things are
beginning to change.

And, by the way, I might note parenthetically — and I don’t want to get
into any detail here — but parenthetically that, you know, what we did
in terms of drug companies is going to — and allowing Medicare to
negotiate — is we’re actually going to reduce the deficit by hundreds of
billions of dollars.  Because guess what?  The federal government is not
going to be paying all that — those expensive costs for some drugs that
don’t warrant being paid.  And people are going to pay less for them,
and it means the federal government is paying less taxpayers’ dollars to
— to purchase the drugs on Medicare.

So I guess my point is: You know, I think we ought to be able to — I
hope we’re going to get a little bit — I’m going to try — a little bit
less partisan and work on the things that we can really get done to
change people’s lives.

And, again, we’re not going to agree — we’re not going to always agree. 
But, you know, I think when we work together, it works. 

And I’m not going to go into any detail about the Infrastructure Law and
the CHIPS and Science Act.  And I know that you guys don’t want any of
those fabs in your states.  (Laughter.)  There’s only $300 billion going
to be spent.  You know?  What the hell — who needs that, right? 
(Laughter.) 

But the main thing — reason I’m happy about that is I’m determined as
you are, because I know a number of you Republican governors, you’re
determined that America lead the world again, dammit — not joking — lead
the world again in manufacturing, lead the world again in the economy. 
(Applause.)

I was talking about the CHIPS and Science Act investing in America. 
Again, I called the governor of Illinois — I’m not joking — who
encouraged me to keep moving on this.  Because, look, it’s going to make
a gigantic difference.

We used to spend 2 percent of our entire GDP on research and development
in America.  We spend 0.7 percent.  We used to be number one; we’re
number 17. 

So we’re changing things.  This is the United States America.  And you
guys and women know it better than I do.

So, look, I want to thank Governor Murphy and Governor Cox for their
leadership.  And I’d like to — (applause) —

And, Governor Cox, I promise I won’t tell anybody how much I like you. 
(Laughter.)  We’ll keep it quiet as long as we can.

But — but all kidding aside, I’d like to make a toast, if I can find a
glass.  Oh, there it is. 

Now, the reason I have my glass in my left hand: My grandfather, Ambrose
Finnegan, who was an All-American football player at Santa Clara and a
newspaper guy up in Scranton, Pennsylvania — he used to say, “If you
don’t drink…” — and I’m the only Irish you ever met that’s never had a
drink — “…if you don’t drink, then you should have to do your toast, if
it’s not alcohol, with your left hand, not your right hand.”  And that’s
what I’m about to do.

So I don’t want my gr- — (looks up) — Grandpops, I’m doing it right. 
(Laughter.) 

And, look, I’d like to make a toast to remembering who in God’s name we
are.  We’re the United States of America.  We can get big things done if
we do it together. 

God bless America.  And God bless all of you.  Hear, hear. 

(A toast is offered.)

And, by the way, now I got to make an introduction.  Now I’m going to
turn it over to Governor Cox.  There’s press in the room, so be
careful.  Don’t say anything nice.  Okay?  Come on.  (Applause.)

7:37 P.M. EST
