---
date: '2023-02-16'
published_time: 2023-02-16 18:08:18-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/02/16/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-united-states-response-to-recent-aerial-objects/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the United\_States\u2019 Response to Recent\
  \ Aerial\_Objects"
---
 
South Court Auditorium  
Eisenhower Executive Office Building

2:11 P.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon.  Last week, in the immediate aftermath
of the incursion by China’s high-altitude balloon, our military, through
the North American Aerospace Defense Command — so-called NOR- — NORAD —
closely scrutinized the — our airspace, including enhancing our radar to
pick up more slow-moving objects above our country and around the
world.  
  
In doing so, they tracked three unidentified objects: one in Alaska,
Canada, and over Lake Huron in the Midwest.  
  
They acted in accordance with established parameters for determining how
to deal with unidentified aerial objects in U.S. airspace.  
  
At their recommendation, I gave the order to take down these three
objects due to hazards to civilian commercial air traffic and because we
could not rule out the surveillance risk of sensitive facilities.  
  
We acted in consultation with the Canadian government.  I spoke
personally with Prime Minister Trudeau and Ca- — from Canada on
Saturday.  
  
And just as critically, we acted out of an abundance of caution and at
an opportunity that allowed us to take down these — these objects
safely.  
  
Our military and the Canadian military are seeking to recover the debris
so we can learn more about these three objects.  Our intelligence
community is still assessing all three incidences.  They’re reporting to
me daily and will continue their urgent efforts to do so, and I will
communicate that to the Congress.  
  
We don’t yet know exactly what these three objects were.  But nothing —
nothing right now suggests they were related to China’s spy balloon
program or that they were surveillance vehicles from other — any other
country.  
  
The intelligence community’s current assessment is that these three
objects were most likely balloons tied to private companies, recreation,
or research institutions studying weather or conducting other scientific
research.  
  
When I came into office, I instructed our intelligence community to take
a broad look at the phenomenon of unidentified aerial objects.  
  
We know that a range of entities, including countries, companies, and
research organizations operate objects at altitudes for purposes that
are not nefarious, including legitimate scientific research.  
  
I want to be clear: We don’t have any evidence that there has been a
sudden increase in the number of objects in the sky.  We’re now just
seeing more of them, partially because the steps we’ve taken to increase
our radars — to narrow our radars.  And we have to keep adapting our
approach to delaying — to dealing with these challenges.  
  
That’s why I’ve directed my team to come back to me with sharper rules
for how we will deal with these unidentified objects moving forward,
distinguishing — distinguishing between those that are likely to pose
safety and security risks that necessitate action and those that do
not.  
  
But make no mistake, if any object presents a threat to the safety and
security of the American people, I will take it down.  I’ll be sharing
with Congress these classified policy parameters when they’re completed,
and they’ll remain classified so we don’t give our roadmap to our
enemies to try to evade our defenses.  
  
Going forward, these parameters will guide what actions we will take
while responding to unmanned and unidentified aerial objects.  We’re
going to keep adapting them as the challenges evolve, if it evolves.  
  
In addition, we’ve derived — I’ve directly my National Security Advisor
to lead a government-wide effort to make sure we are positioned to deal
safely and effectively with the objects in our airspace.  
  
First, we will establish a better inventory of unmanned airborne objects
in space — above the United States’ airspace and make sure that
inventory is accessible and up to date.  
  
Second, we’ll implement further measures to improve our capacity to
detect unmanned objecti- — objects in our airspace.  
  
Third, we’ll update the rules and regulations for launching and
maintaining unmanned objects in the skies above the United States of
America.  
  
And fourth, my Secretary of State will lead an effort to help establish
a global — a globa- — a common global norms in this largely unregulated
space.  
  
These steps will lead to safer and more secure skies for our air
travelers, our military, our scientists, and for people on the ground as
well.  That’s my job as your President and Commander-in-Chief.  
  
As the events of the previous days have shown, we’ll always act to
protect the interest of the American people and the security of the
American people.  
  
Since I came into office, we’ve developed the ability to identify,
track, and study high-altitude surveillance balloons connected with the
Chinese military.

When one of these high-altitude surveillance balloons entered our
airspace over the continental United States earlier in the month, I gave
the order to shoot it down as soon as it would be safe to do so.  The
military advised against shooting it down over land because of the sheer
size of it.  It was the size of multiple school busses, and it posed a
risk to people on the ground if it was shot down where people lived.

Instead, we tracked it closely, we analyzed its capabilities, and we
learned more about how it operates.

And because we knew its path, we were able to protect sensitive sites
against collection.

We waited until it was safely over water, which would not only protect
civilians but also enable us to recover substantial components for
further analys- — for further analytics.

And then we shot it down, sending a clear message — clear message: The
violation of our sovereignty is unacceptable.

We will act to protect our country, and we did.

Now, this past Friday, we put restrictions on six firms that directly
support the People’s Republic Liberation Army — the People’s Lib- — the
People’s Liberation Army aerospace program that includes airships and
balloons, denying them access to U.S. technology.

We briefed our diplomatic partners and our allies around the world, and
we know about China’s program and where their balloons have flown.

Some of them have also raised their concerns directly with China.  Our
<s>exports</s> \[experts\] have lifted components of the Chinese
balloon’s payload off the ocean floor.  We’re analyzing them as I speak,
and what we learn will strengthen our capabilities.

Now, we’ll also continue to engage with China, as we have throughout the
past two weeks.  As I’ve said since the beginning of my administration,
we seek competition, not conflict, with China.  We’re not looking for a
new Cold War.

But I make no apologize — I make no apologies, and we will compete.  And
we’ll be res- — we’ll responsibly manage that competition so that it
doesn’t veer into conflict.

This episode underscores the importance of maintaining open lines of
communication between our diplomats and our military professionals.  Our
diplomats will be engaging further, and I will remain in communication
with President Xi.

I’m grateful for the work over the last several weeks of our
intelligence, diplomatic, and military professionals who have proved
once again to be the most capable in the world.  And I want to thank you
all.

Now, look, the other thing I want to point is that we are going to keep
our allies and the Congress contemporaneously informed of all we know
and all we learn.  And I expect to be speaking with President Xi, and I
hope we have a — we are going to get to the bottom of this.  But I make
no apologies for taking down that balloon.

Thank you very much.

(Cross-talk by reporters.)

Q    Mr. President, why did you wait so long to address the public on
this matter, Mr. President?

Q    Sir, there’s been a criticism — there’s been criticism of this —

Q    When are you speaking to President Xi, Mr. President?

Q    Is this deal with China compromised by your family’s business
relationships in China, President Biden?

THE PRESIDENT:  Give me a break, man.  (Laughs.)  (Inaudible.)

Q    Sir — Mr. President — Mr. President, there’s been criticism —

Q    Did you overreact? 

Q    — Mr. President, there’s been criticism that this was an
overreaction that was done because of political pressure —

(Cross-talk by reporters.)

THE PRESIDENT:  I can’t —

Q    Is your son still (inaudible) —

THE PRESIDENT:  You can come to my office and ask the question when you
have more polite people (inaudible).

2:20 P.M. EST
