---
date: '2023-02-28'
published_time: 2023-02-28 18:26:44-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/02/28/remarks-by-president-biden-on-protecting-americans-access-to-affordable-healthcare/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Protecting Americans\u2019 Access to Affordable\_\
  Healthcare"
---
 
Kempsville Recreation Center  
Virginia Beach, Virginia

3:06 P.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, hello, hello!  (Applause.)  I —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  We love you, Joe!  (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT:  (Laughs.)

Robin, you know, my dad — (applause) —

And, by the way, you docs are good, but if there’s any angels in Heaven,
they’re all nurses — male and female.  You know why?  You guys let us —
you guys make us — allow us to live.  Nurses make you want to live.  I’m
not joking.

You lie there in the ICU, which I’ve done for a long time, and you look
at those machines.  And you know, if the line goes flat, that it’s
over.  But you just get tired.  You don’t care.

When I was at Walter Reed all that time, after a couple of craniotomies,
I was lying there.  And I had a nurse named Pearl Nelson, military. 
She’d come in and do things that I don’t think you learn in medical
scho- — in nursing school.  (Laughter.)  She’d whisper in my ear.  I
didn’t — couldn’t understand her, but she’d whisper, and she’d lean
down.  She’d actually breathe on me to make sure that I was — there was
a connection, a human connection.

She even went home and brought back her pillow from her own bed because
they didn’t — knew the one I had wasn’t comfortable.

But I’m not joking.  My son Beau came back from Iraq after being, all
that time, within shouting distance of a burn pit.  He had stage four
glioblastoma.  He went as an incredibly healthy guy, came back.  And for
18 months, he fought.  And the nurses — the docs were incredible.  But
the nurses would say — toward the end, they’d come in to look at him and
they’d say, “No, no.  Not — not now, Doc.”  And the doctors knew enough
to know that it wasn’t the time.  The nurse didn’t think it was there.

You’re so underestimated.  You really are.  And in no way is to diminish
doctors, but I want to tell you something.  Nurses: single most
underestimated profession in the world.

Thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)

And Robin talking about her journey — my dad —

If you have a seat, please take it.  If you don’t, come on up on stage
with me.  (Laughter.)

You know — and, Robin, thank you for that introduction.

Robin, my dad used to say it a little differently.  My dad used to say
everybody needs a little bit of breathing room.  Just a little bit of
breathing room.  At the end of the month, can you in fact pay your bills
and still be certain your family is going to be okay?

We lived in a three- — we weren’t poor; we were a typical middle-class
family.  Four kids.  We lived in a three-bedroom split-level home with a
grandpop.  And my headboard was up against the wall where my dad is on
the other side — my dad and mom.

One night, I remember my dad — you could hear how restless he was.  When
I got up the next morning — I was in high school, my senior year — and I
said, “What’s the matter, Mom?  What’s the matter with Dad?”

She said, “His company just dropped health insurance.”  Well, you know,
a lot of people face that.  A lot of people worry about it right now. 
But he said, “Just a little breathing room.  A little bit of certainty. 
Just a little bit of certainty.”  It matters.

So, Robin, thank you for the introduction. 

And Mayor Bobby Dyer — the Mayor came out.  I told the Mayor — he was
very gracious with me, even though I’m one of those Democrats. 
(Laughter.)  Bobby, where are you?  There you are.

He came out to the airport to greet me.  And I said, “You know what the
worst sentence in the English language is?  ‘I’m at the airport.’” 
(Laughter.)  Thank you again for your graciousness, Mr. Mayor.  I
appreciate it very much.  (Applause.) 

And to all the mayors — all the mayors, stand up.  Come on.  All the
mayors stand up.  (Applause.)

Toughest job in American politics.  You know why?  You all know where
they live.  (Laughter.)  No way to go to the Dunkin’ Donuts or the local
store without “Mr. Mayor, what about this?”  But, anyway, thank you for
what you do.  I really genuinely mean.

And it’s great to be back in Virginia Beach, home of so many brave women
and men who served our armed forces and this — make this nation so
strong.  I really mean it.  (Applause.)

Although they — although they couldn’t be here today, you have two
amazing senators.  You know that.  Tim Kaine and Mark Warner. 
(Applause.)  They are true champions of this great state.   
  
And Representative Bobby Scott — (applause) — a lifelong fighter for
Virginia workers and families, who’s back in D.C. introducing what we
call the PRO Act to make sure unions have an equal right to organize if
they want to organize.  (Applause.)

And I want to thank all the healthcare workers here today who —
(applause) — no, I really mean it.  Thank you.  Thank you.

By the way, you care for people when they need it most.  But the most
important thing is — you know what you do when you help someone in
trouble, in need?  You provide them the dignity they’re looking for. 
The dignity.  Just to be treated with dignity.

That’s what all Americans deserve.  Peace of mind that comes from
knowing that an illness, if it strikes, or an accident occurs, you can
get quality medical care and recover and heal.

But we all know that too many folks don’t have that peace of mind.  Too
many folks lie in bed at night staring at the ceiling, wondering what
will happen if their spouse gets cancer, if their child gets sick, or
something happens to them.  Will they have to — will they have the money
to pay the medical bills?  Will they have to sell the house?

I get it.  That’s why, since I was sworn in as President two years ago,
my administration has focused intensely on getting more people
affordable healthcare and bringing down medical costs so you have a
little bit of breathing room again.  Just breathing room.  (Applause.) 

And that’s exactly what happens when we protect and strengthen programs
like Medicare and Medicaid, which millions of Americans rely on. 
Millions.

And it’s been my focus, and I believe we made significant progress.  Now
we need to finish the job.  (Applause.)  And that’s what I’d like to
talk about a little — a little bit about today.

My plan that’s in stark contrast to not — by the way, there’s an awful
lot of really good Republicans, but the MAGA Republicans are a different
breed of cat.  No, they’re not bad or good.  It’s just very — they’re
very different.  There’s kind of like, in my view, sort of two
Republican parties.

And I’ve served a long time.  Some of my closest — as that joke goes,
but not a joke — my closest friends in government have been my
Republican colleagues in the Senate.  And folks in Congress, they want
to eliminate a lot of healthcare coverage — those MAGA Republicans —
increase costs for millions of Americans, and make deep cup- — cuts in
programs that families and seniors depend on.  And that’s what’s at
stake now.

Two years ago, when I was sworn in, the economy was reeling and the
pandemic was raging.  We lost over a million people.  Hard to believe. 
Over a million people.  And our healthcare system was at the breaking
point.  
  
And all — all the healthcare workers here remember better than anyone
those dark, dark months as the number of COVID deaths kept rising and
hospitals had to have — have patients in hallways, literally setting up
tents in their parking lots, in a situation where every — because
everything was full.  Every bed was full.  And that’s what we were up
against when I took office.   
  
We immediately got to work.  We turned it around.  
  
I signed into law the landmark American Rescue Plan, which provided the
resources to get COVID-19 under control, our economy back on its track. 
(Applause.)  
  
And many of you worked around the clock to get people vaccinated against
COVID-19.  We went from 3.5 million people vaccinated when I took office
to 230 million fully vaccinated today.  (Applause.)  
  
We made vaccinations available to all Americans with a plan based on
equality.  
  
Many of you went into communities that had been ignored in the past. 
You went into public housing areas.  You went to places where they
didn’t usually go to make sure that everyone — everyone had equal access
to this lifesaving shots.   
  
And it worked.  And we came through but with a terrible cost.  As I
said, over a million people died from the virus.  
  
In addition, we expanded health insurance for millions under the
Affordable Care Act by making it easier to sign up and by making it
cheaper to get better healthcare in the Affordable Care Act, saving
families $800 a year.  (Applause.)  Where I come from, $800 matters.  
  
The result is more than 3 million people have newly signed up to the
Affordable Healthcare \[sic\] Act.  And today, more Americans have
health insurance under the Affordable Healthcare \[sic\] Act than ever
before.  
  
And, folks, it didn’t stop there.  Americans pay more for prescription
drugs than any nation on Earth.  Let me say that again: The United
States of America, we pay more for prescription drugs than any — any
nation on Earth.  
  
And I’ve been fighting for years as a senator and as a Vice President to
get Medicare to be able to negotiate lower drug prices with these
companies.  
  
Guess what?  The only outfit they couldn’t negotiate with — you know,
but that’s how the VA works, and it should work — they negotiate — say,
“We’re willing to pay X amount of dollars for that particular
treatment.”  And if you wanted any — any help on — from — from the VA
system, you pay that — you charge that or no more.  
  
Well, finally we got it done.  I signed the historic Inflation Reduction
Act.  (Applause.)  We took on powerful interests, bring down healthcare
costs so you can sleep better at night.  And it’s — it’s had profound
impact.  
  
For example, 1 in 10 Americans — 1 in 10 Americans has diabetes.  Every
day, millions need insulin to control their diabetes to stay alive.  
  
Insulin has been around for 100 years.  The cost to make that drug and
package it is — make it, $10, and package it, $13.  But you’ve been
paying three, four, five hundred dollars a month for that.  But Big
Pharma has been unfairly charging you that — record profits.  Not
anymore.  (Applause.)  
  
We capped the cost of insulin at $35 a month for seniors on Medicare. 
(Applause.)  
  
When I introduced it, it was for all Americans.  We got over 200,000
kids with Type 2 \[sic\] diabetes that are not covered.  But guess what
— Type 1 diabetes.  It saves their lives.   
  
But here’s the deal: My — some of my friends cut out everything but the
Medicare piece.  But guess what?  We’ve got it covered for everybody. 
We got to finish the job.  (Applause.)   
  
And, by the way, look at the profit margins of these companies.  They’re
hundreds of billions of dollars.  It’s not — it’s not like they’re
getting hurt.  Come on.  
  
Let’s cap the cost of insulin at $35 a month for every single American
who needs it.  (Applause.)  We’re the only country who doesn’t do
that.   
  
This law also caps out-of-pocket drug costs for seniors on Medicare at a
maximum of $2,000 a year, no matter what drug you have to take.  Total. 
(Applause.)   
  
And a lot of you know we’re making real progress in my cancer
initiative.  Cancer drugs, though, can cost up to 10-, 12-, $14,000 a
year.  But you’re never going to have to pay — next year — more than
$2,000 a year for all the drugs you consume.  (Applause.)  
  
Plus, if drug companies raise prices faster than inflation rises,
they’ll have to pay Medicare back the difference.  And guess what?  It’s
not only fair, it reduces the deficit when you do that.  
  
Folks, we’re really giving Medicare the power to negotiate lower drug
prices, just like the VA has done for years for veterans.   
  
Bringing down prescription drug cost doesn’t just save money for seniors
and Medicare; it’s going to have a significant effect on the federal
deficit.  It’s going to lower the debt by $159 billion.  (Applause.)   
  
And you say, “Well, how can that be, Joe?”  Well, right now, the
government — our tax dollars pay out through Medicare the help for the
prescription drugs.  If they have to pay out 150 thou- — 159 thou- —
billion dollars let- — (the President rolls his eyes) — (laughter) —
less for prescription drugs, then it reduces the deficit.  
  
So, folks, it’s a win-win.  It saves taxpayers money, it makes Medicare
stronger, and it reduces government spending overall.  
  
For years, we’ve been trying to make that happen — Democrats and
Republicans.  For years, Big Pharma has been able to block it.  
  
But at long last, we got it done.  This is historic progress.  And I
wish I could say my friends on the other side — all of my friends on the
other side — are there to protect and defend and build on it like I
am.  
  
Again, sadly, the MAGA Republicans — the Congress or — or those in
Congress who threaten to undo the gains — they want to do away with the
Affordable Care Act.  Some threaten to default on the national debt
unless I accept certain economic plans.  
  
Now, let me explain the national debt.  You all know — we think we all
know it.  It’s the accumulated debt over 200 years.  Every year it’s
accumulated, over 200 years.  The federal government has never, ever
once reneged on that debt.  We’ve never questioned our credit.  And
guess what?  Let’s remember the last administration increased the
federal debt by 25 percent.  The 200-year debt — in four years, they
increased it by 25 percent.  Two hundred years.   
  
And, folks, how did Congress respond?  Well, quite frankly, they did the
only responsible thing: They paid the debt.  They voted three times to
keep paying America’s bills to pay the debt without preconditions
without a crisis.   
  
If they paid the American debt then, why in God’s name are they
threatening not to pay it now?  (Applause.)  
  
So, folks, it’s not all the other team.  I’m not saying everybody on the
other team says that.  But it’s just politics.  And we got no business
playing politics with the lives of the American people and our nation’s
economy.  (Applause.)  
  
Folks — and, by the way, you know, you hear ads of “Big-Spendin’ Joe
Biden.”  In two years, I reduced the debt $1.7 <s>billion</s>
\[trillion\].  (Applause.)  $1.7 <s>billion</s> \[trillion\].  The
largest deficit reduction in American history.  
  
And I met with the new House Speaker — who’s not a bad guy — about how
we should proceed to settle our differences without jeopardizing the
full faith and credit of the United States of America, which would be a
disaster in terms of our economy.  
  
Here’s what he said — what I said to him, actually: Instead of making
threats about default, which could be catastrophic even if doesn’t
happen, because the markets around the world begin to hedge against it
and it affects the economies, let’s take that off the table.  And let’s
— and let’s have a conversation about how we’re going to grow the
economy, lower the costs, and reduce the deficit, each of us.  
  
I said: Let’s lay out our respective budgets.  On March the 9th, I’m
going to lay down in detail every single thing — every tax that’s out
there that I’m proposing — and no one over 400 — making less than
$400,000 is going to pay a penny more in taxes.  But lay it out by March
9th, everything, and what we’re going to cut, what we’re going to spend,
what we’re going to.  Just lay it on the table.  
  
And I’ve invited them to — Republicans — that they should do the same
thing: lay their proposal on the table.  And we can sit down, and we can
agree, disagree.  We can fight it out.  
  
When I introduce my budget, you’ll see that it’s going to invest in
America, lower health costs, and protect and strengthen Social Security
and Medicare while cutting the deficit more than $2 trillion over the
next 10 years.  (Applause.)  
  
But, by the way, I want to make it clear I’m going raise some taxes. 
Many of you are billionaires out there.  You’re going to stop paying at
3 percent.  (Laughter and applause.)  Not a joke.  
  
The idea that a billionaire — we used to have 600 or so in the United
States of America; now there’s 1,000.  The idea that they pay at a rate
that is lower than the rate of a police officer, a schoolteacher, a
nurse, is bizarre.  You’re going to see the people making less than
$400,000, as I said from the very beginning, will not pay an additional
single penny in any tax.  (Applause.)   
  
If I can hold a second.  One of the reasons I was able to keep the debt
down this time around — they’re — the Fortune 500 companies, they’re
good companies.  I — and, by the way, I come from the corporate capital
of the world, Delaware.  (Laughter.)  More corporations are incorporated
in the state of Delaware than every other state in America combined.  I
got elected 36 years’ worth (inaudible).  So I’m not anti-corporation,
but I think everybody should pay a — take a fair shot, pay a fair
share.  
  
Now, look, here’s the deal: The reason we — I was able to lower the
deficit and still expand programs, like healthcare, was there were 55
corporations in 2020, when I came to office, who made $40 billion and
didn’t pay a single penny in tax — not one penny.  Well, guess what?  I
did a terrible thing.  I got passed, overwhelmingly, with just my team’s
vote — I got passed a 15 percent tax.  My God, 15 percent.  
  
Raise your hand if you’d accept a 15 percent tax?  (Laughter.)  No, I’m
not joking.  Well, it raised enough money to allow me to do the things
I’ve been able to do.  Fifteen percent minimum tax.  
  
Like I said, $40 billion in profit.  That’s just 55 corporations who
paid zero.  
  
As for my MA- — my MAGA Republican friends, they say they want to reduce
the deficit.  Well, we did the math.  Based on what we know so far —
they could change their minds — their plans would explode the deficit,
increasing it more than $3 trillion over the next 10 years.  
  
Here’s what they want to do: They want to cut taxes for the very
wealthy, again.  They want to cut taxes for large corporations.  They
want to take back the power we just gave Medicare and Medicaid to
negotiate, which would raise prices.  And they would have huge gi- —
giveaway to Big Pharma and cost taxpayers billions of dollars.  
  
And if they say they want to cut the deficit but their plans actually
would explode the deficit, how are they going to make the numbers add
up?  What are they going to cut?  That’s the big question.  
  
For millions of Americans, healthcare hangs in the balance.  
  
Will they continue to fight to cut the Affordable Care Act and make
health insurance more expensive for millions of Americans?  
  
Republicans have been trying to undo the Affordable Care Act since it
passed 13 years ago.  
  
They voted to change or repeal the act — this is a fact; it’s on the
record — more than 50 times in four years that it existed.  Fifty
times.  
  
And they made repealing it part of virtually every Republican budget
since the law was passed, from the Trump administration budgets to
congressional budgets to their budget plans from just this past year.  
  
So let’s be clear about the consequences.  
  
If you get rid of the Affordable Care Act, it would mean that more than
100 million Americans with pre-existing conditions would lose the
critical protections they have now.  The only reason people with
preexisting conditions, who don’t have private insurance, are able to
pay is because they have the Affordable Care Act.  (Applause.)   
  
But, by the way, if they cut the Affordable Care Act, millions could
lose free preventive care, like cancer screenings.  Millions could lose
basic services, like maternity care, which insurers would no longer have
to cover.  
  
Up to 3 million young adults would lose access to their parents’ health
insurance, which they’re on right now, if the Affordable Care Act goes. 
They’re the facts.  I’m not making any of it up.  As they used to say,
as even — is no longer relevant — but Google it.  You know, you’ll see. 
(Laughter.)   
  
And nearly 40 million Americans would be in danger of losing health
coverage completely.  That includes millions of low-income Americans who
currently get their health insurance through Medicaid, which the
Affordable Care Act expanded in 39 states.  And it includes millions of
middle-class and working-class families who currently are covered by the
ACA Marketplace.  
  
Even if they did manage to keep their health insurance, it would cost
them thousands of dollars more per year than it does now.  
  
That’s just a glimpse of the damage of repealing the Affordable Care Act
would do.  
  
You know, the MAGA Republicans in Congress are — want — do they still
want to cut Medicaid?  
  
Well, the former Trump budget director, who’s now advising them — that
is the Republicans in the House — on their fiscal strategy has a plan to
slash over $2 trillion from Medicaid.  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Booo —

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, whether it gets pa- — I’m not — that’s the plan. 
Okay?

He wants to end <s>Medicare</s> \[Medicaid\] expansion under the
Affordable Care Act and then additional deep cuts that could lead to
nearly 70 million people losing critical services.  Most of them are
seniors, people with disabilities, and children.  Some could lose their
health insurance altogether.  
  
Millions of seniors and people with disabilities who depend on Medicaid
to help pay for their home care, including home health aides, could lose
their ability to remain in their homes.  
  
And, by the way, it saves the government money if they’re home and not
in a nursing home.  (Applause.)

And those long waiting lists for home care, which has gone down under
the last two years — the last five years 20 percent, would likely rise
again, and states with no waiting lists would likely have them again.  
  
Medicaid also pays for nursing home care for about two thirds of all
Americans who live in nursing homes.  
  
Cut Medicaid, and the quality of care in nursing homes goes down because
the help goes down, the salaries go down, access goes down.  
  
Rural hospitals across the country that depend on <s>Medicare</s>
\[Medicaid\] to cover uncompensated care could close their doors. 
Already, more than 500 rural hospitals across the country are in risk of
closing.  
  
You know what the statistics show?  If, in fact, you have a serious
accident and you’re in a rural community, you have a four times greater
chance of dying than if you had the same exact accident in a com- — in a
— in a community that is more populated, because you can’t get to the
hospital.  You can’t get —

Many places throughout the Midwest, you have to drive 30, 40 miles to
get to a hospital.  By that time, you’re dead.  Not a joke.  It’s not
hyperbole.  It’s a fact.

And so, folks, look — in fact, 2- — from 2010 to 2021, over 130 hos- —
rural hospitals did close.  
  
Entire communities depend on these hospitals.  Getting Medicaid would
shut many of them — not getting Medicaid would shut many of them
down.   
  
Studies show, further, that the more — the more likely you are to pass
or have serious injury, the further you are from access to a hospital.

At the time when so many of our kids are dealing with the painful mental
health challenges, millions could lose access to mental health care as
well.  
  
At a time when so many of our loved ones and neighbors are struggling
with opioid an- — epidemic, the millions could lose access to drug
treatment facilities.  
  
It would be devastating.  
  
What about Social Security and Medicare?  Well, are they safe?  
  
During the State of the Union, as some of you may have seen — (laughter
and applause) — I was — I — I’ve been around for a lot of State of the
Unions.  (Laughter.)  I never saw one where the President got to
negotiate in the open with everybody.  (Laughter and applause.)  I was
pleased to see so many Republicans stand up.  Remember when Marjorie
Taylor Greene was yelling, “Liar!  Liar!  Biden’s a liar!”? 
(Laughter.) 

(The President makes the sign of the cross.)  (Laughter and applause.) 
I’m going to be good.  I’m going to be good.

They don’t want to cut anything.  I — so I — when I asked — I said,
“Okay, you don’t want to cut anything?  Everybody who says we’re not
going to cut Medicare or Social Security…” — when I asked them to join
us and reject the cuts to Medicare — wasn’t it something?  They all
stood up.  (Laughter and applause.)  They all stood up.  And they’re all
on camera.  (Laughter.)  Got all their pictures.   
  
Like I said, I believe in conversion.  (Laughter.)  Maybe they found —
as my grandfather said, “Maybe they found religion” — (laughter) — on
Social Security and Medicare.  I sure hope so — all kidding aside.  But
I’ll believe it when I see it.  
  
For example, Senator Rick Scott of Florida, the guy has been saying for
a year — for a long time that he wants to sunset Social Security and
Medicare every five years.  What that means is: Every five years it
comes up, if you don’t vote for it back in existence again with the same
— exactly like it was, it goes away.  Or you can reduce it.  You can do
whatever you want.  But every five years, it has to be voted on.   
  
Now he says, “Never mind.  Don’t need to do that.”  (Laughter.)  
  
Although I noticed he didn’t say “never mind” about Medicaid and the
Affordable Care Act.  They’re still on the chopping block even in
Senator Scott’s plan.  
  
Look, make no mistake: If MAGA Re- — if MAGA Republicans try to take
away people’s healthcare by gutting Medicaid and the Affordable Care
Act, I will stop them.  (Applause.)  
  
Folks, here’s the bottom line.  The work that we’ve done to get more
people affordable healthcare and bring down costs is going to reduce the
deficit significantly.  It’s making a real difference in people’s
lives.  
  
It means more security, more dignity for millions of families.   
  
We’ve got more work to do, but we’ve made a lot of progress.  
  
I was in the northern part of your state about a year ago, doing a town
meeting.  And a woman stood up and started talking about the cost of
insulin.  She said, “I have two kids.”  And she went on.  She was very
articulate.  And she got very emotional.  She said, “What do I do?  I
don’t — can’t afford the insurance.  What — how do I look at my child
and say ‘I can’t help’?”  “I can’t help.”  But like — put yourself in
that position.  Your child has Type 2 diabetes.  She said, “We share the
insulin.”   
  
What do you do?  Imagine being in that circumstance.  There’s no means
by which you could have changed it now.  We’ve changed it in terms of —
we haven’t changed it permanently, in terms of making the same
requirements for the elder- — for all people as they do for the elderly
on Medicare.  
  
Folks, families across the country are starting to breathe just a little
easier.  We’ve just got to keep it going.  
  
I’ve long said it’s never been a good bet to bet against the American
people.  (Applause.)   
  
And I can honestly say, as I stand here today, I’ve never been more
optimistic about America’s future.  (Applause.)  We just have to
remember who we are.  We are the United States of America. 
(Applause.)   
  
And there is nothing — nothing, nothing beyond our capacity.  When we
work together, we can do anything.   
  
So, God bless you.  And may God protect our troops.  Thank you, thank
you, thank you.  (Applause.)

3:36 P.M. EST
