---
date: '2023-02-01'
modified_time: 2023-02-01 16:17:19-05:00
published_time: 2023-02-01 16:17:18-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/02/01/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-white-house-competition-council-meeting/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at the White\_House Competition Council\_Meeting"
---
 
East Room

1:19 P.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  You all ready?  All right.  (Clears throat.)  A little
bit of a cold.

Thank you all for being here today as my administration takes on new
action to lower the costs for American families.

You know, I ran for President to rebuild the backbone of the country — I
know you’re tired of hearing me say, but that was the reason I ran — and
begin to build the economy from the bottom up and the middle out.

And in two years, we’ve made real progress.  And growth is up.  Wages
are up.  And over the last two years, more Americans have applied to
start a small business than any year on record. And everybody who
applies to — for a new small business, that’s about hope.

And our economic plan is working.  And it’s — an important part of that
plan is promoting fair competition across the entire economy.  You heard
me say that capitalism without — without competition isn’t capitalism,
it is — it is just simply exploitation.

And so, that’s why we’ve been more outspoken about promoting competition
than any President since Teddy Roosevelt.  And that’s why I’ve created
the Competition Council, which you see around this table.

That’s why when we last met in September — the Council — we challenged
them to come up with new ways to deal with and eliminate unfair hidden
fees known as junk fees and — that sneak up on consumers.

So, this group stepped up.  As a result, we’re requiring Internet
providers to list fees upfront on clear, easy-to-read labels just like
the labels on food products you buy.  And now you can compare your
choices easily to find the best deal that you want to go to.

We also convinced major airlines to rebook cancellation flights for free
rather than charging customers for rebooking.  We pushed banks to ditch
surprise overdraft and bounced check fees, saving Americans an estimated
billion dollars a year as a consequence of that.

And last month, we took a big step toward promoting competition in the
labor market when the Federal Trade Commission proposed the rule banning
non-compete agreements for 30 million Americans — 30 million Americans. 

If you worked as a bellhop in one hotel, you couldn’t go across the
street to another hotel to be able to make two bucks a week more or two
bucks a day more. 

And these are — these contracts that say you can’t do a job in the same
field even if it’s a better deal, like a security guard who wants to
take a job across town but you can’t because you signed a non-compete
agreement, I think it’s wrong.  I think we all think it’s wrong.

And now, today, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is proposing a
new rule to lower credit card late fees. 

Right now, credit card companies charge an average of $31 whenever you
can’t pay your bill on time.  That’s on top of the interest or — you’re
already paying.

Now, nobody is saying that you should pay — or you shouldn’t pay your
fees on time.  And no one says the bank should lend you money for free. 
But that’s what banks charge interest for.

But in the Obama-Biden administration, Congress passed the bipartisan
law that said banks cannot charge late fees that are significantly more
than the late payments cost them in the first place.  And so, well, it
doesn’t cost 31 bucks for a bank to process the late fee, but that’s how
much they’re charging you now.  And, folks, that’s a junk fee if there
ever was one, and it can drain hundreds of dollars a year from the
pockets of hardworking American families, especially — especially folks
who are already struggling to make ends meet.  But not anymore, after
today.

Today’s role proposes to cut those fees from $31 on average to $8 — to
$8.  That change is expected to save tens of millions of dollars for
Americans, roughly $9 billion a year in total savings.

And over the next few weeks, my team is going to meet with state and
local officials across the country to identify things they can do to
crack down on junk fees in their own jurisdictions.

And today, I’m also calling on Congress to pass the Junk <s>Free</s>
\[Fee\] Protection Act, a ban — to ban four of the most frustrating
charges Americans face.

The first one of those is: Some airlines charge extra to pick your seat,
including for parents who just want to sit next to their child on the
plane, and charge extra.  You don’t know that going in, though.  And
it’s wrong.

Secondly, the — when you book a hotel, you should see the full cost
right then and there, instead of getting hit with what’s called a resort
fee, which can be over $50 a night, and — when you check out.

And third, you should be able to switch your Internet, cable, or cell
phone plan without the $200 early termination penalty some of these
companies charge.

And fourth, you should lower the huge service fees that companies like
Ticketmaster slap onto tickets for concerts or sporting events that can
easily add hundreds of bucks to a family’s night out.

Congress should pass the Junk Fee Protection Act so we can crack down on
these fees and give hardworking Americans just a little bit more
breathing room.

Look, the bottom line is this: It’s un- — these unfair fees add up. 
It’s a basic question of fairness.  And with the help of the folks in
this room, we’re going to keep building an economy that’s fair, an
economy that’s competitive, and an economy that works for everyone.

Now I’m going to turn this over to Director Chopra.  And you fire away. 
The floor is yours.

MR. CHOPRA:  Well, thank you, Mr. President.  You know, back in the day,
when credit cards just started get going, if you were late on your
payment, you just got a tiny late fee, a little bit of a nudge to remind
you.  But, you know, today, $30 million in penalties are charged on
Americans every day.  That’s $12 billion a year that really bites
people’s budgets.

So, what we did is we took a look at the law and the rules, and we found
a legal loophole that credit card companies have been exploiting to
charge billions of extra dollars, way beyond their costs and way
unjustified, to deter late payments.

And think about it right now: People are seeing their bills from holiday
travel, from Christmas gifts.  They want to be able to pay it back.  But
we see, across the economy, businesses building a model on these junk
fees. 

So we have launched the process to cut those fees down from $12
billion.  And we project, as the President mentioned, we’ll save people
$9 billion a year.  That’s just one fee.

And, look, we want credit card companies and families to work together. 
And they already face consequences when they’re late.  They get an
avalanche of interest when they’re late.  And interest rates now are
hitting 20 percent for the average card.

And what I think we also see is companies using inflation as an excuse
to raise fees even more, and that is wrong.

So, we are going to take that work and see how we can cut away and chip
away at some of these junk fees, building on our overdraft work and so
much more.

I’m really glad that so many of us are here and looking across
government, Mr. President, to see how these fees are distorting fair
competition.  People want to be able to see the price up front and know
what they’re getting and not be surprised for something they can’t even
budget for.

So, we’re really proud to push forward with this.  And hopefully, people
can start seeing some real relief next year.

THE PRESIDENT:  We hope they will too.  Look, one of the things that we
all know in each of your departments: People have lost faith in
government’s ability to deliver.  They’ve lost faith in the private
sector and what their — what they advertise that they’re say they’re
delivering.  And it’s about just letting people know that, you know, we
see what’s happening.  And it’s totally appropriate to do what we’re
doing. 

And it really, I think, is — this whole idea here is we have to rebuild
confidence in our ability to deliver for the American people.  And I
think that’s a big chunk of what we’re doing here.

I’m going to turn it over to Brian, Director of National Econ- —
Economic Council.

1:29 P.M. EST
