---
date: '2023-02-02'
published_time: 2023-02-02 18:04:53-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/02/02/remarks-by-president-biden-marking-the-30th-anniversary-of-the-family-and-medical-leave-act/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden Marking the 30th Anniversary of the Family and\
  \ Medical Leave\_Act"
---
 
East Room

2:57 P.M. EST  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Natasha, thank you very much.  
  
Folks, as I was sitting and listening to everyone, I was reminded that
back during a very, very important hearing in the Judiciary Committee,
when I was chairman, we were working on a very difficult subject.  I
won’t mention the — it was a justice that was very conservative, and we
were working very hard to keep him from being on the bench.  He’s a
decent man, but his philosophy was not.   
  
And we had worked really, really hard bringing in scholars from all
around the country during the entire summer preparing for this hearing. 
And one particular person was in charge of knowing the detail — all the
significant detail of all of his voting record.   
  
And — and just before we started the hearing — as a matter of fact, the
day of the hearing, he — I heard that he was having difficulty at home
with a marital circumstance.  And — and that — but he kept showing up
for the hearings.  And, Mr. President, I told him that if he came in and
continued to come in, he was fired.  And the reason I did that was
because I remember what happened to me.  
  
When I got elected to the United States Senate, I was 29 years old, and
I had won a very close election against a popular guy.  Nixon won my
state by, I think, 64 percent of the vote; I won by a whopping 31- or
3,200 votes, only because my sister managed my campaign — the reason I
won.  (Laughter.)   
  
But all kidding aside, I was down here in Washington in Teddy’s — in
Teddy Kennedy’s office — he was the Whip at the time — on December 18th,
hiring folks.  And I got a phone call saying my wife and daughter had
just been killed and my two boys were very badly injured.  They were in
the car.  A tractor trailer hit — broadsided them.  And — and I didn’t
want to come to the United States Senate.  I really didn’t.  
  
I had my brother and my sister — and Chris knows them both well.  I
asked them to talk to the incoming governor.  We elected a Democratic
governor as well.  But we hadn’t had what was referred to as a
“progressive senator” in Delaware for a while because it was a very
conservative — it was — it used to be a red state.  We didn’t call it
that then.  
  
And — and so — but a group of senators who were, really, so good to me —
saved my sanity — starting with Mike Mansfield and Tom Eagleton; and the
distinguished senator from South Carolina, Fritz Hollings; and Tom
Eagleton.  And they all said, “Come and just stay six months.” 
(Laughs.)  And at the time, I thought they needed — they said, “You have
to help us organize.”  We had 58 Democratic senators.  (Laughter.)  That
shows you how smart I was.  (Laughter.)   
  
But the point was that I started commuting every day, 260 miles a day,
on the train to come home with my kids.  And that’s because I was
really, really lucky.  I had a sister, who’s my best friend, and a
brother, my buddy — five years younger.  And they gave up where they
lived and moved into where I was.  They helped me raise my kids.  
  
And every morning, I dropped my kids off when they were little at my
mom’s house, not far from ours.  And I thought to myself: I was able to
continue to work and continue to be paid because I had the option of
being able to — I had a family that was so supportive and a universal
family just around me taking care of everything.   
  
And I swore that since I was able to — and, by the way, when you’re a
senator and you only have one — you have a thousand bosses, but you only
have one of you, and you make a decision to — if you’re going to vote or
not vote, and sometimes when there was an important event, a teacher
meeting — not a joke — or a soc- — a foot- — a baseball game or
whatever, I’d look and see what the votes of the day were.  And if they
weren’t consequential, they were going to pass overwhelmingly, I’d stay
with my kids.  I’d go to the teachers meeting.  
  
And I thought to myself that, you know, if, in fact, I could do that — I
could do that — I was going to make sure everyone in my office is. 
Everybody who works for me gets a memo.  And the memo says, “If you ever
need time, you never have to explain why.  All you have to do is tell me
you can’t show up.”  I take you at your word.  I don’t want you to have
to reveal what the reason is.  If you don’t — you can’t show up, you
can’t show up.  I’m trusting you that you’re not going to play a
game.   
  
Well, you know, there’s so many people who can’t.  
  
You know, Madam Vice President, I want to thank you and — for all — and
all the women and families that are taking care of everybody.  
  
And I want to thank the members of Congress in here with working
families.  
  
Chris, who I know as — we’ve been friends a long time — as Christie —
Christie, you’re the reason for the Family Medical Leave Act. 
(Applause.)  You are.  (Inaudible).  
  
And this guy felt it in every fiber in his being when he was running as
— when he was governor and when he became President.  And, by the way,
welcome home, ole’ buddy.  (Laughter and applause.)  Welcome home.   
  
He made history by signing that act in- — into law.  And, you know, as a
team effort, I was — especially want to thank my friend, as I said,
Chris Dodd.  But I also — that woman sitting next to him was a little
bit helpful too.  (Laughter.)  At any rate — and, by the way, stand up
for a second.  Come on.  Come up.  (Applause.)  
  
(Representative Rosa DeLauro stands up in the audience.)  
  
I learned — (applause) — I learned — I learned a long time ago — I
learned a long time ago: Just say “yes.”  (Laughter.)  Have you ever
asked me for anything I just haven’t said “yes”?  Because I know I’m
going to have to say it eventually.  (Laughter.)   
  
Please, sit down.   
  
But all kidding aside, you know, Chris first introduced that bill I
think in ’86, if I’m not mistaken — the mid-‘80s.  And — and working
with Republicans — Chris and I still have this weird idea you can still
work with the Republicans.

He negotiated a bipartisan compromise to get it done.

And meanwhile, along came candidate Clinton, and he not only signed it
but he convinces people why it was such a good thing to do.  And it was
a good thing to do.  
He knew in the United States that — that in America, no one should have
to choose between their job and their family.  
  
Chris has heard me say this a thousand times.  My dad used to say,
“Joey, a job is about a lot more than a paycheck, it’s about your
dignity.  It’s about respect.  It’s about your place in the community.” 
And the American people agreed.   
  
And because of the years of work and the tenacious advocacy of many of
you who are here today — of course, the First Lady,  
Hillary Rodham Clinton, is a tenacious advocate as there ever was for
this law as well.  
  
Two weeks after President Clinton took office, it became the law, and it
transformed the lives of literally millions of men and women.   
  
The law was a step toward that dignity my dad used to talk about. 
Dignity for working families.   
  
Dignity for workers who — with serious illnesses, like cancer, and
parents of new children — children and aging parents, disabled family
members.  I mean, it makes a gigantic difference.   
  
Dignity for women who are so often responsible for caring for everybody
else — for everybody else in the family.   
  
And dignity for men, because being there for your family is often the
most consequential thing you can do.  The most consequential thing —
that’s the example that the President gave about that father he met.  
  
Dignity and security for millions of families, because finally —
finally, for the first time in history, a majority of working Americans
could take time off work, care for somebody they loved, and care for
themselves without fear of losing their job.  
  
To have a little dignity when they needed it most.  
  
And, folks — and, by the way, family medical leave isn’t only for
workers and families.  As mentioned earlier — and I’ll take — I’ll not
go into the detail, but as pointed out by both my colleagues, it’s good
for business.  It’s good for business.  And it’s increased — it has
increased the overall GDP by well over a trillion dollars.  It’s done a
lot of really, really good things.   
  
When workers can take leave — when they’re able to do that rather than
have to stay in their job, they’re better off and the businesses are
better off as well because things get done.  
  
And as a nation, we’ve made a lot of progress over the last 30 years. 
Over time, we’ve expanded the Family and Medical Leave Act: Up to 26
weeks of leave to care for service members with serious illnesses or —
incurred on active duty.  
  
My son lay in the hospital for 18 months after coming back from Iraq,
and died.  I don’t know how — if we — if I hadn’t had this job, I don’t
know quite what I would have done.  I don’t know quite what we would’ve
done.  
  
And so, the fact is that is that up to 12 weeks to handle a military
deployments, because when they get — deployment occurs, it really
changes a family and takes it all out of gear.  And, look, which can be
— it can be a major adjustment for families.   
  
Twelve weeks paid parental leave for federal employees.   
  
And then — (applause) — and then we strengthened protections against pay
discrimination.  We extended Medicaid coverage for new moms for a year
postpartum.  (Applause.)  
  
And I’m proud to say that under our administration, we’ve made
additional progress.  
  
In December, as we’ve mentioned earlier, we passed the Pregnant Workers
Fairness Act.  (Applause.)  It filled an important gap in federal
protection by requiring <s>employees</s> \[employers\] to make
reasonable accommodations for pregnant women and new norm — new moms,
like letting them have water breaks, bathroom breaks, “sit down and
work” breaks.  
  
Can you imagine asking that?  My lord.  
  
Think about it though.  Think about it.  Too many women have been denied
the just simple, basic support.  
  
Plus, this law gives new moms time off to recover after they’ve had a
baby.  That’s considered a “reasonable accommodation.”  I guess so. 
(Laughter.)  
  
But thi- — but think about it.  We got to say that.  I mean, a
“reasonable accommodation”?  Like that’s something we discovered? 
(Laughter.)  
  
So, workers who don’t get — don’t get family leave through Family and
Medical Leave Act may not now — may now get parental leave through this
new law.  (Applause.)  
  
You know, and when I ran for President, I promised to get this done, and
we keep our promises.  
  
Look, I also signed a law that gives nearly 9 million nursing mothers
the time for private space to pump at work.  (Applause.)  
  
I mean, think about it.  What a — what an awful demand.  I mean, my
Lord.  Salacious.  (Laughter.)  Remember some of the arguments made?  
  
Until now, teachers, nurses, farmworkers, and others were at the mercy
of their employers.  
  
Folks, this shouldn’t be that complicated.  It gets down to — a word I
guess we Irish overuse: It gets down to basic dignity.  It’s about being
a country where women and all people can both work and raise a family.  
  
And today, we’re taking another step forward.  I just signed a
presidential memorandum to make sure that the federal government leads
the way in supporting workers.  
  
Right now, employees only qualify for family and medical leave if
they’ve been on the job one year.  Get cancer after six months — your
wife or your husband — look, I’m a great respecter of fate, and I know
all too well that you can’t schedule when your loved one might need your
help badly.  You can’t tell a newborn infant or a dying parent that
you’ll be there for them next year.  And when serious illness strikes,
you can’t reschedule that either.  
  
So today I signed a memorandum to all federal agencies, urging them to
let federal employees take leave during the first year of the job, from
the time they get — if they need it.  (Applause.)   
  
And I’m also directing the Office of Personnel Management to develop
recommendations to help federal employees take leave  
when they need — when they need to find safety from domestic violence —
(applause) — dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking.  So-called
“safe leave.”  That matters.  It matters a lot.  And you all know it.

Additionally, we made historic investments to make childcare more
affordable so parents can work and provide for their kids.  (Applause.)

How can we compete in the global economy if millions of American
parents, especially moms, can’t join the workforce because childcare or
eldercare costs them more than their paycheck?

The cost of childcare has gone up more than 200 percent over the last 30
years — 200 percent.  Most families’ incomes haven’t grown nearly that
much.  And a lot of parents do the math and realize they can’t afford to
go to work.

The first major piece of legislation I signed — the American Rescue Plan
— provided historic tax relief to millions of families to help cover
children’s cost through the largest increase in history of the Child Tax
Credit and the Dependent Care Tax Credit.  (Applause.)  
The thing we don’t talk about much either — it also helped 200,000
childcare providers — (applause) — many of them small businesses — stay
open during the pandemic to continue to serve 9.5 million children
during that period.  (Applause.)

Look — and these funds help increase pay for childcare workers who are
significantly underpaid.  They’re overwhelmingly women, especially women
of color.

And I just signed legislation — (applause) — that increases the Child
Care Development Block Grant by 30 percent, helping low-income families
afford childcare.

But here’s what matters.  More than half the women in my Cabinet — more
than — more than half the people in my Cabinet, more than half of the
women on the — in my administration are women.  You think, “Well, God,
that’s across the board.”   
  
Well, let’s — 30 years ago, we ranked number six — number six among
advanced economies that the share of — that — the share of women in the
workforce.  Know what we rank today?  Nineteenth.  Nineteenth.

This is the United States of America, for God’s sake.  Women are 50
percent of our pop- — a little slightly more than 51 percent of our
popul- — 50 percent of our population.  We can’t reach our full economic
potential if we leave half the workforce behind.

Look, I ran for President — (applause) — I ran for President to rebuild
the backbone of America, the middle class.  As you’ve heard me say 100
times, Wall Street didn’t build America, the middle class built
America.  And, by the way, unions built the middle class.  (Applause.)

So I — I come from a family that never very much benefited from
trickle-down economics.  But when you build from the bottom up and the
middle out, poor folks get a shot and the middle class can live a decent
life, and the wealthy still do very well.  They still do very well.

Two years in the making, we’re making real progress.  These have been
the strongest two years of job growth on record.  Unemployment rate for
women when I was sworn in was over 6 percent.  It’s now 3.6 percent. 
Black women and Hispanic women unemployment numbers fell even greater.

In my first year as President, we saw the largest one-year growth ever
in women’s participation in the labor force in nearly 30 years. 
(Applause.)

Meanwhile, to disprove the notion this is going to cost the economy, we
— the economy is growing.  Wages are up.

Over the last two years, more Americans applied to start a small
business than any year on record.  Any year on record.  And a critical
part of that — a critical part of that is creating an economy where all
workers, including women, have access to jobs, education, training, and
support they need to seize the opportunity while still being there for
their families.

Look, the legislation we celebrate today was an incredibly important
step, but a first step. 

And the United States is still one of our — only countries in the world
that doesn’t guarantee paid leave.  One of the only countries in the
world that doesn’t —

Look, as a result, 94 percent of our lowest-wage workers — mostly women
and workers of color — have no paid family leave at all — 94 percent. 
Meaning you can only take time to care for your loved one if you can
afford to give up your salary.

I remain committed to changing that and bringing the line with every
single other major economy in the world by passing a national program of
paid leave and medical leave.  (Applause.)  
And, by the way, American workers deserve paid sick days as well. 
(Applause.)  Paid sick days.

Look, I’ve called on Congress to act, and I’ll continue fighting, as I
know all of you will as well.  No American should ever choose to — have
to choose between a paycheck and taking care of a family member or
taking care of themselves.

You know, I believe that one of the best ways to continue making
progress is to ensure women are at every table where decisions are
made.  Every table.  Not — not a joke.  (Applause.)

I promised that my administration would look like America.  As I said,
my Cabinet is ma- — first majority-female Cabinet in American history. 
(Applause.)  And we just heard from the first-ever woman Vice President
— (applause) — a leader in our administration for women’s health,
women’s economic security, and equity for all Americans.

And with her help and so many of you who are in this room, we’re going
to continue to make progress in the years ahead.  I can honestly say, as
I stand here before you — you’ve heard me say it before — I’ve never —
I’ve been doing this a long time.  I know you don’t believe that, but I
— (laughter) — but I have.

Look, I’ve never been more optimistic about America’s future.  Never. 
Never.  We just have to remember who in the hell we are.  We’re the U- —
no, I mean this sincerely, from the bottom of heart: We’re the United
States of America.  There is nothing — nothing, nothing, nothing beyond
our capacity if we set our mind to it and we do it together.  There’s
nothing we’ve ever failed at when we’ve tried.

Folks, we got a lot of work to do — a lot of work — but I’m so happy to
be able to welcome my President back to the United States Congre- — back
to the United States capital.  And he’s promised me that I’ll be able to
sit at my desk tomorrow.  (Laughter.)

God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.  Thank you. 
(Applause.)

3:19 P.M. EST
