---
date: '2023-02-03'
published_time: 2023-02-03 17:38:19-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/02/03/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-on-the-administrations-efforts-to-replace-lead-pipes-and-provide-clean-drinking-water-for-all-americans/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris on the Administration\u2019s Efforts to Replace\
  \ Lead Pipes and Provide Clean Drinking Water for All\_Americans"
---
 
*Belmont Water Treatment Plant  
*Philadelphia, Pennsylvania**

3:05 P.M. EST  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hello, hello.  Good afternoon.  Good afternoon. 
(Applause.)  Please have a seat.  
  
Well, it is good to be back in Pennsylvania and to be with so many
incredible leaders: members of our administration, members of Congress,
the workers of AFSCME Local 33 and 47, and, of course, Pennsylvania’s
own Joe Biden.  (Applause.)  Yes.  
  
So, before I begin, if I might just refer to the governor’s concern
about my attendance today.  (Laughter.)  You worry a little too much. 
(Laughter.)  But as a proud 49ers fan, congratulations to everyone here
and the Eagles, and good luck at the Super Bowl.  (Applause.)  
  
So, Philadelphia, the President and I are here to address a critical
issue that affects every person in America: clean drinking water.  
  
Few resources are more basic and more essential.  Without reliable
access to clean water, people can simply not be healthy, communities
cannot grow, and our nation cannot prosper.  
  
No matter where they live, every person in America should have a right
to clean water.  And yet, today, across our nation, far too many
Americans do not.  
  
Today, across the West, historic droughts have forced millions to endure
water shortages, wildfires, and billions of dollars in economic
damages.  
  
Today, millions of Americans live in places where even moderate flooding
can overwhelm sewage systems and contaminate drinking water.  
  
We have heard too many stories of people who, after storms, have pools
of sewage water under their floorboards.  
  
And as a result, in particular in communities across the South, we have
seen a rise in infections like hookworm and diseases like Zika.  
  
And across our nation, up to 10 million homes and thousands of schools
and childcare facilities receive their water through lead pipes.  
  
To be clear: Lead is a poison.  Drinking water contaminated with lead
causes serious health issues, especially for our children. It stunts
growth, it causes damage to the brain, and it affects a child’s ability
to learn.   
  
Last week, for example, I met a bright young leader.  He’s nine years
old.  His name is Aiden.  Aiden lives in Milwaukee with his mother,
Deanna, and his brother, Jaidyn.  Today, Aiden is healthy and he is full
of energy, but that was not always the case.  
  
Because, you see, when Aiden was two years old, he was hospitalized for
lead poisoning twice for drinking water out of the tap at the kitchen
sink.  
  
Deanna told me that before Aiden’s hospitalization, he experienced
severe mood swings.  One minute, he was happy.  The next minute, he was
sobbing.  Deanna told me it was terrifying.  
  
Well, I think we all agree no child in America should ever have to
undure \[sic\] — and endure that kind of experience.  And no parent in
America should ever have that experience.  
  
And so, together with the leaders here today and with leaders across our
nation, we have made access to clean water a priority of our
administration’s national agenda.  (Applause.)  
  
And with — and with the largest investment in America’s water
infrastructure in history, we are going to see this through and get this
work done.  
  
Specifically, we invested billions of dollars in flood and drought
resilience for communities across our nation, in water treatment plans
like this one, in removing every lead pipe in America.  
  
And just last week, at the White House, I convened union leaders, and
utility providers, and state and local elected officials to strategize
about what we will do to implement these investments, to make sure that
we move fast as possible to get this work done.  
  
And all of this progress is possible because of the vision, the purpose,
and the incredible leadership of our President, Joe Biden.  
  
For two years — (applause) — for the two years that he has been
President and many years before that, Joe Biden has fought to make sure
that children, like young Aiden, have the opportunity to grow up and to
be healthy and to live up to their God-given potential.  
  
So, we have a lot to be thankful for in our President.  
  
And now, before he speaks, it is my honor to introduce a leader who
knows firsthand the impact of our hard work: the mother of an incredible
daughter, a mother whose advocacy and bravery has helped children around
our country, families around our country be safe and healthy.  
  
 Please welcome Jana Curtis.  (Applause.)  
  
                               END                 3:12 P.M. EST
