---
date: '2023-02-03'
modified_time: 2023-02-06 22:05:13-05:00
published_time: 2023-02-03 09:55:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/02/03/president-biden-at-a-democratic-national-committee-winter-meeting-reception/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "President\_Biden at a Democratic National Committee Winter Meeting\_Reception"
---
 
Sheraton Philadelphia Downtown  
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

6:03 P.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, Democrats!

AUDIENCE:  Four more years!  Four more years!

THE PRESIDENT:  Folks — (applause) —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  We love you, Joe!

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, thank you.  My name — my name is Joe Biden, and
I’m Jill Biden’s husband.  (Applause.) 

And I want to be real clear: She’s a Philly girl.  (Applause.)  So
there’s no way I can stand here today without saying “Go Eagles,” “Fly,
Eagles, Fly!”  (Applause.)  None!

I tell you what: Thank — thank God — thank God I’m a Philadelphia
professional sports fan, because if I wasn’t a fan, I’d be sleeping
alone.  (Laughter.)

And, by the way, let’s give Kamala another round of applause. 
(Applause.)  She’s a great Vice President.

And I want to say a special thanks to Jaime for his leadership and to
all the members of the DNC for your service, for all you’ve done for the
party and for the nation, because that’s why we’re in this business: for
the nation.

Standing here, I’m reminded, just a few months ago, we ended the 2022
midterm election with a rally here in Philly.  Remember the midterms? 

AUDIENCE:  Yeah!

THE PRESIDENT:  Remember how our friends in the press and pundits alike,
and even some in our own party, were predicting a giant red wave?  Well,
guess what?  (Laughter.)  It never happened.  (Applause.) 

Instead, we had a historic performance.  We added Democratic governors,
we kept the U.S. Senate, and we ranked closer than anyone ever thought
possible in the House.  And we flipped control of four state legislative
chambers, including the state house right here in Pennsylvania. 
(Applause.)

And how did we do it?  We knew what we were for.  And we had great
candidates like Josh Shapiro and John Fetterman here in Pennsylvania —
(applause) — both standing for — standing up for personal freedoms, the
right to choose, standing for democracy, and running on our record.

You know, as of this month, we’ve created 12 million new jobs. 
(Applause.)  We created more new jobs in two years than any President
did in their entire term.  (Applause.)  And that’s because of you.  The
strongest two years of growth in history by a longshot — 3.4 percent
unemployment, the lowest in 54 years.  (Applause.) 

And the last time employment was this low was — unemployment was this
low was in 1969, in May of ‘69.  Think about that. 

What’s more, Black and Hispanic unemployment is near record lows. 
(Applause.)  More Americans applied to start small businesses — more
Americans in two years than any year on record. 

The biggest investment in American infrastructure since Eisenhower’s
administration, the Interstate Highway System.  Our roads, our highways,
bridges, ports, airports, clean water systems, high-speed Internet,
rail.

Lower healthcare costs and lower prescription drug prices, not only
including that $35 a month for insulin, but come January of next year,
what we’ve already passed: No senior will have to pay more than $2,000 a
year for their prescription.  (Applause.)  A month.  A month.

And some of the cancer drugs, as you unfortunately — many of you know —
is $10-, $12, $14,000 a year. 

The first Black woman on the Supreme Court of the United States of
America.  (Applause.)  Ketanji Brown Jackson! 

And, by the way, more appellate court judges who are Black women than
every other President combined.  (Applause.)  Every other President
combined.

The most significant gun control passed in 30 years.  We got more to do,
including getting rid of assault weapons and magazines — (applause) —
(inaudible). 

And as already been mentioned, the biggest investment in tackling the
climate crisis in the history of not only this country, but the history
of the world.  (Applause.) 

So, folks, that’s not even all of it, not even close.  In fact, let me
say something.  We’re just getting started.  No, I’m telling you.  I
don’t think many of you believed when I told you we were going get a lot
done after the first year, when we — all the things we said we were
going to do.  I don’t think some of you — although you’ve been good to
me, I don’t think you really believed — (laughter) — that we were going
to do as well as we did in the off-year election.

But we got a lot more to do.  We got a lot more to do.  And, by the way
— by the way, we paid for everything we did.  (Applause.)  And unlike
Republicans, we cut the deficit $1.7 trillion in two years. 
(Applause.)  You know how we did it?  We said, “You know, the
super-wealthy maybe should pay a little bit.”  (Laughter.)  And it ain’t
even close yet.  I intend to get it done — more done.

So let me ask you a simple question: Are you with me?  (Applause.)  I
ran for President —

AUDIENCE:  Four more years!  Four more years!

THE PRESIDENT:  Well —

AUDIENCE:  Four more years!  Four more years!

THE PRESIDENT:  I ran for President — (laughs) —

AUDIENCE:  Four more years!  Four more years!

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, thank you.  I ran for President for three reasons,
and I made no bones about it.

The first was to restore the soul of the nation.  Honesty, decency,
dignity, rooting out racism, treating everyone with respect, giving hate
no safe harbor.

The second reason I said I was running, you remember, is that I said I
was going to rebuild the backbone of the nation, the middle class.  No
more trickle-down economics.  (Applause.) 

I lived not far from here, in Claymont, Delaware, and before that, in
Scranton.  Not a whole lot trickled down to my kitchen table when I was
growing up.  To give people who built this nation a real shot.

And the third reason — which turned out many thought was impossible,
and, I must tell you, I was wondering for a little bit there — was to
unite the country.  We are a democracy.  You cannot govern without
consensus.  It’s not possible.  This is still the hardest thing to get
done.  But I refuse to give up.  We can’t give up.  We need to come
together as a nation.

Look, I came to the presidency determined to put an end to trickle-down
economics.  The view from Park Avenue says: When the wealthy do very
well, the big tax breaks are going to enable them to do that; maybe —
maybe it will trickle down to everybody else. 

Well, guess what?  There’s another view.  Another view — the one that I
hold and I believe a majority of the American people hold, like the
folks here in Philly; like where I was born in Scranton; like Claymont,
Delaware, just a few miles from here.  (Applause.)  No, I really mean
this.

The view that American workers are ready to work harder than anyone
else; they just need a shot.  I really mean it.  All they need is a
shot.  They get up every morning and go to work and bust their necks
trying to make an honest living. 

My dad used to say — and he literally would say this.  He said, “Joey, a
job is about a lot more than a paycheck.  It’s about your dignity.  It’s
about respect.  It’s about being able to look your kid in the eye and
say, ‘Honey, it’s going to be okay.’”  And he meant it.  Not a joke. 

Look, I’ve said it many times.  Wall Street, as important as it is,
didn’t build this country.  The middle class did.  (Applause.)  And, by
the way, unions built the middle class.  (Applause.) 

Folks, look, we need — we need to build our nation.  We really do have
to build our economy from the bottom up and the middle out and not from
the top down.  Because when the middle class does well everyone does
well.  The poor have a shot, the rich still do very well , and the
middle class have a little breathing room, as my dad would say.

For decades, the backbone of America — the middle class — have been
hollowed out.  I mean literally hollowed out.  Good-paying manufacturing
jobs moved overseas because labor was cheaper, and corporations went
overseas.  We exported jobs and imported product.  Once-thriving cities
and towns became shadows of what they used to be.

When those towns were hollowed out, something else was lost: our pride,
a sense of self-esteem, sense of self-worth.

Those of you who were over 40, did you ever think we’d be in a situation
where blue-collar workers would vote Republican?  No, no, let’s — we got
to be honest, man.  Because they think we forgot them.  They think we
don’t care.  They’re coming back, but they — that’s what they thought.

When those jobs left, a lot were left out and left behind.  A lot of
them came to believe we stopped paying attention to working class the
way we used to.  A lot of them came to believe that the Democratic Party
stopped caring about them. 

And lots of folks feel that way today still, but we’re making inroads. 
We’re turning it around.

My first two years in office, we created 750,000 manufacturing jobs. 
(Applause.) 

And, by the way, where is it written America can’t lead the world again
in manufacturing?  Where is that written?  (Applause.) 

Our economic agenda created a booming manufacturing with semiconductor
chips, electric vehicles, advanced batteries that are going to power the
vehicles, in addition to building 500,000 charging stations all across
America.  There have been major private investments, totaling nearly
$300 billion.  (Applause.)  Much of which is in just one industry,
semiconductors, generating significant job opportunities in
manufacturing in America.

For decades — for decades, we imported products and exported jobs.  Now
America is exporting products and creating jobs, because we’re doing
something that for years and years people just talked about: We’re
buying American.  (Applause.) 

Buying American is not just — by that I mean, the government is buying
American.  My administration — I’m — there’s a law back in the early
‘30s that we never paid much attention to.  It said when the President
spends your tax dollars to put a new deck on an aircraft carrier or
build a highway, it should be built by Americans and American products. 

Well, guess what?  My administration is doing it.  (Applause.)   Buying
American is a reality. 

We just made a lot of progress overseas as well, in the past two years. 
Jobs are up, wages are up, inflation is down, and COVID no longer
controls our lives. 

But now, the extreme MAGA Republicans in the House of Representatives
have made it clear they intend to put it all at risk.  They intend to
destroy it.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE PRESIDENT:  No, I’m — not a joke.  When I — look, you may remember
when, during the off-year election, I started talking about MAGA
Republicans and democracy.  And a lot of you thought, “What the hell is
he talking about?  Why isn’t he talking about A, B, C, or D specific
issue?”

Well, guess what?  They intend to destroy the pri- — this is not your
father’s Republican Party.  No, really, think about it.  These aren’t
conservatives.  These aren’t conservatives.  These are disruptive
people.  They intend to destroy the progress we made. 

Folks, as I said, this is not your father’s Republican Party.  Just take
a look what’s — they’re doing.  They campaigned on fiscal
responsibility, but the first bill to pass the House of Representatives
added $114 billion to the deficit.  The first one.

They introduced another bill to limit the President’s authority over the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve because they’re mad I used that authority to
lower gas prices by $1.50 a gallon.  Period.  (Applause.) 

Look, they introduced a bill — you think I’m cra- — when I said this
stuff in the off year, people looked at me like I was nuts.  They’re
nuts.  I’m not the one — (laughter).

They introduced a bill that will eliminate the IRS and replace it with a
30 percent national sales tax. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE PRESIDENT:  Oh, no.  You heard me: 30 percent national sales tax. 
Think about that.  That means 30 percent on groceries, gasoline,
clothing, school supplies, medicine, big-ticket items like rent and
cars.  Shifting the entire burden to the working class and middle class
of America.  It’s not going to happen.  I’m going to veto the sucker if
it ever got to me.  (Applause.) 

I know the Republicans ran on inflation last election.  I didn’t know
they were trying to make it worse.  (Laughter.) 

And, of course, as they always do, they still want to cut taxes on the
wealthiest and biggest corporations. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)  (Laughter.)

THE PRESIDENT:  By the way, you know, the idea — you got to be kidding
me.  No billionaire should pay a lower tax rate than a schoolteacher or
firefighter because that what they — (applause) —

By the way, there’s a thousand billionaires, and they pay an average of
3 percent in taxes.  Three percent.  For God’s name, what is this all
about? 

Republicans keep talking about what they’re going to do to Social
Security and Medicare.  Americans have been pa- — paying into Medicare
since you got your first paycheck when you were 16 years old and Social
Security since you started working.

Well, I got a better idea.  I’m going to strengthen Social Security and
Medicare, not gut it.  (Applause.)

If people making over $400,000 a year paid at the same rate that
everybody making $60-, $70-, $80-, $90-, $139,000 a year — up to — guess
what?  Social Security and Medicare would grow strong without — without
cutting benefits, without raising taxes on a single person making under
400 grand.

Look, so let’s make it real simple: If Republicans try to cut Social
Security — it’s not going to get by the Senate, in my view — but I’ll
stop them. 

If they tried to cut Medicare, I’ll stop them.  I got a veto pen. 
(Applause.)

If they try to pass the 30 percent national sales tax, I’ll stop them. 
And if — if they send me a national ban on the right to choose, I will
stop them.  (Applause.)

Look, folks, now — now we’re in a situation: If Republicans want to work
together to find real solutions to grow manufacturing jobs; to build the
strongest economy in the world and keep it that way, which we are now;
where Americans are paid a fair wage; make their wealth and begin to pay
their share of taxes, I’m ready.  I’m ready. 

I’m not going to let anyone use the full faith and credit of the United
States as a bargaining chip — the so-called national debt. (Applause.)

The national debt has been accumulated over 220 years.  We’re paying
interest on that debt that was accumulated over 220 years.  And guess —
guess what?  We’ve never missed a single payment.  The United States is
a nation who pays its bills. 

And, folks, for as much as we’ve gotten done over the past two years, we
have some unfinished business on our agenda. 

We need to make the cost of insulin 35 bucks a month for every American,
including 200,000 kids out there.  (Applause.)

We need to pass childcare and family paid leave.  (Applause.)

We need to restore the expanded Child Tax Credit that cut child poverty
nearly in half.  (Applause.)

And we need to ban assault weapons and limit the number of bullets that
can be in a magazine.  (Applause.)  I did it once before as a United
States senator, and we’ll do it again.  (Applause.)

And, by the way, yesterday — just yesterday, the Fifth Circuit Court of
Appeals struck down a law that bars domestic abusers — and I wrote the
Violence Against Women Act — bars domestic rebu- — abusers who are under
a restraining order to stay away from the woman or child they abused
from possessing a firearm.  They struck it down. 

And, by the way —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE PRESIDENT:  — they’re eight times as likely to get shot if you’re in
that situation.

Look, the Court struck down a commonsense law that’s been on the books
for 30 years.  They’re saying it’s okay for someone under a restraining
order who are threatening their partner or their child to own a
firearm.  It’s outrageous.  It’s literally out- — it’s dangerous. 
Abusers are five times more likely to kill his female victim if he’s
armed with a gun. 

I respect the right of responsible gun owners.  But someone who is
threatened or beaten a domestic partner is not a responsible gun owner. 
(Applause.)

And the courts should be on the side of the victims of domestic violence
not on the side of the abusers. 

Look, it’s — it’s an example of why it’s so important — we’ve confirmed
nearly 100 federal judges in just two years.  (Applause.)  And we’re
committed to keeping up the pace.

We need to codify Roe v. Wade.  (Applause.)

We need to pass the John Lewis Voting Rights and Advancement Act —
(applause) — and the Freedom to Vote Act.  (Applause.) 

And with the tragic death of Tyre Nichols, we’re reminded once again we
have to pass safeguards that were built into the George Floyd Policing
Act.  This is what I did as your — on the federal level.  I signed the
strongest executive order ever to reform federal police practices.  I
did my job. 

How many more — how many more horrible tragedies — how many more ghastly
videos do we have — needless death — do we have to see before Congress
steps up and does its job?

Folks, I truly believe we’re living in an inflection point in modern
history.  It comes along every four or five generations, where what
happens in a short period of time in a country or a cou- — or around the
world has a fundamental effect for the next three to four decades. 

Whether it’s — we’re talking about dealing with the climate crisis —
look, if we don’t move on the climate crisis, we don’t — we’re going to
see the — you know, the North Pole, as the kids would say — we’re going
see those glaciers melting.  We’re going to see sea levels rising up to
three feet. 

That means we carry a heavy responsibility, and it means we have an
extraordinary opportunity as well — an extraordinary opportunity to
build the future we want for our children and grandchildren.  It hadn’t
been available to us in the past.

An extraordinary opportunity to build America and a world that’s more
fair and just and more free.  (Applause.)  And that — that fills me with
optimism. 

I don’t want to keep you standing much longer.  I’ll just say one more
thing.  (Laughter.)

You know what?  America is back, and we’re leading the world again. 
(Applause.)  We are.

We’re uniting Europe.  We’ve united the — we’ve united the — Asia,
Japan.   We’ve — Japan is doing more than it’s ever done.  We have
AUKUS, the — dealing with everything from Australia to India.  We’re
uniting the world. 

In fact, I’ve never been more optimistic about America’s future than I
am today. 

I’ve always believed you could define American one word.  I spent a lot
of time with Xi Jinping when I was Vice President, the last couple of
years.  And Barack asked me to spend time with him because we knew he
was going to be president; it wasn’t appropriate for a president be
spending all the time.

No, I mean it sincerely.  So, I traveled 17,000 miles with him.  I met
with him more than any other world leader, now over 80 hours — 68 of
which were in person — just me, an interpreter, and he had a
simultaneous interpreter. 

We were in a Tibetan Plateau.  And he looked at me and he said, “Can you
define America for me?”  I mean this sincerely.  I give you my word as a
Biden.  I said, “Yes, in one word: possibilities.  Possibilities.”

That’s why we — in many cases, we’re viewed as the ugly Americans,
because we think anything is possible.  No, I really mean it.  Think
about it.  Can you name me one major initiative we united to do as
Americans we didn’t get done?  Not even one. 

Folks, look, I still believe that today because there’s literally
nothing we can’t do if we put our mind to it.  Just remember — remember
who in God’s name we are.  We’re the United States of America. 
(Applause.) 

Nothing is beyond our capa- — no, really — nothing is beyond our
capacity.  And we’re the only nation in the world that’s come out of
every crisis stronger than before we went in.  And that’s what we’re
doing now. 

God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.  Thank you, thank
you, thank you.  (Applause.) 

6:26 P.M. EST  
 
