---
date: '2024-09-30'
modified_time: 2024-09-30 15:59:32-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-30 18:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/legislation/2024/09/30/memorandum-on-the-presidential-determination-and-certification-with-respect-to-the-child-soldiers-prevention-act-of-2008/
tags: legislation
title: "Memorandum on the Presidential Determination and Certification with Respect\
  \ to the Child Soldiers Prevention Act of\_2008"
---
 
Presidential Determination

No.        2024-15        

MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE

SUBJECT:       Presidential Determination and Certification with Respect
to the Child Soldiers Prevention Act of 2008

Pursuant to section 404 of the Child Soldiers Prevention Act of 2008 (22
U.S.C. 2370c-1) (CSPA), I hereby:

Determine that it is in the national interest of the United States to
waive in part the application of the prohibition in section 404(a) of
the CSPA with respect to Cameroon to allow for the provision of
International Military Education and Training (IMET) and Peacekeeping
Operations (PKO) assistance, the issuance of direct commercial sales
(DCS) licenses, and support provided pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 331 and
10 U.S.C. 333, to the extent that the CSPA would restrict such
assistance or support; to waive in part the application of the
prohibition in section 404(a) of the CSPA with respect to Libya to allow
for the provision of IMET and PKO assistance, the issuance of DCS
licenses in connection with the export or reexport of transport aircraft
and related parts, components, and technical data, and support provided
pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 331 and 10 U.S.C. 333, to the extent that the CSPA
would restrict such assistance or support; to waive in part the
application of the prohibition in section 404(a) of the CSPA with
respect to Somalia to allow for the provision of IMET and PKO assistance
and support provided pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 331 and 10 U.S.C. 333, to the
extent that the CSPA would restrict such assistance or support; to waive
in part the application of the prohibition in section 404(a) of the CSPA
with respect to the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Yemen to allow
for the provision of IMET and PKO assistance, to the extent that the
CSPA would restrict such assistance; to waive in part the application of
the prohibition in section 404(a) of the CSPA with respect to the
Central African Republic to allow for the provision of IMET assistance,
to the extent that the CSPA would restrict such assistance; and to waive
the application of the prohibition in section 404(a) of the CSPA to
allow for the issuance of DCS licenses related to other United States
Government assistance for the above countries and, with respect to the
Russian Federation, solely for the issuance of DCS licenses in
connection with the International Space Station; and

Certify that the governments of the above countries are taking effective
and continuing steps to address the problem of child soldiers.

Accordingly, I hereby waive such applications of section 404(a) of the
CSPA.

You are authorized and directed to submit this determination and
certification to the Congress, along with the Memorandum of
Justification, and to publish this determination in the *Federal
Register.*

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
