---
category: blog
date: '2021-12-10'
modified_time: 2021-12-15 16:28:15-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/blog/2021/12/10/recent-data-show-dominant-meat-processing-companies-are-taking-advantage-of-market-power-to-raise-prices-and-grow-profit-margins/
published_time: 2021-12-10 12:00:00-05:00
title: "Recent Data Show Dominant Meat Processing Companies Are Taking Advantage of\
  \ Market Power to Raise Prices and Grow Profit\_Margins"
---
 
By: Brian Deese, Sameera Fazili, and Bharat Ramamurti

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Biden Administration has been working at every level to address
supply chain issues that are affecting prices. Many such issues are
related to the pandemic—like changes in demand patterns, bottlenecks, or
shutdowns. But for some price increases affecting Americans, there’s
another culprit: dominant corporations in uncompetitive markets taking
advantage of their market power to raise prices while increasing their
own profit margins. Meat prices are a good example. 

In September, we
[explained](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/blog/2021/09/08/addressing-concentration-in-the-meat-processing-industry-to-lower-food-prices-for-american-families/)
that meat prices are the biggest contributor to the rising cost of
groceries, in part because just a few large corporations dominate meat
processing. **The November Consumer Price Index data released this
morning demonstrates that meat prices are still the single largest
contributor to the rising cost of food people consume at home.** Beef,
pork, and poultry price increases make up a quarter of the overall
increase in food-at-home prices last month.

As we noted in September, just four large conglomerates control
approximately 55-85% of the market for pork, beef, and poultry, and
these middlemen were using their market power to increase prices and
underpay farmers, while taking more and more for themselves. New data
released in the last several weeks by four of the biggest
meat-processing companies—Tyson, JBS, Marfrig, and Seaboard—show that
this trend continues. (Other top processors are private companies that
don’t report publicly on their profits, margins, or income.) According
to these companies’ latest quarterly earnings statements, their gross
profits have collectively increased by more than 120% since before the
pandemic, and their net income has surged by 500%. They have also
recently announced over a billion dollars in new dividends and stock
buybacks, on top of the more than $3 billion they paid out to
shareholders since the pandemic began.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/12/net-income.jpg"
class="wp-image-41531" loading="lazy" width="600" height="243" />
</figure>

Some claim that meat processors are forced to raise prices to the level
they are now because of increasing input costs (*e.g*., things like the
cost of labor or transportation), but their own earnings data and
statements contradict that claim. Their profit margins—the amount of
money they are making *over and above their costs*—have skyrocketed
since the pandemic. **Gross margins are up 50% and net margins are up
over 300%.** If rising input costs were driving rising meat prices,
those profit margins would be roughly flat, because higher prices would
be offset by the higher costs. Instead, we’re seeing the dominant meat
processors use their market power to extract bigger and bigger profit
margins for themselves. Businesses that face meaningful competition
can’t do that, because they would lose business to a competitor that did
not hike its margins.

As one large meat-processing firm
[noted](https://s22.q4cdn.com/104708849/files/doc_financials/2021/q4/11-17-21_Tyson-Foods_Fourth-Quarter-2021-Earnings_111521_9.pdf)
to investors during its earnings call, their pricing actions “more than
offset the higher COGS \[cost of goods sold\].” Comparing the fourth
quarter of 2021 to the same quarter in 2020, that same firm
[increased](https://s22.q4cdn.com/104708849/files/doc_financials/2021/q4/Tyson-Foods-FINAL-4Q21-Investor-Presentation-111321-430-pm.pdf)
the price of beef so much—by more than 35%—that they made record profits
while actually selling *less beef* than before.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/12/gross-profits-and-margins-.jpg"
class="wp-image-41533" loading="lazy" width="600" height="244" />
</figure>

**Here is the bottom line: the meat price increases we are seeing are
not just the natural consequences of supply and demand in a free
market—they are also the result of corporate decisions to take advantage
of their market power in an uncompetitive market, to the detriment of
consumers, farmers and ranchers, and our economy.** They underscore why
promoting competition is a core part of the Biden-Harris
Administration’s economic agenda.

The Administration has [already
announced](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/blog/2021/09/08/addressing-concentration-in-the-meat-processing-industry-to-lower-food-prices-for-american-families/)
strong actions to crack down on illegal price fixing and enforce the
antitrust laws robustly, investments of hundreds of millions of dollars
to create more competition in meat-processing, over a billion dollars in
relief to small businesses and agricultural workers hurt by COVID, and
many other steps to ensure American families, farmers, and ranchers get
a fairer shake. These are just a few of the actions we’re taking under
our existing authorities.

Just yesterday, the Department of Agriculture announced that its loan
guarantee program to invest in small meat processors and distributors is
[now
open](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2021/12/09/usda-launches-loan-guarantee-program-create-more-market)
for business. The program will use $100 million in American Rescue Plan
funding to leverage approximately $1 billion in lending capital through
community and private sector lenders to expand meat and poultry
processing capacity and finance other food supply chain infrastructure.
This important investment in new private sector capacity will give
producers more options, help bring competition to the meat-processing
industry, and close vulnerabilities in the food supply chain revealed
and exacerbated by the pandemic. It is in addition to the [previously
announced](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2021/07/09/usda-announces-500-million-expanded-meat-poultry-processing)
$500 million investment for expanded meat and poultry processing
capacity.

In September, we also called for Congress to work together to enact
greater transparency in cattle markets. We are encouraged to see that
Senators have since announced new, additional efforts [to work together
to advance bipartisan
legislation.](https://www.grassley.senate.gov/news/news-releases/grassley-fischer-tester-wyden-announce-plan-to-improve-fairness-in-cattle-market) 

Together, these actions will support families, farmers, ranchers, and
workers, and address the concentration in meat processing that makes it
easier for dominant corporations to hike prices.
