---
date: '2025-04-13'
published_time: 2025-04-13 12:50:54-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/04/presidential-message-on-holy-week-2025/
tags: briefings-statements
title: Presidential Message on Holy Week, 2025
---
 
This Holy Week, Melania and I join in prayer with Christians celebrating
the crucifixion and resurrection of our Lord and Savior, Jesus
Christ—the living Son of God who conquered death, freed us from sin, and
unlocked the gates of Heaven for all of humanity.

Beginning with Christ’s triumphal entry into Jerusalem on Palm Sunday
and culminating in the Paschal Triduum, which begins on Holy Thursday
with the Mass of the Lord’s Supper, followed by Good Friday, and
reaching its pinnacle in the Easter Vigil on Holy Saturday night. This
week is a time of reflection for Christians to memorialize Jesus’
crucifixion—and to prepare their hearts, minds, and souls for His
miraculous Resurrection from the dead.

During this sacred week, we acknowledge that the glory of Easter Sunday
cannot come without the sacrifice Jesus Christ made on the cross.  In
His final hours on Earth, Christ willingly endured excruciating pain,
torture, and execution on the cross out of a deep and abiding love for
all His creation.  Through His suffering, we have redemption.  Through
His death, we are forgiven of our sins.  Through His Resurrection, we
have hope of eternal life.  On Easter morning, the stone is rolled away,
the tomb is empty, and light prevails over darkness—signaling that death
does not have the final word.

This Holy Week, my Administration renews its promise to defend the
Christian faith in our schools, military, workplaces, hospitals, and
halls of government.  We will never waver in safeguarding the right to
religious liberty, upholding the dignity of life, and protecting God in
our public square.

As we focus on Christ’s redeeming sacrifice, we look to His love,
humility, and obedience—even in life’s most difficult and uncertain
moments.  This week, we pray for an outpouring of the Holy Spirit upon
our beloved Nation.  We pray that America will remain a beacon of faith,
hope, and freedom for the entire world, and we pray to achieve a future
that reflects the truth, beauty, and goodness of Christ’s eternal
kingdom in Heaven.

May God bless you and your family during this special time of year and
may He continue to bless the United States of America.
