---
date: '2025-04-16'
published_time: 2025-04-16 09:49:24-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/04/white-house-announces-revolutionary-federal-procurement-overhaul/
tags: briefings-statements
title: White House Announces Revolutionary Federal Procurement Overhaul
---
 
**Washington, D.C.** – Today, President Trump announced a
first-of-its-kind overhaul of Federal procurement policy in order to
increase competition and efficiency while decreasing costs. The Office
of Federal Procurement Policy (OFPP) within the Office of Management and
Budget (OMB) will conduct a sweeping review and rewrite of the Federal
Acquisition Regulations (FAR).

As the world’s largest buyer, spending almost $1 trillion annually on
procurement contracts, the Federal Government should be promoting
agility, competition, and results. Instead, our procurement process,
after decades of regulatory buildup, does the exact opposite. It
benefits ineffective and entrenched vendors who can afford massive
compliance costs at the expense of every other potential vendor.

Led by OFPP, the FAR Council will rewrite the FAR in plain English,
eliminate non-statutory and duplicative regulations, remove DEI and
wokeness, and add buyer guides in place of burdensome and outdated
requirements. The Federal Government will no longer procure useless and
wasteful products like paper straws. It will focus on results above all
else – the best products and services at the best cost.

The current FAR is over 2,000 pages long with nearly 3,000 complex and
costly directives for potential vendors. These byzantine regulations
have created a bureaucratic maze that stifle innovation, snuff out
competition, and drive up costs.

A transaction that takes days for a normal business takes months or
years for the Federal Government, and costs much more. Buyers and
vendors alike spend more time navigating this bureaucratic maze than on
delivering the best products and value for the taxpayer. In one case, a
mission-support contract was delayed nearly two years after a public
comment triggered multiple cascading legal reviews and procedural
challenges that resulted  in no real change to the acquisition strategy.
Too often layered reviews and rigid compliance block progress and fail
to meet the government’s needs.

Under President Trump’s leadership, those days are over. This
long-overdue Revolutionary FAR Overhaul (RFO) will ensure a faster
acquisition cycle, lower barriers to entry for small businesses,
startups, and other new entrants, and eliminate wasteful bureaucratic
bloat.

“This RFO will reduce more than 40 years of bureaucratic buildup that
will unleash our procurement system with generational change and
results. We are Making America Great Again,” said OMB Senior Advisor
Kevin Rhodes. To complement the RFO, a brand-new website will bring an
unprecedented level of transparency to the procurement process, so that
any member of industry or the general public can stay informed on
regulatory updates, buyer guides, and the overall process. 
