---
date: '2025-04-01'
published_time: 2025-04-01 16:35:08-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/04/presidential-message-on-national-financial-literacy-month-2025/
tags: briefings-statements
title: Presidential Message on National Financial Literacy Month, 2025
---
 
The foundation of American economic prosperity is a society empowered
with the knowledge and tools to make informed financial decisions to
achieve the American Dream.  During National Financial Literacy Month,
we commit to providing critical resources for every American, young and
old, helping them invest in a brighter, more secure future.

Financial independence allows each of us the opportunity to diligently
save and freely invest in our robust, and rapidly evolving economy.  As
part of my recent effort to strengthen American leadership in digital
financial technology, my Administration is supporting the responsible
growth and use of digital assets, blockchain technology, and related
technologies across all sectors of the economy.  The United States is
the best, most innovative  in the world, and we want everyone to invest
in, and reap the benefits of, expanding our nation’s prosperity.

Research shows financial literacy leads to greater investments, higher
retirement savings, and ultimately more household wealth.  It is
essential for fostering a healthy and efficient marketplace.  The
Financial Literacy and Education Commission is a body chaired by the
Secretary of the Treasury and comprised of the heads of 23 federal
agencies and the White House Domestic Policy Council.  The Commission
plays a pivotal role in financial literacy by assessing the
effectiveness of financial education programs and promoting practices
that empower American families.

Upon taking office, I took immediate action to end the cost-of-living
crisis, ordering all federal agencies to untangle the economy from
crippling regulatory overreach—delivering long overdue relief to
hardworking American families.  Under my leadership, we will continue to
strengthen and support American families by eliminating taxes on tips,
overtime, and Social Security while extending the historic tax cuts from
my first term.  We are also deregulating and collaborating with
employers and local partners to help Americans build more secure and
prosperous futures for themselves and their families.

We will never stop fighting to put more money back in the pockets of our
overburdened taxpayers and to end the waste, fraud, and abuse in
Government. With enhanced financial literacy, Americans are forging
their own economic destinies free from unnecessary government
interference.  As President, I will revive the American Dream, turning
it from a relic of the past to a promise for the future in our new
Golden Age.

During this National Financial Literacy Month, I urge families,
communities, schools, and institutions to commit to bolstering their
financial knowledge.  There are amazing resources available to you and
your family through the Department of the Treasury’s website that will
assist you in making sound financial decisions.  Together, we can all
protect each American’s right to economic freedom, securing the promise
of prosperity for generations to come.
