---
date: '2025-04-07'
modified_time: 2025-04-07 14:35:14-04:00
published_time: 2025-04-07 14:05:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/04/cea-chairman-steve-miran-hudson-institute-event-remarks/
tags: briefings-statements
title: CEA Chairman Steve Miran Hudson Institute Event Remarks
---
 
Today I’d like to discuss the United States’ provision of what
economists call “global public goods,” for the entire world.  First, the
United States provides a security umbrella which has created the
greatest era of peace mankind has ever known.  Second, the U.S. provides
the dollar and Treasury securities, reserve assets which make possible
the global trading and financial system which has supported the greatest
era of prosperity mankind has ever known. 

Both of these are costly to us to provide.  On the defense side, our men
and women in uniform take heroic risks to make our nation and the world
safer, preserving our liberties generation after generation.  And we tax
hardworking Americans mightily to finance global security.  On the
financial side, the reserve function of the dollar has caused persistent
currency distortions and contributed, along with other countries’ unfair
barriers to trade, to unsustainable trade deficits.  These trade
deficits have decimated our manufacturing sector and many working-class
families and their communities, to facilitate non-Americans trading with
each other.

Let me clarify that by “reserve currency,” I mean all the international
functions of the dollar—private savings and trade included.  I’ve often
used the example that when private agents in two separate foreign
countries trade with each other, it’s typically denominated in dollars
because of America’s status as the reserve provider.  That trade entails
savings housed in dollar securities, often Treasurys.  As a result of
all this, Americans have been paying for peace and prosperity not just
for themselves, but for non-Americans too.

President Trump has made it clear that he will no longer stand for other
nations free-riding on our blood, sweat, and tears, whether in national
security or trade.  The Trump Administration has already, in its first
hundred days, moved forcefully to reorient our defense and trading
relationships to place Americans on fairer ground.  The President has
promised to rebuild our broken industrial base and pursue trade terms
that put American workers and businesses first.

I’m an economist and not a military strategist, so I’ll dwell more on
trade than on defense, but the two are deeply connected.  To see how it
works, imagine two foreign nations, say China and Brazil, trading with
each other.  Neither country has a currency that is trusted, liquid, and
convertible, which makes trading with each other challenging.  However,
because they can transact in U.S. dollars backed by U.S. Treasuries,
they are able to trade freely with each other and prosper.  Such trade
can only occur because of U.S. military might ensuring our financial
stability and the credibility of our borrowing.  Our military and
financial dominance cannot be taken for granted; and the Trump
Administration is determined to preserve them.

But our financial dominance comes at a cost.  While it is true that
demand for dollars has kept our borrowing rates low, it has also kept
currency markets distorted.  This process has placed undue burdens on
our firms and workers, making their products and labor uncompetitive on
the global stage, and forcing a decline of our manufacturing workforce
by over a third since its peak<sup>1</sup> and a reduction in our share
of world manufacturing production of 40%.

We need to be able to make things in this country, as we saw during
Covid, when many of our supply chains could not survive without being
reliant on our biggest adversary, China.  We clearly should not rely on
our biggest adversary for equipment essential to keeping our population
safe and secure.  Nor should our biggest adversary be allowed to benefit
so much from an international security and financial architecture we
finance.

There are other unfortunate side effects of providing reserve assets. 
Others may buy our assets to manipulate their own currency to keep their
exports cheap.  In doing so, they end up pumping so much money into the
U.S. economy that it fuels economic vulnerabilities and crises.  For
example, in the years running up to the 2008 crash, China along with
many foreign financial institutions, increased their holdings of U.S.
mortgage debt, which helped fuel the housing bubble, forcing hundreds of
billions of dollars of credit into the housing sector without regard as
to whether the investments made sense.  China played a meaningful role
creating the Global Financial Crisis.  It took almost a decade to
recover, until President Trump got us back on track in his first term.

In my view, to continue providing these twin global public goods, there
needs to be improved burden-sharing at the global level.  If other
nations want to benefit from the U.S. geopolitical and financial
umbrella, then they need to pull their weight, and pay their fair share.
 The costs cannot be solely borne by everyday Americans who have already
given so much.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">The best outcome is one in
which America continues to create global peace and prosperity and remain
the reserve provider, and other countries not only participate in
reaping the benefits, but they also participate in bearing the costs. 
By improving burden sharing, we can enhance resilience, and preserve the
global security and trading systems for many decades into the
future.</span>

Moreover, it is critical not just for fairness, but for capacity.  We
are under siege by hostile adversaries trying to erode our manufacturing
and defense industrial base and disrupt our financial system; we will be
able to provide neither defense nor reserve assets if our manufacturing
capacity is hollowed out.  The President has been clear that the United
States is committed to remaining the reserve provider, but that the
system must be made fairer.  We need to rebuild our industries to
project the strength needed to protect reserve status, and we need to be
able to pay our bills to do so.

What forms can that burden sharing take?  There are many options, here
are a few ideas:

-   First, other countries can accept tariffs on their exports to the
    United States without retaliation, providing revenue to the U.S.
    Treasury to finance public goods provision.  Critically, retaliation
    will exacerbate rather than improve the distribution of burdens and
    make it even more difficult for us to finance global public goods.
-   Second, they can stop unfair and harmful trading practices by
    opening their markets and buying more from America;
-   Third, they can boost defense spending and procurement from the
    U.S., buying more U.S.-made goods, and taking strain off our
    servicemembers and creating jobs here;
-   Fourth, they can invest in and install factories in America.  They
    won’t face tariffs if they make their stuff in this country;
-   Fifth, they could simply write checks to Treasury that help us
    finance global public goods.

Tariffs deserve some extra attention.  Most economists and some
investors dismiss tariffs as counterproductive at best and devastatingly
harmful at worst.  They’re wrong. 

One reason the economic consensus on tariffs is so wrong is because
nearly all of the models that economists use to study international
trade assume either no trade deficits at all, or assume that deficits
are short-lived and quickly self-correct through currency adjustments. 
According to standard models, trade deficits will cause the dollar to
weaken, which reduces imports and boosts exports, eventually wiping out
the trade deficit.  If that happens, tariffs may be unnecessary, because
trade will balance itself over time and, in this view, intervening with
tariffs can only make things worse.

However, that view is at odds with reality.  The United States has run
current account deficits now for five decades, and these have widened
precipitously in recent years, going from about 2% of GDP in the first
Trump Administration to a high of nearly 4% of GDP in the Biden
Administration<sup>2</sup>.  And this has happened all while the dollar
has appreciated, not depreciated!

The long run is here, and the models are wrong.  One reason is that they
fail to account for the U.S. provision of the global reserve currency.
 Reserve status matters and, because demand for the dollar has been
insatiable, it has been too strong for international flows to balance,
even over five decades.

More recent economic analyses<sup>3</sup> allow for the possibility of
persistent trade deficits that resist automatically rebalancing, which
is more in line with reality in the U.S.  They show that by imposing
tariffs against exporting countries, the U.S. can improve economic
outcomes, raise revenues, and impose huge losses for the tariffed
nation, *even with full retaliation*.

In this sense, analysis of what economists call the “incidence” of
tariffs indicates that a large share and burden of the tariffs are “paid
for” by the country on which we’re applying the tariffs.  Countries that
run large trade surpluses are pretty inflexible—they can’t find other
sources of demand to substitute for America’s.  Instead, they have no
choice but to export, and America is the largest consumer market in the
world.  By contrast, America has plenty of substitution options: we can
make stuff at home, or we can buy from countries that treat us fairly
instead of from countries that take advantage of us.  This difference in
leverage means that other countries end up bearing the cost of tariffs.

In 2018-2019, China bore the cost of President Trump’s historic tariffs
through a weaker currency, meaning their citizens became poorer, with
less purchasing power on the global stage.  The tariff revenue, paid for
by China, was used to finance President Trump’s tax cuts for American
workers and firms.  This time around, tariffs will help pay for both tax
cuts and deficit reduction.

Lower taxes on Americans, financed in part by revenue provided from
foreigners, will create economic growth, dynamism, and opportunity the
likes of which our country has never seen, ushering in President Trump’s
new Golden Age.  Deficit reduction will help lower Treasury rates, and
with them mortgage rates and consumer credit card rates, stimulating an
economic boom.

It is important to note here that tariffs are not levied simply to
collect revenues.  For example, the President’s reciprocal tariffs are
designed to address tariff and non-tariff barriers and other forms of
cheating like currency manipulation, dumping, and subsidies to gain
unfair advantage.  Revenue is a nice side effect, and if it is used in
part for lowering taxes, it can help turbo-charge competitiveness
improvements that boost U.S. exports.

Burden sharing can allow the United States to continue leading the free
world for many decades.  It’s a must not only for fairness, but for
feasibility.  If we don’t rebuild our manufacturing sector, we will be
strained in providing the security we need for our safety and to
underpin our financial markets.  The world can still have the American
defense umbrella and trading system, but it’s got to start paying its
fair share for them.  Thank you, and I am happy to take some questions.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

\[1\] <https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/MANEMP>

\[2\]
<https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/BN.CAB.XOKA.GD.ZS?locations=US>

\[3\] <https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=5008591>
