---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-08-18'
modified_time: 2021-08-19 09:27:49-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/08/18/ensuring-a-safe-return-to-in-person-school-for-the-nations-children/
published_time: 2021-08-18 16:15:04-04:00
title: "Memorandum on Ensuring a Safe Return to In-Person School for the Nation\u2019\
  s\_Children"
---
 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF EDUCATION

SUBJECT:       Ensuring a Safe Return to In-Person School for the
Nation’s Children

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:  
  
Section 1.  Policy.  As the school year starts across the country, a top
priority of my Administration is to do everything in our power to ensure
a safe return to full-time, in-person school for our Nation’s children. 
With increased access to vaccinations for school staff and students age
12 and older, proven virus prevention strategies, and unprecedented
resources from the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (Public Law 117-2)
(American Rescue Plan) and other Federal pandemic relief funds, opening
all schools this fall for full-time, in-person learning is essential.
 At the same time, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)
has made clear that, with the B.1.617.2 (Delta) variant driving an
increase in COVID-19 cases nationally, it is critical for schools to
protect students against exposure, especially given the number of
children who are ineligible to obtain the vaccine at this time.  The CDC
has provided clear guidance to schools on how to adopt science-based
strategies to prevent the spread of COVID-19, and the Department of
Education has provided guidance to schools on how to reopen safely while
addressing the academic, social, emotional, and mental health needs of
our Nation’s students.  
  
Many Governors and other State and local officials have risen to the
challenge of beginning the new school year safely and responsibly by
implementing prevention and mitigation strategies to maximize the health
and safety of students, educators, and staff.  The Federal Government is
supporting these efforts in critical ways.  The American Rescue Plan
provides significant support to schools to develop and implement
science-based health protocols to prevent the spread of COVID‑19.
 Additionally, the Federal Emergency Management Agency is reimbursing
States, including their school districts, at 100 percent Federal cost
share to support the safe reopening and operation of school facilities
and to effectively maintain the health and safety of students,
educators, and staff.  
  
At the same time, however, some State governments have adopted policies
and laws that interfere with the ability of schools and districts to
keep our children safe during in-person learning. Some of these policies
and laws have gone so far as to try to block school officials from
adopting safety protocols aligned with recommendations from the CDC to
protect students, educators, and staff.  And some State officials have
even threatened to impose personal financial consequences on school
officials who are working tirelessly to put student health and safety
first and to comply with their legal obligations to their communities to
further the essential goal of a safe, in-person education for all
students.  
  
Our priority must be the safety of students, families, educators, and
staff in our school communities.  Nothing should interfere with this
goal.    
  
Sec. 2.  Department of Education Role in Ensuring a Safe Return to
In-Person School.  (a)  In furtherance of the policy set out in section
1 of this memorandum, I direct the Secretary of Education to assess all
available tools in taking action, as appropriate and consistent with
applicable law, to ensure that:  
  
(i)   Governors and other officials are taking all appropriate steps to
prepare for a safe return to school for our Nation’s children, including
not standing in the way of local leaders making such preparations; and  
  
(ii)  Governors and other officials are giving students the opportunity
to participate and remain in safe full-time, in-person learning without
compromising their health or the health of their families or
communities.   
  
(b)  The Secretary of Education’s assessment in subsection (a) of this
section shall include consideration of whether to take steps toward the
initiation of possible enforcement actions under applicable laws.  
  
Sec. 3.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this memorandum shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:  
  
(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or  
  
(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative
proposals.  
  
(b)  This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.  
  
(c)  This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.  
  
(d)  You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in
the *Federal Register*.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
