---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-08-31'
modified_time: 2021-08-31 10:13:35-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/08/31/a-proclamation-on-national-sickle-cell-awareness-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-08-31 10:13:34-04:00
title: A Proclamation on National Sickle Cell Awareness Month, 2021
---
 
Today, 100,000 Americans live with sickle cell disease (SCD).  The
genetic disease, named for the sickle-shaped red blood cells it causes,
leads to severe pain, serious infections, and organ damage.  The
severity of SCD varies, with many people facing a shortened life
expectancy and a host of recurring, debilitating, and expensive health
problems. 

This condition also disproportionately affects Black and Brown
Americans, with an estimated 1 in 365 Black Americans and 1 in 14,000
Hispanic Americans suffering from it.  As President, I am committed to
supporting those who have been hit the hardest by SCD.  And during
National Sickle Cell Awareness month, our Nation reaffirms our
commitment to improving the quality of life and health outcomes for all
individuals living with SCD.

Our Nation’s extraordinary medical professionals and scientists are
working tirelessly to find a cure and develop improved treatments for
SCD.  Recent scientific advances have led to effective approaches for
managing SCD and preventing complications, including new drug therapies
approved by the Food and Drug Administration.  And while current
treatments may not be universally effective, researchers continue to
improve existing treatments, such as bone marrow transplants that can
effectively cure SCD in some patients.  The National Institutes of
Health (NIH) has continued supporting SCD research, education, and
capacity building, including the “Cure Sickle Cell Initiative” to
accelerate safe, effective, and scalable gene therapies to cure the
disease.  As a result of the many advances and medical breakthroughs in
genetic therapies and research, we are now closer to finding a cure for
all SCD patients.

My Administration is committed to following science, delivering
breakthroughs, eliminating health disparities facing communities of
color and other underserved communities, and promoting the health and
wellness of all Americans. 

We will continue our efforts to improve the lives and livelihoods of
individuals struggling with SCD by improving access to quality health
care, collaborating with our partners in the public and private sectors,
adhering to the guidance of scientific experts and researchers, and
supporting all families affected by SCD.  

This month, we celebrate the progress made in treating Americans
suffering from SCD and we stand together to improve the health of those
living with this disease.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September 2021 as
National Sickle Cell Awareness Month.  I call upon the people of the
United States to learn more about the progress we are making to reduce
the burden of this disease on our fellow Americans.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first day of
August, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
