---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-08-20'
modified_time: 2021-08-20 12:15:47-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/08/20/letter-to-the-speaker-of-the-house-of-representatives-and-the-president-of-the-senate-on-blocking-property-with-respect-to-certain-russian-energy-export-pipelines/
published_time: 2021-08-20 12:15:46-04:00
title: "Letter to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President of\
  \ the Senate on Blocking Property with Respect to Certain Russian Energy Export\_\
  Pipelines"
---
 
Dear Madam Speaker: (Dear Madam President:)  
  
Pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C.
1701 *et seq*.) (IEEPA), I hereby report that I have issued an Executive
Order in order to take additional steps regarding certain Russian energy
export pipelines to deal with the national emergency declared in
Executive Order 14024 of April 15, 2021, with respect to the unusual and
extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and
economy of the United States posed by specified harmful foreign
activities of the Government of the Russian Federation.  
  
The order responds to certain Russian energy pipeline projects intended
to expand Russia’s influence over Europe’s energy resources that would
weaken European energy security — including that of Ukraine and Eastern
flank NATO and EU countries — and thereby threatens the national
security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States.  The order
blocks the property and interests in property of foreign persons
identified by the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary
of the Treasury, in a report to the Congress pursuant to the Protecting
Europe’s Energy Security Act of 2019 (Title LXXV, National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020, Public Law 116-92), as amended
by section 1242 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2021 (Public Law 116-283) (PEESA), for engaging in certain
activities or providing certain services to facilitate construction of
the Nord Stream 2 pipeline project, among others.  I have determined
that it is necessary to block the property and interests in property
of such persons unless a national interest waiver under section 7503(f)
of PEESA has been issued for such persons.  
  
I have delegated to the Secretary of the Treasury the authority, in
consultation with the Secretary of State, to take such actions,
including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all
powers granted to the President by IEEPA and PEESA as may be necessary
to carry out the purposes of the order.  All executive departments and
agencies are directed to take all appropriate measures within their
authority to carry out the provisions of the order.  
  
I am enclosing a copy of the Executive Order I have issued.   

Sincerely,

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
