---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-08-27'
modified_time: 2021-08-27 09:07:22-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/08/27/a-proclamation-on-overdose-awareness-week-2021/
published_time: 2021-08-27 09:07:21-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on Overdose Awareness Week,\_2021"
---
 
The overdose epidemic has taken a toll on far too many Americans and
their loved ones.  Addiction is a disease that touches families in every
community, including my own.  The epidemic is national, but the impact
is personal.  It is personal to the millions who confront substance use
disorder every day, and to the families who have lost loved ones to an
overdose. 

During Overdose Awareness Week, we recommit to taking bold actions to
prevent overdoses and related deaths, and enhance our support for
individuals with substance use disorders.

In recent years, we have seen synthetic opioids, such as illicitly
manufactured fentanyl, drive many overdose deaths with cocaine- and
methamphetamine-related deaths also increasing at alarming rates.  The
COVID-19 pandemic has exacerbated the overdose epidemic, as necessary
pandemic restrictions made it harder for individuals with addiction to
receive the treatment and support services they need.  These factors
contributed to the more than 93,000 drug overdose deaths in 2020.  As a
Nation, we need a strong response to America’s overdose epidemic and an
investment in prevention, harm reduction, treatment and recovery
services, as well as strategies to reduce the supply of illicit drugs.  

While drug overdose and addiction affect many different communities
across the United States, we also recognize the longstanding inequities
experienced by people of color, people who identify as LGBTQ+, formerly
incarcerated individuals, people experiencing homelessness, and others. 
For too many years, these communities have faced disparate access to
health care, differential treatment in the criminal justice system, and
poorer health outcomes. 

My Administration is committed to addressing addiction and the overdose
epidemic with evidence-based strategies.  In April, to ensure that the
Federal Government is promoting evidence-based public health and safety
interventions, the Office of National Drug Control Policy released my
Administration’s first year drug policy priorities.  These include
expanding access to prevention, treatment and harm reduction efforts,
reducing youth substance use, reducing the supply of illicit substances,
advancing recovery-ready workplaces, and expanding the addiction
workforce and access to recovery support services for all Americans.  My
Administration is also committed to eliminating racial disparities in
responding to the overdose epidemic as well as reviewing the overall
approach to drug policy.

This effort requires significant investments in our health care
infrastructure.  In my American Rescue Plan, we provided crucial funding
for substance use disorder treatment and harm reduction, including a
nearly $4 billion investment in our Nation’s behavioral health
infrastructure.  This includes $30 million for a new Substance Abuse and
Mental Health Services Administration grant program to support
community-based efforts aimed at preventing overdoses and reducing harm
associated with substance use. 

We also recognize that many of our brave veterans recovering from
service injuries may be vulnerable to opioid addiction.  I signed the
Dispose Unused Medications and Prescription Opioids Act to ensure that
Veterans Affairs facilities provide locations to dispose controlled
substances in a safe, secure and supportive environment. 

Agencies across the Federal Government are also making significant
strides in supporting individuals with substance use disorders.  The
Department of Health and Human Services continues to work on expanding
access to evidence-based treatment, including a new policy to expand
access to buprenorphine, a medication for the treatment of opioid use
disorder.  The Drug Enforcement Administration also issued a new rule
that allows more opioid use disorder treatment programs to operate
mobile components to better serve rural and underserved communities.
 These actions are only the beginning.  My Administration will be taking
additional actions to reduce barriers to life-saving treatment and
expand access to prevention, harm reduction, and recovery support
services.

Overdose Awareness Week provides us an opportunity to recommit ourselves
to addressing this epidemic.  By enhancing our support for individuals
facing substance use disorder we can save lives. 

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim August 29 through
September 4, 2021, as Overdose Awareness Week.  I call upon citizens,
government agencies, organizations, healthcare providers, and research
institutions to raise awareness of substance use disorders to combat
stigma, to promote treatment and celebrate recovery, and to strengthen
our collective efforts to prevent overdose deaths.  August 31st also
marks Overdose Awareness Day, on which our Nation mourns the lives lost
to the drug overdose epidemic.   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-seventh day
of August, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
