---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-08-31'
modified_time: 2021-08-31 10:21:30-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/08/31/a-proclamation-on-national-childhood-cancer-awareness-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-08-31 10:21:29-04:00
title: A Proclamation on National Childhood Cancer Awareness Month, 2021
---
 
For millions of American families — including my own — the fight against
cancer is personal.  When a person you love is diagnosed with cancer, it
stops your heart and throws your world off of its axis.  That fear and
heartache is only compounded when cancer strikes a child.

Across America, thousands of courageous children and adolescents
diagnosed with cancer each year are facing life-threatening struggles. 
They are cared for by loving families, friends, volunteers, and health
care teams who band together to support our most vulnerable patients as
they face their cancer journey.  During National Childhood Cancer
Awareness Month, we honor the young lives taken too soon, as well as the
growing number of young cancer survivors, some of whom may face serious
health challenges throughout their lifetimes.  We recognize
the remarkable progress made in treatment and survivorship,
and rededicate ourselves to the development of more effective therapies
so that all children have the chance to live long and healthy lives.

Despite the extraordinary advancements medical science has made in
recent years, cancer remains the second leading cause of death in the
United States — and the leading cause of death by disease for American
children between infancy and age 15.  Cancer is cruel and spares no
age.  It inflicts an incalculable toll on young patients and their loved
ones.  Though improvement has been made in some areas, survival rates
for all childhood cancers remain too low.  A growing number of childhood
cancer survivors are experiencing longer life expectancies, but far too
many continue to face significant long-term physical, emotional, and
cognitive effects due to their cancer and treatment.  As a Nation, we
must do more to better understand the causes of pediatric cancer,
improve treatment, and enhance the lifelong well-being of survivors.

When I lost my son Beau to cancer after his courageous fight, I buried a
part of my soul deep in the Earth.  Too many families know that feeling
too well — at any age, it leaves a black hole in your heart.  In 2016,
President Obama and I created the Cancer Moonshot Initiative to end
cancer as we know it.  Now, as President, I remain committed to that
mission — and I will continue to invest in the critical research and
care needed to defeat this devastating disease.  That is why I am asking
the Congress to launch the Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health
— or ARPA-H — at the National Institutes of Health, to develop
breakthroughs that prevent, detect, and treat cancer and other deadly
diseases. 

Our Nation is already seeing the progress of investing in pediatric
cancer research and technology.  We are improving our understanding of
pediatric cancers that are particularly difficult to treat, and
extending the promise of immune-based treatments for children and
adolescents.  We are seeing advancements in precision medicine
approaches to treating childhood cancers — including progress on
understanding how tumors respond to existing therapies.  The National
Cancer Institute (NCI) is leading the Childhood Cancer Data Initiative,
which brings together the Nation’s childhood cancer research, advocacy,
and care communities to ensure that we “learn from every child” with
cancer by consistently gathering data in a way that protects patient
privacy while allowing for rapid sharing of insights among researchers. 
This will enable us to accelerate progress and deliver effective
treatments and cures to more children.  Additionally, the Food and Drug
Administration’s Pediatric Oncology program works with stakeholders to
accelerate and support the timely, efficient development of safe and
effective new drugs and biological products to treat cancers in
children.

Many parents and family members feel terrified and overwhelmed following
a child’s cancer diagnosis.  To support families and pediatric
caretakers, the NCI has resources available, including online and print
materials and videos, to help families understand treatment options and
provide information to help them navigate the cancer journey.  Visit
www.cancer.gov to learn more or talk to trained information specialists
with the NCI Cancer Information Service in the United States at
1-800-4-CANCER.

My Administration is also committed to protecting childhood cancer
patients and their families through the Affordable Care Act, which
provides critical protections for individuals facing cancer, including
children.  Because of the Affordable Care Act, most insurance companies
are now prohibited from limiting or denying coverage to young cancer
patients participating in clinical research studies.  And children who
have recovered from cancer can no longer be denied insurance coverage
based on the fact that they have a pre-existing condition. 

During National Childhood Cancer Awareness Month, we pay tribute to the
health care professionals, researchers, private philanthropies, social
support organizations, and patient advocacy groups who work together
with families across the country to provide hope and help to children
diagnosed with cancer and to develop better treatments.  Together, we
will carry on their work — and build a future in which cancer no longer
threatens the lives of our Nation’s children.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September 2021 as
National Childhood Cancer Awareness Month.  I encourage citizens,
government agencies, private businesses, nonprofit organizations, the
media, and other interested groups to increase awareness of what
Americans can do to support the fight against childhood cancer. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first day of
August, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
