---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-08-13'
modified_time: 2021-08-13 09:28:10-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/08/13/a-proclamation-on-national-employer-support-of-the-guard-and-reserve-week-2021/
published_time: 2021-08-13 09:28:09-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Employer Support Of The Guard And Reserve Week,\_\
  2021"
---
 
Since our founding, courageous men and women have vowed to serve and
defend our country, protect our citizens, and uphold the principles of
our Constitution.  The citizen Soldiers and Airmen of the National
Guard, and the Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, Marines, and Coast Guardsmen
of the Reserve, proudly carry on this tradition today.  During National
Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve Week, we thank and celebrate
the civilian employers whose support of our National Guard and Reserve
members helps to sustain our all‑volunteer force and our national spirit
of service.

National Guard and Reserve members are essential to the safety and
security of our Nation, ready to serve at home or abroad at any moment’s
notice.  From working on the frontlines of the COVID-19 pandemic, to
responding to storm damage and raging wildfires, to deploying overseas,
supporting peacekeeping missions abroad, and conducting multilateral
exercises with allies and partner nations, National Guard and Reserve
members put their lives on hold — away from both their families and
their civilian workplaces — to stand as a shield or a support whenever
our country is in need.  When they complete their mission, National
Guard and Reserve members return to their civilian careers and fulfill
their obligation of monthly weekend drills and annual trainings — always
ensuring they are ready to answer the next call to serve.

We owe a profound gratitude to our National Guard and Reserve members,
as well as their civilian employers.  In supporting their talented
employees’ service to our Nation, employers of National Guard and
Reserve members directly contribute to our military readiness and our
national security.  As our Guard and Reserve members navigate the
challenges that accompany their service, many civilian employers
go above and beyond to support our service members and their families.
 National Guard and Reserve members should not have to worry about their
civilian employment while they are serving on a mission, and many
employers are stepping up with generous pay and leave policies,
extension of benefits like health care for family members, and
flexibility and support for Guard and Reserve spouses to help fulfill
our sacred obligation as a Nation to always take care of those who serve
in uniform.

My Administration understands the national security imperative behind
improving the well-being of our service members and their families as
they balance the pressures of their civilian careers with the demands of
military service.  Through the First Lady’s work with Joining Forces, we
are committed to supporting military and veteran families, caregivers,
and survivors through economic and entrepreneurship opportunities,
support for military child education, and health and well-being
resources.  Ensuring continuing economic opportunities for military and
veteran families through meaningful employment is essential, and we
are grateful for all of the employers who understand the value in hiring
and retaining National Guard and Reserve members and their spouses. 

The Biden family is a National Guard family, and we are forever grateful
and in awe of those who, like our son Beau, understand that duty and
service to others is what makes us who we are as Americans.  We
understand some of the unique challenges that National Guard and Reserve
members and their families face — challenges that are made smaller
because of the incredible, patriotic support of their employers.
 I encourage all Americans to join me in recognizing and thanking
employers of our National Guard and Reserve members for their vast
contributions to our economy, our communities, and the success of our
Nation and our Armed Forces.  I also encourage National Guard and
Reserve members to recognize their employers who have gone above and
beyond in supporting them with the Employer Support of the Guard and
Reserve (ESGR), the Department of Defense program that promotes
cooperation and understanding between civilian employers and their
National Guard and Reserve employees.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim August 15 through
August 21, 2021, as National Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve
Week.  I call upon the people of the United States, State and local
officials, private organizations, and all military commanders to honor
employers of National Guard and Reserve members with appropriate
ceremonies and activities.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirteenth day of
August, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                                 JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
