---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-08-31'
modified_time: 2021-08-31 10:15:28-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/08/31/a-proclamation-on-national-wilderness-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-08-31 10:15:27-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Wilderness Month,\_2021"
---
 
America’s public lands and waters, awe-inspiring landscapes, and
cultural sites reflect a deep and abiding connection to our natural
heritage.  Our lands and waters are rich with diverse plant and animal
life, and we are privileged to be able to enjoy irreplaceable national
treasures that amaze us, inspire us, fill us with pride, support our
lives and livelihoods, and belong to all of us in equal measure. 

During National Wilderness Month, we affirm that our Nation’s public
lands and waters must be accessible to all Americans, we recognize that
our lands and waters can revitalize the soul and solidify our respect
for the natural wonders that surround us and the earth we share, and we
recommit to their preservation and protection, today and for future
generations. 

The Wilderness Act, signed into law by President Lyndon B. Johnson in
1964, opened a new chapter in American conservation by creating the
National Wilderness Preservation System.  The primary goal of the act is
to preserve the places “where the earth and its community of life are
untrammeled.”  Today, the National Wilderness Preservation System
includes more than 800 wilderness areas spanning more than 111 million
acres.  These wilderness areas are located within national forests,
parks, wildlife refuges, and conservation lands and waters.  During the
COVID-19 pandemic, many Americans turned to these areas for physical
recreation, mental well-being, and inspiration, and our public lands and
waters became places of healing and sanctuary.  

But our natural wonders are at risk.  Now more than ever, we must come
together to combat the climate crisis and unprecedented acceleration of
species extinction, to protect and conserve our great outdoors before it
is too late.  Since taking office, I have recommitted the United States
to the Paris Climate Agreement, pushed for stronger action to cut
greenhouse gas pollution, and resolved to strengthen our resilience
against rising temperatures. Additionally, my Administration’s historic
“America the Beautiful” initiative sets a national conservation goal to
invest in, conserve, connect, and restore at least 30 percent of the
Nation’s lands and waters by 2030.  These diverse landscapes and
waterways are vital in so many ways:  they provide homes to fish and
wildlife, and hold resources that sustain our own lives, counteract the
damaging impacts of climate change, and underpin our global economy.

We also recognize that not all Americans have access to our public
lands.  My Administration is committed to ensuring that all peoples and
communities have clean air and clean water, and receive the additional
physical, spiritual, and economic benefits that our great wilderness
provides. As the original stewards of these lands, Tribal Nations and
Indigenous communities have a sacred connection and deep understanding
of our Nation’s wilderness areas, and the history of America’s public
lands has too often involved broken promises to the Native peoples who
have lived on them since time immemorial. I am committed to working in
partnership with Tribal, State, and local partners to find solutions to
our most pressing conservation and stewardship challenges, and to
honoring the special relationship of Tribes to their ancestral sacred
lands*.*  This work is urgent.

During National Wilderness Month, let us strengthen our connection to
the American wilderness areas, support their designation and protection,
and work to preserve the stories they tell, the memories they create,
and the heritage they reflect for all Americans for generations to come.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September 2021 as
National Wilderness Month.  I encourage all Americans to experience our
Nation’s outdoor heritage, to recreate responsibly and to leave no
trace, to celebrate the value of preserving an enduring resource of
wilderness, and to strengthen our commitment to protecting these vital
lands and waters now and for future generations.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first day of
August, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
