---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-08-06'
modified_time: 2021-08-06 09:06:22-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/08/06/a-proclamation-on-national-health-center-week-2021/
published_time: 2021-08-06 09:06:21-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Health Center Week,\_2021"
---
 
     In 1965, our Nation launched its first community health centers to
improve the lives and well-being of Americans regardless of their
ability to pay.  These health centers were a key component of President
Lyndon B. Johnson’s “Great Society” series of policy initiatives to
eliminate poverty and racial injustice, and today serve as the bedrock
on which our public health system was built.  Today, health centers are
one of the largest health care providers in the country and provide
high-quality affordable, accessible, and value-based primary health care
services to 29 million Americans each year — approximately 1 in 11
people across the country.  They have also been a vital part of our
Nation’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic.  Over the course of National
Health Center Week, we recognize the importance of federally-supported
health centers and the role they play as a beacon of strength, service,
and care in our communities.

     Health centers integrate medical, dental, and behavioral health
care services into a single “health home” and consistently yield strong
patient outcomes.  Health centers also play a critical role in reducing
racial and ethnic, geographic, socioeconomic, and other health
disparities in the United States.  They are invaluable to ensuring that
our Nation’s underserved populations, especially individuals
and families living in poverty, rural communities, and communities of
color are able to receive the care they need and deserve.  

     Our Nation’s recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic is stronger
because of our health centers, and the tireless, dedicated health center
employees who continue to deliver critical services such as COVID-19
testing, treatment, and prevention services on the front lines.  As we
ramped up the distribution of COVID-19 vaccines over the past several
months, health centers, through the Health Center COVID-19 Vaccine
Program, have vaccinated and built vaccine confidence in millions of
Americans from hard-hit and high-risk communities.  Two-thirds of
individuals vaccinated at health centers so far identify as racial and
ethnic minorities.  Health centers have also offered greater flexibility
during the pandemic by expanding telehealth services to those in need.

     I believe that health care in America should be a right, not a
privilege.  No one should have to lay awake at night staring at the
ceiling wondering what they are going to do to get the care they need or
to pay the bills if a family member gets sick.  That is why I will do
everything in my power to ensure that all Americans have access
to the quality, affordable health care they deserve — and the peace of
mind it brings. 

     In support of that goal, my Administration is committed
to expanding health centers and increasing access to their life-saving
services.  That is why we invested more than $7.6 billion to help health
centers prevent and respond to COVID-19 and improve health care services
— including over $1 billion for major infrastructure and renovation
projects at health centers across the country through the American
Rescue Plan.  I am also committed to doubling the Federal investment in
community health centers to further expand access to care and make
strides in our pursuit of health equity. 

     During National Health Center Week, we recognize the importance of
health centers and their staff who heal and strengthen our local
communities.  We salute their dedication and service.  As our Nation
builds back better, we commit to working together to bring about a
stronger, healthier Nation for all.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the
week of August 8 through August 14, 2021, as National Health Center
Week.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this sixth day of
August, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
