---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-08-31'
modified_time: 2021-08-31 10:53:23-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/08/31/a-proclamation-on-national-ovarian-cancer-awareness-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-08-31 10:53:22-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Ovarian Cancer Awareness Month,\_2021"
---
 
Every year, thousands of women in the United States are diagnosed with
ovarian cancer.  Like all cancers, ovarian cancer is brutal and cruel,
inflicting pain and hardship for women and their families.  Like so many
families, my family and I know the pain of cancer all too well.  During
National Ovarian Cancer Awareness Month, we honor the courage of those
affected by ovarian cancer and renew our commitment to fighting this
illness that takes the lives of far too many women.  We also recommit to
improving and promoting early cancer detection, investing in cancer
research, and ensuring that every woman has equitable access to the care
they need and deserve. 

Ovarian cancer is rare and deadly.  Because there is no early ovarian
cancer screening test, many women are diagnosed with this disease at an
advanced stage.  And despite ovarian cancer rates being highest among
white women, Black women are more likely to die from this disease
because of lack of access to health care, socioeconomic disparities, and
other causes still under study. 

\]To help women understand the risk of developing ovarian cancer, the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) provides tools and
resources to learn about the risk factors that increase the likelihood
of being diagnosed with this disease.  Risk factors for ovarian cancer
include a family history of breast or ovarian cancer.  Any woman who
thinks she is at risk of ovarian cancer or who experiences persistent
symptoms, including abdominal or pelvic pain, pressure, swelling, or
bloating should talk with her health care provider.  The CDC’s *Inside
Knowledge about Gynecologic Cancer,* which includes resources for
ovarian cancer, also helps women recognize the warning signs and seek
medical care.  To learn more about ovarian cancer, visit
www.cancer.gov/types/ovarian and www.cdc.gov/cancer. 

The effort to eliminate ovarian cancer is taking place on all fronts,
from laboratory research on cancer prevention, screening and early
detection, diagnosis, treatment, and supportive care, to clinical
research studies, clinical trials, and public health and awareness
efforts.  Through the leadership of the National Cancer Institute at the
National Institutes of Health (NIH), scientists are focused on research
to maintain and improve the quality and length of life for women with
ovarian cancer.  My Administration plans to build on these efforts by
supporting investments in research and technology to develop new ways to
detect ovarian cancer early, and improve treatment strategies.  To push
for these groundbreaking discoveries and innovative treatments, I have
called for the creation of an Advanced Research Projects Agency for
Health at the NIH — or ARPA-H — which would invest $6.5 billion to
develop breakthroughs that prevent, detect, and treat cancer and other
deadly diseases.  I am committed to doing everything I can to end cancer
as we know it, and to bring together the human, financial, and knowledge
resources necessary to make the breakthroughs that will dramatically
advance our progress against cancer and deliver hope and health to the
world.

My Administration is also dedicated to protecting ovarian cancer
patients through the Affordable Care Act (ACA).  Because of the ACA,
insurance companies are banned from dropping a woman’s coverage because
she has a pre-existing condition such as ovarian cancer.  The ACA also
covers “well‑woman visits” to a primary care physician and gynecologist
that include a full checkup, with no copayments or deductibles.  These
visits focus on preventive care for women and may help detect ovarian
cancer as early as possible.  

As we observe National Ovarian Cancer Awareness Month, we are united in
our goal to end ovarian cancer, and to improve the lives of all women
carrying the burden of this disease — including the lives of their
families and loved ones.  We are also united in our support of the
researchers, advocates, and health care professionals who are working
tirelessly for new solutions to prevent, detect, and treat ovarian
cancer, and to improve the overall health and well-being of all women.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September 2021 as
National Ovarian Cancer Awareness Month.  I call upon the women of the
United States to speak with their doctors and health care providers to
learn more about ovarian cancer.  I encourage citizens, government
agencies, private businesses, nonprofit organizations, the media, and
other interested groups to increase awareness of what Americans can do
to detect and treat ovarian cancer. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first day of
August, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
