---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-08-31'
modified_time: 2021-08-31 10:10:49-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/08/31/a-proclamation-on-national-prostate-cancer-awareness-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-08-31 10:10:48-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Prostate Cancer Awareness Month,\_2021"
---
 
In 2021, over 248,500 Americans have been diagnosed with prostate
cancer.  Even as we make tremendous advancements in cancer research and
treatment, prostate cancer is the second most commonly diagnosed cancer
and the second-leading cause of cancer deaths among our Nation’s
fathers, sons, husbands, and brothers.  Today, one in eight men in the
United States will be diagnosed with prostate cancer in his lifetime —
often without any previous signs or symptoms.  During National Prostate
Cancer Awareness Month, we rededicate ourselves to supporting those
diagnosed with prostate cancer through research, education, and access
to prevention, treatment, and follow-up care and support.  Together, we
can increase awareness of this cancer, and improve the care and
well-being of those impacted by this disease.  

Awareness of the risk factors of prostate cancer can help men make
informed choices about their health with their primary health care
providers — especially for men over the age of 65, men who have a family
history of prostate cancer, and Black men who have a higher chance of
developing and suffering from prostate cancer.  I encourage all men and
their families to learn the latest information on prostate cancer at
[www.cancer.gov/types/prostate](http://www.cancer.gov/types/prostate%20)
and [www.cdc.gov/cancer/prostate](http://www.cdc.gov/cancer/prostate). 
I also encourage every American to get recommended cancer screenings,
check-ups, and treatments from your health care providers.  Most
importantly, talk to your doctor about your risks for developing
prostate cancer. 

My Administration continues to push for groundbreaking discoveries and
innovative treatments to end cancer as we know it.  That is why I am
working to create an Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health at the
National Institutes of Health — or ARPA-H — which would invest 6.5
billion dollars to develop breakthroughs that prevent, detect, and treat
cancer and other deadly diseases.   
     I am also committed to funding research to expand prevention and
treatment of prostate cancer specifically.  Today, researchers funded by
the National Cancer Institute are working to advance our understanding
of how to prevent, detect, and treat prostate cancer.  The National
Institutes of Health and partners in the private sector have launched
the largest-ever coordinated research effort to investigate
environmental and genetic factors related to prostate cancer to better
understand why it disproportionately impacts Black men.  And we are
working on methods to prepare more advanced early detection tests and
clinical trials to develop and enhance treatments for all men. 

My Administration will also continue to protect and fight to build on
the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and the important protections it provides
for all Americans, including for men with prostate cancer.  The ACA
prohibits insurance companies from restrictive annual dollar limits on
benefits, and it prohibits insurers from denying coverage or charging
higher premiums to patients with prostate cancer — or any other
pre‑existing medical condition.  The ACA also helps ensure that every
man with prostate cancer receives quality health care. 

Our Nation has made exceptional progress in the fight against cancer,
and I am committed to doing everything I can to bring together the
knowledge, as well as the human and financial resources necessary to
advance that progress.  We owe every person who has lost their battle
with this disease, every person living with this disease, and every
person who may one day be diagnosed with it, our continued work to
defeat it.  During National Prostate Cancer Awareness Month, let us
renew our efforts to save lives and spare suffering by accelerating our
work to end cancer as we know it.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September 2021 as
National Prostate Cancer Awareness Month.  I encourage citizens,
government agencies, private businesses, nonprofit organizations, and
other interested groups to join in activities that will increase
awareness of what Americans can do to prevent and cure prostate cancer.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
thirty-first day of August, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-one, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
