---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-08-31'
modified_time: 2021-08-31 10:05:27-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/08/31/a-proclamation-on-national-recovery-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-08-31 10:05:26-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Recovery Month,\_2021"
---
 
The COVID-19 pandemic has taken an enormous toll on the lives of the
American people, especially those struggling with substance use
disorder.  While many have continued on their path towards recovery,
even while facing the additional physical, emotional, and economic
hardships brought about by the pandemic, others have struggled.  During
National Recovery Month, we celebrate the millions of Americans who have
achieved recovery and reaffirm our commitment to helping more Americans
overcome substance use disorder and reach recovery.  We also support
those who are still struggling to achieve recovery and dedicate
ourselves to overcoming these challenges together.

This year’s theme, “Recovery is For Everyone:  Every Person, Every
Family, Every Community,” emphasizes that recovery is possible for all
Americans.  My Administration honors the many pathways to recovery and
will support individuals and their families at every step along their
journey, in whatever form it takes.  Everyone can support and encourage
those working toward recovery. 

The work ahead includes making treatment and recovery support services
accessible to all Americans.  My American Rescue Plan delivered nearly
$4 billion to strengthen and expand mental health and substance use
disorder services.  My Administration will also continue to work to
expand employment opportunities for people in recovery and foster the
development of recovery-ready workplace policies and cultures.  Helping
those in recovery to attain economic opportunity and mobility will not
only improve their well-being but also benefit our Nation as a whole.
 These investments will lay the foundation upon which more Americans —
of all backgrounds and in every community — can build and maintain
long-term recovery.

While opportunities for recovery should be available for everyone, those
with substance use disorders in racially-diverse, Tribal, rural, and
other underserved communities often lack access to the support services
that they need to receive treatment and sustain their recovery. 
Research also shows that a treatment gap lingers between people of color
and their white neighbors.  People of color not only have less access to
support services for addiction but are also subject to harsher penalties
when addiction leads to interaction with the criminal justice system. 
To address this, my Administration launched a Government-wide approach
to advancing equity, including in our public health and criminal justice
approaches to drug policy.

When we make the appropriate support and service systems available to
everyone and embrace those seeking to rejoin and contribute to our
communities, we put sustained recovery within reach of more people. 
When we welcome Americans in recovery into our schools, homes, and
workplaces with open arms, our Nation becomes stronger, healthier, and
more inclusive. 

During National Recovery Month, we also honor and thank those who have
helped our Nation heal and build back better.  In the face of
unprecedented challenges this past year, our Nation’s health care
providers have delivered essential care and hope to individuals,
families, and communities in need.  On the frontlines of the addiction
epidemic, they have ensured our Nation’s system of care remains intact,
facilitating treatment and recovery.  As always, we celebrate the
resilience and courage of the recovery community, which serves as a
reminder that recovery is possible for everyone.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September 2021 as
National Recovery Month.  I call upon all citizens, government agencies,
private businesses, nonprofit organizations, and other groups to take
action to promote recovery and improve the health of our Nation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first day of
August, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
