---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-08-31'
modified_time: 2021-08-31 10:19:00-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/08/31/a-proclamation-on-national-preparedness-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-08-31 10:18:59-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Preparedness Month,\_2021"
---
 
In the past year, our Nation has faced both unpredictable and
unprecedented challenges.  The 2020 hurricane season was the most active
on record.  Severe winter storms and record-breaking heat waves
interrupted our power sector, and the climate crisis fueled historic
drought, water scarcity, and dangerous heat waves, which in turn have
helped supercharge the wildfires ravaging the West.  All of this has
come on top of the ongoing pain and struggle of COVID-19, which has
impacted every community across the Nation.  Becoming more
disaster-resilient as a country — and more prepared as a people — is
essential for our continued strength and security.  During National
Preparedness Month, we encourage all Americans to take the important
steps to prepare for natural and human-made threats and to ensure that
all our communities are ready for any emergency.

My Administration is committed to taking bold action to prepare for and
address the dangers posed by climate change.  We have put the climate
crisis and the communities most vulnerable to it at the center of our
domestic and foreign policy.  We are investing in weather forecasting
and climate research to strengthen our understanding of how our changing
climate is altering severe weather and drought, and we are ensuring that
every community has the resources to prepare for and respond to these
increasingly dangerous storms.  We are also investing in helping
developing nations adapt and build their own resilience in the face of
climate change.

At home, we are making a once-in-a-generation investment in upgrading
our infrastructure so that it is more resilient to the challenges of
today, and we are mitigating climate change by building up an
American-made clean power economy for tomorrow. That is why I am
committed to making a historic commitment to resilience through the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal to upgrade and modernize our power grid,
invest in mass transit and vehicle electrification, and fund
environmental cleanup.     

I am also rallying the world to join the United States in committing to
greater climate ambition.  The United States has rejoined the Paris
Climate Agreement, and we are leading the charge for stronger global
action to cut greenhouse gas pollution and avert the worst impacts of
climate change while we still have the chance.  The United States is
leading by example and creating good, high-paying jobs in the process by
harnessing the economic opportunities of climate action.  

As we prepare for natural disasters and address the accelerating climate
crisis, we must also remain vigilant to prevent, detect, and respond to
infectious disease threats, including the COVID-19 pandemic and threats
that will arise in the future.  Even as more than 174 million Americans
have been fully vaccinated — with hundreds of thousands continuing to
get vaccinated each day — the more transmissible Delta variant is
spreading, particularly among unvaccinated individuals.  I continue to
call on Americans to protect themselves and those around them by getting
vaccinated.  The vaccines are safe.  They are effective.  And together,
we can save lives.  

The theme of this year’s National Preparedness Month is “Prepare to
Protect.”  During the past year, natural disasters have sent our
communities into turmoil, and we have seen the particularly devastating
toll they take on disadvantaged, low-income communities and people of
color.  Beyond the physical damage done by natural disasters, these
storms also exact an emotional toll on their victims, from the pain of
losing a loved one to the pressure caused by financial setbacks. 
Therefore, we must all prepare to better protect ourselves and our
communities against both immediate crises and their residual effects.

During National Preparedness Month, we also recognize the bravery and
the sacrifices of our first responders, who are our first line of
defense in so many crises.  This month, as we prepare to commemorate the
20th anniversary of the horrific terrorist attacks of September 11,
2001, we honor the lives that were lost and the heroism that was
displayed by both first responders and ordinary citizens to respond, and
we reaffirm our responsibility to never forget. 

This month, we must each do our part — we must all Prepare to Protect. 
I call on everyone to get vaccinated, turn on emergency alerts on your
smartphone, pack an emergency go-bag, and encourage others in your
community to do the same. 

For assistance in getting prepared, visit the Federal Emergency
Management Agency’s Ready campaign at www.Ready.gov or www.Listo.gov for
Spanish-speakers for free information and resources to help you and your
family “Prepare to Protect.”

National Preparedness Month is a call to action to all parts of our
government, industrial and commercial sectors, academia,
non-governmental organizations, civic groups, religious institutions,
and families.  By working together today, we can ensure that our Nation
is prepared for the natural and human-made threats of tomorrow.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September 2021 as
National Preparedness Month.  I encourage all Americans to recognize the
importance of preparedness and work together to enhance our resilience
and readiness.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
thirty-first day of August, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-one, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
