---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-08-09'
modified_time: 2021-08-09 10:40:49-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/08/09/executive-order-on-blocking-property-of-additional-persons-contributing-to-the-situation-in-belarus/
published_time: 2021-08-09 10:40:48-04:00
title: Executive Order on Blocking Property of Additional Persons Contributing to
  the Situation in Belarus
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including the International
Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq.*) (IEEPA), the
National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq.*) (NEA), section
212(f) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C.
1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States of America,
hereby expand the scope of the national emergency declared in Executive
Order 13405 of June 16, 2006 (Blocking Property of Certain Persons
Undermining Democratic Processes or Institutions in Belarus), finding
that the Belarusian regime’s harmful activities and long-standing abuses
aimed at suppressing democracy and the exercise of human rights and
fundamental freedoms in Belarus — including illicit and oppressive
activities stemming from the August 9, 2020, fraudulent Belarusian
presidential election and its aftermath, such as the elimination of
political opposition and civil society organizations and the regime’s
disruption and endangering of international civil air travel —
constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security
and foreign policy of the United States.

Accordingly, I hereby order:

Section 1. 

     (a)  All property and interests in property that are in the United
States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or
hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States
person, of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred,
paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:  any person determined
by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of
State:

          (i)    to be or have been a leader, official, senior executive
officer, or member of the board of directors of:

               (A)  an entity that has, or whose members have, engaged
in any of the activities described in subsections (v)(A)-(E) of this
section or section 1(a)(ii)(A)-(C) of Executive Order 13405; or

               (B)  an entity whose property and interests in property
are blocked pursuant to this order or Executive Order 13405;

          (ii)   to be a political subdivision, agency, or
instrumentality of the Government of Belarus;

          (iii)  to be or have been a leader or official of the
Government of Belarus;

          (iv)   to operate or have operated in the defense and related
materiel sector, security sector, energy sector, potassium chloride
(potash) sector, tobacco products sector, construction sector, or
transportation sector of the economy of Belarus, or any other sector of
the Belarus economy as may be determined by the Secretary of the
Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State;

          (v)    to be responsible for or complicit in, or to have
directly or indirectly engaged or attempted to engage in, any of the
following:

               (A)  actions or policies that threaten the peace,
security, stability, or territorial integrity of Belarus;

               (B)  actions or policies that prohibit, limit, or
penalize the exercise of human rights and fundamental freedoms
(including freedoms of expression, peaceful assembly, association,
religion or belief, and movement) by individuals in Belarus, or that
limit access to the Internet or print, online, or broadcast media in
Belarus;

               (C)  electoral fraud or other actions or policies that
undermined the electoral process in a Republic of Belarus election;

               (D)  deceptive or structured transactions or dealings to
circumvent any United States sanctions by or for or on behalf of, or for
the benefit of, directly or indirectly, the Government of Belarus or any
person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to
this order or Executive Order 13405; or

               (E)  public corruption related to Belarus.

          (vi)   to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided
financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services
to or in support of, any activity described in subsections (v)(A)-(E) of
this section or any person whose property and interests in property are
blocked pursuant to this order; or

          (vii)  to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or
purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, the
Government of Belarus or any person whose property and interests in
property are blocked pursuant to this order.

     (b)  The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply
except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders,
directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and
notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit
granted before the date of this order.

Sec. 2.  The prohibitions in section 1 of this order include:

     (a)  the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods,
or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and
interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; and

     (b)  the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods,
or services from any such person.

Sec. 3.  I hereby determine that the making of donations of the types of
articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2))
by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in
property are blocked pursuant to section 1(a) of this order would
seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared
in Executive Order 13405 and expanded in this order, and I hereby
prohibit such donations as provided by section 1 of this order.

Sec. 4. 

     (a)  The unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the
United States of noncitizens determined to meet one or more of the
criteria in section l of this order would be detrimental to the
interests of the United States, and the entry of such persons into the
United States, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, is hereby suspended,
except when the Secretary of State or the Secretary of Homeland
Security, as appropriate, determines that the person’s entry would not
be contrary to the interests of the United States, including when the
Secretary of State or the Secretary of Homeland Security, as
appropriate, so determines, based on a recommendation of the Attorney
General, that the person’s entry would further important United States
law enforcement objectives.

     (b)  The Secretary of State shall implement this order as it
applies to visas pursuant to such procedures as the Secretary of State,
in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, may establish.

     (c)  The Secretary of Homeland Security shall implement this order
as it applies to the entry of noncitizens pursuant to such procedures as
the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary
of State, may establish.

     (d)  Such persons shall be treated by this section in the same
manner as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24,
2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to United Nations Security
Council Travel Bans and International Emergency Economic Powers Act
Sanctions).

Sec. 5. ** **

     (a)  Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of
evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any
of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

     (b)  Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set
forth in this order is prohibited.

Sec. 6. ** **For the purposes of this order:

     (a)  the term “entity” means a partnership, association, trust,
joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;

     (b)  The term “Government of Belarus” means the Government of
Belarus, any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof,
including the National Bank of the Republic of Belarus, and any person
owned, controlled, or directed by, or acting for or on behalf of, the
Government of Belarus;

     (c)  the term “noncitizen” means any person who is not a citizen or
noncitizen national of the United States;

     (d)  the term “person” means an individual or entity; and

     (e)  the term “United States person” means any United States
citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of
the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States
(including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.

Sec. 7.  For those persons whose property and interests in property are
blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence
in the United States, I find that because of the ability to transfer
funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of
measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures
ineffectual.  I therefore determine that for these measures to be
effective in addressing the national emergency declared in Executive
Order 13405 and expanded in this order, there need be no prior notice of
a listing or determination made pursuant to this order.

Sec. 8.  The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the
Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including
the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers
granted to the President by IEEPA as may be necessary to carry out the
purposes of this order.  The Secretary of the Treasury may, consistent
with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within the
Department of the Treasury.  All executive departments and agencies of
the United States shall take all appropriate measures within their
authority to implement this order.

Sec. 9.  Nothing in this order shall prohibit transactions for the
conduct of the official business of the Federal Government by employees,
grantees, or contractors thereof.

Sec. 10. 

     (a)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or
otherwise affect:

          (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department
or agency, or the head thereof; or

          (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or
legislative proposals.

     (b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

     (c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    August 9, 2021.
