---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-08-05'
modified_time: 2021-08-05 17:30:00-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/08/05/executive-order-on-strengthening-american-leadership-in-clean-cars-and-trucks/
published_time: 2021-08-05 05:30:00-04:00
title: Executive Order on Strengthening American Leadership in Clean Cars and Trucks
---
 
    By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States of America, and in order to promote the
interests of American workers, businesses, consumers, and communities,
it is hereby ordered as follows:

     Section 1.  Policy.  America must lead the world on clean and
efficient cars and trucks.  That means bolstering our domestic market by
setting a goal that 50 percent of all new passenger cars and light
trucks sold in 2030 be zero-emission vehicles, including battery
electric, plug-in hybrid electric, or fuel cell electric vehicles.  My
Administration will prioritize setting clear standards, expanding key
infrastructure, spurring critical innovation, and investing in the
American autoworker.  This will allow us to boost jobs — with good pay
and benefits — across the United States along the full supply chain for
the automotive sector, from parts and equipment manufacturing to final
assembly.

     It is the policy of my Administration to advance these objectives
in order to improve our economy and public health, boost energy
security, secure consumer savings, advance environmental justice, and
address the climate crisis.

     Sec. 2.  Light-, Medium-, and Certain Heavy-Duty Vehicles
Multi-Pollutant and Fuel Economy Standards for 2027 and Later. 

     (a)  The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
shall, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, consider
beginning work on a rulemaking under the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C.
7401-7671q) to establish new multi-pollutant emissions standards,
including for greenhouse gas emissions, for light- and medium-duty
vehicles beginning with model year 2027 and extending through and
including at least model year 2030. 

     (b)  The Secretary of Transportation shall, as appropriate and
consistent with applicable law, consider beginning work on a rulemaking
under the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (Public Law
110-140, 121 Stat. 1492) (EISA) to establish new fuel economy standards
for passenger cars and light-duty trucks beginning with model year 2027
and extending through and including at least model year 2030.

     (c)  The Secretary of Transportation shall, as appropriate and
consistent with applicable law, consider beginning work on a rulemaking
under EISA to establish new fuel efficiency standards for heavy-duty
pickup trucks and vans beginning with model year 2028 and extending
through and including at least model year 2030.

     Sec. 3.  Heavy-Duty Engines and Vehicles Multi-Pollutant Standards
for 2027 and Later.  (a)  The Administrator of the EPA shall, as
appropriate and consistent with applicable law, consider beginning work
on a rulemaking under the Clean Air Act to establish new oxides of
nitrogen standards for heavy-duty engines and vehicles beginning with
model year 2027 and extending through and including at least model year
2030. 

     (b)  The Administrator of the EPA shall, as appropriate and
consistent with applicable law, and in consideration of the role that
zero-emission heavy-duty vehicles might have in reducing emissions from
certain market segments, consider updating the existing greenhouse gas
emissions standards for heavy-duty engines and vehicles beginning with
model year 2027 and extending through and including at least model year
2029.

     Sec. 4.  Medium- and Heavy-Duty Engines and Vehicles Greenhouse Gas
and Fuel Efficiency Standards as Soon as 2030 and Later.  (a)  The
Administrator of the EPA shall, as appropriate and consistent with
applicable law, consider beginning work on a rulemaking under the Clean
Air Act to establish new greenhouse gas emissions standards for
heavy-duty engines and vehicles to begin as soon as model year 2030.

     (b)  The Secretary of Transportation shall, as appropriate and
consistent with applicable law, consider beginning work on a rulemaking
under EISA to establish new fuel efficiency standards for medium- and
heavy-duty engines and vehicles to begin as soon as model year 2030.

     Sec. 5.  Rulemaking Targets.  (a)  With respect to the rulemaking
described in section 3(a) of this order, the Administrator of the EPA
shall, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, consider
issuing a notice of proposed rulemaking by January 2022 and any final
rulemaking by December 2022.

     (b)  With respect to the other rulemakings described in section 2
and section 4 of this order, the Secretary of Transportation and the
Administrator of the EPA shall, as appropriate and consistent with
applicable law, consider issuing any final rulemakings no later than
July 2024.

     Sec. 6.  Coordination and Engagement.  (a)  The Secretary of
Transportation and the Administrator of the EPA shall coordinate, as
appropriate and consistent with applicable law, during the consideration
of any rulemakings pursuant to this order.

     (b)  The Secretary of Transportation and the Administrator of the
EPA shall consult with the Secretaries of Commerce, Labor, and Energy on
ways to achieve the goals laid out in section 1 of this order, to
accelerate innovation and manufacturing in the automotive sector, to
strengthen the domestic supply chain for that sector, and to grow jobs
that provide good pay and benefits. 

     (c)  Given the significant expertise and historical leadership
demonstrated by the State of California with respect to establishing
emissions standards for light-, medium-, and heavy-duty vehicles, the
Administrator of the EPA shall coordinate the agency’s activities
pursuant to sections 2 through 4 of this order, as appropriate and
consistent with applicable law, with the State of California as well as
other States that are leading the way in reducing vehicle emissions,
including by adopting California’s standards.   

     (d)  In carrying out any of the actions described in this order,
the Secretary of Transportation and the Administrator of the EPA shall
seek input from a diverse range of stakeholders, including
representatives from labor unions, States, industry, environmental
justice organizations, and public health experts.

     Sec. 7.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:  
          (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department
or agency, or the head thereof; or  
          (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or
legislative proposals.  
     (b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

     (c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

  
JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR. 

 THE WHITE HOUSE  
  August 5, 2021.
