---
date: '2023-02-10'
published_time: 2023-02-10 10:14:53-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/10/kate-bedingfield-to-depart-after-4-years-leading-biden-communications-team-to-be-succeeded-by-ben-labolt/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Kate Bedingfield to Depart After 4 Years Leading Biden Communications Team;\
  \ to be Succeeded by Ben\_LaBolt"
---
 
Kate Bedingfield, who has served as White House Communications Director
since President Biden’s inauguration, will leave the White House at the
end of February and will be replaced as White House Communications
Director by Ben LaBolt.

Bedingfield, who served as then-Vice President Joe Biden’s
communications director in 2015-2016 and then as Deputy Campaign Manager
for his successful 2020 presidential race, has played an integral role
in the successes of the first two years of the Biden-Harris
Administration, from the American Rescue Plan through the Inflation
Reduction Act.

Prior to her time working under the President, Bedingfield held three
White House communications leadership roles during the Obama-Biden
Administration: Associate Communications Director, Deputy Director of
Media Affairs, and Director of Rapid Response. She was also the vice
president of communications for the Motion Picture Association of
America, vice president of communications at Monumental Sports and
Entertainment and the director of communications for Sen. Jeanne
Shaheen’s successful campaign for the US Senate in 2008. Bedingfield is
a Georgia native and University of Virginia alumna.

Bedingfield will be succeeded by Ben LaBolt, who has worked with
President Biden in this administration and during the Obama-Biden years.

Ben LaBolt served as the head of communications for the confirmation of
Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson, and also served during the Biden-Harris
transition as an advisor on nominations.

LaBolt has served on 3 presidential campaigns, including as a senior
national spokesperson for Obama-Biden in 2008 and as the Obama-Biden
national press secretary in 2012. LaBolt also has congressional
experience in both chambers, as the communications director for Sherrod
Brown’s first election to the Senate in 2006, the press secretary for
Rep. Jan Schakowsky and, in 2007, the Senate press secretary for
then-Senator Barack Obama.

He currently leads a communications and marketing agency with over 200
staff and offices across the country that specializes in integrating
strategic communications and digital marketing strategies to reach and
persuade people on the platforms where they consume information.

LaBolt is a native of La Grange, Illinois, and an alumnus of Middlebury
College. He is making history as the first openly gay White House
communications director.

“Since my time as Vice President, Kate has been a loyal and trusted
adviser, through thick and thin,” said President Biden. “She was a
critical strategic voice from the very first day of my presidential
campaign in 2019 and has been a key part of advancing my agenda in the
White House. The country is better off as a result of her hard work and
I’m so grateful to her – and to her husband and two young children – for
giving so much. Ben has big shoes to fill. I look forward to welcoming
him back as a first-rate communicator who’s shown his commitment to
public service again and again, and who has a cutting-edge understanding
of how Americans consume information. I saw him fight for Justice
Jackson, and he put his all into helping us make history confirming our
cabinet and subcabinet nominees. I’m proud to have him rejoin this
team.”

\###
