---
date: '2023-02-06'
modified_time: 2023-02-06 14:21:40-05:00
published_time: 2023-02-06 14:20:05-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/06/fact-sheet-the-biden-economic-plan-is-working/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET:\_The Biden Economic Plan Is\_Working"
---
 
President Biden has long believed that we must build the economy from
the bottom up and middle out, not the top down. As the President says,
when the middle class does well, the poor have a ladder up and the
wealthy still do very well. He believes the best way to grow the
economy, create good-paying jobs, and lower costs for families is by
promoting workers, investing in America and its people, making the
economy more competitive, and reforming the tax code to reward work and
not wealth. Our progress over the last two years shows that his economic
strategy is working.  
  
The state of the economy is strong. Tomorrow night, President Biden will
highlight the historic progress we have made to bring the economy back
from the pandemic and create more jobs in a two-year period than under
any other president on record. He will discuss progress lowering costs
and providing more breathing room for families, including cutting
prescription drug costs, health insurance premiums, and energy bills,
while driving the uninsured rate to historic lows. He will outline the
manufacturing boom across the country—in infrastructure,
semi-conductors, and clean energy—that is strengthening parts of the
country left behind and creating good jobs, including for workers
without college degrees.  
  
And, he will emphasize that his economic strategy has been a fiscally
responsible one. President Biden’s predecessor passed a [nearly $2
trillion](https://www.cbo.gov/publication/53787) unpaid for tax cut with
benefits [skewed](https://www.taxpolicycenter.org/feature/analysis-tax-cuts-and-jobs-act) to
the wealthy and large corporations, and
the [deficit](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/omb/budget/historical-tables/) went
up every single year under his watch. Under President Biden, the deficit
has [fallen](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/omb/briefing-room/2022/10/21/joint-statement-of-janet-l-yellen-secretary-of-the-treasury-and-shalanda-d-young-director-of-the-office-of-management-and-budget-on-budget-results-for-fiscal-year-2022/) by
$1.7 trillion, and his reforms to take on Big Pharma, lower prescription
drug costs, and make the wealthy and large corporations pay their fair
share will reduce the deficit by [hundreds of
billions](https://www.cbo.gov/publication/58455) more.  
  
President Biden knows that the work to build an economy from the bottom
up and middle out is far from done. He will say that we need to build on
this work to continue growing our economy and lowering costs. He will
discuss the work to come to implement his historic investment agenda in
a way that benefits all Americans. And, the President will preview the
budget he will send to Congress on March 9, which will build on the
historic economic progress of the past two years by continuing to invest
in America and its people, continuing to lower costs for families—from
child care to housing to college to health care—protecting and
strengthening Social Security and Medicare, and reducing the deficit
through additional reforms to ensure the wealthy and largest
corporations pay their fair share.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Historic Progress to Create
Jobs, Promote Workers, and Transition to Steady and Stable
Growth</span>**

When President Biden took office, the economy was in crisis, millions
were out of work, and Main Streets were shuttered. In two years, the
President has overseen a historic economy recovery and laid the
foundation for steady and stable growth in the years to come.

***A historic, equitable economic recovery.*** President Biden’s
economic strategy led to a historic recovery with tangible benefits for
workers and families. Since President Biden took office, the economy has
created more than [12 million
jobs](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/PAYEMS)—including more
than [800,000](https://data.bls.gov/timeseries/CES3000000001) manufacturing
jobs—and the unemployment rate is at a
54-year [low](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/UNRATE), including near
record lows
for [Black](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/LNS14000006) workers. The
unemployment rate
for [Hispanic](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/LNS14000009) workers
hit a record low last year. The past two years were also the best two
years for new small business applications
on [record](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/01/17/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-record-setting-small-business-applications/).
None of this progress was pre-ordained. Before President Biden signed
his Rescue Plan into
law, [experts](https://www.cbo.gov/data/budget-economic-data) predicted
it would take far longer to create this many jobs. And few—if
any—experts predicted it would be possible to get the unemployment rate
down to a level last seen in 1969. In fact, before the Rescue Plan
passed, the Congressional Budget Office projected the unemployment rate
in the first quarter of 2023 would be 4.8%, rather than its current
level of 3.4%.

***More breathing room and economic security for families. ***This
historic jobs recovery, along with Biden-Harris Administration policies
designed to help workers and families, has left families more
economically secure than before the pandemic. Compared to pre-pandemic
levels, households are now less likely to be delinquent on their [credit
card
bills](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/DRCCLACBS) and [mortgages](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/DRSFRMACBS),
and more likely to have [health
insurance](https://aspe.hhs.gov/reports/2022-uninsurance-at-all-time-low).
They are facing fewer [evictions](https://evictionlab.org/) and
foreclosures than there were before the pandemic, and bankruptcy rates
are lower as well. This economic security is giving families peace of
mind and breathing room that they didn’t have before the pandemic. Child
poverty also fell to a historic low in 2021, and the President will call
on Congress to continue these gains through the expanded Child Tax
Credit, even as he has taken action to lift nearly 1 million children
out of poverty by modernizing nutrition benefits.

***Progress on transitioning to steady, stable growth with lower
inflation. ***In the wake of unprecedented economic disruption from a
historic pandemic, inflation has been a challenge all over the globe.
Last spring, President Biden set the goal of transitioning our economy
to lower inflation, while maintaining a resilient job market for
American workers. Now, annual inflation has fallen for six months
straight, driven in large part by a roughly $1.50 decline in gas prices
compared to last summer. Over the second half of 2022, three-month core
inflation fell from nearly 8% at an annualized rate to 3% at an
annualized rate—at the same time that the unemployment remained at or
near 50-year lows. As a result of the progress on inflation and the
resilience of the job market, wages adjusted for inflation are higher
than they were seven months ago. While there is more work to do to bring
inflation down and lower costs for families—and there may be setbacks
along the way—the past six months have marked significant progress
toward the President’s goal of bringing down inflation without giving up
the economic progress we’ve made.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Manufacturing Boom Across the
Country and Historic Investments in Infrastructure</span>**

Even before the pandemic, the middle class was hollowed out.
Manufacturing jobs moved overseas and factories closed down. The
President believes that the United States can lead the world in
manufacturing again. His economic plan has done just that—generate a
manufacturing boom across the country and build an economy where no one
is left behind. The President’s economic plan is stimulating new
factories and manufacturing lines and creating good-paying jobs that
don’t require a four-year degree. His plan includes the most significant
upgrade to our nation’s infrastructure in generations—an investment
larger than FDR’s investment Rural Electrification and Eisenhower’s
efforts to build the Interstate Highway system. It includes the most
significant clean energy plan ever, transitioning the clean energy
economy and lowering households’ energy costs. And, it includes the most
substantial investment in science, innovation, and industrial strategy
in over 50 years.  
  
In just the two years since President Biden took office, we have spurred
more than $700 billion in announced private investment in manufacturing,
utilities, and energy from more than 200 companies in all 50 states.
Much of this investment is driven by the semiconductor, energy, electric
vehicles and batteries, and other cutting-edge sectors.  
  
***Ensuring President Biden’s agenda creates a future made in
America. ***Building on the historic investment agenda the President has
signed into law, President Biden is ensuring that our historic
infrastructure investments use materials made in America. For decades,
Buy America laws focused on iron and steel and only covered certain
federally funded infrastructure projects. This giant loophole meant
projects could be built with other materials sourced from anywhere in
the world. The Biden-Harris Administration is working to close this
loophole and implement new standards, once and for all, so materials for
roads and bridges, airports, transit, rail, water, high-speed internet,
and clean energy infrastructure are made in America and support American
jobs.  
  
The President will announce in the State of the Union that he is issuing
proposed guidance to ensure construction materials from copper and
aluminum to fiber optic cable, lumber, and drywall, are made in America.
Once finalized, these standards will apply to virtually all
infrastructure spending supported by Federal financial assistance—not
simply roads and bridges, but also buildings, water infrastructure and
high-speed internet, providing consistency for companies and state and
local governments to apply the standards and a strong federal
government-wide demand signal.  
  
These steps complement the Administration’s implementation of the most
robust updates in nearly 70 years to the Buy American Act for federal
procurement. Those updates are helping to ensure that taxpayers’ dollars
support American manufacturing, boost resiliency in critical industries,
and create good-paying jobs right here at home. The Buy American rule
increased the percentage value of component parts manufactured in the US
from 55% to 60% this past fall as the first step toward increasing that
value to 75%.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Lowering Health Care Costs
for Families</span>**  
  
The President knows that too many Americans stare at the ceiling
wondering what happens if their spouse gets cancer or child gets sick.
He believes that every American has a right to the peace of mind that
comes with knowing they have access to affordable, quality health care.
President Biden passed legislation to lower health care and prescription
drug costs for American families, giving families more breathing room.
Tomorrow, he will discuss the historic progress we have made on lowering
health care costs under his watch, including steps to strengthen
Medicare, Medicaid, and the Affordable Care Act (ACA), and steps we must
take to build on that progress and give more families the peace of mind
of affordable prescriptions and health care.

***$800 lower health care premiums.*** A record-setting [16.3 million
people](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/01/25/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-record-aca-enrollment-numbers/) signed
up for ACA coverage this year, and the national uninsured rate hit
an [all-time
low](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2023/01/25/biden-harris-administration-announces-record-breaking-16-3-million-people-signed-up-health-care-coverage-aca-marketplaces-during-2022-2023-open-enrollment-season.html) last
year. That’s thanks in large part to President Biden and Democrats in
Congress’ work to lower premiums for ACA coverage by an average of $800
per person per year—along with President Biden’s actions
to [quadruple](https://www.cms.gov/newsroom/press-releases/biden-harris-administration-quadruples-number-health-care-navigators-ahead-healthcaregov-open) consumer
assistance, increase outreach, and close the “[family
glitch](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/05/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-proposes-rule-to-fix-family-glitch-and-lower-health-care-costs/)”
loophole that blocked many children and spouses from affordable
coverage. Tomorrow, the President will call on Congress to make these
savings for American families permanent, so we can continue our work to
make health care a right, not a privilege.

***60 million Medicare beneficiaries will be protected from skyrocketing
drug costs.*** President Biden took on Big Pharma—and won. [Thanks to
the new prescription drug
law](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/11/01/fact-sheet-by-the-numbers-millions-of-americans-would-lose-health-care-coverage-benefits-and-protections-under-congressional-republicans-plans/),
Medicare will be able to negotiate drug prices and cap out-of-pocket
pharmacy costs at $2,000 per year under Part D, and drug companies will
pay rebates to Medicare if they try to hike their prices faster than the
rate of inflation. For the last six weeks, seniors across the country
have been benefiting from key drug pricing protections that are putting
money back in their pockets:

-   **$35 price cap on insulin in Medicare.** Starting this year,
    Medicare beneficiaries will pay no more than $35 per month per
    insulin prescription. 1.5 million people would have each saved, on
    average, [$500 per
    year](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2023/01/24/new-hhs-report-finds-major-savings-americans-who-use-insulin-thanks-president-bidens-inflation-reduction-act.html) had
    this law been in effect in 2020. The President will call on Congress
    to extend this commonsense, life-saving protection to all Americans,
    not just people with Medicare.  
     
-   **$0 vaccines through Medicare. **More adult vaccines are [now
    available](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2023/01/11/hhs-announces-key-dates-first-year-inflation-reduction-acts-medicare-drug-price-negotiation-program.html) without
    any co-pays under Medicare Part D thanks to the new prescription
    drug law. This includes the shingles vaccine, which used to cost
    seniors as much as $200.

***1 million surprise medical bills are prevented every
month****.* Before President Biden took office, millions of people
received surprise bills for out-of-network care, costing them hundreds
or thousands of dollars. The Administration
is [protecting](https://www.ahip.org/resources/no-surprises-act-prevents-more-than-9-million-surprise-bills-since-january-2022) millions
of consumers from surprise medical bills through
the [implementation](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2022/01/03/hhs-kicks-off-new-year-with-new-protections-from-surprise-medical-bills.html) of
the No Surprises Act, which has already protected 10 million Americans
from unfair, undeserved out-of-network charges.

***$3,000 in savings on hearing aids.*** In October 2022,
over-the-counter hearing aids hit the shelves following
a [rule](https://www.fda.gov/news-events/press-announcements/fda-finalizes-historic-rule-enabling-access-over-counter-hearing-aids-millions-americans) from
the Food and Drug Administration. Now, millions of Americans can buy
hearing aids for low to moderate hearing loss without a prescription or
exam. This is anticipated
to [save](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/17/fact-sheet-cheaper-hearing-aids-now-in-stores-thanks-to-biden-harris-administration-competition-agenda/) Americans
as much as $3,000 per pair, providing more breathing room for the
estimated 30 million Americans with mild-to-moderate hearing loss.

***39 states and the District of Columbia have expanded Medicaid
coverage.*** Missouri, Oklahoma, and South Dakota are the most recent
states to expand Medicaid to hundreds of thousands of low-income adults
previously locked out of Medicaid coverage. The Administration remains
committed to closing the coverage gap in the remaining 11 states, and
the President will call on Congress to finish the job. In addition, the
Administration also worked with over half the states and DC to extend
Medicaid postpartum coverage for millions of women.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Promoting
Competition</span>**  
  
As President Biden said at last year’s State of the Union, “capitalism
without competition isn’t capitalism. It’s exploitation—and it drives up
prices.” Over the past year, the Administration has been delivering for
the American people to lower prices, protect workers, and increase
competition across the economy. In this year’s State of the Union, the
President will highlight progress we need to continue to make to promote
competition and protect consumers.  
  
***Cracking down on junk fees*. **The Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau (CFPB) is lowering or eliminating the banking and credit card
“junk” fees that too many Americans pay. The CFPB announced a proposal
that will slash excessive credit card late fees to $8 from approximately
$30, which could save consumers up to $9 billion a year in late fees.
Last year, the CFPB also targeted overdraft and bounced check
fees—making changes that will cut fees by over $1 billion a year. The
Department of Transportation (DOT)
also [proposed](https://www.transportation.gov/airconsumer/AirlineAncillaryFeeNPRM) a
rule that would require airlines and online search sites to disclose up
front any fees to choose seats including to sit next to one’s child, for
baggage, and for changes or cancellations. It also published
a [dashboard](https://www.transportation.gov/airconsumer/airline-customer-service-dashboard) of
airline policies when flights are delayed or cancelled due to issues
under the airlines’ control, leading 9 airlines to change policies to
guarantee coverage of hotels and 10 airlines to guarantee coverage of
meals.  
  
The President will re-state his call on Congress to pass a [Junk Fees
Prevention
Act](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/01/fact-sheet-president-biden-highlights-new-progress-on-his-competition-agenda/) to
ban resort and family seating fees, eliminate unnecessary early
termination fees for internet and phone services, and crack down on
excessive fees and other practices that drive up ticket prices. DOT will
also launch a family seating dashboard to raise awareness about airline
policies and undertake a rulemaking to ban these fees.  
  
***Addressing non-compete agreements.*** Roughly [30 million
Americans](https://www.ftc.gov/legal-library/browse/federal-register-notices/non-compete-clause-rulemaking),
including many low-wage workers, are covered by non-compete agreements
that can stifle wage growth for American workers by making it more
difficult for workers to leave for higher-paying jobs. The Federal Trade
Commission [released](https://www.ftc.gov/legal-library/browse/federal-register-notices/non-compete-clause-rulemaking) a
proposed rule in January 2023 to ban non-compete clauses, which it
estimates will increases wages by $300 billion annually.

***Lowering ocean shipping costs.*** Ocean carriers increased their
rates by [as much as
1,000%](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/13/statement-by-president-joe-biden-on-congressional-passage-of-ocean-shipping-reform-act/) during
the pandemic. Last June, Congress passed the Ocean Shipping Reform Act
heeding the President’s call in the 2022 State of the Union. This
legislation will cut costs for shippers, and in turn American families,
and ensure fairer treatment for exports from our farmers and ranchers.

***Lowering meat prices.*** The Administration has taken a number of
steps to increase competition in the meat and poultry markets. The
Department of Agriculture (USDA) has also issued proposed regulations
under the Packers & Stockyards Act to increase [competition and market
integrity](https://www.bing.com/search?q=proposed+rules+poultry+tournament&PC=U531&cvid=88da6b2203914276aa615eeb22cc5eb9&FORM=ANAB01) and
to [prevent
abuse](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2022/05/26/biden-harris-administration-announces-new-actions-strengthen-food) of
farmers in the poultry growing system. USDA is also using $1 billion
to [expand](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/01/03/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-action-plan-for-a-fairer-more-competitive-and-more-resilient-meat-and-poultry-supply-chain/) independent
meat processing capacity, so the market isn’t dominated by just a few
big players.

***Helping consumers get the right to repair*. **The President believes
that consumers shouldn’t be restricted by big manufacturers from
repairing their own equipment—whether it’s a tractor or a smartphone.
After President Biden expressed strong support for the right to repair
in his Competition Executive Order,
Microsoft [conducted](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/corporate-responsibility/reports-hub) a
study on the issue and made its Surface devices more easily repairable
and
Apple [announced](https://www.apple.com/newsroom/2021/11/apple-announces-self-service-repair/) self-service
repair for certain devices.  
  
***Improving safety and accountability in nursing homes*. **As the
President directed in last year’s State of the Union, CMS has taken
action to [strengthen
oversight](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/21/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-steps-to-improve-quality-of-nursing-homes/) of
the worst performing nursing
homes, [prevent](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2022/11/18/2022-23873/medicare-and-medicaid-programs-cy-2023-payment-policies-under-the-physician-fee-schedule-and-other) abuse
and Medicare fraud,
and [improve](https://www.cms.gov/newsroom/press-releases/cms-enhances-nursing-home-rating-system-staffing-and-turnover-data) families’
ability to comparison shop across nursing homes. In the coming days and
months, CMS will announce new actions to increase safety and
accountability at nursing homes.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Reducing the Deficit by
Ensuring the Wealthy and Large Corporations Pay their Fair
Share</span>**  
  
In the last two years, the Administration cut the deficit by more than
$1.7 trillion—the largest deficit reduction in American history. The
President believes we need to continue that progress—and reward work,
not wealth.  
  
Since coming to office, the President has signed legislation to make the
wealthy and large corporations pay their fair share and provide tax cuts
for working families, while reducing the deficit. Under his plan, no one
making under $400,000 per year will pay more in taxes.  
  
***Billionaire Minimum Tax*.** President Biden is a capitalist and
believes that anyone should be able to become a millionaire or a
billionaire. He also believes that it is wrong for America to have a tax
code that results in America’s wealthiest households paying a lower tax
rate than working families. In a typical year, billionaires pay an
average tax rate of
just [8%](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/cea/written-materials/2021/09/23/what-is-the-average-federal-individual-income-tax-rate-on-the-wealthiest-americans/).
In the State of the Union, he’ll call on Congress to pass his
billionaire minimum tax. This minimum tax would make sure that the
wealthiest Americans no longer pay a tax rate lower than teachers and
firefighters.  
  
***Surcharge on corporate stock buybacks*. **Stock buybacks enable
corporations to funnel tax-advantaged payouts to wealthy and foreign
investors, instead of paying dividends that shareholders are required to
pay taxes on. In addition, a number
of [experts](https://www.reuters.com/investigates/special-report/usa-buybacks-pay/) have
argued that CEOs—who are compensated mostly in stock—use buybacks to
enrich themselves to the detriment of the long-term growth of the
company. Last year, oil and gas companies made record profits and
invested very little in domestic production and to keep gas prices
down—instead they bought their own stock, giving all that profit to
their CEOs and shareholders. President Biden signed into law a surcharge
on corporate stock buyback, which reduces the differential tax treatment
between buybacks and dividends and encourages businesses to invest in
their growth and productivity as opposed to paying out corporate
executives or funneling tax-preferred profits to foreign shareholders.
In the State of the Union, the President will call for quadrupling the
tax on corporate stock buybacks.  
  
***Corporate minimum tax*. **In
2020, [55](https://itep.org/55-profitable-corporations-zero-corporate-tax/) of
the largest corporations that were profitable paid $0 in federal income
tax. To end that unfairness in the tax code, President Biden signed into
law a 15 percent minimum tax on the profits that large
corporations—those with over $1 billion in profits—report to
shareholders. This book minimum tax means that it will be harder for
companies that say they’re earning a billion in profits to pay tax rates
in the single digits on those profits. It also levels the playing field
for companies—including small businesses—that are already paying their
fair share.  
  
***Legislation to crack down on tax cheats and create a fairer tax
system.* **Working people
pay [99%](https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/p1415.pdf) of the taxes they
owe on their income from wages and salaries, while the top 1 percent
hides [about
20%](https://www.proquest.com/docview/755431382?accountid=45205) of
their income from tax, including by funneling it through offshore
accounts in tax havens that don’t report earnings. The President signed
legislation into law that will crack down on wealthy people and large
corporations that cheat on their taxes, while improving customer service
for taxpayers. The legislation
will [not](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy0918) increase
audit rates for families or small businesses making under $400,000 per
year.

\###
