---
date: '2023-02-07'
published_time: 2023-02-07 13:18:22-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/07/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-administrations-work-to-make-our-communities-safer-and-advance-effective-accountable-policing/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: The Biden-\u2060Harris Administration\u2019s Work to Make Our\
  \ Communities Safer and Advance Effective, Accountable\_Policing"
---
 
A young Black man should not have to fear for his life when stopped for
an alleged traffic violation. And no one should have to put their life
on the line to stop a mass shooter. At the State of the Union, Mrs.
RowVaughn Wells and Mr. Rodney Wells, Tyre Nichols’ mother and
stepfather, will sit in the First Lady’s box. Tyre Nichols’ death is
just the latest horrific example of the fear and trauma, pain, and
exhaustion that Black and brown Americans experience every day. They
will be joined by Brandon Tsay, who showed the ultimate courage by
stopping a gunman in Monterey Park, California just last month.

President Biden is committed to doing everything he can to make our
communities safer, including by advancing effective, accountable
policing. Our criminal justice system must protect the public and ensure
fair and impartial justice for all. These are mutually reinforcing, not
competing, goals. The Biden-Harris Administration has taken action to
advance effective, accountable policing, build trust, and improve public
safety so that we make the promise of equal justice under the law a
reality for all.

Tonight, President Biden will also highlight progress made to implement
his Safer America Plan and additional steps he will take in the year
ahead. The President’s Safer America Plan:

1.  Advances effective, accountable policing
2.  Funds the police and promotes effective prosecution of crimes
    affecting families today.
3.  Invests in crime prevention and a fairer criminal justice system.
4.  Takes additional commonsense steps on guns to keep dangerous
    firearms out of dangerous hands.

**<u>Advancing effective, accountable policing</u>**

**Re-issuing the Call for Congress to Pass the George Floyd Justice in
Policing Act.** The President will again call for Congress to pass the
George Floyd Justice in Policing Act to advance accountability,
transparency, and public trust in law enforcement. Real change at the
state and local level requires Congressional action.

**Making Federal Policing the Gold Standard of Effectiveness and
Accountability.** After Senate Republicans blocked passage of the George
Floyd Justice in Policing Act last year – even though law enforcement
groups supported a deal – President Biden signed a historic executive
order to advance effective, accountable policing and strengthen public
safety. The order requires federal law enforcement agencies to: ban
chokeholds; restrict no-knock warrants; mandate the use of body-worn
cameras; implement stronger use of force policies, including with the
duty to intervene and duty to render medical aid; provide de-escalation
training; submit officer misconduct records into a new national
database; and restrict the transfer of military equipment to local law
enforcement agencies, among other things. While the President cannot
mandate changes at the state and local level, the order incentivizes
state and local reforms through grantmaking, new accreditation
standards, and training and technical assistance. The Administration is
actively implementing the order. For example, agencies have already
prohibited chokeholds and restricted no-knock entries, updated their use
of force-policies, and prohibited the transfer of military-grade weapons
and equipment to local law enforcement agencies.  
  
**Justice Department Action to Ensure Accountability and Encourage
Reform.** In just two years, the Department of Justice has opened eight
pattern-or-practice investigations of law enforcement agencies for
systemic misconduct and rescinded a Trump-era memo that inhibited the
use of consent decrees, an important tool to reform troubled police
departments. DOJ also restored and improved the voluntary Collaborative
Reform program, providing technical assistance to police departments
that ask for help to reform their practices and build trust, and has
awarded millions of dollars in grants for de-escalation and anti-bias
training.

**<u>Funding the police and promoting effective prosecution of crimes
affecting families today</u>**

**Putting more community police on our streets with proper training.**
The President’s Safer America Plan would fund 100,000 additional police
officers who will be recruited, trained, hired, and supervised —
consistent with the standards in the President’s Executive Order — in
order to enhance trust and public safety.

**Clearing court backlogs and taking repeat shooters off our streets.**
The Safer America Plan invests in the technology and data systems
modernization necessary to ensure that the justice system runs
efficiently and with the most current data, such as case management
systems that effectively integrate pre-trial services, judicial, and law
enforcement records. In addition, the Plan would support
district-specific violent crime strategies that involve close
partnerships between federal, state, and local law enforcement, and
would support crime-fighting technology such as ballistics matching
gunshot residue forensics technology.

**<u>Investing in crime prevention and a fairer criminal justice
system</u>**

**Investing in Crime Prevention.** The President’s Safer America Plan
calls on Congress to invest $15 billion in services that help prevent
crime from occurring in the first place, including: mental health and
substance use disorder services, such as co-responder and alternative
responder programs where social workers and other professionals respond
to calls that should not be the responsibility of law enforcement; job
training and employment opportunities, including for teenagers and young
adults; housing and other supportive social services to individuals who
are homeless; and reentry services so people leaving prison can
stabilize their lives and avoid recidivism. The Plan also incentivizes
the reform of laws that increase incarceration without reducing public
safety and lift almost all federal restrictions on eligibility for vital
benefits (such as food, income, and disability-based assistance) for
people with prior convictions.

**Support for Community Violence Intervention (CVI) Programs**.
Community violence interventions are strategies that use trusted
messengers to prevent shootings and other violence; they have been
demonstrated to reduce violence by up to 60%. Through the Bipartisan
Safer Communities Act and appropriations, President Biden secured the
first dedicated federal funding for CVI in history—$100 million in each
of FY22 and FY23. The President continues to push for $5 billion to
scale CVI programs nationwide. In addition, the Administration
encouraged state and local governments to use American Rescue Plan
funding for community violence interventions; more than half the states
and 300 communities across the country answered this call to action,
committing over $10 billion in recovery funds to CVI and other public
safety strategies.

**Expanding Mobile Crisis Response and De-Escalation Training**. When it
comes to mental health, we know that people experiencing mental health
challenges are more likely to be the victims than the perpetrators of a
violent crime. Policing is not the answer to these challenges – fully
funded mental health and substance use disorder services and supports
are the answer. That’s why the Biden Administration has put forward a
plan to transform how the nation understands and treats mental health
needs. As just one part of this plan, this July the Biden Administration
launched the 988 crisis response line so people experiencing suicidal
ideation or another behavioral health crisis can reach out for emergency
help from a health professional instead of calling 911. In December
2022, the President signed the Law Enforcement De-Escalation Act of
2022. This law authorized $124 million to train officers and mental
health professionals on crisis intervention teams, including on
de-escalation tactics; to support participation in the National
Use-of-Force Data Collection; and for related purposes. The American
Rescue Plan provided $1.2 billion to over 22 states to fund implement
community-based crisis intervention services mobile crisis intervention
services, providing people in crisis the mental health or substance use
treatment they need and freeing up police officers to focus on violent
crime. Medicaid has issued guidance to states to assist them in
accessing these funds. In addition, HHS is funding $9 million new grants
for states and territories to create or enhance their mobile crisis
response teams.

**Addressing a failed approach to marijuana and crack cocaine**. The
criminalization of marijuana possession has upended too many lives—for
conduct that is now legal in many states. While white, Black and brown
people use marijuana at similar rates, Black and brown people are
disproportionately in jail for it. In October 2022, the President
announced a full, unconditional, and categorical pardon for prior
federal simple marijuana possession offenses. This pardon lifts barriers
to housing, employment, and educational opportunities for thousands of
people with prior convictions under federal and D.C. law for simple
marijuana possession. The President also called on every state governor
to follow his lead, as most marijuana prosecutions take place at the
state level. And because this Administration is guided by science and
evidence, he called on the Secretary of HHS and the Attorney General to
review how marijuana is scheduled under federal law.

In addition, the Safer America Plan calls on Congress to end once and
for all the racially discriminatory sentencing disparity between crack
cocaine and powder cocaine offenses—as President Biden first advocated
in 2007—and make that change fully retroactive. This step would provide
immediate sentencing relief to the 10,000 individuals, more than 90
percent of whom are Black, currently serving time in federal prison
pursuant to the crack/powder disparity. As an initial step, the Attorney
General has issued guidance to federal prosecutors on steps they should
take to promote the equivalent treatment of crack and powder cocaine
offenses, but Congress still needs to act.

**<u>Enacting commonsense gun laws to keep dangerous firearms out of
dangerous hands</u>**

The President has already taken historic action to reduce gun crime. The
Justice Department is cracking down on ghost guns that are increasingly
showing up at crime scenes and rogue gun dealers who fail to run
background checks or falsify their records. And, the Department of
Justice is disrupting the gun trafficking corridors that bring guns from
states with lax gun laws into those with strict rules that are
desperately trying to stop the violence. And President Biden signed the
most meaningful gun legislation in 30 years—the Bipartisan Safer
Communities Act.

He’s not done. The President is not going to stop until Congress
requires background checks for all guns sales, requires safe storage of
firearms, and bans assault weapons and high-capacity weapons – weapons
of war that have no place in our communities.

\###
