---
date: '2023-02-02'
modified_time: 2023-02-02 15:10:11-05:00
published_time: 2023-02-02 15:10:10-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/02/quad-senior-cyber-group-joint-cybersecurity-statement/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Quad Senior Cyber Group Joint Cybersecurity\_Statement"
---
 
We, the Principals of Australia, India, Japan and the United States of
the Quad Senior Cyber Group (the Group) met in New Delhi, India on
January 30-31, 2023.  
  
We reaffirm the Group’s commitment to advancing a free and open
Indo-Pacific that is inclusive and resilient.     
  
Our meeting advanced the Group’s positive and ambitious agenda. Quad
partners are working together to better secure cyberspace and foster an
international digital economy that works for everyone, including
regional partners in the Indo-Pacific.  
  
Consistent with the Group’s Joint Principles and recalling the Quad
Leaders Meeting on 24 May 2022, we committed in the near term to: drive
more secure software services and products by common Quad government
security practices; establish common cyber security requirements for our
nations’ critical infrastructure; conduct a Quad Cyber Challenge (a
campaign to raise awareness among our populations and drive action to
improve cyber security); collaborating on capacity-building activities
and information sharing in the Indo-Pacific region under the Quad
Cybersecurity Partnership.    
  
Since September 2021, the Group studied existing policies and guidance,
and is working on identifying best security practices for software
services and products and minimum critical infrastructure cyber security
requirements. While implementation across the Quad members requires
different strategies, all Quad countries can take significant steps to
implement these requirements in our countries to drive more secure
software and services. Further, our collective approach over the coming
years will encourage regional partners to adopt best practices and
strengthen security of their products and preventive measures to guard
against malicious cyber-attacks. We are committed to working with our
partners to support these efforts.  
  
The Group discussed the importance of utilizing trusted vendors in
telecommunications infrastructure as part of our shared commitment to
promote safe, resilient networks and technologies, including through
exploration of open and interoperable network solutions which are
occurring in each of and among our countries. These efforts demonstrate
the Quad’s commitment to building regional capacity and ensuring the
delivery of an open and secure telecommunications infrastructure in the
Indo-Pacific.  
The Quad Cyber Challenge Campaign will promote basic cybersecurity
awareness among individuals, organizations, businesses and governments
throughout members, to prevent them from becoming victims of cybercrimes
and threats that can cause untold financial and personal damage. We are
committed to providing educational resources to our citizens to increase
their cyber security as part of this effort.  
  
Further, coordinating and collaborating on capacity building efforts in
the Indo-Pacific region under the Quad Cybersecurity Partnership will
enhance regional resilience to cyber incidents and the threats, reduce
broader regional cyber risks, promote cyber awareness, and improve
resilience of critical infrastructure and supply chain.  
  
Increasing Quad engagement in the Indo-Pacific through greater sharing
of information will ensure closer collaboration with our Indo-Pacific
partners on exchanges of technology, policy and regulations.
Coordinating Quad member efforts will allow for more efficient and
effective use of resources, and accelerate reduction of regional cyber
risks.  
  
In the longer term, the Group has also committed to: leveraging machine
learning and related advanced technologies to enhance cyber security;
establishing secure channels for Computer Emergency Response Teams
(CERT) and private sector threat information sharing; and creating a
framework and methodology for ensuring Supply Chain Security and
Resilience for information communication technologies (ICT) and
operational technology (OT) systems of critical sectors. These
objectives form an important part of the future-looking, leading edge
work plan for the Group.  
  
Progress on these objectives will enhance Quad members’ national cyber
capabilities, lowering the number of serious cyber incidents and
improving their response capabilities. Closer collaboration on machine
learning research will enable better detection of network intrusions and
improving cyber risk management of critical infrastructure. The
framework for secure threat information sharing by CERTs and private
sector entities, will enable better real-time cooperation and
assessments as cyber incidents arise. A supply chain methodology will
encourage major software services, products, and providers leveraged by
governments to adhere to a Quad-endorsed best practice guideline for
cyber security ICT and OT requirements for critical infrastructure.  
  
Telecom security is a core function of National security. Working in
conjunction with Quad CET Working Group, the Group will strive to ensure
security-by-design and best practices of cyber security are incorporated
in ORAN and 6G technologies.  
  
The Group also endorsed the  Counter Ransomware Initiative (CRI) efforts
(of which Quad countries are members) to drive international cooperation
and joint action to tackle ransomware including through information and
intelligence exchanges, sharing best practices regarding policy and
legal authority frameworks, and collaboration between law enforcement
and cyber authorities to conduct counter ransomware activities.

\###
