---
date: '2023-02-02'
modified_time: 2023-02-01 19:17:36-05:00
published_time: 2023-02-02 05:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/02/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-actions-to-support-and-advance-womens-economic-security/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces New Actions to Support\
  \ and Advance Women\u2019s Economic\_Security"
---
 
Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is marking the upcoming 30th
anniversary of the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) by announcing new
actions to support and advance women’s economic security. For thirty
years, the FMLA has helped Americans take up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave
from work when they are seriously ill or to care for a new child or a
sick family member without the risk of losing their jobs. Today,
President Biden is demonstrating his commitment to ensuring access to
family and medical leave, by encouraging heads of Federal agencies to
provide access to leave for Federal employees when they need it,
including during their first year of service.

Across the country, millions of workers still face impossible choices
between keeping a paycheck and caring for their family or themselves.
This is especially true for women, who shoulder disproportionate
caregiving responsibilities, with real consequences for their ability to
participate in the labor force and support their families over the
course of their lives. That’s why the Biden-Harris Administration will
continue to champion and take action on national paid family and medical
leave, affordable child care, and home and community-based care so that
all Americans can both care for and financially support their families.

**Improving Access to Leave.** Today, President Biden is issuing a
Presidential Memorandum to support Federal employees’ access to leave
when they need to care for themselves or a loved one. The memorandum
calls on heads of Federal agencies to support access to leave without
pay for Federal employees, including during their first year of service,
to ensure employees are able to bond with a new child, care for a family
member with a serious health condition, address their own serious health
condition, help manage family affairs when a family member is called to
active duty, or grieve after the death of a family member. The Office of
Personnel Management is further directed to provide recommendations
regarding “safe leave,” to support Federal employees’ access to paid
leave and leave without pay for purposes related to seeking safety and
recovering from domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or
stalking. These may include obtaining medical treatment, seeking
assistance from organizations that provide services to survivors,
seeking relocation, and taking related legal action.  

This Presidential Memorandum builds on other Administration efforts to
improve access to and awareness of family and medical leave, including
to:

-   **Ensure military personnel have access to 12 weeks of paid parental
    leave.** The Department of Defense issued a memorandum expanding the
    Military Parental Leave Program. Active-duty service members are now
    eligible for 12 weeks of parental leave following the birth,
    adoption, or placement of a child for long-term foster care. The
    expanded leave erases the previous distinction between primary and
    secondary caregivers, enabling both parents to take time to care for
    their children while balancing the needs of their unit, and it is in
    addition to medical convalescent leave, which continues to be
    available for birth parents recovering from pregnancy. Additionally,
    service members may request to take the 12 weeks of parental leave
    in multiple increments of at least one week, which allows for
    flexibility to meet both family and mission needs.  
     
-   **Support paid leave efforts in states.** The Administration remains
    committed to working with states on opportunities to expand access
    to paid family and medical leave. Yesterday, the White House
    convened state legislators who are working to advance bills this
    session that would create statewide paid family and medical leave
    programs. These new efforts build on the 11 states and the District
    of Columbia that have passed paid family and medical leave laws. The
    Department of Labor will also release a new website with information
    on state paid leave laws.  
     
-   **Help employees impacted by cancer know their rights under the
    FMLA. **As the Administration marks one year since the launch of
    President Biden’s Cancer Moonshot, the Department of Labor issued
    new resources in December to help employees know their rights when
    diagnosed with cancer or taking on a caregiver role. These new tools
    included a resource page on “[Workplace Protections for Individuals
    Impacted by
    Cancer](https://www.dol.gov/agencies/whd/fmla/workplace-protections-for-individuals-cancer),”
    a practical guide on “[How to Talk to Your Employer about Taking
    Time
    Off](https://www.dol.gov/agencies/whd/fmla/how-to-talk-to-your-employer-about-leave),”
    and [an easy-to-post
    flyer](https://www.dol.gov/sites/dolgov/files/WHD/fmla/certification-of-a-serious-health-condition.pdf) to
    help health care providers support FMLA leave.

**Investing in Economic Security.** The actions announced today build
on critical steps the Biden-Harris Administration has taken recently to
support economic security for women and families, including:

-   **Protecting the health and economic security of pregnant
    workers.** President Biden signed into law the Pregnant Workers
    Fairness Act as part of the bipartisan end-of-year omnibus law,
    which will provide basic, long-overdue protections to ensure that
    millions of pregnant and postpartum workers have the right to
    reasonable accommodations in the workplace for pregnancy,
    childbirth, and related medical conditions. Under the new law,
    employers must make reasonable accommodations for pregnant workers
    and job applicants, which may include light duty, breaks, or a stool
    to sit on, without discriminating or retaliating against them.  
     
-   **Extending protections for nursing workers.** The President also
    signed into law the Providing Urgent Maternal Protections (PUMP) for
    Nursing Mothers Act, which extends break time and private space
    protections for nursing parents to nearly 9 million workers,
    including teachers, nurses, and farmworkers. These protections will
    empower parents to continue expressing milk at work, so they do not
    have to choose between their job or their infant’s health. Today,
    the Department of Labor’s Wage and Hour Division released [an
    updated Fact Sheet](http://www.dol.gov/agencies/whd/pump-at-work)
    detailing employee rights and employer responsibilities under the
    new law and will continue outreach and public education efforts to
    help pregnant and nursing workers, and their employers, know their
    rights.  
     
-   **Increasing investments in early childhood education and child
    care**. As part of the end-of-year omnibus, the Administration
    secured a 30 percent increase in funding for the Child Care and
    Development Block Grant, which could help up to 130,000 more
    families afford child care and access better child care options. The
    new law also made significant investments in programs such as Head
    Start and the Preschool Development Grant – Birth through Five that
    help young children and their families access quality, affordable
    early care and education. Greater availability and affordability of
    high-quality early care and education will help women with young
    children to enter and stay in the workforce.  
     
-   **Supporting women’s right to be safe in the workplace and free from
    sexual harassment and assault. **In December, the President signed
    the Speak Out Act, which will enable survivors to speak out about
    workplace assault and harassment by prohibiting the enforcement of
    pre-dispute nondisclosure and non-disparagement clauses regarding
    allegations of sexual harassment or assault. Earlier last year, the
    President also signed into law the Ending Forced Arbitration of
    Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act of 2021, which amended the
    Federal Arbitration Act and allows employees who sign pre-dispute
    mandatory arbitration agreements with their employers to pursue
    claims of sexual harassment or assault in court.

\###
