---
date: '2023-02-28'
modified_time: 2023-02-28 11:29:47-05:00
published_time: 2023-02-28 15:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/28/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-boards-and-commissions-18/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to Boards and\_Commissions"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint the
following individuals to the President’s Export Council:

-   Mark D. Ein, Chair
-   Rosalind Brewer, Vice Chair
-   Cristiano R. Amon, Member
-   Raymond E. Curry, Jr., Member
-   Lisa Disbrow, Member
-   Beth Ford, Member
-   Jane Fraser, Member
-   Brett Hart, Member
-   Brett Isaac, Member
-   Farnam Jahanian, Member
-   Lacy M. Johnson, Member
-   Gareth Joyce, Member
-   Paul A. Laudicina, Member
-   John Lawler, Member
-   Rich Lesser, Member
-   Karen S. Lynch, Member
-   Robert G. Martinez Jr., Member
-   Patrick E. Murphy, Member
-   Punit Renjen, Member
-   Michael F. Roman, Member
-   Daniel Rosen, Member
-   Michelle W. Singer, Member
-   Rajesh Subramaniam, Member
-   Juan Verde, Member
-   Dana Walden, Member

**<u>President’s Export Council</u>**

The President’s Export Council serves as the principal national advisory
committee on international trade. The Council advises the President of
government policies and programs that affect U.S. trade performance;
promotes export expansion; and provides a forum for discussing and
resolving trade-related problems among the business, industrial,
agricultural, labor, and government sectors.

**Mark D. Ein, Chair**

Mark D. Ein is a businessman, philanthropist and civic leader who has
created, acquired, invested in and built a series of leading growth
companies across a diverse set of industries over the course of his
35-year career. He is currently the Chairman of Lindblad Expeditions,
Kastle Systems and on the Board of Directors of Custom Truck One Source
and Membership Collective Group. From the earliest days of his career,
he has been deeply committed to a wide range of charitable, community
and civic causes, and he has heavily invested his time, resources and
leadership skills to meaningfully help these organizations and the lives
of their beneficiaries. In this capacity, he has been the Chairman of
the DC Public Education Fund since 2010 and is currently on the Board of
Directors of the DC College Access Program (DC-CAP) and the DC Policy
Center (co-founder). Ein has won numerous awards for his business and
civic leadership including being named Washington Business Leader of the
Year two times by the Chamber of Commerce and induction into the
Washington Business Hall of Fame. In 2009, he was given the “Key to the
City” of Washington DC by the Mayor for his organization’s community and
youth engagement. Prior to starting his own firm, Ein worked at Goldman
Sachs and The Carlyle Group. He received his BS in Economics with a
concentration in finance from The Wharton School of the University of
Pennsylvania and his MBA from The Harvard Business School.

**Rosalind Brewer, Vice Chair**

Rosalind (Roz) Brewer joined Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. as Chief
Executive Officer in March 2021. She also is a Director on WBA’s Board.
Brewer most recently served as Chief Operating Officer and Group
President at Starbucks from October 2017 to January 2021. Prior to
Starbucks, she served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Sam’s
Club, a membership-only retail warehouse club and division of Walmart,
Inc., from February 2012 to February 2017. Brewer previously held
several executive leadership positions with Walmart beginning in 2006.
Prior to joining Walmart, she served as President of Global Nonwovens
Division for Kimberly-Clark Corporation, a global health and hygiene
products company, from 2004 to 2006, and held various management
positions at Kimberly-Clark beginning in 1984.

She currently serves as the Chairperson of the board of trustees for
Spelman College, where she did her undergraduate work. Brewer also is a
Board Member of VillageMD, World Business Chicago, Business Roundtable,
and the Smithsonian’s National Museum of African-American History and
Culture. Brewer formerly served on the board of directors for Starbucks,
Amazon, Lockheed Martin Corporation, and Molson Coors Brewing Company.
She is currently ranked \#7 on *Fortune*’s 50 Most Powerful Women in
Business and was named one of the 25 most influential women by the
*Financial Times* in 2021.

**Cristiano R. Amon, Member**

Cristiano R. Amon is President and Chief Executive Officer of Qualcomm
Incorporated, and serves on the Company’s board of directors. Amon
joined Qualcomm in 1995 as an engineer, and during his tenure, has
helped shape the strategic direction for the Company in several
leadership roles. Prior to becoming CEO, Amon served as president of
Qualcomm, where he steered development of a leading and differentiated
product roadmap, spearheaded Qualcomm’s 5G strategy – as well as its
acceleration and global roll out – and drove the expansion and
diversification of the business to serve multiple industries.
Previously, Amon led Qualcomm’s semiconductor business as president of
QCT. He also held several technical and business leadership positions,
which included having overall responsibility for Snapdragon® platforms.

Prior to Qualcomm, Amon served as chief technical officer for Vésper, a
wireless operator in Brazil, and held leadership positions at NEC,
Ericsson and Velocom. Amon holds a BS degree in Electrical Engineering
and an honorary doctorate from UNICAMP – Universidade Estadual de
Campinas, São Paulo, Brazil. He is a member of the USPTO Council for
Inclusive Innovation.

**Raymond E. Curry, Jr., Member**

A North Carolina native, Ray Curry was elected President of the UAW on
June 28, 2021, by the International Executive Board upon the retirement
of UAW President Rory L. Gamble. President Curry became a UAW member in
July 1992, when he was hired as a truck assembler at Freightliner Trucks
in Mount Holly, North Carolina, (now Daimler Trucks, NA) after serving
in the U.S. Army for three years on active duty and five years in the
U.S. Army Reserve. Starting in 1998, Curry was elected to serve in
numerous leadership positions both within his local union and Region 8.
UAW President Ron Gettelfinger appointed Curry to the International
staff in 2004, where he serviced UAW contracts in aerospace, automotive
(Chrysler, Ford, and General Motors facilities), heavy truck, and
numerous independent parts supplier locations in Alabama and Tennessee.
He was appointed Region 8 assistant director by then-Region 8 Director
Gary Casteel in 2010. Four years later, he was elected Director of UAW
Region 8.

In June 2018, Curry was elected UAW Secretary-Treasurer at the 37th
Constitutional Convention. In this role, he was instrumental in the
implementation of broad financial ethics reforms and oversight as part
of the UAW’s Ethics Reforms Initiative. A longtime grassroots activist,
Curry is a Diamond Life member of the NAACP, and member of the national
NAACP Board of Directors. He is a graduate of the University of North
Carolina at Charlotte with a BS in Business Administration / Finance. He
holds an MBA degree from the University of Alabama.

**Lisa Disbrow, Member**

Lisa Disbrow has over 32 years of national security service, and broad
experience on public and private Boards of technology providers for
commercial and government customers. Retired from federal service as
25<sup>th</sup> Under Secretary of the Air Force, she held leadership
positions throughout her career in the Department of Defense, National
Reconnaissance Office, and the White House. She is a Veteran of the U.S.
Air Force with more than 23 years of active and reserve duty. Disbrow is
currently on the Board of Directors of Blackberry, CACI, Mercury
Systems, and several private companies. She serves as a Senior Fellow at
the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Lab and an appointed
Commissioner on Congress’ PPBE Commission.

**Beth Ford, Member**

Beth Ford serves as President and CEO of Land O’Lakes, Inc., a Fortune
200 food production and agribusiness company that is also a century-old
farmer-owned cooperative. Ford’s career spans six industries at seven
companies. Since joining Land O’Lakes in 2011, she has held a variety of
roles leading all aspects of the business, culminating in being named
CEO in 2018. Today, she is a passionate advocate on behalf of farmers
and rural America with the goal of connecting people, particularly in
urban areas, to the farmers and rural communities who grow their food.
In addition, she is the convener of The American Connection Project to
help bridge the digital divide.  
   
A native of Sioux City, Iowa, Ford holds a bachelor’s degree from Iowa
State University and a master’s degree in business from Columbia
University Business School. She sits on the Boards of Directors for the
Business Roundtable; Fortune 150 company PACCAR, Inc. and numerous other
industry, non-profit, and university boards. Ford has been recognized by
*Fortune* as one of the World’s 50 Greatest Leaders and Most Powerful
Women and named to Fast Company’s Best Leaders list, among other honors.
She was featured on “Masters of Scale,” in the *New York Times’* Corner
Office column and profiled in the “60 Minutes” segment entitled “The
Farmers Advocate.”

**Jane Fraser, Member**

Jane Fraser is the Chief Executive Officer of Citi, the world’s most
global bank, which serves millions of consumers, businesses and
institutions across 160 countries and jurisdictions. She is the first
female CEO in the firm’s history. During her 18-year career at Citi,
Fraser has held leadership roles across Citi’s consumer and
institutional businesses. Before becoming CEO, she was President of Citi
and CEO of the Global Consumer Bank, responsible for all of Citi’s
consumer businesses in 19 markets. Before joining Citi, Fraser was a
Partner at McKinsey & Company. She started her career at Goldman Sachs
in the Mergers & Acquisitions department in London and then worked for
Asesores Bursátiles in Madrid. Fraser serves on the Board of Directors
of the Business Roundtable and the Council on Foreign Relations. She is
Vice Chair of the Partnership for New York City and a member of Harvard
Business School’s Board of Dean’s Advisors, the Stanford Global Advisory
Board and the Economic Club of New York. Fraser has an MBA from Harvard
Business School and an MA in economics from Cambridge University. She is
married with two children.

**Brett Hart, Member**

Brett Hart is President of United Airlines and leads all of the
airline’s operational workgroups including Technical Operations, Airport
Operations, Corporate Safety, United Ground Express and Network
Operations. He also oversees the airline’s external-facing,
business-critical functions such as government affairs, corporate real
estate, human resources, and labor relations teams. A prominent pillar
of Chicago’s business community, Hart has been extensively involved in
philanthropic, cultural, and economic causes benefitting his home
community and beyond. He serves on the boards of World Business Chicago,
the Economic Club of Chicago, the Herbie Hancock Institute of Jazz,
Northwestern Medical Group, the Obama Foundation Inclusion Council and
President Biden’s Board of Advisors on Historically Black Colleges and
Universities. Hart received his Bachelor of Arts in philosophy and
English from the University of Michigan and a Juris Doctor from the
University of Chicago Law School. He is married and has three sons.

**Brett Isaac, Member**

Brett Isaac is an enrolled member of the Navajo Nation born and raised
in Northern Arizona. Isaac co-founded Navajo Power and currently serves
as the Executive Chairman. He is leading the effort to help Tribal
nations catalyze and maximize on economic development and benefits from
clean energy projects. Navajo Power is an Indigenous owned,
mission-driven company committed to developing clean energy solutions to
create a positive economic change for tribal nations.

**Farnam Jahanian, Member**

Farnam Jahanian has been serving as the 10th president of Carnegie
Mellon University (CMU) since 2018. An internationally recognized
computer scientist, entrepreneur, and higher education leader, Jahanian
is an active advocate for how investment in R&D can be uniquely central
to an innovation ecosystem that drives global competitiveness and
addresses national priorities. Prior to coming to CMU, Jahanian led the
National Science Foundation Directorate for Computer and Information
Science and Engineering from 2011-2014 and previously spent 20 years at
the University of Michigan, where he served as Chair for Computer
Science and Engineering. An expert in cybersecurity and networks, his
research formed the basis for the internet security company Arbor
Networks, which he co-founded in 2001 and where he served as chair until
its acquisition in 2010. Jahanian is a member of the board of directors
for Highmark Health and the National Center for Women and Information
Technology and sits on the executive committee of the U.S. Council on
Competitiveness. He served as chair of the National Research Council’s
Computer Science and Telecommunications Board from 2015 to 2021 and has
been a board member of the Computing Research Association. He is a
member of the Global Network Advisory Board for World Economic Forum’s
Centre for the Fourth Industrial Revolution. Jahanian holds a Ph.D. in
computer science from the University of Texas at Austin. He is a fellow
of the Association for Computing Machinery, the Institute of Electrical
and Electronic Engineers and the American Association for the
Advancement of Science.

**Lacy M. Johnson, Member**

Lacy M. Johnson serves as the partner-in-charge of Taft’s Washington, DC
office. His legal practice focuses on public affairs and government with
more than 30 years’ experience. Johnson served on the Biden-Harris
transition team and is a trusted advisor to many Congressional Black
Caucus leaders and members. He is a former Democratic National Committee
(DNC) member; and in 2021, he was reappointed by President Biden as an
At-Large Member of the DNC. Prior to his private legal practice, Johnson
served as a Lt. Colonel in the Indiana State Police and was a Lt.
Commander of the U.S. Naval Intelligence Reserves. He is also a past
Indianapolis Airport Authority president.

Johnson serves on two corporate boards, Kemper Corp. and Griffon Corp.
He is involved at the board or member level of the Congressional Black
Caucus Political Education and Leadership Institute (board); the
Congressional Black Caucus Policy Institute (member); the U.S.
Democratic Black Caucus PAC (member); and the Indiana University
Foundation (board). He previously served as a trustee of the Health &
Hospital Corp. of Marion County, Indiana. His community service and
civic/professional awards are extensive, including the Sagamore of the
Wabash Award; Leadership in Law Lifetime Achievement Award (*Indiana
Lawyer*); and board service on the Madam Walker Legacy Center; Ft.
Benjamin Harrison Reuse Authority; and the Central Indiana Community
Foundation. Johnson is a 33<sup>rd</sup> Degree Scottish Rite Mason PHA,
Northern Jurisdiction and a Sigma Pi Phi (Boulé) fraternity member.

**Gareth Joyce, Member**

Gareth Joyce serves as Chief Executive Officer and Board Member at
Proterra. Joyce brings to Proterra a long and distinguished career that
spans the automotive, aviation, and consulting industries with a
consistent focus on environmental sustainability and decarbonizing the
transportation sector. Through his leadership, Joyce is growing
Proterra’s EV battery manufacturing footprint in the United States and
accelerating the transition of transit and other commercial vehicles to
zero emission solutions. Amongst other things, he was instrumental in
negotiating an agreement to obtain U.S. based cell manufacture with LG
Energy Solutions, a critical strategic imperative to further develop
domestic capacity for commercial vehicle batteries.

Joyce previously served as Chief Sustainability Officer for Delta Air
Lines, overseeing Delta’s $1 billion commitment toward becoming carbon
neutral and leading the airline’s Global Sustainability team. He has
deep experience in transportation logistics and customer satisfaction
with transportation products, having led organizations responsible for
airport operations and the cargo business for Delta Airlines. Prior to
joining Delta, Joyce held a variety of senior leadership positions with
Mercedes-Benz with his last role being CEO of Mercedes-Benz Canada. His
expertise successfully serving industry sectors from cargo freight to
commercial and passenger vehicles makes him uniquely qualified to
accelerate the adoption of EV transportation solutions across all
sectors of the economy. Joyce holds a Bachelor of Science in Engineering
from the University of Witwatersrand and a Master of Commerce in
Business Management from the University of Johannesburg.

**Paul A. Laudicina, Member**

Paul A. Laudicina is chairman emeritus of Kearney, one of the world’s
largest strategy consulting firms, and founder of its Global Business
Policy Council, a top-ranked think tank helping CEOs and
government/civil society leaders anticipate and rise to the challenge of
navigating a transformed world. Earlier in his career, he served as
then-Senator Joe Biden’s legislative director, and as founder of the
policy division of SRI International (the former Stanford Research
Institute). Laudicina is also the author of several books, including
*Wall Street Journal* best-seller *Roadmap to a Brighter Future:
Reimagining and Realizing America’s Possibilities,* as well as a CEO
coach working with Korn Ferry, the world’s leading executive search,
human resources, and leadership development firm. *Consulting* magazine,
which regularly named him to its ranking of the Top 25 most influential
consultants, awarded Laudicina its Lifetime Achievement Award in
2019—the profession’s highest honor. He divides his time between Santa
Fe, New Mexico and Scottsdale, Arizona; his office in Washington, DC;
and client sites and podiums across five continents.

**John Lawler, Member**

John Lawler is chief financial officer at Ford Motor Company. As CFO,
Lawler has overall responsibility for Ford’s Finance functions,
including Accounting, Financial Planning and Analysis, Treasury, Tax,
Investor Relations, Economics, and Audit, as well as the Ford Credit
business. Lawler was previously chief executive officer of Ford
Autonomous Vehicles LLC and vice president, Mobility Partnerships, where
he led the team developing and bringing to market driverless
transportation services. Before that, Lawler served as vice president,
Strategy, overseeing Corporate Strategy, Business Development and Global
Data Insights and Analytics where he facilitated creation of Ford’s
long-term enterprise strategy and helped deliver critical partnerships,
including with VW and Mahindra.

Lawler served as vice president and corporate controller and chief
financial officer, Global Markets, from 2016 to 2018. He has also held a
number of roles throughout Ford’s global enterprise, including chairman
and chief executive officer of Ford China, and CFO for Ford Asia Pacific
and Africa, based in Shanghai. He joined Ford in 1990 and subsequently
served in a variety of roles in North America, Europe, and Asia. Lawler
earned a bachelor’s degree in economics from Knox College in 1988 and a
master’s degree in Business Administration from the University of Iowa
in 1990. He and his wife, Inga, have three children.

**Rich Lesser, Member**

Rich Lesser is the Global Chair of Boston Consulting Group (BCG), where
he actively engages with CEOs, executive teams, and boards of directors
around the world on critical topics including climate and
sustainability, innovation, resilience, change management, and purpose.
He previously served as BCG’s CEO from 2013-2021, a period of
exceptional growth for the firm across all regions and practice areas.
He led significant investments in building BCG’s digital and advanced
analytics capabilities, founding the Centre for Climate Impact, and
deepening expertise across industries and functional disciplines. He was
named the Best CEO in America by Glassdoor in 2021.

In addition to his role at BCG, Lesser serves as chief advisor to the
Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders at the World Economic Forum, as Chair of
the North America Board for the Centre for Public Impact, as co-chair of
the Council for Inclusive Capitalism, and is a Board or Advisory Council
member of several leading organizations, such as the First Movers
Coalition, Southern Communities Initiative, Breakthrough Energy
Catalyst, and the EDISON Alliance, among others. He previously served on
the board of the Business Roundtable and led their CEO COVID-19 Task
Force. Prior to joining BCG, Lesser worked as a product development
engineer at Procter & Gamble. He received an MBA as a Baker Scholar from
Harvard Business School and a BSE in chemical engineering *summa cum
laude* from the University of Michigan College of Engineering. He grew
up in Pittsburgh, PA and lives with his wife Gabrielle in Westchester,
NY.

**Karen S. Lynch, Member**

Karen S. Lynch is president and CEO of CVS Health, leading more than
300,000 colleagues who are passionate about delivering a superior health
care experience for consumers by improving health outcomes, broadening
access to care, and lowering costs. CVS Health touches the lives of more
than 100 million people through its health care benefits and pharmacy
benefits management businesses, and presence in over 9,000 community
health destinations. Lynch has over three decades of experience in the
health care industry. Prior to becoming CEO in February 2021, Lynch was
executive vice president of CVS Health and president of Aetna, where she
was responsible for delivering consumer-centric, holistic health care to
the millions of people Aetna serves. Before joining CVS Health, Lynch
held executive positions at Cigna and Magellan Health Services, where
she served as president. She began her career with Ernst & Young as a
certified public accountant.

Lynch has been named to *Fortune’s* list of the “50 Most Powerful Women
in Business” the past six years, including the top ranking in 2021 and
2022. She is a member of the Business Roundtable, the World Economic
Forum Global Coalition for Value in Healthcare Executive Board and the
Boston College Women’s Council. A graduate of Boston College and The
Questrom School of Business at Boston University, Lynch was awarded an
honorary Doctor of Commercial Science from the University of Hartford in
2022 and an honorary doctorate of humane letters from Becker College in
2015.

**Robert G. Martinez Jr., Member**

Robert G. Martinez Jr. serves as International President of the
600,000-member International Association of Machinists and Aerospace
Workers (IAM), the largest aerospace, defense and airline labor union in
North America. Since his January 2016 installment as International
President, Martinez has put aggressive measures in place to grow the
IAM’s presence in new industries, negotiate strong collective bargaining
agreements with some of the world’s largest and most powerful
corporations, and better serve members through new programs for IAM
military veterans, IAM women activists, members recovering from
substance abuse, and more.

A 43-year IAM member, Martinez previously served as IAM Southern
Territory General Vice President and in numerous positions on the staff
of the Southern Territory and the IAM Safety and Health Department. A
U.S. Naval Air veteran, Martinez began his IAM career in 1980 after
being hired as an Aircraft Assembler at Lockheed Martin in Fort Worth,
Texas. The IAM is among North America’s largest industrial trade unions
and represents members in the manufacturing, aerospace, defense,
airline, railroad, transportation, shipbuilding, woodworking, health
care, and other industries.

**Patrick E. Murphy, Member**

Former Congressman Patrick E. Murphy is the Chief Investment Officer of
Coastal Construction Group, one of the largest general contractors in
the Southeast U.S. Murphy is also founder and CEO of Togal.ai, an
artificial intelligence software that automates the estimating process
in construction. Born and raised in the Florida Keys, Murphy started
working in construction as a day laborer, graduated from the University
of Miami and worked at Deloitte as a CPA.

Murphy was elected in 2012 and was one of the first millennials to serve
in the U.S. House, representing Palm Beach & Treasure Coast. He served
on the House Select Committee on Intelligence and the Financial Services
Committee. Murphy helped secure nearly $2 billion for restoration of The
Everglades, introduced the SAVE Act aimed at eliminating billions in
wasteful government spending and passed legislation reforming the
national flood insurance market. Murphy was the Democratic nominee for
Senate in 2016. After leaving office, he was named Chairman of the
Future Forum Foundation, a nonprofit that works with Congress and the
private sector to address the future of work.

Murphy was a fellow at the Georgetown Institute of Politics and Public
Service and is currently a senior fellow at Florida International
University. Inspired by his bipartisan nationwide tour of 40 college
campuses, Murphy co-authored a textbook discussing today’s political
polarization, *A Divided Union*. Murphy had one of the most independent
voting records while serving in Congress and worked to find bipartisan
solutions to the nation’s greatest challenges.

**Punit Renjen, Member**

On December 31, 2022, Punit Renjen retired as Deloitte Global CEO after
having served in the role since June 2015. He now serves as Deloitte
Global CEO Emeritus. Deloitte operates in 150 countries, with 415,000
professionals, and 2022 revenues of $59.3 billion. During his tenure as
CEO, Renjen developed and executed a global strategy that resulted in
Deloitte becoming the leading professional services organization in the
world and recognized as the strongest and most valuable commercial
services brand. Deloitte has led its competitors in growth and impact,
becoming the largest of the Big Four while also the leader in audit
quality.

Under Renjen’s leadership Deloitte launched WorldClass—a global effort
to prepare 100 million underprivileged people for a world of
opportunity—based on the belief that when society thrives, business
thrives. Recently Deloitte made a commitment to be net zero by 2030
under its WorldClimate initiative, and joined the First Movers
Coalition. Renjen is deeply committed to advancing diversity and
inclusion at Deloitte through measurable actions toward gender balance.
Over his career, Renjen has been recognized by numerous organizations
for his leadership, business acumen and commitment to societal impact.
In 2022, Renjen was recognized by the *Economic Times* as “Global Indian
of the Year” and the Carnegie Corporation of America as one of 34 “Great
Immigrants. Great Americans.” In 2021, the US-India Strategic
Partnership Forum recognized Renjen with its Global Achievement Award.
In 2020, Renjen was awarded the Oregon History Makers Medal.

**Michael F. Roman, Member**

Mike Roman is chairman and CEO of 3M, one of the world’s leading science
companies. As a $5 billion exporter out of the United States, 3M
leverages its 51 technology platforms to empower consumers, reshape the
future of transportation and manufacturing, and improve healthcare
globally. Its employees are united by a common purpose: unlocking the
value of people, science, and ideas to reimagine what’s possible and
create what’s next. Under Roman’s leadership, 3M helped lead the
response to COVID-19 and distributed 4 billion respirators globally to
protect nurses, doctors and first responders – including 2 billion
respirators in the U.S. To advance sustainability, the company has
committed $1 billion to improve water quality, reduce water and plastic
use, and achieve carbon neutrality. For nine straight years, 3M has been
recognized by Ethisphere as one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies.
Roman became CEO in July 2018 and chairman in May 2019. He previously
served as chief operating officer, led 3M’s largest business group and
was chief strategist. Throughout Roman’s career, he has lived and led
businesses around the world, including the United States, Europe, and
Asia. Roman holds a master’s degree in Electrical Engineering from the
University of Southern California, and a bachelor’s degree from the
University of Minnesota. He serves on the board of Abbott Laboratories
and on the University of Minnesota Foundation Board of Trustees. As a
former “Big,” Roman is a long-time supporter of Big Brothers Big Sisters
of America.

**Daniel Rosen, Member**

Daniel Rosen is the CEO of Rosen Partners LLC, an international real
estate development firm involved in residential, commercial and hotel
developments. Prior to his career in Real Estate, Rosen graduated *cum
laude* from Harvard University with a concentration in Economics and
then worked at the Walt Disney Company with business development
responsibilities spanning across Disney, ABC, and ESPN.

Rosen has also demonstrated his sense of responsibility for the
betterment of his community. Among his varied community involvements,
Rosen serves as the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Riverdale
Country School and as a board member of the American Jewish Congress
where he served as the President of its Metropolitan Region. In this
capacity, Rosen has worked with political leaders to ensure vigilance
against anti-Semitism, racism, and other forms of bigotry. In addition,
President Obama appointed him as a member of the United States Holocaust
Memorial Council, the Board of Trustees for the Holocaust Museum in
Washington, DC. Rosen currently resides with his wife and their two sons
in Manhattan.

**Michelle W. Singer, Member**

Michelle W. Singer is Senior Vice President for Political Engagement at
Comcast Corporation. Singer’s portfolio includes political engagement
and government affairs work in Philadelphia, Washington, DC, and
throughout the company’s national footprint. Before joining Comcast in
2009, Singer served as former Pennsylvania Governor Edward G. Rendell’s
chief political and fundraising strategist for nearly a decade. On
behalf of Governor Rendell, she served in lead finance and strategy
roles for the National and Democratic Governor’s Associations. As a
Democratic strategist and fundraiser, Singer has worked closely with all
five Democratic presidential campaigns since 2000, including in her
various roles at Comcast.

Most recently, Singer served on the Transition Leadership Board of
Pennsylvania Governor Josh Shapiro and Lieutenant Governor Austin Davis.
Additionally, Singer is Vice Chair of Philadelphia Soccer 2026, the host
city committee for the 2026 FIFA Men’s World Cup, serves as a Trustee of
The Franklin Institute, and is a Member of the Board of the Boys and
Girls Clubs of Philadelphia. A native of Pittsburgh, Singer graduated
from the University of Pittsburgh with dual degrees in English Writing
and International Relations. Singer began her career in the Washington,
DC office of Edelman Public Relations Worldwide in 1998 and was an
advance staffer for the Clinton White House and Vice President Gore’s
2000 presidential campaign. Singer served as Director of Events for the
Democratic National Committee through 2001.

**Rajesh Subramaniam, Member**

Raj Subramaniam is President and Chief Executive Officer and a member of
the Board of Directors of FedEx Corporation, one of the world’s largest
transportation companies. As President and CEO of FedEx Corporation,
Subramaniam is responsible for providing strategic direction for all
FedEx operating companies. Subramaniam is chair of the five-person
Executive Committee, which plans and executes the corporation’s
strategic business activities. He is also chair of the FedEx Strategic
Management Committee, a select group of the company’s top leadership,
which sets the strategic direction for the enterprise. Before being
named President and CEO-elect in March 2022, he was President and Chief
Operating Officer of FedEx Corporation. Previously, Subramaniam held
various leadership roles in operations and marketing across the FedEx
portfolio of operating companies.

Subramaniam serves on the board of directors of FedEx Corporation, the
Procter & Gamble Company, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s China Center
Advisory Board, *FIRST*, U.S.-India Strategic Partnership Forum, and the
U.S.-China Business Council, and a member of the U.S.-India CEO Forum.
Subramaniam is also a proud 2023 recipient of the Pravasi Bharatiya
Samman Award, the highest civilian award presented by the President of
India to the Indian diaspora in recognition of outstanding achievements
in India and abroad. He earned a bachelor’s degree in chemical
engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology, a master’s degree
in chemical engineering from Syracuse University, and a master’s degree
in business administration from The University of Texas at Austin.

**Juan Verde, Member**

Juan Verde is an internationally renowned strategist for both the public
and private sectors, with particular focus on green exports and
attracting foreign direct investment to this field. Over the course of
his career, Verde has served as a consultant for a variety of
prestigious companies, institutions, and governments, such as Santander
Bank Investments, the Inter-American Development Bank, Harvard
University, The World Bank, and the governments of Lithuania and
Gibraltar as well as numerous governors and mayors in Latin America.

Currently, Verde is a member of the Board of Directors of HISPASAT, the
leading satellite communications operator in Spain, Portugal, and Latin
America, a member of Airbus Foundation Board of Advisors and the
American Sustainable Network. Verde holds a master’s degree in Public
Policy from Harvard University and a Bachelor of Arts in Political
Science and International Relations from Boston University.

**Dana Walden, Member**

Dana Walden is co-chairman of Disney Entertainment overseeing Disney’s
full portfolio of entertainment media, news, and content business
globally, including Disney’s streaming business. In this role, Walden
leads Disney’s world-renowned, award-winning content brands and
businesses, including ABC Entertainment, ABC News, ABC Owned Television
Stations, Disney Branded Television, Disney Television Studios,
Freeform, FX, Hulu Originals, National Geographic Content, and Onyx
Collective. She also oversees the marketing, operations, distribution,
and business groups across these brands and has shared oversight of
direct-to-consumer, technology, and ad sales, as well as international
content and operations.

A business leader committed to creating jobs in her home state of
California and beyond, Walden oversees thousands of employees around the
world whose contributions fuel one of the most extensive content
libraries in the industry, on productions that generate tens of
thousands of additional jobs. Walden’s purview includes some of the most
internationally renowned U.S. series of the last three decades — shows
like *Glee, Grey’s Anatomy, Homeland, The Simpsons,* and *24*. Programs
developed by Walden have won more than 1,000 awards throughout her
career, and last year alone earned an impressive 288 Emmy nominations.
Walden is the recipient of a Lifetime Achievement Award from Harvard
Undergraduate Women in Business and a Brandon Tartikoff Legacy Award
from the National Association of Television Program Executives. She was
inducted into Broadcasting & Cable’s Television Hall of Fame, was named
MIPCOM’s Personality of the Year, is a member of USC’s President’s
Leadership Council and the President’s Circle of the NAACP.

\###
