---
date: '2023-02-02'
modified_time: 2023-02-02 10:56:37-05:00
published_time: 2023-02-02 11:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/02/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-national-cancer-advisory-board/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to National Cancer Advisory\_\
  Board"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint six
members to the National Cancer Advisory Board, which plays an important
role in guiding the Director of the National Cancer Institute in setting
the course for the national cancer research program. The National Cancer
Advisory Board will complement the Cancer Moonshot, which President
Biden reignited a year ago to end cancer as we know it today – including
by making sure his Administration is investing in research and
development that will help advance breakthroughs to prevent, detect, and
treat diseases like cancer. 

-   Margaret Anderson, Member, National Cancer Advisory Board
-   Richard J. Boxer, Member, National Cancer Advisory Board
-   Ysabel Duron, Member, National Cancer Advisory Board
-   Julie Papanek Grant, Member, National Cancer Advisory Board
-   Ana Navas Acien, Member, National Cancer Advisory Board
-   Fred K. Tabung, Member, National Cancer Advisory Board

**Margaret Anderson, Member, National Cancer Advisory Board**

Margaret Anderson advises federal health and nonprofit clients as a
Managing Director at Deloitte. She began her career with the
Congressional Office of Technology Assessment where she explored the
impact of biotechnology and genetics on society. She contributed to
progress in several critical areas to advance the pace of research for
patients – from genetics to HIV/AIDS, women’s health research, patient
centricity, oncology, and the COVID-19 pandemic response. She later
served as Executive Director of FasterCures, a center of the Milken
Institute, prior to joining Deloitte. She serves on several nonprofit
boards including Act for NIH, Allen Institute, FasterCures, and Friends
of Cancer Research, and previous board membership includes Melanoma
Research Alliance, National Health Council, and the NIH NCATS Advisory
Council and Cures Acceleration Network.

**Richard J. Boxer, Member, National Cancer Advisory Board**

Richard J. Boxer, MD, FACS is a Clinical Professor of Urology at the
David Geffen School at the University of California, Los Angeles. He is
a three-time cancer survivor who has cared for over 7,000 patients with
cancers. Dr. Boxer has represented the U.S. at the World Health
Organization as a private citizen, and he was recently on the Board of
Directors of the American Society of Clinical Oncology Conquer Cancer
Foundation. In April 2021 he was awarded the Distinguished Alumni Award
by the University of Wisconsin’s Medical School, its highest honor. He
is on the Board of G4 Alliance, an international organization that
promotes excellent care for all surgical patients.

Dr. Boxer has been an attending urologist for 16 years for our veteran
heroes at VA hospitals in Miami and Los Angeles. He has published nearly
100 journal articles and book chapters on medical research. He also has
published in the national press on health policy, including in the *New
York Times, Wall Street Journal, Harvard Business Review, Real Clear
Policy, JAMA, New England Journal of Medicine,* and *Health Affairs*.
Dr. Boxer helped create the clinical protocols for telemedicine
beginning 15 years ago, becoming the Chief Medical Officer of numerous
telemedicine companies. He has dedicated his professional career to
compassionate and uncompromising care for cancer patients and educating
the public and the medical community.

**Ysabel Duron, Member, National Cancer Advisory Board**

Ysabel Duron, a native of California, is a veteran, multi-award winning
broadcast journalist, who came into the cancer space after her own bout
with Hodgkins Lymphoma in 1999. Cancer has become the number one cause
of death for the Latino population, which at 62 million people is the
largest ethnic group in the U.S. The Founder and Executive Director of
The Latino Cancer Institute, Duron is nationally recognized as an
influential patient advocate leader dedicated to building community
knowledge and capacity to respond to the cancer challenge. She works to
amplify Latino voices around issues of cancer; collaborate in research
with institutions nationwide; and promote policy that addresses
disparities in education and access, screening, diagnosis, and precision
care for communities of color and vulnerable populations.

Duron currently serves on the Institutional Review Board for the NIH/All
of Us Research program; was named in 2019 to the Oversight Board of the
California Institute for Regenerative Medicine, the country’s leading
stem cell agency; and most recently joined the newly-launched ACS
National Breast Cancer RoundTable.

**Julie Papanek Grant, Member, National Cancer Advisory Board**

Julie Grant is a General Partner at Canaan, a life science and
technology venture capital fund. Grant founds, incubates, and invests in
new biotech companies that turn scientific discoveries into medicines
for patients in need. Grant was Co-Founder and CEO of Day One
Biopharmaceuticals, Acting CEO of Reactive Biosciences, and founding
investor in Synthekine and Nocion Therapeutics. Prior to Canaan, she
held positions at Genentech across Development and Commercial primarily
focused on new oncology products. She earned a B.S. in Molecular
Biophysics and Chemistry from Yale, a MPhil BioScience Enterprise from
Cambridge, and an MBA from Stanford.

**Ana Navas Acien, Member, National Cancer Advisory Board**

Dr. Ana Navas Acien, MD, PhD is a Professor of Environmental Health
Sciences at Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health. Her
research and teaching focus on the role of the environment in common
diseases with the goal of improving people’s health. She has more than
300 peer-reviewed publications, leads multiple NIH-funded research
projects, and is recognized for bridging medical and environmental
health sciences using a participatory approach. She has served as chair
of the NIH Kidney, Endocrine, and Digestive Disorders study section and
as a member of National Academy of Sciences committees, including those
reviewing the health effects of inorganic arsenic and e-cigarettes. She
directs the Columbia University Northern Plains Superfund Research
Program, a center that integrates science, technology, and traditional
knowledge to protect the Northern Plains water resources and Indigenous
communities from hazardous metal exposures.

Dr. Navas Acien trained in Medicine obtaining her MD from the University
of Granada, Spain, and completed her residency training in Preventive
Medicine and Public Health at the Hospital La Paz, Madrid and her PhD in
Epidemiology at Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD. Prior to her
PhD, she worked at the Cancer Registry of the Andalusian School of
Public Health, the Department of Non-communicable Diseases of the Pan
American Health Organization, and the Division of Cancer and Environment
of the Spanish National Center of Epidemiology. After a 15-year career
at Johns Hopkins University, she joined Columbia University in 2016
where she is a member of the Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center,
Cancer Population Science Program.

**Fred K. Tabung, Member, National Cancer Advisory Board**

Fred K. Tabung is an Assistant Professor at the Ohio State University
College of Medicine and Comprehensive Cancer Center, where he conducts a
research program aiming to advance our understanding of how diet-related
metabolic dysregulation impacts cancer risk and treatment response and
to translate this knowledge into heathier eating and therapeutic diets.
He is pioneering innovative approaches to studying the role of diet in
cancer, some of which includes integration of the metabolic properties
of specific foods beyond their caloric content. Tabung’s life
experiences growing up and working in Africa strongly influenced his
focus on diet and nutrition as a key determinant of health and disease,
especially cancer. After obtaining his undergraduate degree in medical
laboratory science, Tabung worked in the pathology laboratory of a
reference hospital in Yaounde, Cameroon, helping to diagnose cancer,
while also volunteering time to help start a population-based cancer
registry for the city. Convinced that effective cancer prevention
methods were sorely needed, Tabung pursued graduate-level education in
nutrition and cancer epidemiologic research under the Fulbright
Scholarship Program, where he focused upon the study, elucidation, and
development of novel dietary pattern research methods.

Tabung’s work as a researcher has been recognized with multiple awards,
including the Breakthrough Graduate Scholar Award and the Doctoral
Achievement Award at the University of South Carolina in recognition of
outstanding graduate school accomplishments. Most recently, he was named
an American Cancer Society Research Scholar. Tabung was also appointed
to serve in the Mechanisms Expert Committee advising the World Cancer
Research Fund/American Institute for Cancer Research on potential
biological mechanisms underlying the role of diet in cancer risk and
prognosis, for their Global Cancer Update Program.

\###
