---
date: '2023-02-10'
modified_time: 2023-02-10 10:54:07-05:00
published_time: 2023-02-10 11:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/10/leaders-applaud-the-presidents-state-of-the-union-address/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Leaders Applaud the President\u2019s State of the Union\_Address"
---
 
Tuesday, the President was strong and energetic in his State of the
Union address. He spoke clearly and directly to the American people
about the progress we’ve made over the past two years and his agenda for
the future. And, he said clearly that we need to finish the job.

He talked about his efforts to tackle inflation, give families more
breathing room, and combat junk fees that cost families millions.

In stark contrast to Congressional Republicans’ heckling and jeers, the
President was optimistic about the future and called on Republicans to
work with Democrats to deliver for families, instead of engage in
endless partisan warfare. 

*See below for what bipartisan leaders across a federal, state and local
level are saying about President Biden’s State of the Union address:*

***Congressional Leaders***

**Senate Majority Leader, New York Senator Chuck Schumer**: “…The speech
tonight was a great success… After tonight’s speech, it’s clear that
under President Biden’s leadership, our nation is rising to new heights
as we work towards building a brighter and more equitable future for all
Americans.”
\[[Statement](https://www.democrats.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/majority-leader-schumer-statement-on-president-bidens-state-of-the-union-address),
2/7/23\]

**Senate Majority Whip, Illinois Senator Dick Durbin**: “Because the
soul of this nation is strong, because the backbone of this nation is
strong, because the people of this nation are strong, the State of the
Union is strong.” Couldn’t agree more, Mr. President.
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenatorDurbin/status/1623160049165127680?s=20&t=M6UmgzZA2RdXiSF6sW0ukQ),
2/7/23\]

**Vice Chair of the Senate Democratic Caucus and Chair, Senate
Intelligence Committee, Virginia Senator Mark Warner:** “… I agree with
the President: “what we have accomplished over these last two years
demonstrates what can be done when both parties put aside their red and
their blue jerseys, and focus on getting stuff done for the American
people…”
\[[Statement](https://www.warner.senate.gov/public/index.cfm/pressreleases?ID=681404EA-5CD5-4E6A-B890-93EC06B73243),
2/7/23\]

**Vice Chair of the Senate Democratic Caucus, Massachusetts Senator
Elizabeth Warren**: “The President’s speech was filled with economic
policy to benefit working people and the middle class — from cutting
junk fees and enforcing antitrust law to taxing billionaires and
investing in child care. Joe Biden doing what he does best.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenWarren/status/1623168715163418626?s=20&t=SMAj8Z06yyiS7iOisO0YMg),
2/7/23\]

**President Pro Tempore of the Senate and Chair of the Senate
Appropriations Committee, Washington Senator Patty Murray**: “That was
one heck of a speech last night, @POTUS ! I was honored to help escort
you into the \#SOTU. Let’s keep delivering results for the American
people!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/PattyMurray/status/1623362575923613702?s=20&t=W8nVDPgbhuF5A83rD7bvig),
2/8/23\]

**Secretary of the Senate Democratic Caucus, Wisconsin Senator Tammy
Baldwin:** “In the last two years, I worked hard with President Biden to
lower costs for working families, boost our Made in Wisconsin economy,
and create good paying jobs in all corners of our state. I am thrilled
that he recognized that work tonight.”
\[[Statement](https://www.baldwin.senate.gov/news/press-releases/senator-baldwin-key-priorities-and-legislation-highlighted-in-state-of-the-union-address),
2/7/23\]

**Chair of the House Democratic Caucus, California Congressman Pete
Aguilar:** “Let’s finish the job for the American people.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepPeteAguilar/status/1623162451767226369?s=20&t=stTEf_RU1guPcqp6R4viQw),
2/7/23\]

**House Minority Leader, New York Congressman Hakeem Jeffries:**
“President Biden delivered a compelling speech outlining a vision to
make life better for everyday Americans.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepJeffries/status/1623164908345995264?s=20&t=KmnLpQppnRWcv0fKgXP_fQ),
2/7/23\]

**House Minority Whip, Massachusetts Congresswoman Katherine Clark:**
“President Biden highlighted for the American people what’s possible
when families are front and center in Washington. Under his leadership,
Democrats in Congress pulled our nation from the darkest days of the
pandemic into a period of renewed opportunity – with 12 million new
jobs, the lowest unemployment rate in half a century, and wage growth
that is now outpacing inflation…”
\[[Statement](https://katherineclark.house.gov/press-releases?ID=BB230E27-38FA-4102-9ABD-6F08EADBE23B),
2/7/23\]

**Assistant Democratic Leader, South Carolina Congressman Jim Clyburn**:
“We’ve made tremendous progress on behalf of the American people over
the last two years. Now it’s time for us to finish the job. Let’s get to
work.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepJamesClyburn/status/1623162458427863042?s=20&t=cfWv7ZSIb0danUYR8Adw9A),
2/7/23\]

**Chair, Senate Veteran’s Affairs Committee, Montana Senator Jon
Tester**: “…I appreciate President Biden tonight laying out his plan to
tackle some of these issues, from inflation to housing to health care
and childcare costs.”
\[[Statement](https://www.tester.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/tester-statement-on-state-of-the-union-address/),
2/7/23\]

**Chair, Senate Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee, Michigan
Senator Debbie Stabenow**: “Let’s finish the job for the American
people.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenStabenow/status/1623161421008609282?s=20&t=T6u165NdMHmJv-lV7aHS9Q),
2/7/23\]

**Chair, Senate Armed Services Committee, Rhode Island Senator Jack
Reed:** “Thank you, @POTUS for articulating tonight how America is truly
the land of ‘possibilities.’ Together, we’re building an economy that
works for all. And we’re just getting started. I often say, the reward
for good work…is more work. Now, let’s finish the job. \#SOTU”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenJackReed/status/1623162991595200514?s=20&t=W8nVDPgbhuF5A83rD7bvig),
2/7/23\]

**Chair, Senate Rules and Administration Committee, Minnesota Senator
Amy Klobuchar:** “At the State of the Union where the President is
talking PROGRESS and America moving forward with optimism!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/amyklobuchar/status/1623146327990235136?s=20&t=uvgkvZoPi9-8JzBvR8zARQ),
2/7/23\]

**Chair, Senate Budget Committee, Rhode Island Senator Sheldon
Whitehouse:** “Tonight, @POTUS gave an optimistic look at the
possibilities for our nation. We’ve accomplished big things in the last
year, and we need to keep building on our momentum.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenWhitehouse/status/1623169656545587201?s=20&t=8eOISO25v9tH-5faROit3g),
2/7/23\]

**Chair, Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee,
Washington Senator Maria Cantwell:** “We must build on that progress and
turn those investments into real solutions that will make our nation and
our manufacturers competitive, bring more good-paying jobs back to
America, and build a resilient economy for the future.” \[[Tweet
Thread](https://twitter.com/SenatorCantwell/status/1623179638129274881?s=20&t=URASZxY3rImyd5Qbb2zVqw),
2/7/23\]

**Chair, Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, Delaware Senator
Tom Carper:** “As President Biden underscored in his address, we have
made historic economic progress over the past two years. Our economy has
created 12 million jobs, the unemployment rate has dropped to its lowest
level since 1969, annual inflation has fallen the past six months, and
the deficit has fallen by $1.7 trillion…”
\[[Statement](https://www.carper.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/carper-lauds-the-state-of-the-union-under-president-biden/),
2/7/23\]

**Chair, Senate Ethics Committee, Delaware Senator Chris Coons**:
“During his State of the Union address last night, President @JoeBiden
reminded the American people why he is the president for this moment.
We’ve accomplished a lot over the past two years, and the president is
ready to keep moving our country forward.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/ChrisCoonsforDE/status/1623366177845088264?s=20&t=SMAj8Z06yyiS7iOisO0YMg),
2/8/23\]

**Chair, Senate Finance Committee, Oregon Senator Ron Wyden**: “I’m
proud that Democrats are delivering big, bold action on infrastructure,
clean energy, drug costs and more. But there’s more work to be done. I
look forward to the work ahead as we continue to tackle the priorities
that matter to the American people.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RonWyden/status/1623165635495600128?s=20&t=AsAlLnBXP4kTgqq-7l1J5A),
2/7/23\]

**Chair, Senate Foreign Relations Committee, New Jersey Senator Bob
Menendez:** “Since President Joe Biden took office two years ago, more
jobs have been created in the U.S. than in the last four presidencies
combined. While our nation is still recovering from the devastating
effects of the pandemic, Democrats in Congress executed a clear and
effective agenda to make our economy stronger and more resilient…”
\[[Statement](https://www.menendez.senate.gov/newsroom/press/menendez-statement-on-president-bidens-state-of-the-union-address-2023),
2/7/23\]

**Chair, Senate Budget Committee, Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders**:
“President Biden tonight gave a strong speech addressing many of the
challenges our country faces. I look forward to working with him to take
on powerful special interests and create an economy that works for all,
not just the few.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenSanders/status/1623168302255165443?s=20&t=rz0u09hldjKAcGbXM2rT5A),
2/7/23\]

**Chair, Senate Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee,
Michigan Senator Gary Peters:** “Under President Biden’s leadership and
with a Democratic majority in Congress, we’ve delivered results.”
\[[Statement](https://www.peters.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/peters-statement-on-president-bidens-2023-state-of-the-union-address),
2/7/23\]

**Chair, Senate Small Business and Entrepreneurship Committee, Maryland
Senator Ben Cardin**: “I’m proud of the historic accomplishments of the
\#117thCongress, and tonight, President Biden has shown his leadership,
articulating a path forward to build on the progress we have made.”
\[[Tweet
Thread](https://twitter.com/SenatorCardin/status/1623161022654586881?s=20&t=mRnCg-oVoZqtcBiaus70gg),
2/7/23\]

**Chair, Senate Aging Committee, Pennsylvania Senator Bob Casey**:
“We’ve got more work to do to tackle the challenges facing working
families, but the past two years have shown that the state of our union
is strong and @POTUS and Democrats in Congress are here to finish the
job.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenBobCasey/status/1623181208602480641?s=20&t=fLIM1pgZa0C_Wv4zEiJdGQ),
2/7/23\]

**Chair, Joint Economic Committee, New Mexico Senator Martin Heinrich**:
“President Biden has proven over these last two years that it is still
possible for our elected leaders to deliver real progress and tangible
results for the American people.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MartinHeinrich/status/1623164528560160769?s=20&t=t5JfxoWGc3qmVW7k3C7QTw),
2/7/23\]

**Ranking Member, House Education and the Workforce Committee, Virginia
Congressman Bobby Scott:** “…The President was clear that while we have
made great strides, there is more work to do so we can finish the job of
building an economy where everyone can succeed. Instead of passing tax
cuts for corporations and billionaires, we have grown the economy by
investing in working families…”
\[[Statement](https://bobbyscott.house.gov/media-center/press-releases/scott-statement-president-bidens-state-union-address-0),
2/7/23\]

**Ranking Member, House Appropriations Committee, Connecticut
Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro**: “We need a blue-collar blueprint to
rebuild America and that’s exactly what President Biden outlined
tonight…Under the leadership of President Biden, Democrats have enacted
transformative policies to help working Americans with rising costs…” 
\[[Statement](https://delauro.house.gov/media-center/press-releases/delauro-statement-president-bidens-2023-state-union-address),
2/7/23\]

**Ranking Member, House Armed Services Committee, Washington Congressman
Adam Smith:** “@POTUS ’s State of the Union address tonight made it
clear: “the past two years have been marked by historic progress for the
American people, and in the next two years we must work together to
build on that progress in a meaningful way.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepAdamSmith/status/1623164828788334593?s=20&t=laNERomjIfSHyMeOq9jsQg),
2/7/23\]

**Ranking Member, House Budget Committee, Pennsylvania Congressman
Brendan Boyle**: “Affordable health care. The right to join a union.
Better-paying jobs. That’s what every American worker deserves — and
Democrats will fight to make it a reality. \#SOTU”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/CongBoyle/status/1623161224954249217?s=20&t=xFp7uYQC8eqgEhs-3_1NsA),
2/7/23\]

**Ranking Member, House Energy and Commerce Committee, New Jersey
Congressman Frank Pallone:** “…Listening to President Biden speak this
evening, I was struck by the stark contrast between his optimistic
agenda and the extreme Republican agenda…”
\[[Statement](https://pallone.house.gov/media/press-releases/pallone-president-biden-s-state-union-address),
2/8/23\]

**Ranking Member, House Foreign Affairs Committee, New York Congressman
Gregory Meeks**: “Under @POTUS leadership, we’ve seen record economic
growth. Tonight, Americans heard the president’s vision for our
country…lets finish the job and continue making history!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepGregoryMeeks/status/1623170908109123590?s=20&t=gE2f_43C7YzG8l1a64C0ww),
2/7/23\]

**Ranking Member, House Homeland Security Committee, Mississippi
Congressman Bennie Thompson:** “What a great way to end the night! Thank
you, President Biden!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/BennieGThompson/status/1623161231509954560?s=20&t=w4wEQR-1p53BrG5dtTQUCQ),
2/7/23\]

**Ranking Member, House Administration Committee, New York Congressman
Joe Morelle**: “The President outlined a bold agenda that reflects our
shared democratic values, and I look forward to continuing our work on
behalf of families in our community…” \[Statement, 2/7/23\]

**Ranking Member, House Judiciary Committee, New York Congressman Jerry
Nadler:** “What we heard from President Biden tonight built on what so
many Americans have learned to be true since he took office: “Democrats
deliver for the people…”
\[[Statement](https://nadler.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=394927),
2/7/23\]

**Ranking Member, House Oversight and Accountability Committee, Maryland
Congressman Jamie Raskin:** “What a brilliant, refreshing speech that
revives true American populism—progressive democratic populism, not
right-wing authoritarian fake-populism. Biden sounds Rooseveltian and is
taking American politics by storm.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepRaskin/status/1623152784999690242?s=20&t=BIJ9VMG-b67iJUDMlv7LsA),
2/7/23\]

**Ranking Member, House Rules Committee, Massachusetts Congressman Jim
McGovern:** “Because the soul of this nation is strong, because the
backbone of this nation is strong, because the people of this nation are
strong, the State of the Union is strong.” Thank you for your strong
leadership, @POTUS Biden.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepMcGovern/status/1623160635130249217?s=20&t=QJ27SGeDpc64Crmggc7WBg),
2/7/23\]

**Ranking Member, House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee,
Washington Congressman Rick Larsen:** “We are making our transportation
system safer, cleaner, greener, and more accessible as projects across
the country repair our roads and bridges, expand transit and rail
service, create more livable communities, and increase port and airport
capacity…”
\[[Statement](https://democrats-transportation.house.gov/news/press-releases/ranking-member-larsen-applauds-potus-for-focus-on-infrastructure-in-sotu-infrastructure-means-jobs),
2/7/23\]

**Ranking Member, House Veteran’s Affairs Committee, California
Congressman Mark Takano:** “Let’s finish the job and invest in programs
and services that will end veteran homelessness.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepMarkTakano/status/1623161786986815493?s=20&t=CsHPAvIUBPWiq5_4ylifyw),
2/7/23\]

**Speaker Emeritus, California Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi**: “… Under
the President’s magnificent leadership, Democrats have made a tangible
difference in the lives of America’s families.  From creating twelve
million good-paying jobs to sparking a manufacturing boom to rebuilding
our critical infrastructure, the Biden Agenda is powering a strong,
steady economic recovery…”
\[[Statement](https://pelosi.house.gov/news/press-releases/pelosi-statement-on-president-biden-s-state-of-the-union-address),
2/7/23\]

**Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, Nevada Congressman Steven
Horsford**: “I will continue to advocate for improving public safety
until we get it done. Let’s finish the job for the American people.
\#SOTU”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepHorsford/status/1623160952416788480?s=20&t=K4DYOYMmRPc4JbsAEFY2cw),
2/7/23\]

**Chair, Congressional Hispanic Caucus, California Congresswoman Nanette
Barragán:** “Great to share my priorities as @HispanicCaucus Chair,
\#SOTU2023, what @POTUS is doing for Latino communities, & my focus on
environmental justice. @HouseDemocrats & @POTUS’ Admin make it possible
for more Latinos to realize the American dream.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepBarragan/status/1623405382772088833),
2/8/23\]

**Chair of the Congressional Asian American and Pacific Islander Caucus,
California Congresswoman Judy Chu**: “America is at its best when we
embrace our differences and diversity as strengths. As @POTUS called on
us tonight: “We must give hate and extremism in any form no safe
harbor.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepJudyChu/status/1623160632940920838?s=20&t=K4DYOYMmRPc4JbsAEFY2cw),
2/7/23\]

**Chair of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, Washington
Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal**: “That was just a helluva speech. 
Populist, worker-driven, all about fairness and opportunity. 
Congratulations @POTUS .  Your vision inspires us every day.  Let’s
finish the job!! \#sotu2023”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepJayapal/status/1623193220841603074?s=20&t=aC69c0AqECSKzvt_pQfM-A),
2/7/23\]

**Connecticut Senator Richard Blumenthal**: “@POTUS ’ words glowed with
hope & energy in reminding us how much we can continue to accomplish
when we work together. I was deeply moved by his determination &
strength in urging heightened support for Ukraine against Putin’s
murderous, genocidal invasion.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenBlumenthal/status/1623184414501965825?s=20&t=SMAj8Z06yyiS7iOisO0YMg),
2/7/23\]

**Georgia Senator Raphael Warnock**: “Thank you for laying out your
vision for how we can keep working together to create jobs, strengthen
our democracy & make progress \#ForGeorgia & all of our communities,
@POTUS . When we center \*people\*, we have a better chance at getting
the policy right. \#SOTU2023”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenatorWarnock/status/1623160763295596544?s=20&t=SMAj8Z06yyiS7iOisO0YMg),
2/7/23\]

**Minnesota Senator Tina Smith:** “Tonight, President Biden reminded us
just how far we’ve come since he took office. The last two years of
legislating have been the most productive in decades – we never backed
down from big fights. I’m ready to keep that progress going.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenTinaSmith/status/1623161074584375297?s=20&t=SMAj8Z06yyiS7iOisO0YMg),
2/7/23\]

**New Jersey Senator Cory Booker**: “I was inspired tonight by President
Biden’s remarks, not just reflecting on the progress we’ve made, but
also his call to finish the job by investing in people and solutions to
build a better America.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenBooker/status/1623160854878224387?s=20&t=SMAj8Z06yyiS7iOisO0YMg),
2/7/23\]

**New Mexico Senator Ben Ray Luján**: “Thanks to @POTUS , Congressional
Democrats, and the American people, the state of our Union is strong.
Together, we’ve accomplished a lot in these past two years and there’s
still a lot to get done. We’re just getting started.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenatorLujan/status/1623332129928105984?s=20&t=SMAj8Z06yyiS7iOisO0YMg),
2/7/23\]

**Oregon Senator Jeff Merkley**: “If there’s one thing that’ll stick
with me from @POTUS ‘s State of the Union address, it’s how much
stronger our country can be when our leaders focus on working together
to lift everyone up instead of sowing division and trying to tear each
other down.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenJeffMerkley/status/1623180137876291584?s=20&t=SMAj8Z06yyiS7iOisO0YMg),
2/7/23\]

**California Congresswoman Katie Porter**: “Tonight, @POTUS was at his
best. He delivered a personal speech with a progressive, populist vision
for our country. Americans are counting on us to deliver competition,
consumer protection, and corporate accountability. Count me in 💪”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepKatiePorter/status/1623180373755568128?s=20&t=aC69c0AqECSKzvt_pQfM-A),
2/7/23\]

**Colorado Congresswoman Brittany Pettersen**: “Last night, I spoke to
President Biden on the floor after the \#sotu2023 about the opioid
epidemic and how we can work together to address this public health
crisis. I applaud @POTUS for speaking directly to the American people
about drug addiction and the dangers of fentanyl.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepPettersen/status/1623354311399940097?s=20&t=aC69c0AqECSKzvt_pQfM-A),
2/8/23\]

**Colorado Congressman Joe Neguse**: “The President delivered a
compelling speech last night that offered an optimistic and hopeful
vision for our great country. Excited to keep working together to build
a better future for the American people.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepJoeNeguse/status/1623353369359179776?s=20&t=aC69c0AqECSKzvt_pQfM-A),
2/8/23\]

**Florida Congresswoman Lois Frankel**: “Thank you, @POTUS! The State of
our Union is strong 💪🇺🇸 \#SOTU”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepLoisFrankel/status/1623159964649893889),
2/7/23\]

**Illinois Congresswoman Lauren Underwood:** “Last night’s \#SOTU
Address showed the American people that Democrats are focused. We’re
unified. And we’re ready to keep working to make life better for working
people and families.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepUnderwood/status/1623366051575762945?s=20&t=aC69c0AqECSKzvt_pQfM-A),
2/8/23\]

**Maryland Congressman John Sarbanes**: “In his \#SOTU last night,
@POTUS laid out how far our country has come and how far it can go if we
work together. We must build on this progress and strengthen the
economy, create safer communities, invest in education and expand access
to health care.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepSarbanes/status/1623358867886284802?s=20&t=aC69c0AqECSKzvt_pQfM-A),
2/8/23\]

**Maryland Congressman Steny Hoyer**: “…Under President Biden, we have
seen what our government can accomplish by putting stability over chaos,
reason over extremism, and People Over Politics. Now, we must finish the
job…”
\[[Statement](https://hoyer.house.gov/content/hoyer-statement-president-bidens-2023-state-union-address),
2/7/23\]

**Missouri Congressman Emanuel Cleaver**: “Last night, @POTUS spoke
about the historic progress America has made under his leadership—but
there is still work to do. From investing in American workers & bringing
good-paying jobs back home to lowering costs for families & seniors, I
am committed helping him finish the job!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/repcleaver/status/1623358783517822982?s=20&t=aC69c0AqECSKzvt_pQfM-A),
2/8/23\]

**New Jersey Congressman Bill Pascrell**: “I am proud of our President
and told him so last night. What America heard was a rebirth of the FDR
Democratic Party in defense of liberty and regular Americans. I’ve been
waiting a long time for a Democrat to say what @POTUS said.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/BillPascrell/status/1623329694039916545?s=20&t=aC69c0AqECSKzvt_pQfM-A),
2/8/23\]

**North Carolina Congresswoman Kathy Manning**: “Last night, President
Biden’s message was clear: “under his leadership and with Democrats in
Congress, our economy is stronger than ever and we’re going to keep
building on that progress over the next two years.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepKManning/status/1623359137894604800?s=20&t=aC69c0AqECSKzvt_pQfM-A),
2/8/23\]

**Ohio Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur**: “✅ Growing jobs and the economy ✅
Protecting retirement security for our seniors ✅ Standing up to Russia
and China ✅ Stopping drugs at the border ✅ Supporting a free Ukraine I
told @POTUS : “I’ve been waiting 41 years for that speech.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepMarcyKaptur/status/1623180416533274624?s=20&t=aC69c0AqECSKzvt_pQfM-A),
2/7/23\]

**Tennessee Congressman Steve Cohen**: “Historic progress in lowering
prescription drug costs, strengthening Social Security & Medicare,
reducing child poverty, and fueling a manufacturing boom in clean energy
and infrastructure—all while reducing the deficit with fairer taxes on
the wealthiest. Keep it coming @POTUS!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepCohen/status/1623160210591305729),
2/7/23\]

**Texas Congresswoman Jasmine Crockett**: “. @POTUS ’ vision is clear:
“the state of our Union is stronger than ever, but we must continue to
do the good work to fulfill our promise of a better America. If tonight
wasn’t enough proof, let me say it again: “Democrats are unified,
right-wing extremists are unfit. \#SOTU”
\[[Tweet](mailto:.%20@POTUS%20’%20vision%20is%20clear:%20the%20state%20of%20our%20Union%20is%20stronger%20than%20ever,%20but%20we%20must%20continue%20to%20do%20the%20good%20work%20to%20fulfill%20our%20promise%20of%20a%20better%20America.%20If%20tonight%20wasn’t%20enough%20proof,%20let%20me%20say%20it%20again:%20Democrats%20are%20unified,%20right-wing%20extremists%20are%20unfit.%20%23SOTU),
2/7/23\]

**Vermont Congresswoman Becca Balint**: “Incredibly inspired to be in
the chamber for this year’s \#SOTU alongside members of the most diverse
class of representatives in history. The state of our union is strong.
@POTUS knows there is work ahead to finish the job and make sure no one
is left behind.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepBeccaB/status/1623340178008842240?s=20&t=aC69c0AqECSKzvt_pQfM-A),
2/8/23\]

***Governors***

**California Governor Gavin Newsom:**
“.[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS/) is right. The price of insulin is
too high. Time for change. CA will be manufacturing its own insulin.
Because we agree — it should be cheaper for everyone.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/GavinNewsom/status/1623148068227907585),
2/7/23\]

**Connecticut Governor Ned Lamont:** “The progress we’ve made as a
nation since [@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS) Biden reported on the
state of our union last year could not be clearer. Through bipartisan
cooperation led by the President, we’re rebuilding our economy,
rebuilding our infrastructure and manufacturing base…”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/GovNedLamont/status/1623163230842499072),
2/7/23\]

**Delaware Governor John Carney:** “The President laid out a clear
vision for our country tonight. It’s a vision focused on the future. I
agree with President Biden – “It’s never a good bet to bet against
America.” And as we know in Delaware, he’s the right leader to get big
things done for the American people.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/JohnCarneyDE/status/1623171722915487745),
2/7/23\]

**Illinois Governor JB Pritzker:** “What a privilege to have one of
Illinois’ own chosen to attend as a guest of
[@FLOTUS](https://twitter.com/FLOTUS/) to the State of the Union! We’re
so proud of students like Kate who are ready to hit the ground running
in their careers thanks to apprenticeship and job training programs
across the state.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/GovPritzker/status/1623126266105761794),
2/7/23\]

**Hawaii Governor Josh Green:** “I want to thank U.S. Representative
Jill Tokuda for inviting me to be her guest at the State of the Union
Address. Jill is an old friend and it was an experience of a lifetime.
Plus it worked well, as this week is the first National Governors
Association meeting of 2023.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/GovJoshGreenMD/status/1623179879318720513),
2/7/23\]

**Maryland Governor Wes Moore:** “At the \#StateOfTheUnion, @FLOTUS and
the @SecondGentleman will be joined by Rockville resident Ruth Cohen, a
Holocaust Survivor. Ruth is the embodiment of courage and I am proud
that we’ll both be at the Capitol representing Maryland tonight.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/GovWesMoore/status/1623085696687947777),
2/7/23\]

**Massachusetts Governor Maura Healey**: “Massachusetts companies like
@ADI\_News are already on the cutting edge of semiconductor and chip
innovation every day. We will make our country and our Commonwealth a
hub for the technology of tomorrow. \#SOTU”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MassGovernor/status/1623151686020698113),
2/7/23\]

**Minnesota Governor Tim Walz**: “100%, @POTUS. I look forward to
building on the progress we’ve made over the last two years by investing
in health care, child care, education, and public safety while lowering
costs for middle-class families, small businesses, and seniors. Let’s
finish the job.”
\[[Twitter](https://twitter.com/GovTimWalz/status/1623166755513241601),
2/7/23\]

**New Jersey Governor Phil Murphy:** “Over the past two years, under
President Biden’s leadership, our nation has staged a historic comeback.
Jobs are growing faster than ever, and unemployment is at all-time lows.
American manufacturing is roaring louder than at any point in 40 years
and small businesses are being opened at an unprecedented rate.
Inflation is down and so is the deficit…”
\[[Statement](https://nj.gov/governor/news/news/562023/approved/20230207b.shtml)
2/7/23\]

**New York Governor Kathy Hochul:** “The State of the Union is strong,
thanks to the leadership of President Biden and the hard work of New
Yorkers in Congress like Leader Schumer and Leader Jeffries…”
\[[Statement](https://www.governor.ny.gov/news/statement-governor-kathy-hochul-president-bidens-state-union),
2/8/23\]

**Oregon Governor Tina Kotek:** “@POTUS knows that to build an economy
that supports working families, we need to build infrastructure! Love
the shout out to the Iron Workers! \#SOTU”
\[[Twitter](https://twitter.com/GovTinaKotek/status/1623146683315126272),
2/7/23\]

**Pennsylvania Governor Josh Shapiro:** “I join @POTUS’
\#StateoftheUnion commitment to expanding our workforce, reigniting our
economy, and giving every American the freedom to chart their own
course.”
\[[Twitter](https://twitter.com/GovernorShapiro/status/1623161131421270017),
2/7/23\]

**Puerto Rico Governor Gobernador Pierluisi:**
“.[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS/), PR is key to bringing
manufacturing back to America. Our specialized workforce & strong
industry has long-standing expertise producing pharma, med devices, tech
parts. We can support growing sectors such as semiconductors & fiber
optic cables. Let’s buy American in
<img src="" loading="lazy" width="12" height="12"
alt="Title: Inserting image..." />!”
\[[Twitter](https://twitter.com/GovPierluisi/status/1623153623654928385),
2/7/23\]

**Rhode Island Governor Dan McKee:** “Looking forward to watching the
\#SOTU to hear@POTUS share his plan to continue building an economy that
works from the bottom up and the middle out, boosting our
competitiveness in the world, keeping the American people safe, and
bringing the country together.”
\[[Twitter](https://twitter.com/GovDanMcKee/status/1623132012780347394),
2/7/23\]

**Washington Governor Jay Inslee:** “The juvenile heckling by Republican
representatives backfired tonight. President Biden’s agile and unruffled
response showed who is in charge. And rightfully so. The president has
achieved important strides on many fronts, including long overdue action
on climate change. \#SOTU”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/GovInslee/status/1623174876067680256),
2/7/23\]

***Lieutenant Governors***

**Illinois Lieutenant Governor Juliana Stratton:** “So much to love
about the \#SOTU! Invest in infrastructure. Job creation. Safe drinking
water. Capping insulin costs for all. Clean energy future. Workers’
rights. Raises for public school teachers. Codifying reproductive
rights. Great news for Illinoisans. Thanks, @POTUS!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/LtGovStratton/status/1623168986513899520),
2,7,23\]

**Massachusetts Lieutenant Governor Kim Driscoll:** “Powerful \#SOTU
tonight from @POTUS! Ready to work with our partners in the @WhiteHouse
and Congress to strengthen our economy, lower costs, improve
infrastructure, and take climate action. Together, we will invest in
everything our Commonwealth and country has to offer.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MassLtGov/status/1623161975701217282),
2/7/23\]

***Attorneys General***

**California Attorney General Rob Bonta:** “Honored to witness
[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS/) deliver a commanding, far-reaching
[\#SOTU](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23SOTU) that highlighted historic
accomplishments, delivered a vision for the future, doubled down on our
values, and made clear that the State of our Union is strong”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RobBonta/status/1623186810338787330),
2/7/23\]

**Massachusetts Attorney General  Andrea Joy Campbell:** “From
protecting consumers from exorbitant fees to ensuring our children’s
safety online and off, @POTUS has made clear how he and @VP will
continue to move our country forward. I’m grateful for their leadership
and look forward to partnering on the important work ahead. \#SOTU”
\[[Twitter](https://twitter.com/MassAGO/status/1623163809341886465)/2/7/23\]

**New York Attorney General Tish James:** “Tonight,
[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS)announced a strong plan to keep
delivering for all Americans. From protecting access to abortion and
affordable healthcare, to combating gun violence and the opioid crisis,
to supporting our workers and our families, let’s finish the job.”
**\[**[Twitter](https://twitter.com/NewYorkStateAG/status/1623161265270018049?s=20&t=URsO4f7fb9tIXW4XY1CHNA),
2/7/23\]

**Vermont Attorney General Charity Clark:**
“.[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS/) delivered a strong State of the
Union address tonight. I was particularly pleased to hear him address
the progress and work yet to be done on reproductive liberty and
reducing domestic violence.”
\[[Twitter](https://twitter.com/CharityForVT/status/1623162220124200960),
2/7/23\]

**Arizona Attorney General Kris Mayes:** “I applaud
[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS) for his commitment to consumer
protection, reproductive rights, support for working families + seniors,
and call to action on the fentanyl crisis.”
***\[***[Tweet](https://twitter.com/AZAGMayes/status/1623160846737346560?s=20&t=CNJR1-b051MVkXO62Uy7qA),
2/07/23\]

***Mayors and City Elected Officials***

**Albany, NY Mayor Kathy Sheehan:** “Thanks to
[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS/), it’s finally infrastructure week
in America, every day – whether it’s through a record $22 million in new
streets and sidewalks, working alongside
[@GovKathyHochul](https://twitter.com/GovKathyHochul/) to replace the
Livingston Avenue Railroad Bridge, or helping us remove lead services.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MayorSheehan/status/1623147859666141186),
2/7/23\]

**Allentown, PA Mayor Matt Tuerk:** “This amazing economic recovery has
had a huge positive impact on cities. In addition to the direct support
that we received through ARPA, the growth has improved revenue streams
and helped us continue to come back stronger. Thx
[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS/)
[@usmayors](https://twitter.com/usmayors/) \#sotu2023”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/matthewtuerk/status/1623152941640065024),
2/7/23\]

**Benton Harbor, MI Mayor Marcus Muhammed:** “Mr.
[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS), good luck tonight in your State of
the Union address.
[\#sotu2023″](https://twitter.com/hashtag/sotu2023?src=hashtag_click)“
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/marcus4polytics/status/1623003002943463424?s=20&t=Pr58BJuYcOLT9rZhlBHlsA),
2/7/23\]

**Cincinnati, OH Mayor Aftab Pureval:** “Tonight,
[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS) will talk about his administration’s
historic support for cities like ours. We’re on the path to building a
resilient, safe, and equitable Cincinnati because our federal partners
had our backs. Our future is brighter because the
[@WhiteHouse](https://twitter.com/WhiteHouse) has invested in it.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/AftabPureval/status/1622983283402317825),
2/7/23\]

**Charlotte, NC Mayor Vi Lyles**: “Honored and privileged to attend
[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS) State of the Union address as a
guest of [@RepAdams](https://twitter.com/RepAdams)!
[@RepAdams](https://twitter.com/RepAdams) has been a strong supporter of
Charlotte and our region, and I’m grateful for her work in securing
vital federal funding for residents and overall infrastructure!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/CLTMayor/status/1622958353420021764),
2/7/23\]

**Chattanooga, TN Mayor Tim Kelly:** “Tonight,
[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS) will highlight his administration’s
historic investments in cities like ours. Thanks to support at the
federal level on transformative projects like our Wilcox Bridge, we’re
building a safer, more equitable, and more connected community for
generations to come.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MayorTimKelly/status/1623100053349883906?s=20&t=Pr58BJuYcOLT9rZhlBHlsA),
2/7/23\]

**Chicago, IL Mayor Lori Lightfoot:**
“.[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS)’ bipartisan Infrastructure Act
supported the rehabilitation of four bridges over the Calumet River,
aiding regional & national connectivity. I’m thankful to the
Biden-Harris Administration for their continued support of
transformative developments for Chicago communities.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/chicagosmayor/status/1623143245705355267),
2/7/23\]

“Chicago will always support reproductive health. I’m grateful for
[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS/)’ continued commitment to protecting
a person’s right to choose. More needs to be done but Chicago will
always remain a safe haven for those seeking reproductive care. \#SOTU”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/chicagosmayor/status/1623155939808317440),
2/7/23\]

**Cleveland, OH Mayor Justin Bibb:** “The past two years have proven
[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS) is one of the most effective,
pro-cities Presidents in recent memory with the passage of the CHIPS
Act, Inflation Reduction Act & ARPA dollars resulting in direct
investments in cities. Our union is strong today because of his
leadership.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/JustinMBibb/status/1623133415322124293?s=20&t=Pr58BJuYcOLT9rZhlBHlsA),
2/07/23\]

**Columbus, OH Mayor Andy Ginther:** “Tonight,
[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS) laid out his plan for building a
better America. President Biden has created more jobs in a two-year
period than any other president on record. The unemployment rate is at a
54-year low. We appreciate his partnership and commitment to making our
country stronger.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MayorGinther/status/1623164236309438466),
2/7/23\]

**Dayton Mayor Jeffrey Mims:** “Over the last two years,
[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS/) has delivered for communities
across America, including Dayton. Through the Inflation Reduction Act,
the Bispartisan Infrastructure Law & ARPA dollars directed to cities, we
are
[\#BuildingBackBetter](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23BuildingBackBetter).
[\#SOTU23
“](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23SOTU23)\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MayorMims/status/1623149648046161922),
2/07/23\]

“As a former public school teacher, I understand firsthand the great
responsibility of educating our youth.
[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS/) is right — give public school
teachers a raise!! \#SOTU23”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MayorMims/status/1623155379067551745),
2/07/23\]

**Denver, CO Mayor Michael Hancock:** “I look forward to the
[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS)‘
[\#SOTU](https://twitter.com/hashtag/SOTU?src=hashtag_click) this
evening where he will outline the work his administration is putting in
to grow the economy from the bottom up and middle out, not the top
down.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MayorHancock/status/1623131192546713600?s=20&t=Pr58BJuYcOLT9rZhlBHlsA),
2/7/23\]

**Highland Park, IL Mayor Nancy Rotering:** ““We capped the cost of
insulin at $35 for seniors on Medicare. Let’s get the job done. Let’s
cap the cost of insulin for everyone at $35.”
[\#T1D](https://twitter.com/hashtag/T1D?src=hashtag_click)
[\#Insulin4All](https://twitter.com/hashtag/Insulin4All?src=hashtag_click)
Thank you [@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS)
[\#StateOfTheUnionAddress](https://twitter.com/hashtag/StateOfTheUnionAddress?src=hashtag_click)“
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/NancyRotering/status/1623148237845680130?s=20&t=ItzLM4Ch5gH5WC-hHzFy2w),
2/7/23\]

**Houston, TX Mayor Sylvester Turner:** “It was inspiring to hear
[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS)’ vision for climate action during
the [\#SOTU](https://twitter.com/hashtag/SOTU?src=hashtag_click)
address. As a
[\#ClimateMayor](https://twitter.com/hashtag/ClimateMayor?src=hashtag_click),
I aim to mobilize federal funding, tax breaks & rebates in the city of
Houston supplied by the historic Inflation Reduction Act, improving the
lives of countless Houstonians.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SylvesterTurner/status/1623332605050425345?s=20&t=CNJR1-b051MVkXO62Uy7qA),
2/08/23\]

**Irvine, CA Mayor Farrah Khan:** “Incredible \#sotu2023. Thank you
@POTUS for focusing on our cities and providing the much needed relief
and resources through ARPA funding and the Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law. Loved hearing about support for our seniors.”

**Little Rock, AR Mayor Frank Scott, Jr:** “Tonight, President Biden
spoke directly to the American people by outlining his administration’s
historic progress over the past two years. From tackling unprecedented
crises, rebuilding the economy, and delivering results for working
families, the President’s leadership has helped steer our nation in the
right direction…”
\[[Statement](https://www.ourmayors.org/News/Statement-on-President-Joe-Bidens-Second-State-of-the-Union-Address),
2/7/23\]

**Madison Mayor Satya Rhodes-Conway:** “Madison has the lowest
unemployment rate in the nation. Mr. President, I appreciate your great
partnership and look forward to continued work together with the in the
years ahead! [@Potus](https://twitter.com/POTUS)
[\#SOTU](https://twitter.com/hashtag/SOTU?src=hashtag_click)
[\#Wisconsin”](https://twitter.com/hashtag/Wisconsin?src=hashtag_click)
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MayorOfMadison/status/1623166945867571200),
2/7/23\]

**Minneapolis, MN Mayor Jacob Frey:** “I look forward to celebrating our
country’s tremendous progress during
[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS)’ State of the Union Address tonight.
The importance of the president’s legislative achievements via ARPA,
IRA, & IIJA cannot be understated for MPLS, our families, climate, and
small businesses.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MayorFrey/status/1623094258344374273?s=20&t=Pr58BJuYcOLT9rZhlBHlsA),
2/7/23\]

**Montgomery, AL Mayor Steven Reed:** “The Biden-Harris Administration
has been on the ground helping cities and supporting communities like
mine. Thanks to [\#ARPA](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23ARPA),
[\#BIL](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23BIL) and more, we’re building
community centers, career training programs and revitalizing
neighborhoods. \#SOTU”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/stevenlouisreed/status/1623147758730215427),
2/7/23\]

**New Bedford, MA Mayor Jon Mitchell:** “The
[\#BIL](https://twitter.com/hashtag/BIL?src=hashtag_click) stands out
among [@potus](https://twitter.com/POTUS)’s many legislative
achievements, and as he noted tonight, the long overdue investments are
just starting. Here in
[\#NewBedford](https://twitter.com/hashtag/NewBedford?src=hashtag_click),
for instance, the $72M from the
[\#BIL](https://twitter.com/hashtag/BIL?src=hashtag_click) for our
harbor cleanup will lead to more jobs for our residents.”

**New Orleans, LA Mayor LaToya Cantrell:** “Tonight I’ll be tuning in to
watch President Biden deliver his second
[\#SOTU](https://twitter.com/hashtag/SOTU?src=hashtag_click) address.
I’m looking forward to hearing more about the Administration’s new
initiatives and how we will work together to build a better America for
all.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/mayorcantrell/status/1623066642417610772?s=20&t=Pr58BJuYcOLT9rZhlBHlsA),
2/7/23\]

**New York City, NY Mayor Eric Adams:** “This is a blue-collar
[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS/) with a bold agenda for working
people — and this blue-collar mayor is ready to work side by side with
him to [\#GetStuffDone](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23GetStuffDone)
for our city and our country. \#SOTU”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/NYCMayor/status/1623172540976840705),
2/7/23\]

**Oakland, CA Mayor Sheng Thao:** “Thank you
[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS) for your work passing COVID relief
and the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law— two of the most consequential
laws for cities across the US. Your Admin’s work has helped cities
recover from the peak of the pandemic and focus on building a better
future for everyone.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MayorShengThao/status/1623144208667381765),
2/7/23\]

**Phoenix, AZ Vice Mayor Yassamin Ansari**:
“[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS) is creating a pro-union, diverse
economy where no American is left behind — and Phoenix will thrive
because of this. Today he announced: “Requiring all construction
materials used in federal infrastructure projects to be made in the U.S.
\#SOTU”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/District7PHX/status/1623150223660048384?s=20&t=bJSxFFWMandwpOvI5V7r1A)
2/07/23\]

**Pittsburgh, PA Mayor Ed Gainey:** “Thank you
[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS) for securing federal funding for the
rebuild of the Fern Hollow Bridge”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/gainey_ed/status/1623146892203892736),
2/07/23\]

**Sacramento, CA Mayor Darrell Steinberg:** “President Biden gave a
compelling State of the Union speech tonight. In such difficult and
uncertain times, he is the steady, visionary, and accomplished President
our country needs.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/Mayor_Steinberg/status/1623171475737038849?s=20&t=68tvhT4zsO1fzfT7I41xmw),
2/07/23\]

**San Diego, CA Mayor Todd Gloria:** “Creation of more than 12 million
jobs. Fueling American manufacturing. Historic investment in
infrastructure. Lowering costs for families. The Biden-Harris
Administration has led historic economic growth — and we must keep
building on it. [\#SOTU](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23SOTU)
[\#ForAllofUs”](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23ForAllofUs)
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MayorToddGloria/status/1623148348390924288),
2/7/23\]

**San Francisco, CA Mayor London Breed:** “Thank you
[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS/) for helping us make the critical
investments in infrastructure and transportation that create more jobs
across and the country and for local San Franciscans. Thank you for
helping build back our economy.” “
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/LondonBreed/status/1623150847885713408),
2/7/23\]

**Savannah, GA Mayor Van Johnson:** “Thank you,
[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS)
[@JoeBiden](https://twitter.com/JoeBiden) for your support of the
citizens, aspirations and goals of the City of
[\#Savannah](https://twitter.com/hashtag/Savannah?src=hashtag_click).
[\#SavannahStrong](https://twitter.com/hashtag/SavannahStrong?src=hashtag_click)
[\#SOTU23″](https://twitter.com/hashtag/SOTU23?src=hashtag_click)
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MayorJohnsonSAV/status/1623163736096755712),
2/7/23\]

**Scranton, PA Mayor Paige Cognetti:** “That was the most fun
[\#SOTU](https://twitter.com/hashtag/SOTU?src=hashtag_click) I’ve seen.
(Sure my idea of fun might not be yours. 😉 Even more fun is watching
[@JoeBiden](https://twitter.com/JoeBiden) leave the chamber – he’s so
engaged with whomever he’s speaking. Won’t be surprised if he calls
someone’s mom before he’s done!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/PaigeGCognetti/status/1623164213995749376),
2/7/23\]

**St. Louis, MO Mayor Tishaura Jones**: “Thank you
[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS/) for emphasizing the need to keep
fighting for abortion rights in the
[\#SOTU](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23SOTU). Those of us in states
like Missouri have been living in a post-Roe reality for years, but St.
Louis will NEVER stop fighting to protect reproductive freedom for our
residents.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/saintlouismayor/status/1623157851228192768),
2/7/23\]

**St. Petersburg, FL Mayor Ken Welch:** “Thankful for the leadership of
[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS/) and the Biden-Harris
Administration, we’ve made historic progress to create jobs & improve
our communities so no one is left behind. I look forward to our
continued partnership to uplift families in
[@StPeteFL](https://twitter.com/StPeteFL/) and across the nation!
\#SOTU2023”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MayorKenWelch/status/1623159563158528000),
2/7/23\]

**Tampa, FL Mayor Jane Castor:** “That funding is going a long way in
cities like our [@CityofTampa](https://twitter.com/CityofTampa/)! Just
yesterday, we announced that we’re receiving $20M from the federal Safe
Streets and Roads for All Grant Program, established under the
[\#BipartisanInfrastructureLaw](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23BipartisanInfrastructureLaw).
[\#SOTU2023
“](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23SOTU2023%22﷟HYPERLINK%20%22https://twitter.com/hashtag/ForAllofUs?src=hashtag_click)“
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/JaneCastor/status/1623148274608750594),
2/7/23\]

**Tucson, AZ Mayor Regina Romero:** “Tonight, join me as
[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS) shares the accomplishments of the
past 2 years! This is a time to celebrate the power of progress, real
results for the American people & the real-life impacts of the
investments made to our community.
[\#BidenHarris](https://twitter.com/hashtag/BidenHarris?src=hashtag_click)
\#SOTU “
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/TucsonRomero/status/1623129578213621760?s=20&t=Pr58BJuYcOLT9rZhlBHlsA),
2/7/23\]

**West Sacramento, CA Mayor Martha Guerrero:**
“[\#sotu2023](https://twitter.com/hashtag/sotu2023?src=hashtag_click)
Thank you [@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS) &
[@FLOTUS](https://twitter.com/FLOTUS) “Our goal is to cut the cancer
death rate by at least 50% over the next 25 years. Turn more cancers
from death sentences into treatable diseases. And provide more support
for patients and families.   It’s personal for so many of us.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MGuerreroWSac/status/1623198623768150016?s=20&t=ed2f4VmL5JUcYWZOvbR6Yw),
2/7/23\]

*** State Legislators***

**Arizona House Minority Leader Raquel Teran: **“Ready to listen
to [@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS)‘s State of Union address. He will
outline how he is delivering on his economic plan to grow the economy
from the bottom up and middle out, not the top down.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RaquelTeran/status/1623142076019019776?s=20&t=uTEW702vWmZycuAzzgkh6g),
2/07/23\] 

**California State Senate President pro Tempore Toni
Atkins:** “Investing in infrastructure & \#CleanEnergy. Supporting
workers & families. Making \#healthcare more accessible & affordable.
Protecting \#ReproductiveRights. The past 2 years have been full of
historic progress & I know @POTUS & @VP are ready to finish the Job!
\#SOTU”  \[Tweet, 2/07/23\] 

** Maryland Speaker of the House Adrienne A. Jones:** “It’s a privilege
to join my friend and always a leader for the
people [@RepStenyHoyer ](https://twitter.com/RepStenyHoyer)for [@POTUS ](https://twitter.com/POTUS)Biden’s
State of the Union address. Maryland’s state leaders and congressional
partners are united in our effort to move this country forward with
Maryland front and center. \#sotu2023″   \[Tweet, 2/07/23\] 

**Michigan Speaker of the House Joe Tate: **“Thank
you [@RepShriThanedar ](https://twitter.com/RepShriThanedar)for the
honor of an invite
to [@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS)’s [\#SOTU](https://twitter.com/hashtag/SOTU?src=hashtag_click).
We’ve seen a 50-year record low unemployment rate and an economic plan
aimed to strengthen MI’s manufacturing. I look forward to working
together to continue to lift up the American Dream.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SpeakerJoeTate/status/1623140514454200321?s=20&t=5gIBI4Kldc4yOmVA7O4TpA),
2/07/23\] 

**Ohio House Minority Leader Allison Russo: **“The resilience Ohio’s
working families have shown over the course of the past few years is not
only a testament to the American spirit, but to President Biden’s
leadership as well. Thanks to the president’s economic agenda, Ohio has
seen the number of manufacturing jobs rise, the price of everyday items
like gasoline and insulin come down, and a series of vital
infrastructure projects break ground across the state” “But as the
president pointed out, it’s time to finish the job. To do that, House
Democrats will continue to reach across the aisle to make sure working
families have every opportunity to thrive, that children have access to
well-funded public education that delivers on the promise of a brighter
future, and that, together, we fight to keep our communities safe for
everyone- no matter what they look like or where they come from.” 
\[Statement, 2/08/23\] 

**Wisconsin Assembly Minority Leader Greta Neubauer: **“Tonight at 8pm
Central, [@POTUS ](https://twitter.com/POTUS)will deliver the State of
the Union Address and outline how he is delivering results for working
families across the country and here in WI. President Biden has achieved
historic progress so far, and I’m thrilled to hear more from him
tonight!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepGreta/status/1622989689224298500),
2/07/23\] 

**Wisconsin Senate Minority Leader Melissa Agard:
“**[@GovEvers ](https://twitter.com/GovEvers)and [@POTUS ](https://twitter.com/POTUS)recognize
the importance of
addressing [\#mentalhealth](https://twitter.com/hashtag/mentalhealth?src=hashtag_click).
We must address this crisis to help protect our children, families,
neighbors, and communities.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenatorAgard/status/1623158641808355328?s=20&t=PtsgBkF04JNNoXZuwy-RHw),
2/07/23\] 

***Intergovernmental Affairs Organizations***

**Climate Mayors:** “This year’s
[\#SOTU](https://twitter.com/hashtag/SOTU?src=hashtag_click) was a
reminder of the historic progress [@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS)
has made in tackling the climate crisis. It’s our duty as
[\#ClimateMayors](https://twitter.com/hashtag/ClimateMayors?src=hashtag_click)
to continue mobilizing federal funding granted under the
[\#IRA](https://twitter.com/hashtag/IRA?src=hashtag_click) & finish the
job in making our collective goals a reality.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/ClimateMayors/status/1623160538749362176)
2/07/23\]

**National League of Cities:** “Through the
[\#AmericanRescuePlan](https://twitter.com/hashtag/AmericanRescuePlan?src=hashtag_click)
Act,
[\#BipartisanInfrastructureLaw](https://twitter.com/hashtag/BipartisanInfrastructureLaw?src=hashtag_click)
and the
[\#InflationReductionAct](https://twitter.com/hashtag/InflationReductionAct?src=hashtag_click),
local leaders are meeting residents’ needs and playing a key role in
stabilizing our economy. \#SOTU”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/leagueofcities/status/1623143541529620481?s=20&t=URsO4f7fb9tIXW4XY1CHNA),
2/7/23\]

**Democratic Attorney Generals:** “President
[@JoeBiden](https://twitter.com/JoeBiden) and Democrats are delivering
real results that will make a difference in people’s lives. \#SOTU”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/DemocraticAGs/status/1623145768583405569?s=20&t=w3YCrMCIqtL6VYY02jSSBw)
2/07/23\]

**Democratic Mayors Association:**”Since entering office two years ago,
the President has led historic economic growth, lowered costs for
families, invested in our infrastructure, fueled American manufacturing,
and championed justice, safety, and equality. \#SOTU2023”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/DemMayors/status/1623144836361515008),
2/7/23\]

**Democratic Mayors Association (DMA) President Mayor Levar Stoney:**
“Tonight’s address confirmed that the state of our union is stronger and
more resilient than ever before, due in large measure to the remarkable
leadership of President Joe Biden and his
administration…”\[[Statement](https://www.democraticmayors.org/press-releases/democratic-mayors-association-statement-on-president-bidens-state-of-the-union-address),
2/7/23\]

**Democratic Lieutenant Governors Association:** “Thanks to
[@JoeBiden](https://twitter.com/JoeBiden) a record-setting 16.3 million
people signed up for ACA coverage this year, and the national uninsured
rate hit an all-time low last year. Healthcare premiums for ACA coverage
have lowered by an average of $800 per person per year.” \#sotu2023 “
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/DemocraticLGs/status/1623137944235040768?s=20&t=URsO4f7fb9tIXW4XY1CHNA),
2/7/23\]

“**Democratic Governors Association:** “The Biden-Harris administration
has funded more than 20,000 infrastructure projects — in states all
across the country. Thank you, [**@POTUS**](https://twitter.com/POTUS)
and [@VP](https://twitter.com/VP)!” [\#SOTU2023” \[Tweet,
2/7/23\]](https://twitter.com/DemGovs/status/1623148320309800966?s=20&t=URsO4f7fb9tIXW4XY1CHNA)

**National Conference of State Legislators:**
“[\#SOTU203](https://twitter.com/hashtag/SOTU203?src=hashtag_click) |
The federal government and 12 states have child tax credits. Similar to
the federal child tax credit, state child tax credits are a strategy for
improving family economic stability and often have bipartisan support
More: “[https://bit.ly/3li4EwO](https://t.co/zCuz0KhijI)
[\#SOTU](https://twitter.com/hashtag/SOTU?src=hashtag_click)“
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/NCSLorg/status/1623152984464175104?s=20&t=URsO4f7fb9tIXW4XY1CHNA),
2/7/23\]

**NewDEAL:** “No administration has better understood the priorities of
state and local leaders or done more to support them in solving the
challenges facing their residents…”
\[[Statement](https://newdealleaders.org/news/newdeal-statement-on-state-of-the-union-address/),
2/7/23\]

**National Association of Counties:** “Tonight’s State of the Union
address highlighted the need for a strong intergovernmental partnership
as the country addresses our future competitiveness, security and
well-being. County officials stand ready to work with the administration
and bipartisan congressional partners as we navigate an increasingly
complex, interconnected world.”
\[[Statement](https://www.naco.org/resources/press/naco-responds-state-union-address-elevates-role-federal-county),
2/7/23\]

**U.S. Conference of Mayors:** “America’s mayors value strong
partnerships with the Biden-Harris Administration and members of both
parties in Congress, and we look forward to working together to deliver
for the people we serve. Full Statement following
[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS)‘
[\#SOTU23](https://twitter.com/hashtag/SOTU23?src=hashtag_click)
Address: “[http://mayo.rs/3YAUhCG](https://t.co/SNqzvxIAQT)“
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/usmayors/status/1623166902070652928?s=20&t=URsO4f7fb9tIXW4XY1CHNA),
2/7/23\]

**United States Conference of Mayors:** “With mayors and this
administration working together, we have overcome a global pandemic,
made real progress on gun safety, protected rights to same sex marriage,
made the biggest investment ever to combat climate change, and begun the
process to rebuild America’s infrastructure…”
\[[Statement](https://www.usmayors.org/2023/02/07/statement-by-the-u-s-conference-of-mayors-on-president-bidens-state-of-the-union-address-2/),
2/7/23\]

**African American Mayors Association:** “ We share President Biden’s
optimism about the future of our country and wholeheartedly believe that
the state of our union is made stronger by his leadership…”
\[[Statement](https://www.ourmayors.org/News/Statement-on-President-Joe-Bidens-Second-State-of-the-Union-Address),
2/7/23\]

\###
