---
date: '2023-02-20'
published_time: 2023-02-20 05:07:13-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/20/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-travel-to-kyiv-ukraine/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on Travel to Kyiv,\_Ukraine"
---
 
As the world prepares to mark the one-year anniversary of Russia’s
brutal invasion of Ukraine, I am in Kyiv today to meet with President
Zelenskyy and reaffirm our unwavering and unflagging commitment to
Ukraine’s democracy, sovereignty, and territorial integrity.

When Putin launched his invasion nearly one year ago, he thought Ukraine
was weak and the West was divided. He thought he could outlast us. But
he was dead wrong.

Today, in Kyiv, I am meeting with President Zelenskyy and his team for
an extended discussion on our support for Ukraine. I will announce
another delivery of critical equipment, including artillery ammunition,
anti-armor systems, and air surveillance radars to help protect the
Ukrainian people from aerial bombardments. And I will share that later
this week, we will announce additional sanctions against elites and
companies that are trying to evade or backfill Russia’s war machine.
Over the last year, the United States has built a coalition of nations
from the Atlantic to the Pacific to help defend Ukraine with
unprecedented military, economic, and humanitarian support – and that
support will endure.

I also look forward to traveling on to Poland to meet President Duda and
the leaders of our Eastern Flank Allies, as well as deliver remarks on
how the United States will continue to rally the world to support the
people of Ukraine and the core values of human rights and dignity in the
UN Charter that unite us worldwide.

\###
