---
date: '2023-02-22'
published_time: 2023-02-22 08:17:13-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/22/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-action-to-save-homebuyers-and-homeowners-800-per-year/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: BIDEN-HARRIS ADMINISTRATION ANNOUNCES ACTION TO SAVE HOMEBUYERS\
  \ AND HOMEOWNERS $800 PER\_YEAR"
---
 
***<u>850,000 homebuyers and homeowners with new FHA-insured mortgages
expected to benefit in 2023</u>***

Today, the Biden-Harris Administration announced an action that will
save homebuyers and homeowners with new FHA-insured mortgages an average
of $800 per year, lowering housing costs for an estimated 850,000
homebuyers and homeowners in 2023.

Vice President Harris and Department of Housing and Urban Development
(HUD) Secretary Fudge will travel to Bowie, Maryland, today to announce
that HUD, through the Federal Housing Administration (FHA), will reduce
its annual mortgage insurance premium by 0.30 percentage points, from
0.85% to 0.55% for most new borrowers. The mortgage insurance premium is
the monthly fee that homeowners with FHA-insured mortgages pay to insure
their mortgages, which they pay on top of their monthly principal and
interest payments.

Homeownership is currently the principal source of wealth creation for
most American households. But due to a nationwide
[shortfall](https://www.moodysanalytics.com/-/media/article/2021/Overcoming-the-Nations-Housing-Supply-Shortage.pdf)
in the supply of affordable homes and [shifting
demand](https://www.dallasfed.org/research/economics/2021/1228) for
housing during the pandemic, first-time homebuyers have
[struggled](https://www.nar.realtor/newsroom/nar-finds-share-of-first-time-home-buyers-smaller-older-than-ever-before)
in recent years to achieve homeownership. [First-generation homebuyers
and first-time homebuyers of
color](https://www.urban.org/urban-wire/down-payment-assistance-focused-first-generation-buyers-could-help-millions-access-benefits-homeownership)
– who are less likely to have sufficient resources for a sizeable down
payment due to a longstanding gap in intergenerational wealth transfers
– have been particularly affected.

Today’s announcement is an important step in making homeownership more
attainable. FHA-insured mortgages, which accounted for
[7.5%](https://eyeonhousing.org/2022/10/all-cash-new-home-sales-outnumber-fha-backed-for-the-first-time-since-2007/)
of home sales in the third quarter of 2022, are targeted at homebuyers
who otherwise may not be able to achieve homeownership. This
cost-lowering measure will make buying a home more attainable and
affordable for more low- and middle-income borrowers.

FHA insures loans with a small down payment and more flexible
underwriting, enabling families to begin building wealth through
homeownership earlier than they otherwise might and providing an open
door to credit-worthy borrowers. [More
than](https://www.hud.gov/sites/dfiles/Housing/documents/2022FHAAnnualRptMMIFund.pdf)
80% of FHA borrowers are first-time homebuyers, and over 25% are
homebuyers of color. The average home purchased with FHA-insured
mortgages cost around half the price of the overall [national
median](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/MSPUS) home and have an
average mortgage amount of less than $270,000.

By lowering its annual mortgage insurance premium by 0.30 percentage
points, FHA’s action will help new homebuyers all over the country
achieve homeownership. For example, **<u>the average homebuyer in Prince
George’s County – where Vice President Harris and Secretary Fudge are
traveling today – will save nearly $900 per year, based on the average
home price in the county of around $300,000</u>**. In addition:

-   A family buying a home in Detroit with a $200,000 mortgage will save
    $600 per year
-   A family buying home in Cincinnati with a $300,000 mortgage will
    save $900 per year
-   A family buying a home in Phoenix with a $400,000 mortgage will save
    $1,200 per year
-   A family buying a home in Austin with a $500,000 mortgage will save
    $1,500 per year

Over the last several years, FHA’s mortgage insurance fund has
accumulated reserves at a level that is more than [five
times](https://www.hud.gov/sites/dfiles/Housing/documents/2022FHAAnnualRptMMIFund.pdf)
the required threshold set by Congress. This was made possible by HUD’s
responsible and responsive management policies, home price appreciation,
and significant refinance volume which together have led to an
accumulation of substantial reserves. These dynamics make it possible
for HUD to calibrate premiums more appropriately to the performance of
the loans FHA insures and pass savings on to consumers in a responsible
manner and without jeopardizing the long-term sustainability of FHA’s
mortgage insurance fund. The premium reduction will take effect on March
20, and will be reflected in the President’s FY 2024 Budget.  

***The Biden-Harris Administration’s Commitment to Housing Stability and
Affordability***

Today’s announcement follows a range of actions the Biden-Harris
Administration has taken to promote housing stability and affordability.
In part due to policies the Administration has put in place,
[foreclosures](https://www.blackknightinc.com/data-reports/) and
[evictions](https://evictionlab.org/) remain well below pre-pandemic
levels. The Administration implemented a series of
[measures](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/23/fact-sheet-biden-administration-announces-additional-actions-to-prevent-foreclosures/#:~:text=The%20new%20steps%20the%20Department%20of%20Housing%20and,remain%20in%20their%20homes%20and%20build%20equity%20long-term.)
that protected homeowners from foreclosure, including enhanced loan
modifications to resolve delinquencies. In addition, the [Homeowner
Assistance
Fund](https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/coronavirus/assistance-for-state-local-and-tribal-governments/homeowner-assistance-fund)
is helping struggling homeowners catch up on their mortgage payments and
utility costs. The Administration also stood up a first-of-its-kind
national eviction prevention infrastructure, providing [8
million](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy1213) payments
to households in danger of eviction.

In addition to the changes announced today, the Administration and HUD
have taken a range of steps to make homeownership a reality for more
Americans. HUD changed FHA’s underwriting policies to allow lenders to
use positive rental history in evaluating applicants’ creditworthiness
for an FHA-insured mortgage – making it easier for first-time homebuyers
to qualify. In addition, HUD expanded access to housing counseling so
consumers can seek assistance from more than 1,500 HUD-approved housing
counseling agencies and the 4,000 HUD-certified housing counselors. HUD
changed the way in which student loan debt is evaluated in FHA mortgage
underwriting, enabling more borrowers making payments on student loans
to qualify for an FHA-insured mortgage. And last year the [Property
Appraisal and Valuation Equity Task Force
(PAVE)](https://pave.hud.gov/sites/pave.hud.gov/files/documents/PAVEActionPlan.pdf)
announced more than 20 concrete agency actions to root out racial and
ethnic bias in home valuations, including strengthening guardrails
against unlawful discrimination in all stages of residential valuation,
empowering consumers to take action, and building a well-trained,
accessible, and diverse appraiser workforce.

The President has also taken substantial steps to increase affordability
for renters and homeowners by increasing the overall supply of housing.
Last May, the Administration released a [Housing Supply Action
Plan](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/16/president-biden-announces-new-actions-to-ease-the-burden-of-housing-costs/), which
set the goal of closing America’s housing supply shortfall in five
years. For example, the Supply Action Plan calls on Congress to pass the
Neighborhood Homes Investment Act, which would boost the supply of
single-family homes available for sale to low- and middle-income
families in communities throughout the country.

The Administration has also secured rental assistance for more than
100,000 additional households through FY22 and FY23 appropriations and
the American Rescue Plan. And in January, the Administration proposed an
[Affirmatively Furthering Fair
Housing](https://www.hud.gov/press/press_releases_media_advisories/hud_no_23_013)
rule and announced new actions to increase fairness in the rental market
through its [Blueprint for a Renters Bill of
Rights](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/01/25/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-actions-to-protect-renters-and-promote-rental-affordability/),
which lays out principles and actions to drive federal, state, local,
and private sector action to strengthen tenant protections and encourage
rental affordability.
