---
date: '2023-02-21'
published_time: 2023-02-21 10:06:17-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/21/fact-sheet-one-year-of-supporting-ukraine/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: One Year of Supporting\_Ukraine"
---
 
Nearly one year ago, Russia launched its unjust, brutal assault against
Ukraine. Putin’s invasion was a test of Ukraine’s commitment to freedom,
and a test for America and the world. Putin sought to subjugate Ukraine,
but the free people of Ukraine stood strong—bravely defending their
sovereignty and democracy. The United States, alongside our allies and
partners, did not hesitate to stand with them. 

Over the last year, the United States has provided critical support to
the people of Ukraine, working in close coordination with the government
of Ukraine to get them what they need. President Biden has spoken
regularly with President Zelenskyy, hosting him at the White House and
visiting Kyiv to send powerful messages of the United States’ unwavering
support. We have led the world in providing security assistance—from the
Javelins that halted the Russian tanks assaulting Kyiv, to the air
defense systems that have intercepted Russian strikes against Ukraine’s
critical infrastructure, to the armored vehicles that Ukraine needs for
the next phase of this conflict. We also stepped up to provide financial
and humanitarian assistance—helping Ukrainians maintain access to
fundamental services, like healthcare and heat, as they fight for their
liberty and sovereignty.

The United States has not acted alone. Since first exposing Russia’s
plans to launch this invasion, we ensured that Ukraine’s resilience has
been matched with global resolve. We rallied the international community
to speak out and stand against Russia’s brutal war, including at the
United Nations, where the world has repeatedly and overwhelmingly voted
to condemn Russia’s aggression. We have led unprecedented efforts to
isolate and impose costs on Russia—including the largest coordinated
sanctions and export control actions taken against a major economy. In
response to the global economic disruptions caused by the Kremlin, we
have launched initiatives that have stabilized energy markets and food
supplies. And we supported our partners as they opened their homes and
communities to millions of Ukrainians seeking refuge.

One year ago, Putin thought he could quickly topple Ukraine. He thought
he could divide our allies and partners. He was wrong. Ukraine still
stands. The international coalition in support of Ukraine is stronger
and more united than ever. And President Biden’s visit to Kyiv yesterday
sent a clear and powerful message to the world: we remain committed to
standing with the people of Ukraine for as long as it takes.

Actions we have taken to support Ukraine and hold Russia accountable
over the last year include:

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Security Assistance </span>**

Over the past year, the United States and our allies and partners
provided critical security assistance that made a real difference on the
battlefield, and helped the people of Ukraine defend their country from
Russian attacks and advances.

At the start of the war, the anti-armor and anti-air systems we
provided—like the 8,000 Javelin and 1,600 Stingers—enabled Ukraine to
win the Battle for Kyiv. The artillery and ammunition we have sent—such
as the 160 howitzers and 38 High Mobility Artillery Rocket
systems—enhanced Ukraine’s ability to defend its territory in the Donbas
region and launch successful counteroffensives in Kharkiv and Kherson,
reclaiming hundreds of kilometers of territory and liberating towns and
villages subjected to unimaginable Russian brutality. The air defense
systems and counter-drone capabilities that we provided help Ukraine
protect its people and infrastructure against continued Russian
attacks.  The armored capabilities we are sending—including 109 Bradley
infantry fighting vehicles and tanks—will prepare Ukraine for future
counteroffensives and help Ukraine adapt to changing conditions on the
ground and defend against future Russian assaults.

We have provided more than one million rounds of artillery ammunition;
more than 100,000 rounds of 125mm tank ammunition; and 100,000 rounds of
small arms ammunition. We have provided helicopters; Unmanned Coastal
Defense Vessels, and counter-UAV systems and equipment. And the
Departments of Defense and State have released a
[plan](https://www.state.gov/u-s-plan-to-counter-illicit-diversion-of-certain-advanced-conventional-weapons-in-eastern-europe/)
to prevent and counter the potential of illicit diversion of weapons and
equipment.

Working with European partners and Ukraine, the United States also
launched the Ukraine Defense Contact Group—a coalition of 50 partner
nations that has enhanced our coordination of security assistance
deliveries to help the people of Ukraine as they continue to defend
themselves against Russia’s unjust and unprovoked assault. Together,
members of this group already committed $50 billion security assistance,
including nearly 700 tanks and thousands of other armored vehicles, more
than 1000 artillery systems, more than two million rounds of artillery
ammunition, more than 50 advanced multiple rocket launch systems, and
anti-ship and air defense systems. 

A comprehensive list of security assistance is available
[here](https://media.defense.gov/2023/Feb/20/2003164184/-1/-1/0/UKRAINE-FACT-SHEET-PDA-32.PDF).

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Humanitarian
Assistance</span>**

When Russia launched its invasion, the United States responded quickly
to the humanitarian crisis in Ukraine—providing more than $1.9 billion
to Ukrainians in need of assistance, including more than 13 million
people forced to flee their homes.

We brought together partners across the United Nations agencies and
non-governmental organizations to address Ukrainian’s critical
needs—including food, safe drinking water, shelter, and emergency health
care. When winter approached and Putin turned his assault to critical
infrastructure, a U.S.-led coalition provided supplies to restore
emergency power and heat across the country. In addition to welcoming
over 267,000 Ukrainians who have been forced to flee their homes to the
United States and creating the *Uniting for Ukraine* program, we have
provided $340 million in refugee assistance to our European partners who
continue to host millions of Ukrainians, representing the largest
population outflow in Europe since World War II.

A comprehensive list of humanitarian assistance is available
[here](https://www.usaid.gov/news-information/fact-sheets/feb-2023-one-year-later-helping-ukraine-win-war-and-build-lasting-peace).

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Democracy, Human Rights, and
Anti-Corruption Assistance</span>**

To defend human rights in Ukraine and its neighbors, President Biden
launched the [European Democratic Resilience Initiative
(EDRI)](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/24/fact-sheet-the-biden-administration-announces-new-humanitarian-development-and-democracy-assistance-to-ukraine-and-the-surrounding-region/)
in March 2022. Through EDRI, we have provided nearly $220 million for
Ukraine to support media freedom and enable Ukrainian media outlets to
continue operating during the war, to counter disinformation, increase
the safety and security of activists and vulnerable groups, strengthen
democratic and anti-corruption institutions, and support accountability
for human rights abuses and violations of international law. 

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Holding Russia
Accountable</span>**

Justice and accountability are central pillars of the United States’
policy on Ukraine.  Russia chose this war, and the United States and our
partners are holding it
[accountable](https://www.state.gov/supporting-justice-and-accountability-in-ukraine/)
for its attacks and atrocities against the people of Ukraine — ensuring
that perpetrators, human rights violators, and war criminals are brought
to justice.

Based on a careful analysis of the law and available facts, the
Secretary of State recently determined that members of Russia’s forces
and other Russian officials have committed crimes against humanity in
Ukraine.  

Working with partners, we have supported Ukrainian domestic authorities,
international efforts, and strategic litigation to ensure that Russia’s
crimes do not go unpunished. Along with many of our allies and partners,
we imposed new sanctions on those engaged in human rights abuses and
exercising illegitimate authority in occupied areas of Ukraine,
including proxy authorities, military units, and those involved in the
forced deportation of children.

The United States has also imposed expansive visa restrictions on
members of the Russian military and others committing human rights
abuses related to Russia’s war.  The United States continues to support
a range of international accountability mechanisms—including the UN
Independent International Commission of Inquiry on Ukraine, the UN Human
Rights Monitoring Mission in Ukraine, the Organization for Security and
Cooperation in Europe’s Moscow Mechanism, and the Joint Investigative
Team on Ukraine. 

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Economic Measures Against
Russia</span>**

The United States and over 30 allies and partners developed the largest
set of sanctions and export control actions ever imposed on a major
economy. These actions are disrupting Russia from accessing critical
inputs and advanced technologies — undercutting its ability to fund and
fight its unjust war.

The United States has implemented or expanded more than 2,000 sanctions
listings and more than 375 export control Entity Listings, including
major state-owned enterprises and third-country actors supporting
Russia’s war machine. We imposed sanctions on Russia’s largest financial
institutions and imposed increasingly expansive restrictions on military
and industrial goods that could support Russia’s defense industrial
base. As a result, Russia has been forced to turn to rogue regimes to
try to source weapons and equipment because of their inability to make
enough parts to resupply Putin’s war at home. Additionally, Congress has
revoked Russia’s permanent normal trade relations status — removing
Russia’s privileges in international trade and increasing tariffs on
hundreds of Russia products imported into the United States.

These sanctions and export controls will cut even deeper into Russia’s
economy as time progresses. And at the same time, our economic measures
have been specifically designed to shield low- and middle-income
countries from their impact — including protecting the exports of food,
allowing the provision of humanitarian assistance, and carving out
agriculture, medicine, and energy payments from our sanctions.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Energy Assistance and
Security</span>**

When Russia attacked Ukraine’s energy infrastructure, trying to use
winter as a weapon against the Ukrainian people, the United States and
its allies and partners provided energy assistance: restoring power,
heating homes, and enabling the people of Ukraine to focus on the
defense of their sovereignty.

Together with our allies and partners, we provided critical electricity
equipment to help Ukraine make emergency repairs to its power system and
strengthen the stability of Ukraine’s grid in the face of Russia’s
targeted attacks. We also worked with Ukraine to advance its energy
transition and build a system decoupled from Russian energy. And we
worked to stabilize global energy markets, limit Russia’s revenue, and
blunt the impacts of Russia’s war on energy security. Through the
U.S.-EU Task Force on Energy Security, we ensured Europe had enough gas
for the winter. The United States also released 180 million barrels of
oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, ensured international energy
payments continue to flow under our sanctions, and implemented a G7+
price cap on seaborne Russian oil and petroleum products.

We also took steps to reduce nuclear risks posed by Russia’s reckless
actions at and around Ukraine’s nuclear power plants to support energy
infrastructure, including through training for emergency responders,
radiation sensor monitoring, and the provision of emergency diesel fuel
and other nuclear safety supplies.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Economic Assistance</span>**

The United States has disbursed $13 billion in grant
financing for budget support for Ukraine —and will soon begin
disbursing another $9.9 billion that Congress recently approved —
to ensure the Ukrainian government can continue to meet the critical
needs of its citizens and provide basic services as
it confronts Russia’s continued aggression. Through the World Bank’s
Public Expenditures for Administrative Capacity Endurance mechanism, the
United States has used it to provide budget support on a reimbursement
basis — ensuring funding is disbursed to Ukraine only after expenses
have been verified.

In its leadership role in international financial institutions, the
United States has also worked closely with the International Monetary
Fund, the World Bank Group, and the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development to support Ukraine — including to strengthen energy
security, food security, and support for vulnerable populations and
internally displaced persons across the country. Together with the G7,
we have launched the Multi-agency Donor Coordination Platform for
Ukraine, to enhance our coordination of economic support for Ukraine’s
immediate financing needs and future economic recovery and
reconstruction efforts.

\###
