---
date: '2023-02-10'
published_time: 2023-02-10 21:17:33-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/10/joint-statement-following-the-meeting-between-president-biden-and-president-lula/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Joint Statement Following the Meeting Between President\_Biden and President\_\
  Lula"
---
 
Today, President Joseph R. Biden Jr. of the United States and President
Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva of the Federative Republic of Brazil met in
Washington, D.C.  During the meeting, the two leaders reaffirmed the
vital and enduring nature of the U.S.-Brazil relationship and
underscored that strengthening democracy, promoting respect for human
rights, and addressing the climate crisis remain at the center of their
common agenda.   
   
As leaders of the two largest democracies in the Americas, President
Biden and President Lula pledged to work together to strengthen
democratic institutions and welcomed the second Summit for Democracy to
be held in March 2023.  Both leaders noted they continue to reject
extremism and violence in politics, condemned hate speech, and
reaffirmed their intention to build societal resilience to
disinformation, and agreed to work together on these issues.  They
discussed common objectives of advancing the human rights agenda through
cooperation and coordination on such issues as social inclusion and
labor rights, gender equality, racial equity and justice, and the
protection of the rights of LGBTQI+ persons.  They also committed to
reinvigorating the U.S.-Brazil Joint Action Plan to Eliminate Racial and
Ethnic Discrimination and Promote Equality to mutually benefit
marginalized racial, ethnic, and Indigenous communities, including
people of African descent, in both countries.  
   
Both leaders are determined to place urgent priority on climate change,
sustainable development, and the energy transition. They recognize the
leading role Brazil and the United States can play cooperating both
bilaterally and multilaterally, including under the United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and the Paris
Agreement.  Presidents Biden and Lula recalled the Joint Initiative on
Climate Change established in 2015, which created the high level United
States-Brazil Climate Change Working Group (CCWG).  They decided to
instruct the CCWG to reconvene as early as possible to discuss areas of
cooperation, such as fighting deforestation and degradation, enhancing
the bioeconomy, bolstering clean energy deployment, strengthening
adaptation actions and promoting low carbon agriculture practices.  As
part of these efforts, the United States announced its intent to work
with Congress to providefunds for programs to protect and conserve the
Brazilian Amazon, including initial support for the Amazon Fund,
and to leverage investments in this critical region. The leaders also
expressed their determination to fight hunger and poverty, enhance
global food security, foster trade and remove barriers, promote economic
cooperation, and strengthen international peace and security.   
   
They also discussed their interest in intensifying bilateral cooperation
in areas such as trade and investment, energy, health, science,
technology and innovation, defense, education and culture, and consular
affairs, through a results-oriented approach that benefits both
societies.  Recognizing the importance of supply chain resilience,
especially at the present global juncture, they committed to continue
cooperation in this field with focused public-private dialogues.    
   
The two leaders also discussed a wide range of global and regional
issues of mutual concern. They deplored the violation of the territorial
integrity of Ukraine by Russia and the annexation of parts of its
territory as flagrant violations of international law and called for a
just and durable peace. They expressed concern about the global effects
of the conflict on food and energy security, especially on the poorest
regions of the planet and voiced support for the full functioning of the
Black Sea Grain Initiative. President Biden and President Lula affirmed
their intention to strengthen cooperation in multilateral institutions,
particularly in the context of the upcoming Brazilian presidency of the
G20.  The two leaders expressed their intent to work together toward
meaningful United Nations Security Council reform, such as expansion of
the body to include permanent seats for countries in Africa and in Latin
America and the Caribbean in order to be more representative of the
broader UN membership and enhance its ability to more effectively
address the most pressing matters of global peace and security.  
   
President Lula invited President Biden to visit Brazil, and President
Biden accepted the invitation.  The two leaders committed to broaden
their dialogue and to pursue deeper cooperation in the lead-up to the
celebration of the bicentennial of U.S.-Brazil diplomatic relations in
2024.

\###
