---
date: '2023-02-14'
published_time: 2023-02-14 09:49:50-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/14/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-january-cpi-report/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on January CPI\_Report"
---
 
Inflation in America is continuing to come down, which is good news for
families and businesses across the country. Today’s data confirm that
annual inflation has fallen for seven straight months. Inflation for
food at the grocery store came down again last month. Gas prices are
down about $1.60 from their peak last year. And real wages for working
Americans are up over the last seven months, delivering welcome
breathing room for American families. We are seeing this progress even
as unemployment remains at its lowest level since 1969 and job growth
remains resilient.    
  
There is still more work to do as we make this transition to more
steady, stable growth, and there could be setbacks along the way. That
is why my unwavering focus is on continuing to lower costs for families,
rebuild our supply chains, and invest in America. Right now, because of
the Inflation Reduction Act we passed last year, we are lowering
prescription drug costs, health care costs, and home energy costs for
tens of millions of Americans all while lowering our deficits. My
administration is eliminating junk fees which make it harder for
American families to make ends meet at the end of the month. And we are
creating manufacturing jobs all across the country, which will lower
costs and rebuild our supply chains.  
  
Unfortunately, many of my Republican friends in Congress seem intent on
taking us in the opposite direction. They have proposed repealing the
Inflation Reduction Act, which would make inflation worse, shower
billions of dollars on Big Pharma, and increase the deficit. They are
threatening to raise costs for seniors by threatening to cut Medicare
and Social Security, and other critical programs that American seniors
and families count on. And some are threatening to default on the full
faith and credit of the U.S., which would raise costs and create
economic chaos. I will stand firmly against any effort to make inflation
worse and increase costs for families. Today’s data reinforces that we
have made historic progress and are on the right track, and now we need
to finish the job.  

\###
