---
date: '2023-02-01'
modified_time: 2023-02-01 09:42:47-05:00
published_time: 2023-02-01 05:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/01/fact-sheet-president-biden-highlights-new-progress-on-his-competition-agenda/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET:  President\_Biden Highlights New Progress on His Competition\_\
  Agenda"
---
 
***President Biden Will Call for a Junk Fee Prevention Act to Eliminate
Unfair and Costly Junk Fees***

As part of the fourth meeting of the President’s Competition Council,
the Biden-Harris Administration is announcing two actions that further
advance the President’s agenda of promoting competition in the American
economy. First, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is
[proposing a
rule](https://www.consumerfinance.gov/about-us/newsroom/cfpb-proposes-rule-to-rein-in-excessive-credit-card-late-fees/)
that would slash excessive credit card late fees, pursuant to its
authority under the bipartisan Credit CARD Act of 2009. **The rule is
projected to reduce typical late fees from roughly $30 to $8, saving
consumers as much as $9 billion a year in late fees**. Second, the
Department of Commerce’s National Telecommunications and Information
Administration (NTIA) is [releasing a
report](https://www.ntia.doc.gov/press-release/2023/ntia-calls-changes-boost-competition-mobile-app-markets)
assessing the [barriers to
competition](https://www.ntia.doc.gov/category/mobile-app-competition)
in the current mobile app store ecosystem and providing recommendations
to level the playing field for app developers and give consumers more
control over their devices.

The President will also highlight the Administration’s steady progress
in eliminating or limiting junk fees: those hidden or unexpected fees
that Americans pay each day that can total hundreds of dollars a month.
Junk fees are not only costly to consumers, but they can stifle
competition by encouraging companies to use increasingly sophisticated
tools to disguise the true price consumers face. By reducing these fees
and increasing transparency, we can provide relief to consumers and make
our economy more competitive, particularly for new and growing
businesses.

Since the President urged agencies to focus on reducing junk fees at the
September 2022 meeting of the Competition Council, agencies have
delivered in the following ways:

-   The CFPB targeted overdraft and bounced check fees, releasing [two
    reports](https://www.consumerfinance.gov/data-research/research-reports/data-point-overdraft-nsf-fee-reliance-since-2015-evidence-from-bank-call-reports/) in
    2021 and ramping up its oversight, driving [15 of the 20 largest
    banks](https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_overdraft-chart_2022-07.pdf) to
    agree to put an end to bounced check fees. The CFPB followed up by
    releasing [guidance](https://www.consumerfinance.gov/about-us/newsroom/cfpb-issues-guidance-to-help-banks-avoid-charging-illegal-junk-fees-on-deposit-accounts/) banning
    surprise overdraft fees – fees charged for overdrawing a checking
    account even though at the time of purchase there appeared to be
    sufficient funds – and surprise depositor fees charged when you
    deposit someone else’s bounced check. **These changes will reduce
    fees by more than $1 billion annually.**  
     
-   The Department of Transportation (DOT) proposed [a
    rule](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2022/10/20/2022-22214/enhancing-transparency-of-airline-ancillary-service-fees) to
    require airlines and online booking services to show the full price
    of a plane ticket up front, including baggage and other fees. DOT
    also published
    a [dashboard](https://www.transportation.gov/airconsumer/airline-customer-service-dashboard) of
    airline policies when flights are delayed or cancelled due to issues
    under the airlines’ control, **leading 9 airlines to change policies
    to guarantee coverage of hotels and 10 airlines to guarantee
    coverage of meals, none of which was guaranteed before.**  
     
-   The Federal Communications Commission
    (FCC) [released](https://www.fcc.gov/document/fcc-requires-broadband-providers-display-labels-help-consumers) new
    rules that will go into effect next year to **require broadband
    providers to use “nutrition labels”—similar to those used for food
    products—to convey key information to consumers about internet
    service options in an accessible format**. The information featured
    will include prices, speeds, data allowances, and any additional
    fees charged.

Even as the Administration is taking these significant steps to use
existing authority to eliminate junk fees, **the President is calling on
Congress to pass a Junk Fee Prevention Act that cracks down on four
types of junk fees that cost American consumers billions of dollars a
year.**

Specifically, the President is urging Democrats and Republicans in
Congress to come together to:

**Crack down on excessive online concert, sporting event, and other
entertainment ticket fees. **Many online ticket sellers impose massive
service fees at check-out that are [not
disclosed](https://pubsonline.informs.org/doi/abs/10.1287/mksc.2020.1261) when
consumers are choosing their tickets. In a review of 31 different
sporting events across five ticket sellers’ websites, service charges
averaged [more than 20%](https://www.gao.gov/assets/gao-18-347.pdf) of
the ticket’s face value, and total fees—like processing fees, delivery
fees, and facility fees—reached up to [more than
half](https://www.gao.gov/assets/gao-18-347.pdf) the cost of the ticket
itself. A family of four attending a show could end up paying far more
than $100 in fees above and beyond the cost of the tickets.

Significant concentration in the industry—and a lack of consumer
options—makes matters worse. Often, if Americans want to attend a
particular concert or sporting event, they only have one online option
for making the initial ticket purchase. That means that even if
consumers knew they might have to pay a large fee on top of the ticket
cost, they would have no way to avoid it if they wanted to attend a
particular show. One company has exclusive partnerships with a [reported
80 of the top 100
arenas](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/01/arts/music/live-nation-ticketmaster.html) in
the United States, allowing it to charge fees to attend events at those
leading venues without fear of competition.

While antitrust enforcement agencies have the authority to investigate
and address anti-competitive conduct in the industry, the President
urges Congress to act now to reduce these fees through legislation.
Specifically, the President is calling on Congress to prohibit excessive
fees, require the fees to be disclosed in the ticket price, and mandate
disclosure of any ticket holdbacks that diminish available supply.

**Ban airline fees for family members to sit with young children. **Many
airlines today charge a fee to select a seat in advance, including for
those traveling with children. Parents can find themselves unexpectedly
not seated with their young child on a flight or paying large fees to
sit next to their children. The President believes no parent should have
to pay extra to sit next to their child. 

In July 2022, the DOT [issued a
notice](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.transportation.gov%2Findividuals%2Faviation-consumer-protection%2Ffamily-seating%2FJune-2022-notice&data=05%7C01%7Cjennifer.howard%40dot.gov%7C870f4a0ef5944ae9605808db03aaa3f5%7Cc4cd245b44f04395a1aa3848d258f78b%7C0%7C0%7C638107803643274301%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=ozvh%2FGRoe4%2FKpLyLKquwPK2SNdXa9YYxC4zKGGLyblg%3D&reserved=0) stating
that it is the Department’s policy that U.S. airlines ensure that
children who are age 13 or younger are seated next to an accompanying
adult with no extra charge, but still no airline guarantees fee-free
family seating. DOT will publish a family seating fee dashboard and
launch a rulemaking to ban the practice. The President is calling upon
Congress to fast-track the ban on family seating fees so that the DOT
can crack down on these practices more quickly than through a
rulemaking. 

**Eliminate exorbitant early termination fees for TV, phone, and
internet service. **Too often, cable TV, internet, and mobile phone
providers have “early termination” fees that consumers must pay if they
want to switch to another provider. These fees can
exceed [$200](https://www.mass.gov/news/comcast-to-pay-700000-in-refunds-and-cancel-debts-for-more-than-20000-massachusetts-customers-to-resolve-allegations-of-deceptive-advertising).
Early termination fees
are [costly](https://www.jstor.org/stable/2298075) for consumers and
undermine [economic
dynamism](https://pubs.aeaweb.org/doi/pdfplus/10.1257/aer.20151710) by
making it harder for innovative companies to win a toe-hold in the
market by encouraging customers to switch. And these providers often
charge people when they’re most vulnerable—people who are forced to move
because of a job loss or other financial downturn, for example, may be
slammed with hundreds of dollars in early termination fees.

The President urges Congress to eliminate these excessive early
termination fees so that companies can no longer lock in customers and
must truly compete with each other on the basis of price and quality.

**Ban surprise resort and destination fees. **When families set their
budget for a vacation, they expect that the hotel price they see is the
price they will pay. But many travelers encounter surprise “resort fees”
or “destination fees” when they check out or at the end of a lengthy
online reservation process. These fees harm consumers by preventing them
from the seeing the true price when they pick out a hotel and by
limiting their ability to [comparison
shop](https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/documents/reports/economic-analysis-hotel-resort-fees/p115503_hotel_resort_fees_economic_issues_paper.pdf).
Over the past decade, a growing number of hotels have imposed these fees
on consumers, which can be [$50 or
more ](https://www.cbsnews.com/news/surprise-resort-fees-make-hotels-more-expensive-what-travelers-can-do/)per
night. More
than [one-third](https://www.consumerreports.org/fees-billing/protect-yourself-from-hidden-fees-a1096754265/) of
hotel guests report having paid such fees. And the total costs for
Americans are enormous: according to one report, hotels
collected [billions](https://www.consumerreports.org/fees-billing/protect-yourself-from-hidden-fees-a1096754265/) in
these fees and surcharges in 2018.

The President urges Congress to ban these surprise fees by requiring
that hotels include them in the price of the room, so consumers aren’t
surprised. Travelers should know which hotels charge these fees and
which ones do not, so that they can plan and budget accordingly.

The President is calling for passage of a Junk Fee Prevention Act to
provide millions of Americans with fast relief from these frustrating
and costly fees. This will not only save Americans billions a year, but
make our markets more competitive—creating a more even playing field so
that businesses that price in a fair and transparent manner no longer
lose sales to companies that disguise their actual prices with hidden
fees. In the coming weeks and months, the Biden-Harris Administration
looks forward to working with Congress to crack down not only on these
fees, but also other junk fees that take cash out of Americans’ pockets
and hide the true cost of products.

\###
