---
date: '2023-02-20'
modified_time: 2023-02-20 10:56:44-05:00
published_time: 2023-02-20 10:56:43-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/20/on-the-record-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-on-president-bidens-trip-to-ukraine/
tags: statements-releases
title: "On-the-Record Press Call by Senior Administration Officials on President\_\
  Biden\u2019s Trip to\_Ukraine"
---
 
Via Teleconference

7:42 A.M. EST  
  
MS. WATSON:  Good morning, everyone.  Thanks for joining our call on
short notice.  This is Adrienne Watson with the NSC.  
  
To kick things off, we just want to go over the ground rules really
quickly.  This call is on the record.  The contents of the call are
embargoed until the call ends.  To ask a question, just raise your
hand.  
  
Our speakers today are White House Communications Director Kate
Bedingfield, National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan, and Principal
Deputy National Security Advisor Jon Finer.   
  
With that, that I’ll turn it over to Kate.  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  Great.  Thanks, Adrienne.  Hi, everyone.  Thanks for
jumping on, on short notice.  So I just wanted to do a little table set
at the top here, and then I’ll turn it over to Jake and Jon for some
additional points.  
  
But, you know, so this trip today was a bold and strong move on
President Biden’s part in the face of extreme difficulty, the extreme
difficulty of making this trip as President of the United States.  It
was logistically complicated and difficult, and it sends an incredibly
powerful message that President Biden has faith in the Ukrainian people
and is unwavering in his commitment to stand by them.  
  
You know, a visit from a U.S. President to an active warzone like this
is historic and unprecedented and, as I say, required a great deal of
careful planning.  
  
Unlike previous visits from Presidents to warzones, like Iraq and
Afghanistan, the U.S. obviously does not have a military presence on the
ground in Ukraine, which made a visit from a sitting President all the
more challenging.  
  
But this was a risk that Joe Biden wanted to take.  It’s important to
him to show up, even when it’s hard, and he directed his team to make it
happen, no matter how challenging the logistics.  He wanted to stand
shoulder-to-shoulder with President Zelenskyy and remind the world, as
we approach the one-year anniversary of the invasion, that Kyiv still
stands and the United States will not be deterred from standing with
Ukraine.  And he wanted to demonstrate the strength of his commitment to
his strategy of holding the West together in a united front against
Putin.  
  
So it was bold, it was risky, and it should leave no doubt in anyone’s
mind that Joe Biden is a leader who takes commitment seriously, and the
U.S. is committed to continuing to support Ukraine for as long as it
takes.  
  
So with that, I’m going to turn it over to Jake Sullivan for some
additional thoughts.  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Thanks, Kate.  And hi, everybody.  And I hope I’m able to
stay on the call for as long as I can, given access to cell service.  
  
Let me just start by reiterating something Kate said, which is that this
was a historic visit, unprecedented in modern times, to have the
President of the United States visit the capital of a country at war
where the United States military does not control the critical
infrastructure.  
  
And that required a security, operational, and logistical effort from
professionals across the U.S. government to take what was an inherently
risky undertaking and make it a manageable level of risk.  
  
But, of course, there was still risk and is still risk in an endeavor
like this.  And President Biden felt that it was important to make this
trip because of the critical juncture that we find ourselves at as we
approach the one-year anniversary of Russia’s full-scale invasion of
Ukraine.  
  
And what he wanted to do in Kyiv was to send a clear, unmistakable
message of enduring American support for Ukraine; a clear, unmistakable
message of the unity of the West and (inaudible) international community
in standing behind Ukraine and standing up to Russian aggression; and
also to be able to stand there next to President Zelenskyy in a free
Kyiv to not just tell but to show the world, through a powerful
demonstration, that Ukraine is successfully resisting Russian aggression
and Russia is suffering strategic failure in Ukraine.  
  
And as I said, though, the impending one-year anniversary of Russia’s
invasion really presented a crucial moment to do this.  One year ago
this week, as the President said in his remarks in Kyiv, he spoke with
President Zelenskyy as Russian forces were moving across the border, and
President Zelenskyy said to him, “I’m not sure when we’re going to be
able to speak again.”  
  
So, one year later, the two men were face-to-face standing together in
Kyiv, in a free and independent city, in a free and independent
country.  And President Biden made clear in his remarks that there will
be difficult times ahead, that a portion of Ukraine is under Russian
occupation, that Russia continues to brutalize civilian populations
across the country.  
  
And so this was not a celebration but an affirmation of commitment of
the resilience of the Ukrainian people, of the courage and bravery
they’ve shown, and also an affirmation of the fact that the United
States and our allies and partners have mobilized unprecedented levels
of military, economic, and humanitarian support to provide the Ukrainian
people with the tools that they’ve needed to defend their country, their
sovereignty, their territorial integrity, and their independence.  
  
In Kyiv, President Biden had the opportunity to meet the President and
the First Lady, and then to sit in an extended session with President
Zelenskyy to talk about all aspects of the ongoing war.  They spent time
talking about the coming months, in terms of the battlefield, and what
Ukraine will need in terms of capabilities to be able to succeed on the
battlefield.  
  
They talked about Ukraine’s needs in terms of energy, infrastructure,
economic support, humanitarian needs.  And they also talked about the
political side of this, including the upcoming U.N. General Assembly
session on Ukraine, as well as Ukraine’s Peace Formula and Ukraine’s
efforts to rally international support for a just and sustainable and
durable peace built on the principles of the U.N. Charter, chief among
them sovereignty and territorial integrity.  
  
President Biden also had the chance to get briefed by a number of
members of President Zelenskyy’s team and, you know, to have a detailed
discussion of the types of steps that are going to be required in the
weeks and months ahead from the United States and from our international
partners in the G7 and NATO and elsewhere to ensure Ukraine has what it
needs to sustain the level of effort going forward that we have seen
over the course of the past year, and then some.  
  
And President Biden also had the opportunity to pay his respects to the
fallen, to those who have given their lives and paid the ultimate
sacrifice in service of defending Ukraine.  He also had the chance to
stand, as I said, next to President Zelenskyy and send a clear message
that the United States will be with Ukraine for as long as it takes and
the United States will continue to hold the international community and,
in particular, this large and diverse coalition of countries together
that has been supporting Ukraine for these past many months.  
  
Finally, President Biden really reinforced a point that he will make
again when he speaks in Warsaw tomorrow, which is that President Putin
thought that Ukraine would cower and that the West would be divided,
indeed that the West would be weak.  And he got the opposite of that
across the board.  
  
And this visit today was really an effort, again, as I said before, to
show and not just tell that we will continue to stand up and stand
strong and that we will do so, as I said, for as long as it takes.  
  
So with that, let me — let me turn it over to Jon, and we’d be happy to
take your questions.  
  
MR. FINER:  Thanks, Jake.  Jake and Kate really said it all, but I’ll
just make a few quick additional points.  
  
They each talked about some of the unusual and maybe unprecedented
aspects of this visit, but I’ll mention a couple of others, which is —
which are: In addition to, obviously, lack of military footprint in
Ukraine, the United States also has a very light embassy footprint
compared to the massive operations in Afghanistan and Iraq during
wartime visits by Presidents to those places.  
  
And the traveling party accompanying the President was extremely small,
as well, consisting basically of a handful of his closest aides, small
medical team, photographer, and the security package.  
  
So this entire operation, which was meticulously planned — and I’ll say
a bit more about that in a second — was done just at much smaller scale
than previous such visits by Presidents to these places, just given the
constraints of operating in Kyiv and in the rest of Ukraine during
conflict.  
  
In terms of the planning, again, this visit was meticulously planned
over a period of months, involving several offices in the White House —
of course, the Chief of Staff’s office, the NSC, and White House
Military Office — as well as a small number of colleagues from the
Pentagon, the Secret Service, and of course, the intelligence community,
which offered threat assessments on the visit.  
  
Only a handful of people in each of these buildings was involved in the
planning for operational security.  The President was fully briefed on
each stage of the plan and any potential contingencies, and then made
the final “go” or “no go” decision after a huddle in the Oval Office and
by phone with some key members of his national security cabinet on
Friday.  
  
Obviously, this was all worked very closely between the White House and
the highest levels of the Ukrainian government, who have become quite
adept at hosting high-level visitors, although not one quite like this,
and with our embassy in Kyiv, which, again, is small but highly capable,
playing a key role as an intermediary.  
  
And with that, I’ll turn it back to Adrienne.  
  
MS. WATSON:  Thanks, Jon.  We have a couple of minutes for questions. 
First question, Nancy Cordes with CBS.  Your line should be unmuted.  
  
Q    Sorry, I had to unmute manually.  Okay, so my question is — thank
you so much for doing this.  I’m wondering if you gave the Russians any
kind of heads up that the President was going to be in Kyiv.  And if
not, what was your level of concern about the fact that they would try
to act in some way while you were there, either with aggression in Kyiv
or elsewhere in the country?  Were you operating under the assumption,
if you didn’t give them a heads up, that they knew that you were
there?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Nancy, it’s Jake.  We did notify the Russians that
President Biden would be traveling to Kyiv.  We did so some hours before
his departure for de-confliction purposes.  
  
And because of the sensitive nature of those communications, I won’t get
into how they responded or what the precise nature of our message was,
but I can confirm that we provided that notification.  
  
MS. WATSON:  Thanks, Nancy.  Next question to Aamer with the AP.  Aamer,
your line is unmuted.  
  
Q    Thank you.  On the logistical aspect, could you confirm if — how —
offer a little bit more detail on how the President and the package got
there?  Was there trains or helicopters?  Or what was used to get
there?  
  
And then, secondly, substantively on Ukraine’s future needs, were ATACMS
and F-16s or fighter jets discussed?  And was there any resolution on
Zelenskyy’s desire to get those?  Thank you.  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  So, on the logistics, just quickly, I’ll say I
anticipate that we’ll have more detail and that the print pooler, who
was traveling with the President, will have more detail in the coming
days.  
  
But given that we’re allowing the trip to play out and finish out, we
are holding back on some of those trans- — modes of — mode of
transportation details and other specific logistical details until the
trip is fully complete.   
  
So I would anticipate that we will have more color for you on that in
the coming days, when it’s safe to do so, Aamer.  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Aamer, it’s Jake.  The two presidents had a detailed
discussion of the battlefield situation, of Ukraine’s objectives, of the
military support and assistance we’ve already provided, and of
capabilities going forward.  
  
I’m not going to get into the specifics of those because we’re not
announcing new capabilities today.  But what I will say is that there
was a good discussion on the subject.  I think the two presidents both
laid out their perspectives on a number of different capabilities that
have been thrown around in the press, both recently and over the course
of several months.  And I will leave it at that.  
  
MS. WATSON:  And then one more question to Jeremy Diamond with CNN. 
Jeremy, you should be unmuted.  
  
Q    Hey, thanks so much for doing this.  I’m wondering if you can tell
us a little bit more about the deliberations about getting the President
to Kyiv.  Was Secret Service and the Pentagon — were they all on board
with the plan for the President to go to Kyiv?  Or did the President
have to overrule security officials in any way?  Was there a
consideration of going to somewhere closer to the border, like Lviv, for
example?  If you could get into that.  
  
And then, Jake, I’m just wondering if you can paint a picture for us a
little bit about what it was like being on the plane with the President
for this very secretive trip and also what type of plane was used to get
the President out of Washington.  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I’ll take the second one first.  So as Kate said, we’ll
hold off on going into real detail on the various elements of the trip
and modalities and modes of transport and the like until, basically, we
get the green light from the security folks to be able to share all of
that.  We will share it, but we just want to make sure that we do so
once, you know, we feel that it’s operationally safe to do so.   
  
I can say that, coming over, the President was very focused on making
sure that he made the most of his time on the ground, which he knew was
going to be limited.  So he was quite focused on how he was going to
approach his conversation with President Zelenskyy and, in part, how the
two of them were really going to look out over the course of 2023 and
try to come to a common understanding of what the objectives are, where
Ukraine is trying to get and how the United States can most effectively
support them alongside our allies and partners in getting to where it
wants to get.  
  
He was excited about making the trip.  I think he felt it was really
important to stand up next to President Zelenskyy and speak the way that
he did today and convey the messages that you heard from him and that,
you know, I’ve just put in some context.  
  
So, frankly, the trip from Washington was a trip filled with real
anticipation, that this was an important moment and that the President
was rising to the moment and felt he had an important mission to
undertake, and he was eager to do it.  
  
But he wanted to do it, characteristically, by delving into the details,
by knowing the specifics of — by being sure that he was going to make
the most of every moment.  
  
And, you know, what I will say is that, on the question of
deliberations, the President proceeded with the confidence that his
security team was able to bring risk to a manageable level, and that was
what ultimately led him to make the call to go.   
  
And I am not going to get into the specifics of who said what to him in
the Oval, particularly on things as sensitive as his security.  I will
just say that he got a full presentation of a very good and very
effective operational security plan.  He heard that presentation.  He
was satisfied that the risk was manageable.  And he ultimately made the
determination (inaudible).  
  
MS. WATSON:  All right.  Thank you so much to everybody for joining the
call this morning.  I know that there are more questions.  You have our
contact info for follow-up.  And then we will get in touch as soon as
possible with more information as well.  The embargo on the call is
lifted now.  Thank you very much.

8:01 A.M. EST
