---
date: '2023-02-14'
published_time: 2023-02-14 11:15:54-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/14/fact-sheet-new-data-show-8-2-million-fewer-americans-struggling-with-medical-debt-under-the-biden-harris-administration/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: New Data Show 8.2 Million Fewer Americans Struggling with Medical\
  \ Debt Under the Biden-\u2060Harris\_Administration"
---
 
***The Administration’s work to strengthen the Affordable Care Act along
with new consumer protections lead to continued progress reducing the
burden of medical debt.***

  
Today, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) released a new
[report](https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_market-snapshot-third-party-debt-collections-tradelines-reporting_2023-02.pdf)
that shows that the number of Americans with medical debt on their
credit reports fell by 8.2 million from the first quarter of 2020 to the
first quarter of 2022. Today’s report is consistent with a recent
[report](https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/nhsr/nhsr180.pdf) from the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) that found that the
number of Americans who are part of families having trouble paying their
medical bills declined by 5.5 million between 2020 and 2021. One driver
of these declines is the significant increase in the number of insured
Americans over this period, a result of the President’s strategy of
[protecting and
strengthening](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/04/05/executive-order-on-continuing-to-strengthen-americans-access-to-affordable-quality-health-coverage/)
the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and
[lowering](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/06/fact-sheet-the-biden-economic-plan-is-working/)
health care costs. The decline also reflects continued actions by the
CFPB to
[highlight](https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/201412_cfpb_reports_consumer-credit-medical-and-non-medical-collections.pdf)
problems with inaccurate reporting of debt in collections and put the
industry on notice to correct their behavior.

![](https://mcusercontent.com/c97630621baff8c44fe607661/images/4ac9355b-06e6-989e-f118-aae022a4e2e7.png)

The new data also underscore the importance of the Biden-Harris
Administration’s government-wide initiative to reduce the burden of
medical debt. Following the Vice President’s April 2022
[announcement](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/11/fact-sheet-the-biden-administration-announces-new-actions-to-lessen-the-burden-of-medical-debt-and-increase-consumer-protection/),
medical debt was directly relieved for many low-income Americans. And,
informed by research showing that medical debt is not a reliable
predictor of financial health, federal agencies are working to eliminate
the use of medical debt to assess creditworthiness for participation in
government lending programs. Specifically:  

-   The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) implemented a streamlined
    process to make it easier and faster for lower-income veterans to
    get their VA medical debt forgiven. The new process – establishing
    simple criteria to qualify for debt relief and launching a new
    online debt relief portal – has already **provided relief to over
    10,000 veterans and saved them more than $10 million in copay
    debt**.
-   Communities across the country – from Cook County, Illinois, to
    Toledo, Ohio, to New Orleans, Louisiana, to Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
    – are using or have passed legislation to use about $16 million
    American Rescue Plan (ARP) funding to purchase medical debt from
    hospitals and other sources and forgive it, **wiping out nearly $1.5
    billion in medical debt, a ratio of nearly 100-to-1**. Other
    localities and states have proposed to make similar purchases using
    ARP funding.
-   The Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) [validated and
    approved](https://www.fhfa.gov/Media/PublicAffairs/Documents/CS-Fact-Sheet-2022.pdf)
    the use of VantageScore 4.0, along with FICO 10T, for the
    underwriting of mortgages by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The
    addition of VantageScore 4.0, which excludes medical debt entirely,
    **marks the first time that a credit score that excludes medical
    debt has been approved for mortgage underwriting of Enterprise
    loans**.
-   The Small Business Administration (SBA) will **take** **a number of
    steps to reduce the role of medical debt in the underwriting of
    loans** for its 7(a) guaranteed loan program, including revising its
    lender Standard Operating Procedures to discourage consideration of
    medical debt and making technology investments in Lender Match to
    help borrowers find lenders that exclude medical debt in their
    credit decisions.

These reductions in medical debt will provide real benefits to many
Americans. Reducing medical debt directly impacts household finances by
[improving credit
scores](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0047272718300707)
and [access to
credit](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0047272720300670).
And [research](https://www.aeaweb.org/articles?id=10.1257/aeri.20210515)
shows that **households that have their medical debt relieved see
improvements in access to medical care, and in physical and mental
health outcomes**. Since medical debt is disproportionally held among
[low-income](https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2782187)
communities, reductions in the burden of medical debt helps advance
financial and health equity.  
  
The CFPB report also shows that medical debt still accounts for more
than 50% of debt in collections tradelines, exceeding the number of debt
in collections tradelines from all other sources combined, including
credit cards, personal loans, utilities, and phone bills. Getting sick
or taking care of loved ones should not mean financial hardship for
American families. That is why the Administration has—and will
continue—to take action to ease the burden of medical debt and protect
consumers from predatory collection practices.  
  
**Supporting Veterans in Financial Hardship**  
  
In Spring 2022, VA committed to make it easier and faster for
lower-income veterans to get their VA medical debt forgiven. Previously,
veterans in financial hardship who needed medical debt relief for VA
copayments had to fill out a complex, paper form and navigate
complicated eligibility requirements. The application process was
confusing, and time-consuming, and as a result, veterans may have been
deterred from applying for much needed relief.  
  
Since the spring 2022 announcement:

-   VA streamlined the application process, including establishing a
    simple, standardized criteria to qualify for debt relief and
    launching a new online debt relief portal to make it easier and
    faster to apply.
-   Since introducing the new criteria, VA has approved over 93% of debt
    relief requests, and 42% of relief requests are now submitted via
    the online portal.  
-   To date, the new streamlined system has provided relief to over
    10,000 veterans and saved them more than $10 million combined in
    unpayable copay debt.

**Helping Communities Wipe Out Medical Debt**  
  
To help relieve the burden of medical debt on their residents as part of
the recovery from the COVD-19 pandemic, communities across the country
are using American Rescue Plan (ARP) funding to support efforts to buy
and forgive medical debt. These communities work with partners to
purchase medical debt portfolios from hospitals, health systems, and
debt collection agencies and forgive the debt. Because medical debts are
often available for purchase at pennies on the dollar, these efforts can
translate into massive reductions in medical debt.  
  
In the programs implemented to date, individuals qualify if they are
residents of the given locality and have incomes below a certain
threshold or have medical debt in excess of 5% of their annual household
income. Individuals whose debt is cancelled are notified by mail and do
not need to apply. Communities that have used ARP funds to forgive
medical debt include:

-   **Cook** **County, Illinois.** In July 2022, Cook County announced
    the use of [$12 million in ARP
    funds](https://www.engagecookcounty.com/mdri#:~:text=Cook%20County%20is%20the%20first%20government%20agency%20to,transactions%20with%20Cook%20County%20Health%20and%20other%20costs.)
    to purchase and forgive up to $1 billion in medical debt. The
    program has already wiped out the medical debts of 45,000 people
    worth $26 million.
-   **Toledo and Lucas County, Ohio**. In November 2022, the Toledo City
    Council and Lucas County approved a cumulative [$1.6 million in ARP
    funds](https://www.nytimes.com/2022/12/29/us/toledo-medical-debt-relief.html)
    to buy out medical debt of certain residents. In total, the
    localities expected that this purchase will wipe out approximately
    $240 million in debt.
-   **New Orleans, Louisiana.** In December 2022, the New Orleans City
    Council included in its annual budget a [$1.3 million line item
    leveraging ARP
    funds](https://lailluminator.com/2023/01/02/new-orleans-plans-to-erase-130-million-in-residents-medical-debt/)
    to relieve up to an estimated $130 million in medical debt.
-   **Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.** In January 2023, the Pittsburgh City
    Council approved a plan to use [$1 million in ARP
    funds](https://www.beckershospitalreview.com/finance/pittsburgh-city-council-approves-115m-debt-relief-plan.html)
    to eliminate up to an estimated $115 million medical debts for about
    24,000 residents.

Taken together, **these investments of about $16 million in ARP funding
are expected to relieve up to nearly $1.5 billion in medical debt, a
ratio of nearly 100-to-1**, helping to mend household finances, improve
mental health, and remove a barrier to accessing health care. Additional
states and cities across the country are also considering using ARP
funds to eliminate medical debt including most recently the state of
Connecticut, where the governor proposed using [$20 million in ARP
funds](https://portal.ct.gov/Office-of-the-Governor/News/Press-Releases/2023/02-2023/Governor-Lamont-Announces-2023-Legislative-Proposal-Cancel-Medical-Debt)
to wipe out debts of about  $2 billion.     
  
**Removing Medical Debt from Government Underwriting**  
  
[Research](https://www.aei.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/Batty-Gibbs-Ippolito-health-insurance-medical-debt-financial-well-being-WP.pdf?x91208)
shows that medical debt is not a reliable predictor of overall financial
health – predominately reflecting inequities in health insurance
coverage and the bad luck of a hospitalization or other medical event. A
CFPB
[report](https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/201405_cfpb_report_data-point_medical-debt-credit-scores.pdf)
found that including medical debt in credit scores understates
consumers’ creditworthiness by 10 points, and including already paid
medical debt understates consumers’ creditworthiness by as much as 22
points. This means that the use of medical debt in underwriting can cut
off American’s access to credit without improving the accuracy and
predictiveness of lending programs.  
  
Informed by this research, the Biden-Harris Administration
[instructed](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/08/M-22-17.pdf)
all agencies to eliminate medical debt as a factor in underwriting of
credit programs, whenever possible and consistent with law. Since then:

-   In October 2022, the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA)
    [validated and
    approved](https://www.fhfa.gov/Media/PublicAffairs/Documents/CS-Fact-Sheet-2022.pdf)
    the use of VantageScore 4.0 and FICO 10T for the underwriting of
    mortgages by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. VantageScore 4.0 excludes
    medical debt entirely, and marks the first time that a credit score
    that excludes medical debt has been approved for mortgage
    underwriting of Enterprise loans.  Moreover, the national credit
    reporting agencies
    [announced](https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20220318005244/en/Equifax-Experian-and-TransUnion-Support-U.S.-Consumers-With-Changes-to-Medical-Collection-Debt-Reporting)
    several changes affecting the reporting of medical debt in
    collections – including that paid medical collection debt would no
    longer be included on consumer credit reports, an extension of
    timing for reporting of unpaid medical collection debt from six to
    twelve months, and a minimum $500 threshold for medical collection
    debt reporting – meaning that the role of medical debt in FICO 10T
    will also be reduced. The Enterprises’ automated underwriting
    systems do not consider medical debt in collections.
-   The Small Business Administration (SBA) will be taking a number of
    steps to reduce the role of medical debt in the underwriting of
    loans in the 7a guaranteed loan program.  These steps include
    revising its Standard Operating Procedures to discourage lenders
    from considering medical debt and making technology investments in
    Lender Match to help borrowers find lenders that exclude medical
    debt from their credit decisions and empower such lenders to
    underwrite those loans via automated data compilation.
-   In February 2022, [VA published a final
    rule](https://www.va.gov/opa/pressrel/pressrelease.cfm?id=5758) under
    which it virtually ceased reporting medical debt, and other
    unfavorable debt, to the credit bureaus. This rule ensures that debt
    reported better reflects creditworthiness, while saving veterans
    from further financial struggles simply because they had to take on
    medical debt. VA is committed to mitigating the burden of medical
    debt in its Home Loan guarantee program and in the coming months
    will work with lenders and servicers to discuss how to best maximize
    the flexibility of their underwriting guidelines related to medical
    debt collections while monitoring investor reactions and access to
    capital for VA guaranteed loans

**New Data on Medical Debt in Collections**  
  
The report from the CFPB documents trends in medical debt in collections
that are listed on credit reports, with the data extending through the
first quarter of 2022. Key findings include:

-   Between the first quarter of 2020 and the first quarter of 2022, the
    number of Americans with medical debt on their credit report fell by
    8.2 million, a 17.9% reduction.
-   Medical debt in collections accounts for 57% of collections
    tradelines, exceeding the total number of collections tradelines
    from all other sources combined, including credit cards, personal
    loans, utilities, and phone bills.

One driver of this decline in medical debt is the expansion of health
insurance coverage during the Biden-Harris Administration. In the first
quarter of 2022, the uninsured rate hit an [all-time
low](https://aspe.hhs.gov/reports/2022-uninsurance-at-all-time-low) of
8.0%, with 4.2 million people gaining coverage between
[2020](https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/nhis/earlyrelease/insur202108-508.pdf)
and the [first half of
2022](https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/nhis/earlyrelease/insur202212.pdf).
This milestone does not yet not capture the impact of the most recent
[increase in Marketplace
enrollment](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/01/25/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-record-aca-enrollment-numbers/),
with a record 16.3 million Americans signing up on HealthCare.gov and
the state-based Marketplaces during the 2023 Open Enrollment Period.
This includes [3.6 million
people](https://www.cms.gov/newsroom/press-releases/biden-harris-administration-announces-record-breaking-163-million-people-signed-health-care-coverage)
who are new to the Marketplaces for 2023. Since President Biden took
office, the number of people who have signed up for an affordable health
care plan through HealthCare.gov has increased by nearly 50%. The
Biden-Harris Administration continues to work to create a more fair and
transparent health care system for consumers, including by protecting
millions of consumers from surprise medical bills through its
[implementation](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2022/01/03/hhs-kicks-off-new-year-with-new-protections-from-surprise-medical-bills.html)
of the No Surprises Act—preventing about 1 million surprise bills per
month—and by advancing [hospital price
transparency](https://www.cms.gov/newsroom/press-releases/cms-oppsasc-final-rule-increases-price-transparency-patient-safety-and-access-quality-care#:~:text=The%20Calendar%20Year%20%28CY%29%202022%20Hospital%20Outpatient%20Prospective,the%20Inpatient%20Only%20%28IPO%29%20list%20for%20surgical%20procedures.)
so patients know the upfront price of hospital services.  
  
The declines in medical debt also reflect continued actions by the CFPB
to
[highlight](https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/201412_cfpb_reports_consumer-credit-medical-and-non-medical-collections.pdf)
problems with inaccurate reporting of debt in collections and put the
industry on notice to correct their behavior.  
  
The declines in medical debt on credit reports do not yet capture any
effects of the Spring 2022 announcement where the three largest credit
reporting agencies—Equifax, Experian, and Transunion—stated that they
will no longer include certain forms of medical debt on credit reports,
including all debts under $500, starting in 2023. While not shown in
these data, CFPB
[estimates](https://www.consumerfinance.gov/about-us/newsroom/cfpb-publishes-analysis-of-potential-impacts-of-medical-debt-credit-reporting-changes/#:~:text=Starting%20in%202023%2C%20medical%20collections,than%20medical%20bills%20over%20%24500.)
these changes will likely result in further reductions in medical debt
appearing on credit reports.    
  
The decline in medical debt in collection represents one part of a
broader decrease in the financial burden from medical bills during the
Biden-Harris Administration. The CFPB report focuses on medical debt
reported to credit bureaus, and does not capture medical debt that is
placed on credit cards (including hospital credit cards) or paid for
with personal loans or hospital payment plans.  However, a [CDC
report](https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/nhsr/nhsr180.pdf) released last
month showed that between 2020 and 2021, the number of people in
families having problems paying medical bills declined by 5.5 million
people, indicating that American families are indeed experiencing
across-the-board relief.  
  
These findings represent real progress in providing breathing room for
American families. At the same time, too many Americans still face
crushing burdens from medical debt. The Biden-Harris Administration will
continue to fight to ensure that Americans who are sick or are caring
for sick loved ones are not hit with a double whammy of illness and
medical debt. This includes continuing to help Americans sign up for
health insurance; calling on Congress to make permanent the lower
premiums for people buying ACA coverage and to close the Medicaid
coverage gap; and continuing to reduce the burden of medical debt via
sweeping actions by government agencies.

\###
