---
date: '2023-02-24'
modified_time: 2023-02-23 22:32:46-05:00
published_time: 2023-02-24 05:01:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/24/fact-sheet-on-one-year-anniversary-of-russias-invasion-of-ukraine-biden-administration-announces-actions-to-support-ukraine-and-hold-russia-accountable/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: On One Year Anniversary of Russia\u2019s Invasion of Ukraine,\
  \ Biden Administration Announces Actions to Support Ukraine and Hold Russia\_Accountable"
---
 
One year ago, Russia launched its brutal and unprovoked invasion of
Ukraine. The United States has rallied the world in response, working
with our allies and partners to provide Ukraine with critical security,
economic, and humanitarian assistance and leading unprecedented efforts
to impose costs on Russia for its aggression. This week, President Biden
visited Kyiv, Ukraine and Warsaw, Poland to send a clear and powerful
message that the United States will continue to stand with Ukraine for
as long as it takes.  
  
Today, on the one-year anniversary of Russia’s invasion, the United
States is announcing a series of additional actions to continue
providing Ukraine with the support it needs and holding Russia
accountable for its war of aggression. A more comprehensive list of
actions the U.S. has taken over the past year in response to Russia’s
invasion is
available [**HERE**](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/21/fact-sheet-one-year-of-supporting-ukraine/).  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Support for
Ukraine</span>**  
  
**Providing additional security assistance for Ukraine:** Today, the
Department of Defense (DoD) announced an additional security assistance
package for Ukraine under the Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative
(USAI). These capabilities include several new Unmanned Aerial Systems
(UAS), Counter-Unmanned Aerial Systems (C-UAS) equipment to strengthen
Ukraine’s air defenses and help protect its people, and electronic
warfare detection equipment to bolster Ukraine’s ability to repel
Russia’s aggression. The package also includes a large amount of
ammunition for 155mm artillery systems and High Mobility Artillery
Rocket Systems (HIMARS) that have proved so effective on the
battlefield, as well as mine clearing equipment and secure
communications support equipment.   
  
Earlier this week, the Biden Administration announced the 32nd security
assistance package using Presidential Drawdown Authorities (PDA) for
Ukraine, which included critical capabilities such as air surveillance
radars to enhance Ukraine’s air defenses and Javelin anti-tank weapons
that Ukraine has used to defend themselves on the battlefield. That PDA
package will draw from existing U.S. stocks to help Ukraine fulfill its
immediate battlefield needs, while today’s USAI package is part of the
U.S. commitment to supporting Ukraine’s armed forces both now and over
the longer-term.   
  
**Delivering needed economic support: **This week, the United States
began disbursing $9.9 billion in grant financing, thanks to the
bipartisan support of Congress, to help Ukraine meet the critical needs
of its citizens, including healthcare, education, and emergency
services. This budget support is being disbursed via the World Bank’s
Public Expenditures for Administrative Capacity Endurance (PEACE)
mechanism on a reimbursement basis once expenses have been verified.
Continued U.S. economic assistance has helped rally other international
donors, including 2023 commitments from the European Commission, Japan,
Canada, and the United Kingdom, to provide Ukraine with needed economic
assistance. The G7 has increased its commitment of budget and economic
support to Ukraine to $39 billion for 2023. Today, G7 Leaders asked
Finance Ministers to continue engagement with the International Monetary
Fund and Ukraine to deliver an ambitious program by the end of March
2023 and to continue working together, with the IMF and others for
necessary budget support to Ukraine throughout and beyond 2023.  
  
**Strengthening Ukraine’s energy infrastructure: **As part of our
efforts to respond to Russia’s strikes against Ukraine’s critical energy
infrastructure, the United States is preparing to deliver the Department
of Energy’s third shipment of critical electrical transmission
grid equipment to Ukraine by early March. The shipment will include
several mobile generators to help provide back-up power. This delivery
follows USAID’s recent provision of a mobile natural gas-fired turbine
power plant that can generate enough electricity to power at least
100,000 Ukrainian homes.  
  
Working with Congress, the Biden-Harris Administration also plans to
provide up to $250 million in additional emergency energy assistance to
Ukraine to help Ukraine further strengthen its grid in the face of
Russia’s attacks. We also plan to provide up to $300 million in
emergency energy assistance for Moldova, working with Congress, to
increase local electric power generation, provide fiscal support, and
improve interconnectivity between Moldova and the European Union.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Imposing Economic Costs on
Russia</span>**  
  
**Securing major G7 commitments**: G7 Leaders are convening today to
announce a new set of economic commitments to hold Russia accountable
for its war against Ukraine. To counter Russia’s attempt to circumvent
G7 measures to date, Leaders will support the establishment of an
Enforcement Coordination Mechanism, which will be chaired by the United
States in the first year. To ensure Russia pays for Ukraine’s long-term
reconstruction, G7 countries will continue to keep Russia’s sovereign
assets immobilized until there is a resolution to the conflict that
addresses Russia’s violation of Ukraine’s sovereignty and integrity. New
commitments on imposing economic pressure measures against Russia’s
energy, extractive, financial, and defense and industrial sectors also
will be endorsed. The United States will swiftly implement these
commitments by taking the below actions.  
  
**Imposing extensive sanctions on Russia’s economy:** Today, in
coordination with G7 partners and allies, the Departments of the
Treasury and State will implement sweeping sanctions against key revenue
generating sectors in order to further degrade Russia’s economy and
diminish its ability to wage war against Ukraine. This will result in
sanctions being imposed on over 200 individuals and entities, including
both Russian and third-country actors across Europe, Asia, and the
Middle East that are supporting Russia’s war effort. As part of this
announcement, we will target a dozen Russian financial institutions, in
alignment with allies and partners, as well as Russian officials and
proxy authorities illegitimately operating in Ukraine. We will sanction
additional actors tied to Russia’s defense and technology industry,
including those responsible for backfilling Russian stocks of sanctioned
items or enabling Russian sanctions evasion. It also includes the
targeting of Russia’s future energy capabilities in a manner that does
not impact current production to minimize market disruption. The United
States also is expanding its sanctions authorities to Russia’s metals
and mining sector, tailored to minimize market disruption.  
  
**Restricting exports to Russia: **Today, the Department of Commerce
will take several export control actions, listing nearly 90 Russian
and third country companies, including in China among other
countries, on the Entity List for engaging in sanction evasion and
backfill activities in support of Russia’s defense sector. These
listings will prohibit the targeted companies from purchasing items,
such as semiconductors, whether made in the U.S. or with certain U.S.
technology or software abroad. Commerce will also take action alongside
G7 partners and allies to align measures on industrial machinery,
luxury goods, and other items, as well as issue new restrictions to
prevent components found in Iranian drones from making their way onto
the battlefield in Ukraine.   
  
**Increasing tariffs on Russian products: **Today, the President will
sign proclamations to raise tariffs on certain Russian products imported
to the United States, building on previous efforts to strip Russia of
its international trade privileges. These measures are designed to
target key Russian commodities generating revenue for the Kremlin while
reducing U.S. reliance on Russia. These measures are carefully
calibrated to impose costs on Russia while minimizing costs to U.S.
consumers. Today’s action will result in increased tariffs on more than
100 Russian metals, minerals, and chemical products worth approximately
$2.8 billion to Russia. It will also significantly increase costs for
aluminum that was smelted or cast in Russia to enter the U.S. market in
order to counter harm to the domestic aluminum industry, which is being
squeezed by energy costs as a result of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.  
  
These sanctions, export controls, and tariffs are part of our ongoing
efforts to impose strong additional economic costs on Russia. We will
continue to work with our allies and partners to use all economic tools
available to us to disrupt Russia’s ability to wage its war and degrade
its economy over time.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Holding Russia
Accountable </span>**  
  
**Increasing use of accountability tools:** This past week, Vice
President Harris announced at the Munich Security Conference that the
State Department has determined, following a careful analysis of the law
and available facts, that members of Russia’s forces and other Russian
officials have committed crimes against humanity in Ukraine. The United
States and our partners are committed to holding those who are
responsible for Russia’s attacks and atrocities against the people of
Ukraine accountable — ensuring that perpetrators, human rights
violators, and war criminals are brought to justice.  We will continue
to support a range of investigations into Russia’s atrocities, including
by Ukraine’s Prosecutor General, through the United Nations, the Expert
Missions established under the OSCE “Moscow Mechanism,” and the
International Criminal Court among others. U.S. assistance is helping
build the capacity of Ukraine’s domestic authorities to hold individuals
accountable for war crimes and other atrocities and abuses.   
  
**Building support at the United Nations:** This week, the United States
has worked closely with allies and partners to rally 141 countries from
every corner of the world to support a UN General Assembly resolution
that underscores the need for a comprehensive, just, and lasting peace
in Ukraine — in line with the principles of sovereignty and territorial
integrity represented in the UN Charter.  At an Emergency Special
Session on February 22 and 23, an overwhelming number of Member States
expressed their ongoing support for Ukraine.  And today, exactly one
year since the start of Russia’s brutal invasion, Secretary Blinken will
reaffirm our unwavering commitment to Ukraine at a ministerial-level
meeting of the UN Security Council on the “Maintenance of Peace and
Security of Ukraine.”   

\###
