---
date: '2023-02-14'
published_time: 2023-02-14 16:00:25-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/14/president-biden-announces-key-members-of-his-economic-team/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Members of his Economic\_Team"
---
 
Today, President Biden announced key members of his economic team,
including Lael Brainard to serve as Director of the National Economic
Council and his intent to nominate Jared Bernstein as Chair of the
Council of Economic Advisers. Additionally, the President named Bharat
Ramamurti, who currently serves as Deputy Director of the National
Economic Council, to also serve as an Advisor for Strategic Economic
Communications; he named Heather Boushey, who currently serves as a
Member of the Council of Economic Advisers, to also serve as Chief
Economist to the Invest in America Cabinet; and he named Joelle Gamble,
who currently serves as Chief Economist at the Department of Labor to be
Deputy Director of the National Economic Council.  
  
***Statement from President Biden:***  
  
“Cecilia Rouse and Brian Deese are trusted advisors that I have relied
on to help craft my economic agenda, and our country owes them a debt of
gratitude for their service. As they transition out of the White House,
I am pleased to announce new leaders who will continue to deliver on my
economic vision and help finish the job.  
  
Lael, one of the country’s leading macroeconomists, brings an
extraordinary depth of domestic and international economic expertise,
having previously served at CEA, NEC, the Treasury Department and the
Federal Reserve. She is a trusted veteran across our economic
institutions, and understands how the economy affects everyday people.  
  
Jared is a brilliant thinker and one of my closest and longest-serving
economic advisers. He is an expert on worker empowerment and a
worker-centric economic policy, which has long been the heart of my
economic vision. A former social worker, Jared was in the foxhole with
me while I was Vice President, and he understands that a job is about
far more than a paycheck, it’s about the dignity of work.    
  
Along with Bharat, Heather, Joelle and other key members of my White
House economic team, Lael and Jared will help bring a seriousness of
purpose to the task of building a strong, inclusive, and more resilient
economy for the future. Over the past two years, my economic strategy
has delivered historic results for the American people. This team will
be committed to implementing that strategy, while managing the
transition of our historic economic recovery to steady and stable
growth. They will work tirelessly to ensure every American enjoys a fair
return for their work and an equal chance to get ahead, and that our
businesses can thrive and outcompete the rest of the world. Let’s finish
the job.”  
  
Brainard will be the second female director of the NEC.  
  
**Lael Brainard, Director of the National Economic Council**  
Lael Brainard currently serves as Vice-Chair of the Federal Reserve.
Brainard took office as a member of the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System in June 2014 to fill an unexpired term ending
January 31, 2026. Prior to her appointment to the Board, Dr. Brainard
served as undersecretary of the U.S. Department of Treasury from 2010 to
2013 and counselor to the secretary of the Treasury in 2009. From 2001
to 2008, she was vice president and the founding director of the Global
Economy and Development Program at the Brookings Institution. Dr.
Brainard also previously served as deputy national economic adviser for
President Clinton. From 1990 to 1996, she was assistant and associate
professor of applied economics at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology’s Sloan School of Management. Dr. Brainard received a BA with
university honors from Wesleyan University in 1983. She received an MS
and a Ph.D. in economics in 1989 from Harvard University, where she was
awarded a National Science Foundation Fellowship. She is also the
recipient of a White House Fellowship.  
  
**Jared Bernstein, Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers**  
Jared Bernstein currently serves as a Member of the Council of Economic
Advisers. Previously, Bernstein served as chief economist to then-Vice
President Biden in the Obama-Biden Administration before joining the
Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, where he served as a senior
fellow from 2011 to 2021. A former social worker, Bernstein has a long
and distinguished track record devising economic policies that expand
opportunity for working Americans. Bernstein has previously served as
Executive Director of the White House Task Force on the Middle Class and
as an economic advisor to President Obama; prior to his service in the
Obama-Biden Administration, he was a senior economist and director of
the Living Standards Program at the Economic Policy Institute, and
served as Deputy Chief Economist at the U.S. Department of Labor under
President Clinton. Bernstein received his bachelor’s degree from the
Manhattan School of Music, his master of social work degree from Hunter
College, and his Ph.D. in social welfare from Columbia University.  
  
**Bharat Ramamurti, Deputy Director of the National Economic Council and
Adviser for Strategic Economic Communications**  
Bharat Ramamurti currently serves as Deputy Director of the National
Economic Council. Before joining the Administration, he was appointed in
2020 by Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer as a commissioner on the
Congressional Oversight Commission for the CARES Act. Ramamurti
previously served as the Director of the Corporate Power program at the
Roosevelt Institute, and as economic policy adviser to Senator Elizabeth
Warren in her Senate office and on her presidential campaign. Ramamurti
is a graduate of Harvard College and Yale Law School.  
  
**Heather Boushey, Member of the Council of Economic Advisers and Chief
Economist to the Invest in America Cabinet**  
Heather Boushey currently serves as a Member of the Council of Economic
Advisers. Previously, Boushey served as President & CEO and co-founder
of the Washington Center for Equitable Growth. An expert on the impact
of structural inequities on economic growth, she is a leading voice on
matters of economic policy. Boushey served as chief economist for
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential transition team,
and previously served as an economist for the Center for American
Progress, the Joint Economic Committee of the U.S. Congress, the Center
for Economic and Policy Research, and the Economic Policy Institute.
Boushey received her bachelor of arts degree from Hampshire College and
her Ph.D. in economics from the New School for Social Research.  
  
**Joelle Gamble, Deputy Director of the National Economic Council**  
Joelle Gamble currently serves as Chief Economist of the U.S. Department
of Labor. Prior to this role, she was Special Assistant to the President
for Economic Policy for the National Economic Council and served as an
economic policy advisor role on the Presidential Transition. Before
joining the Administration, she served as a principal at Omidyar
Network. She was Senior Advisor to the President and CEO of the
Roosevelt Institute and National Director of the Roosevelt Institute’s
network for emerging leaders in public policy. Gamble is a graduate of
UCLA and Princeton University.

\###
