---
date: '2023-02-01'
published_time: 2023-02-01 18:28:12-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/01/president-biden-announces-one-new-nominee-to-serve-as-u-s-attorney-one-to-serve-as-u-s-marshal/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces One New Nominee to Serve as U.S. Attorney, One\
  \ to Serve as U.S.\_Marshal"
---
 
The President is announcing his intent to nominate one new nominee to
serve as U.S. Attorney and one new nominee to serve as U.S. Marshal.
These are officials who will be indispensable to upholding the rule of
law as top federal law enforcement officials.

These individuals were chosen for their devotion to enforcing the law,
their professionalism, their experience and credentials, their
dedication to pursuing equal justice for all, and their commitment to
the independence of the Department of Justice.

The President has proposed a budget that would significantly increase
funding for law enforcement as part of a comprehensive approach to
tackling the rising crime rate this administration inherited.

The President has also launched a comprehensive effort to take on the
uptick in gun crime that has been taking place since 2020—putting more
cops on the beat, supporting community prevention programs, and cracking
down on illegal gun trafficking. Confirming U.S. Attorneys as the chief
federal law enforcement officers in their district is important for
these efforts.

The President has now announced 68 nominees to serve as U.S. Attorneys
and 22 nominees to serve as U.S. Marshals.

**<u>United States Attorney Announcement</u>**

1.  **<u>Damien Diggs: Candidate for United States Attorney for the
    Eastern District of Texas</u>**

Damien Diggs has served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the
U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Texas since 2018.
Mr. Diggs previously served as an Assistant United States Attorney in
the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia from 2012 to
2018. From 2007 to 2012, Mr. Diggs served as a staff attorney in the
Office of Civil Rights at the U.S. Department of Education, and from
2005 to 2007 he was an associate at Hogan & Harston LLP. Mr. Diggs
served a law clerk for the senior judges of the District of Columbia
Court of Appeals from 2004 to 2005. He served as a law clerk to Judge
Rhonda Reid Winston of the Superior Court for the District of Columbia
from 2003 to 2004. Mr. Diggs received his J.D., *cum laude*, from the
American University Washington College of Law in 2003 and his B.S. from
Towson University in 1998.

**<u>United States Marshal Announcement</u>**

1.  **<u>Shannon Saylor: Candidate for United States Marshal for the
    Eastern District of Virginia</u>**

Shannon Saylor has served as the Acting United States Marshal for the
Eastern District of Virginia since 2021. Mr. Saylor previously served as
the Chief Deputy United States Marshal for the Eastern District of
Virginia from 2020 to 2021 and Assistant Chief Deputy U.S. Marshal from
2019 to 2020. He joined the U.S. Marshals Service for the Eastern
District of Virginia as a Deputy in 2005. From 2001 to 2005, Mr. Saylor
served as a police officer with the Savannah Chatham Metropolitan Police
Department in Savannah, Georgia. Mr. Saylor received his B.A. from Thiel
College in 1998. He is a veteran of the United States Army.

\###
