---
date: '2023-02-27'
published_time: 2023-02-27 10:35:50-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/27/president-biden-announces-former-mayor-stephen-benjamin-as-senior-advisor-and-director-of-the-office-of-public-engagement/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Former Mayor Stephen Benjamin as Senior Advisor\
  \ and Director of the Office of Public\_Engagement"
---
 
Today, President Biden announced that Stephen Benjamin will serve as
Senior Advisor and Director of the Office of Public Engagement. In this
role, Benjamin will oversee the White House Office of Public Engagement,
which works at the local, state, and national levels to ensure community
leaders, diverse perspectives, and new voices have the opportunity to
inform the work of the President in an inclusive, transparent and
responsible way.

Statement from President Biden: “Mayor Benjamin is a longtime public
servant, who has served the people of South Carolina for over two
decades statewide and as a three-term mayor of Columbia. As a former
President of both the U.S. Conference of Mayors and the African American
Mayors Association, Steve’s deep relationships with communities across
the country will serve our Administration and the American public well.

As mayor of Columbia, Steve focused on the economic development of Main
Street, job creation and maintaining a just, diverse, and trusted law
enforcement department. He understands what Americans across the country
expect and deserve from their government.

Under Keisha’s leadership, the Office of Public Engagement has kept
equity at the heart of our agenda, and continues to serve as the
connective tissue between our Administration and everyday Americans who
may not have a voice to reach Washington otherwise. I have leaned on
Keisha as a close advisor with exceptional instincts, and I am grateful
to her for serving our nation with honor and integrity. I wish her the
best as she returns home to Atlanta to be with her family.”

**Stephen Benjamin, Senior Advisor and Director of the Office of Public
Engagement**

Steve Benjamin served as Mayor of Columbia, South Carolina from 2010 to
2021. He served as the 76th President of the U.S. Conference of Mayors
from 2018 to 2019 and as President of the African American Mayors
Association from 2015 to 2016. He currently serves as President & CEO of
The Benjamin Firm, LLC.

Benjamin has also been Executive Chairman of Municipal Bonds for
America, a member of the Federal Communications Commission’s
Intergovernmental Advisory Committee, and a member of the Accelerator
for America Advisory Council.

Prior to his service as mayor, Benjamin served in South Carolina
Governor Jim Hodges’ cabinet as the Chief Executive of the state’s
second largest law enforcement agency, the Department of Probation,
Parole and Pardon Services. Benjamin has been a member of the Federal
Home Loan Bank of Atlanta Affordable Housing Advisory Council, and
Co-Chair of the Sierra Club’s Mayors for 100% Clean Energy. He was
awarded the U.S. Small Business Administration’s 2017 Phoenix Award for
Outstanding Contributions to Disaster Recovery by a Public Official for
his leadership during an October 2015 flood.

Benjamin began his public service career in Columbia as student body
president of the University of South Carolina and later as Student Bar
Association President at the USC School of Law.

\###
