---
date: '2023-02-03'
modified_time: 2023-02-03 13:13:45-05:00
published_time: 2023-02-03 15:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/03/president-biden-announces-appointments-to-national-security-telecommunications-advisory-committee/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Appointments to the President\u2019s National Security\
  \ Telecommunications Advisory\_Committee"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint
highly qualified and diverse industry leaders as members of the
President’s National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee. The
National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee (NSTAC) advises
the White House on the reliability, security, and preparedness of vital
communications and information infrastructure. These appointees will
join previously appointed NSTAC members to provide national security and
emergency preparedness solutions by providing innovative policy
recommendations backed by a unique industry perspective. In addition to
today’s announcement, President Biden also named new leadership to the
committee.

-   Scott Charney, Chair, President’s National Security
    Telecommunications Advisory Committee
-   Jeffrey K. Storey, Vice Chair, President’s National Security
    Telecommunications Advisory Committee
-   Johnathon E. Caldwell, Member, President’s National Security
    Telecommunications Advisory Committee
-   Mark David Dankberg, Member, President’s National Security
    Telecommunications Advisory Committee
-   Noopur Davis, Member, President’s National Security
    Telecommunications Advisory Committee
-   Barbara W. Humpton, Member, President’s National Security
    Telecommunications Advisory Committee
-   Kimberly B. Keever, Member, President’s National Security
    Telecommunications Advisory Committee
-   Kyle J. Malady, Member, President’s National Security
    Telecommunications Advisory Committee
-   Kevin R. Mandia, Member, President’s National Security
    Telecommunications Advisory Committee
-   Maria N. Martinez, Member, President’s National Security
    Telecommunications Advisory Committee
-   Jeffery Scott McElfresh, Member, President’s National Security
    Telecommunications Advisory Committee
-   Bryan J. Palma, Member, President’s National Security
    Telecommunications Advisory Committee
-   Neville Richard Ray, Member, President’s National Security
    Telecommunications Advisory Committee
-   Corey E. Thomas, Member, President’s National Security
    Telecommunications Advisory Committee

**Scott Charney, Chair, President’s National Security Telecommunications
Advisory Committee**

Scott Charney currently serves as Vice President for Security Policy at
Microsoft, where he works with public and private sector organizations
to develop and implement strategies that help secure the IT ecosystem.
Prior to this position, he led Microsoft’s Trustworthy Computing Group,
where he was responsible for enforcing Microsoft’s mandatory security
engineering policies and implementing the company’s security strategy.
Charney currently serves as Chair of the Board for the Global Cyber
Alliance and served as a Commissioner on the Global Commission for the
Stability of Cyberspace.

**Jeffrey K. Storey, Vice Chair, President’s National Security
Telecommunications Advisory Committee**

Jeffrey K. Storey has retired from his position as President and Chief
Executive Officer (CEO) of Lumen Technologies (formerly CenturyLink)
after a distinguished 40-year career within the telecommunication and
technology industries, including Lumen and its predecessors. He now
serves as the Senior Advisor to the Lumen Board and CEO. From April 2013
until its merger with CenturyLink in 2017, he served as President and
CEO of Level 3 Communications. Before Level 3, Storey served as the
President and CEO of WilTel Communications, President of Leucadia
Telecommunications Group, and as a senior executive at Cox
Communications, where he helped to found Cox Business Services.

**Johnathon E. Caldwell, Member**, **President’s National Security
Telecommunications Advisory Committee**

Johnathon E. Caldwell is responsible for Lockheed Martin’s Military
Space business, comprised of critical national security space missions
for both United States and allied nations. With more than 27 years in
the industry, he has held a series of progressive technical and
leadership roles within Lockheed Martin, including modernizing the
nation’s strategic communications and missile warning, developing
commercial space systems, producing and fielding next generation Global
Positioning System, and leading the digital modernization of Lockheed
Martin Space. Caldwell is a graduate of the University of Colorado
Boulder and the Lockheed Martin leadership development programs. He is a
two-time recipient of the Lockheed Martin Corporate NOVA Award, which
recognizes individuals and teams for their exceptional contributions.

**Mark David Dankberg, Member, President’s National Security
Telecommunications Advisory Committee**

Mark David Dankberg is Chairman, CEO, and Co-Founder of Viasat, a
leading provider of satellite technology and network services for
airlines, energy, maritime, residential and remote markets, and secure
networks for government applications. He is a member of the National
Academy of Engineering and has received numerous satellite industry and
entrepreneurship awards including the Aerospace International
Communications Award from the American Institute of Aeronautics and
Astronautics. Dankberg has served on the Board of Trustees of Rice
University and the boards of private and public technology companies.
Dankberg also currently serves at Lytx, Inc., a leading provider of
fleet safety management solutions.

**Noopur Davis, Member, President’s National Security Telecommunications
Advisory Committee**

Noopur Davis is Corporate Executive Vice President, Chief Information
Security and Product Privacy Officer for Comcast Corporation and Comcast
Cable. In this role, Davis is responsible for overseeing the full range
of cybersecurity and product privacy functions for all Comcast Cable
businesses, including all products and services delivered to residential
and business customers. Prior to joining Comcast, Davis served as Vice
President of Global Quality at Intel Security Group, as a Visiting
Scientist and Senior Member of Technical Staff at Carnegie Mellon
University Software Engineering Institute, as a Principal of Davis
Systems, and with various other leading technology companies. She serves
on the boards of Regions Financial and of Entrust.

**Barbara W. Humpton, Member, President’s National Security
Telecommunications Advisory Committee**

Barbara W. Humpton is President and CEO of Siemens Corporation, where
she guides the company’s strategy and engagement in serving the
company’s largest market. She previously served as President and CEO of
Siemens Government Technologies, Inc. (SGT). Prior to joining Siemens in
2011, Humpton served as a Vice President at Booz Allen Hamilton and
Lockheed Martin Corporation. She is Chairman of the Siemens Corporation
Board, the Siemens Foundation and of the Center for Strategic and
Budgetary Assessments. She serves on the Board of Directors of the
Triumph Group, National Association of Manufacturers, Chief Executives
for Corporate Purpose, Economic Club of Washington, D.C., and the Seabee
Memorial Scholarship Association.

**Kimberly B. Keever, Member, President’s National Security
Telecommunications Advisory Committee**

Kimberly B. Keever currently serves as Chief Information Security
Officer for Cox Communications leading all aspects of cybersecurity
including collaborating extensively with industry and developing
innovative capabilities to protect critical infrastructure. Between 2017
and 2019, Keever was named one of the most powerful women in cable by
Cablefax. In 2019, she was named the Information Security Executive of
the Year for the Southeast and North American in the Commercial
category. In 2020, Keever received the Women in Technology Award
presented by the Society of Cable Telecommunications Engineers, Women in
Cable Telecommunications, and Cablefax. This award recognizes one woman
each year who has demonstrated outstanding professional growth while
contributing to the advancement of the cable telecommunications
industry. She previously served as the Chief Information Officer for
Invesco Retirement Plan Services and was responsible for all aspects of
technology. Keever currently serves on the Enduring Security Framework
Operating Committee, the Board of the Georgia Institute of Technology
Scheller College of Business, and is a Board Advisor to Children’s
Healthcare of Atlanta. She served on the Federal Communications
Commission (FCC) Communications Security, Reliability, and
Interoperability Council (CSRIC), making recommendations to the
Commission to promote the security, reliability, and resiliency of the
nation’s communications systems and the Alliance for Telecommunications
Industry Solutions (ATIS) Board.

**Kyle J. Malady, Member, President’s National Security
Telecommunications Advisory Committee**

Kyle J. Malady is the President of Global Networks and Technology at
Verizon. He is responsible for the nation’s leading wireless network,
the nation’s largest fiber broadband service, and a vast Internet
Protocol network serving global customers. Malady is on the Board of
Directors for both Dexcom and CTIA, the trade association representing
the wireless communications industry. Previously, he sat on the FCC
Communications Security, Reliability, and Interoperability Council. He
also is involved with Heartcare International, which funds free cardiac
surgeries for children in developing countries.

**Kevin R. Mandia, Member, President’s National Security
Telecommunications Advisory Committee**

Kevin R. Mandia is the CEO of Mandiant, now part of Google Cloud. From
2016 until the company’s acquisition by Google in September 2022, Mandia
served as CEO and a member of the Board of Directors of FireEye and
later, Mandiant, Inc., following its corporate name change. In 2004,
Mandia founded Mandiant Corporation, a leading provider of cyber
security incident management products and services. Following its
acquisition by FireEye in 2013, Mandiant went on to become the core of
FireEye’s highly successful cyber security business. Today, Mandia leads
the Mandiant consulting and intel operations for Google Cloud. He began
his cyber security career in the United States Air Force and went on to
hold senior positions in the security consulting divisions of Sytex,
acquired by Lockheed Martin, and Foundstone, acquired by McAfee. Mandia
has served as a member of the Cybersecurity Advisory Committee for the
Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency since December 2021.

**Maria N. Martinez, Member, President’s National Security
Telecommunications Advisory Committee**

Maria N. Martinez is the COO at Cisco, where she is responsible for the
company’s operations and transformation, as well as for building
high-value experiences for its customers, partners, and employees.
Martinez brings more than 35 years of leadership experience from a
variety of technology sectors including software, services, hardware,
and networking technology. Prior to Cisco, she held executive positions
at industry giants such as Salesforce, Microsoft, Motorola, and AT&T,
while also having served as the CEO of Internet of Things’ startup,
Embrace Networks. Martinez also serves on the Board of Directors for
McKesson, Cue Health, and the Silicon Valley Education Foundation.

**Jeffery Scott McElfresh, Member, President’s National Security
Telecommunications Advisory Committee**

Jeff McElfresh is the COO of AT&T, a global communications leader
serving more than 100 million mobile and broadband customers in the
United States, and millions of business customers, including nearly all
of the Fortune 1000. He has 27 years of experience with AT&T in a
variety of strategic, operational, and technology leadership roles. Most
of his career has been in AT&T’s Mobility business, the biggest single
driver of AT&T’s consolidated revenues.

McElfresh most recently served as the CEO of AT&T Communications, where
he led nearly 200,000 employees. He priorly served as the President of
AT&T Communications’ Technology and Operations group, where he led a
team of more than 90,000 employees and was responsible for the company’s
network, technology, cybersecurity, data, and labs operations. In that
role, he led the team that won AT&T recognition for having the best,
fastest, and most reliable wireless network in the country. McElfresh
also previously served as CEO of AT&T’s Vrio as well as its DIRECTV
Latin America and SKY Brasil businesses from 2015 to 2018. He was Senior
Vice President in AT&T’s Strategy and Corporate Development group,
President of AT&T Mexico, and a member of the Board of Directors and
Executive Committee of Telmex as well as América Móvil, where he oversaw
AT&T’s since-divested minority interest in the two companies. Early in
his career, McElfresh held several operational positions with AT&T’s
(BellSouth International) wireless businesses in Latin America. Jeff
holds a Bachelor of Science in electrical engineering from the
University of Florida and a Master of Business Administration from
Northwestern University’s Kellogg School of Management.

**Bryan J. Palma, Member, President’s National Security
Telecommunications Advisory Committee**

Bryan J. Palma is currently the CEO of Trellix and a member of its Board
of Directors. Previously, Palma led the sale of FireEye, its subsequent
combination with McAfee, and rebranding to Trellix. Palma has also held
executive leadership positions at AT&T, Blackberry, Boeing, Cisco, EDS,
and PepsiCo. He began his career as a special agent in the U.S. Secret
Service.

**Neville Richard Ray, Member, President’s National Security
Telecommunications Advisory Committee**

Neville R. Ray serves as T-Mobile’s President of Technology. A wireless
visionary and inaugural member of the Wireless Infrastructure
Association’s Wireless Hall of Fame, Ray has more than 25 years of
experience in the design, deployment, and operational management of
wireless networks in the United States and worldwide, earning him
recognition for his leadership in the telecommunications industry. Ray
joined T-Mobile USA (then Voice Stream) in April 2000, was promoted to
Chief Technology Officer in December 2010, and most recently was the
President of Technology in December 2019. He is responsible for the
national management, strategy, and development of the T-Mobile USA
wireless network and the company’s IT services and operations. At Ray’s
helm, T-Mobile was the first to launch nationwide 5G, and today is
recognized with the largest and fastest 5G network. He boasts having
“the best team in wireless,” who together have racked up a long list of
industry firsts and continue to lead the charge in the 5G era.

Prior to joining T-Mobile USA, Ray served as Network Vice President for
Pacific Bell Mobile Services. He currently serves, for a ninth time, as
Chairman of the 5G Americas Board of Governors, the industry trade
association and voice of 5G and LTE for the Americas. Ray is also on the
Board of Directors of Next Generation Mobile Networks Alliance, a mobile
telecommunications association of mobile operators, vendors,
manufacturers, and research institutes. He has also served on both the
Network Reliability and Interoperability Council (NRIC) as well as the
Commerce Spectrum Management Advisory Committee (CSMAC) for the federal
government.

Ray is an honors graduate of City, University of London, a member of the
Institution of Electrical and Electronic Engineers, and a member of the
Institution of Civil Engineers.

**Corey E. Thomas, Member, President’s National Security
Telecommunications Advisory Committee**

Corey E. Thomas is the CEO of Rapid7, as well as the Chairman of its
Board of Directors. In 2021, he became a member of the Council on
Foreign Relations and was appointed class-C Director and Deputy Chair of
the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. Thomas also serves on the Blue Cross
Blue Shield of Massachusetts Board of Directors, LPL Financial Board of
Directors, and the Vanderbilt University Board of Trust. He is an active
angel investor to technology companies, advisor to organizations
undergoing technology transformation, and sought-after speaker and
panelist. He previously served on the U.S. Commerce Department’s Digital
Economy Board of Advisors. Corey has extensive experience leading
technology companies to the next stage of growth and innovation. Prior
to joining Rapid7, Corey spent time at Parallels, Inc., Microsoft,
Deloitte Consulting, and AT&T. Corey received a Bachelor of Engineering
in electrical engineering and computer science from Vanderbilt
University and his Masters of Business Administration from Harvard
Business School.

\###
