---
date: '2023-02-07'
modified_time: 2023-02-07 16:58:06-05:00
published_time: 2023-02-07 10:30:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/07/fact-sheet-in-state-of-the-union-president-biden-to-outline-vision-to-advance-progress-on-unity-agenda-in-year-ahead/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: In State of the Union, President\_Biden to Outline Vision to Advance\
  \ Progress on Unity Agenda in Year\_Ahead"
---
 
During his first State of the Union address, President Biden announced
a [four-part Unity
Agenda](https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/briefing-room/2022/03/28/fact-sheet-president-bidens-budget-advances-a-bipartisan-unity-agenda/) focused
on areas where members of both parties can come together and make
additional progress for the American people: ending cancer as we know
it; delivering on the sacred obligation to veterans; tackling the mental
health crisis; and beating the opioid and overdose epidemic.  
  
Over the last year, the President was proud to work with Democrats and
Republicans to enact major legislation that delivers on all aspects of
this four-part agenda. In his State of the Union today, the President
will announce a new set of policies to continue to make progress
advancing his Unity Agenda and deliver results for families across the
country.  
  
**Accelerating Progress to End Cancer as We Know It Today**  
Cancer has touched nearly every American family, and it remains the
second leading cause of death in America. To accelerate progress in the
fight against cancer, last year, the President and First Lady reignited
the Cancer Moonshot with the goal of cutting U.S. cancer death rates by
at least half in 25 years and improving the experience of individuals,
caregivers, and families living with and surviving cancer. Over the past
year, the Cancer Moonshot has announced nearly 30 new federal programs,
policies and resources to close the screening gap, tackle environmental
exposure, decrease preventable cancers, advance cutting-edge research,
support patients and caregivers, and more. More than 60 private
companies, non-profits, academic institutions, and patient groups have
also answered the President’s call and stepped up with new actions and
collaborations. The President will call on Congress to act to end cancer
as we know it, and the Cancer Moonshot will drive additional progress
this year by:  
  
**Bringing America’s cancer research system into the 21st century.** As
we work to continue the progress we’ve made over the last year, the
Administration is urging Congress to reauthorize the National Cancer
Act, which 52 years ago set up the National Cancer Institute (NCI) in
its current form. The reauthorization will update the nation’s cancer
research and care systems to put modern American innovation fully to
work to end cancer as we know it. This includes standing up clinical
trial networks, creating new data systems that break down silos, and
ensuring that knowledge gained through research is available to as many
experts as possible, so we can find answers faster and make a difference
for patients. Working with Congress, we can also lock in the strong
investment in cancer research that passed in 2016 as part of the broadly
bipartisan 21<sup>st</sup> Century Cures Act, which otherwise expires
this year.  
  
**Providing patient navigation support to every American facing
cancer.** The Biden-Harris Administration will take steps to ensure that
patient navigation services – services that help guide individuals,
caregivers, and families through cancer screening, diagnosis, treatment,
and survivorship – are covered benefits going forward for as many people
facing cancer as possible. These patient navigation services not only
improve the experience for those patients and their families, they
improve patient outcomes and provide value back to the health care
system.   
  
**Tackling the biggest single driver of cancer deaths in this country –
smoking.** The Administration is preparing further action to help people
avoid smoking in the first place and support Americans who want to quit.
These steps could prevent as much as 30 percent of cancer deaths in this
country, saving up to 130,000 American lives, annually. While we have
made progress, tobacco products still hook too many young people at an
early age and take control away from individual Americans to make the
decision not to smoke. The Administration is working to put that control
back in the hands of Americans.  
  
During his first State of the Union address, President Biden cited the
recent announcement of his plan to supercharge the Cancer Moonshot and
called on Congress to fund **ARPA-H, the Advanced Research Projects
Agency for Health**, to drive breakthroughs in cancer, Alzheimer’s,
diabetes, and other diseases. Since that time, the President and
Congress have stepped up together to provide ARPA-H $2.5 billion in
initial investment. The President also signed into law the Inflation
Reduction Act, which will lower prescription drug costs for tens of
thousands of cancer patients with Medicare coverage. The Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law will also help cut cancer deaths by accelerating
clean-up at Superfund sites and helping states and communities replace
lead pipes and service lines.  
  
**Supporting America’s Veterans and Their Families, Caregivers, and
Survivors**  
The President believes there is no more sacred obligation than taking
care of our nation’s military service members, veterans, and their
families, caregivers, and survivors. On health care, education, and
housing, the Administration and Congress have worked together to make
progress to connect veterans and their families to needed resources.
Over the past year, the Administration expanded benefits for veterans as
well as their caregivers and survivors, and delivered more benefits and
health care more quickly to more veterans than ever before. In 2022, VA
processed an all-time record 1.7 million veteran claims, and delivered
$128 billion in earned benefits to 6.1 million veterans and survivors.
In the State of the Union, the President will announce his
Administration plans to continue that work by:  
  
**Reducing veteran suicide.** Suicide among veterans is a public health
and national security crisis. Since 2010, more than 71,000 veterans have
died by suicide – more than the total number of deaths from combat
during the Vietnam War and operations in Iraq and Afghanistan combined.
Since releasing a [comprehensive
strategy](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/Military-and-Veteran-Suicide-Prevention-Strategy.pdf) for
reducing military and veteran suicide,
both [DOD](https://www.defense.gov/News/Releases/Release/Article/3193806/department-of-defense-releases-the-annual-report-on-suicide-in-the-military-cal/) and [VA](https://www.va.gov/OPA/PRESSREL/pressrelease.cfm?id=5823) reported
declines in suicide deaths, but much more remains to be done. This will
include actions to:  

-   Support states and territories. The Department of Veterans Affairs
    (VA) is working with the Departments of Health and Human Services
    (HHS) and Defense (DOD) to partner with 49 states and 5 territories
    through the Governor’s Challenge. To help facilitate this work, VA
    will launch a new $10 million program to provide federal resources
    to states, territories, Tribes and Tribal organizations to develop
    and implement proposals under the program.  
     
-   Increase lethal means safety: In the coming year, VA will deploy new
    resources to improve suicide risk identification and increase lethal
    means safety counseling and safe storage. VA will offer additional
    training for the 1.3 million community providers and
    expand [KeepItSecure](https://www.va.gov/reach/lethal-means/), the
    landmark lethal means safety campaign, with new resources and
    materials for providers, caregivers, family members of veterans, and
    gun shop owners to encourage safe storage of firearms and lethal
    medications.  
     
-   Expand outreach to justice involved veterans. Veterans who become
    involved in the criminal justice system may be at high risk of
    suicide. Through Veteran Treatment Courts and other justice outreach
    engagements, VA is able to provide veterans access to benefits and
    services that can be life-changing, and VA will accelerate hiring of
    veteran justice outreach professionals to expand these programs.  
     
-   Expand Access to Legal Support Services. VA will build upon and
    expand its current 28 Medical-Legal Partnerships. Family caregivers
    participating in VA’s Program of Comprehensive Assistance will also
    be able to receive Financial and Legal Assistance later this year.
    VA will also award up to 75 grants under its new [Legal Services for
    Homeless Veterans and Veterans at Risk for Homeless (LSV-H)
    program](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.va.gov%2FHOMELESS%2Flsv.asp&data=05%7C01%7C%7C6373525037a24bcd3a9f08db04a73d0a%7Ce95f1b23abaf45ee821db7ab251ab3bf%7C0%7C0%7C638108888550213741%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=c0TYFVvVKQXEHNiEsRRrKBRrKKg%2F%2FTnP9nLpMfurW4Y%3D&reserved=0) to
    provide legal services to veterans who are homeless or at risk of
    homelessness.

**Expanding access to peer support, including mental health
services. **Military service increases the risk of mental health
problems and other adjustment challenges for veterans. Veteran Peer
Specialists are a critical asset within VA’s workforce, working across
various programs to connect their fellow veterans to services,
participate as members of health care teams, and provide individual and
group-based peer support. Last year, VA pledged to hire an additional
280 peer specialists and is on track to meet this goal by the end of
2023. VA will increase the number of peer specialists working across VA
medical centers by 350 over the next 7 years.  
  
**Ensuring access to affordable, stable housing for low-income
veterans**. Every veteran should have a roof over their head. The
President’s upcoming budget will triple the number of extremely
low-income veterans who can access the assistance they need to afford
rent over the years ahead, paving the path to an entitlement for those
who have served our country. The number of [veterans experiencing
homelessness
declined](https://www.va.gov/OPA/PRESSREL/pressrelease.cfm?id=5836) by
11% between 2020 and 2022 and the United States permanently housed [more
than 40,000 veterans in
2022](https://www.va.gov/opa/pressrel/pressrelease.cfm?id=5854) alone.   
  
**Delivering high-quality job training for veterans and their
spouses. **Roughly 200,000 service members [transition from the military
to civilian life](https://www.dol.gov/agencies/vets/programs/tap) each
year. In the coming year, DOL’s Veteran Employment and Training Service
(DOL-VETS) will implement its [Employment Navigator Partnership
Pilot](https://www.dol.gov/newsroom/releases/vets/vets20210401), which
has already provided one-on-one career assistance to 6,500 transitioning
service members and military spouses. And, the Department of Defense
will use the [Military Spouse Career Accelerator Pilot
program](https://www.defense.gov/News/Releases/Release/Article/3265916/dod-now-accepting-applications-for-new-military-spouse-career-accelerator-pilot/),
a 12-week paid fellowship program, to expand employment opportunities
for eligible military spouses.  
  
In last year’s State of the Union, the President called for Congress to
pass comprehensive legislation to address military toxic exposures. In
August 2022, President Biden signed the bipartisan PACT Act into law,
the most significant expansion of benefits and services for toxic
exposed veterans in more than 30 years. Over the last year, the
Administration also took critical action to help reduce veteran suicide,
including transitioning the Veterans Crisis Line to “988, press 1.” The
Administration also expanded access to [reproductive health
services](https://www.va.gov/OPA/PRESSREL/pressrelease.cfm?id=5820) for
women veterans, supported more than 2.3 million children living with
wounded, ill, or injured service members through the First Lady’s
Joining Forces Initiative, and implemented key measures to protect
veterans from predatory for-profit colleges.

**Tackling the Mental Health Crisis**  
Forty percent of American
adults [report](https://www.kff.org/report-section/the-implications-of-covid-19-for-mental-health-and-substance-use-issue-brief/) symptoms
of anxiety and depression, and the percent of children and adolescents
with anxiety and depression
has [risen](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2022/09/01/back-to-school-hhs-announces-40-point-22-million-in-youth-mental-health-grants-awarded-in-august-plus-47-point-6-million-in-new-grant-funding.html) nearly
thirty percent. Last year, President Biden called for additional actions
to advance his [Mental Health
Strategy](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/01/fact-sheet-president-biden-to-announce-strategy-to-address-our-national-mental-health-crisis-as-part-of-unity-agenda-in-his-first-state-of-the-union/) across
its three objectives: support Americans by creating healthy
environments; strengthening system capacity, and connecting more
Americans to care.  Over the last year, the Administration invested
critical resources to provide mental health and substance use supports
to Americans, including by expanding Certified Community Behavioral
Health Clinics, investing unprecedented resources in the 988 suicide
prevention hotline, and taking steps to help address the harms of social
media on youth. In the State of the Union, the President will say that
we will continue that work by:  
  
**Creating healthy environments. **Decades of research show that
coordinating prevention and recovery support across settings can pay
long-term dividends. The Biden-Harris Administration will:

-   Protect kids online. There is compelling and
    growing [evidence](https://www.hhs.gov/surgeongeneral/priorities/youth-mental-health/index.html) that
    social media and other tech platforms can be harmful to mental
    health, wellbeing and development. Children, adolescents, and teens
    are especially vulnerable to such harm. [More than one-third of
    American teens say they use a major social media platform “almost
    constantly” and that they spend “too much time on social
    media.”](https://www.pewresearch.org/internet/2022/08/10/teens-social-media-and-technology-2022/) Far
    too often, the platforms do not enforce their own terms of service
    with respect to minors who use their products and services. Children
    are also subject to the platforms’ excessive data collection vacuum,
    which they use to deliver sensational and harmful content and troves
    of paid advertising. Children also suffer from bullying, harassment,
    abuse, and even sexual exploitation by other users online. And
    platforms use manipulative design techniques embedded in their
    products to promote addictive and compulsive use by young people in
    the name of “user engagement” – all to generate more revenue. The
    Administration will build on the Surgeon-General’s Youth Mental
    Health Advisory, the Department of Health and Human Services’
    new [Center of Excellence on Social Media and Mental
    Wellness](https://www.samhsa.gov/newsroom/press-announcements/20220902/hhs-announces-award-national-center-of-excellence-on-social-media-mental-wellness)*,
    and the recent passage of the *Children and Media Research
    Advancement Act. Platforms and other interactive digital service
    providers should be required to prioritize the privacy and wellbeing
    of young people above profit and revenue in their product design,
    including safety by design standards and practices for online
    platforms, products, and services. The President is calling for
    bipartisan support to ban targeted advertising online for children
    and young people and enact strong protections for their privacy,
    health and safety online.  
     
-   Strengthen data privacy and platform transparency for all Americans:
    Big Tech companies collect huge amounts of data on the things we
    buy, the websites we visit, and the places we go.  There should be
    clear and strict limits on the ability to collect, use, transfer,
    and maintain our personal data, especially for sensitive data such
    as geolocation and health information, and the burden must fall on
    companies – not consumers – to minimize how much information they
    collect. We must also demand [transparency about the
    algorithm](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ostp/ai-bill-of-rights/)[s](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ostp/ai-bill-of-rights/notice-and-explanation/) companies
    use that far too often discriminate against Americans and sow
    division. The President has called for imposing much stronger
    transparency requirements on Big Tech platforms and is calling for
    bipartisan support to impose strong limits on targeted advertising
    and the personal data that companies collect on all Americans.  
     
-   Support the mental health of the health workforce. Even before the
    pandemic, health workers were experiencing high levels of burnout,
    anxiety, and depression. Studies have shown that burnout have
    reached crisis levels, affecting up to 54 percent of nurses and
    physicians. This year, the Centers for Disease Control and
    Prevention will launch a new campaign to provide a hub of mental
    health and resiliency resources to health care organizations in
    better supporting their workforce  
     
-   Promote youth resilience. While rates of anxiety, depression, and
    self-harm among youth have been on the rise over the past several
    years, there are also remarkable stories of hope and resilience. To
    help foster innovation in promoting resilience, HHS will launch a
    new Children and Youth Resilience Prize Challenge, awarding a total
    of $750,000 in a new pilot program.  

**Connecting more Americans to care.  **On average, it takes 11 years
after the onset of mental health symptoms for someone to seek treatment.
We can do better. To mitigate these challenges, the Administration is
working to make care more affordable and accessible across all types of
health insurance, integrating mental health services into settings that
are more familiar, such as schools, and expanding access to telehealth.
To continue this progress, the Biden Administration will:

-   Improve school-based mental health**.** The Department of Education
    (ED) will announce more than $280 million in grants to increase the
    number of mental health care professionals in high-need districts
    and strengthen the school-based mental health profession pipeline.
    HHS and ED intend to issue guidance and propose a rule,
    respectively, to remove red tape for schools, making it easier for
    them to provide health care to students and more easily bill
    Medicaid funding for these critical services.  
     
-   Strengthen parity. This spring, the Administration will propose new
    rules to ensure that insurance plans are not imposing inequitable
    barriers to care and mental health providers are being paid by
    health plans on par with other health care professionals.  
     
-   Enhance crisis services. The Administration launched 988, the
    National Suicide & Crisis Lifeline, in 2022, making it easier for
    individuals experiencing a behavioral health crisis to receive
    timely care. In the coming year, HHS will improve the capacity of
    the 988 Lifeline by investing in an expansion of the crisis care
    workforce; scaling mobile crisis intervention services; and
    developing additional guidance on best practices in crisis
    response.   
     
-   Expand access to telehealth. HHS will triple resources dedicated to
    promoting interstate license reciprocity for delivery of mental
    health services across state lines. VA will launch a new nationwide
    network of behavioral health clinicians to ensure timely access to
    evidence-based mental health services to veterans enrolled in VA
    health care. And, DoD will continue to expand the BRAVE program, a
    virtual behavioral health center providing services 24/7 to service
    members and their families located on federal installations across
    the globe.

**Strengthening system capacity.** Severe shortages in the behavioral
health workforce are at the center of the mental health crisis. In
addition to implementing legislation passed by Congress that creates 350
new slots to help train the next generation of mental health
professionals, the Administration will:

-   Recruit diverse candidates to the mental health profession: HHS will
    increase funding to recruit future mental health professionals from
    Historically Black Colleges and Universities and to expand the
    Minority Fellowship Program.  
     
-   Prioritize research: The Office of Science and Technology Policy and
    Domestic Policy Council released the [White House Report on Mental
    Health Research
    Priorities](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/02/White-House-Report-on-Mental-Health-Research-Priorities.pdf),
    which identifies key areas where additional scientific research is
    needed to address our national mental health crisis. These
    priorities will ensure coordination across the federal agencies and
    private sector partners that support or perform mental health
    research.

Last year, after the President called for addressing the nation’s mental
health crisis in the State of the Union, the Administration made
important progress on expanding access to mental health services and
treatment for substance use. President Biden signed into law
the **Bipartisan Safer Communities Act**, which makes unprecedented
investment in youth mental health and supports school-based health
services. The Administration also oversaw the **successful transition to
988, the National Suicide & Crisis Lifeline, investing over $500 million
to strengthen 988 infrastructure **and grow local crisis-center capacity
– a twenty-fold increase over the prior administration. The Biden
Administration also developed new resources to support the mental health
and resilience of frontline workers, **expanded Medicare coverage to
include additional mental health and substance use disorder services**,
and encouraged states to better address youth mental health for those
with Medicaid coverage.  
  
**Beating the Opioid and Overdose Epidemic by Accelerating the Crackdown
on Fentanyl Trafficking and Public Health Efforts to Save Lives**  
Last year, President Biden announced his plan to beat the opioid
epidemic as part of his Unity Agenda, because opioid use and trafficking
affect families in red communities and blue communities and every
community in between. Under President Biden’s leadership, overdose
deaths and poisonings have decreased for [five months in a
row](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ondcp/briefing-room/2023/01/11/dr-rahul-gupta-releases-statement-on-cdcs-new-overdose-death-data-2/) –
but these deaths remain unacceptably high and are primarily caused by
fentanyl. In the State of the Union, the President will announce key
actions the Administration to tackle this issue head on, including by:
   
  
**Disrupting the trafficking, distribution, and sale of fentanyl. **In
just the last year Customs and Border Protection (CBP) has seized a
historic 260,000 pounds of illicit drugs primarily at ports of entry on
our border, including nearly 15,000 pounds of fentanyl. The Drug
Enforcement Administration and the White House Office of National Drug
Control Policy’s (ONDCP) High-Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA)
program were involved in the seizure of more than 26,000 pounds of
fentanyl in FY22—including 50.6 million fentanyl-laced counterfeit
prescription pills—along with over 6,500 pounds of heroin, 335,000
pounds of methamphetamine, and 370,000 pounds of cocaine. The HIDTA
seizures denied $9 billion to drug traffickers, cutting into their
profits. Further, through President Biden’s *Executive Order on Imposing
Sanctions on Foreign Persons Involved in the Global Illicit Drug
Trade, *the Department of the Treasury has imposed sanctions against
dozens of individuals and entities involved in the illicit drug trade.
To aggressively expand on this historic effort, the President will
announce in the State of Union that his administration will:

-   Stop more fentanyl from getting into the U.S. at the Southwest
    Border Ports of Entry. By providing 123 new large-scale scanners at
    Land Points of Entry along the Southwest Border by Fiscal Year 2026,
    Customs and Border Protection (CBP) will increase its inspection
    capacity from what has historically been around two percent of
    passenger vehicles and about 17 percent of cargo vehicles to 40
    percent of passenger vehicles and 70 percent of cargo vehicles.
    These investments will crack down on a major avenue of fentanyl
    trafficking, securing our border and keeping dangerous drugs from
    reaching our country.  
     
-   Stop more packages from being shipped into the United States with
    fentanyl and the materials used to make it. Drug traffickers use
    small, hard-to-track packages to ship opioids and other illicit
    materials into and within the United States, hidden among the
    millions of packages sent daily via commercial package delivery
    companies. That’s why CBP is working with these companies to have
    them voluntarily provide data that help law enforcement identify,
    inspect and intercept suspicious packages. Through these combined
    public-private efforts, CBP has increased seizures in commercial
    package delivery services’ warehouses from 42,000 pounds of illicit
    substances to more than 63,000 pounds in just the past two years.
    This year, CBP will expand these voluntary data sharing partnerships
    to capture more information – and, in turn, seize more packages.  
     
-   Lead a sustained diplomatic push that will address fentanyl and its
    supply chain abroad.  The Administration will work with
    international partners to disrupt the global fentanyl production and
    supply chain, and call on others to join our efforts. We will focus
    on seizing chemical ingredients and fentanyl before it can reach our
    communities, and hold accountable the producers, traffickers, and
    facilitators of these deadly drugs. Many of these ingredients and
    materials originate outside our borders, and we will call on global
    partners to work with us and do more to disrupt the criminal
    elements within their countries who sell chemicals and tools for the
    production of counterfeit pills around the world.  
     
-   Work with Congress to make permanent tough penalties on suppliers of
    fentanyl. The federal government regulates illicitly produced
    fentanyl analogues and related substances as Schedule I drugs,
    meaning they are subject to strict regulations and criminal
    penalties. But traffickers have found a loophole: they can easily
    alter the chemical structure of fentanyl—creating “fentanyl related
    substances” (FRS)—to evade regulation and enhance the drug’s impact.
    The DEA and Congress temporarily closed this loophole by making all
    FRS Schedule I. The Administration looks forward to working with
    Congress on its [comprehensive
    proposal](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ondcp/briefing-room/2021/09/02/biden-harris-administration-provides-recommendations-to-congress-on-reducing-illicit-fentanyl-related-substances/) to
    permanently schedule all illicitly produced FRS into Schedule I.
    Traffickers of these deadly substances must face the penalties they
    deserve, no matter how they adjust their drugs.

**Expanding access to evidence-based prevention, harm reduction,
treatment, and recovery. **Over the last year, the Biden-Harris
Administration took unprecedented steps to expand access to naloxone and
other harm reduction interventions, such as permitting the use of $50
million for local public health departments to purchase naloxone,
releasing guidance to make it easier for programs to obtain and
distribute naloxone to at-risk populations, and prioritizing the review
of over-the-counter naloxone applications. The Administration has also
fundamentally changed addiction treatment across the country by working
with Congress to remove barriers that prevented medical professionals
from prescribing treatment for opioid use disorder and pursuing
rulemaking to make permanent the COVID-19 era flexibilities that allowed
for telehealth prescribing of buprenorphine and take-home methadone
doses. To further connect people to life-saving help, the Biden-Harris
Administration will:

-   Deliver more life-saving naloxone to communities hit hard by
    fentanyl. In late spring, HHS will take new steps to encourage and
    aid states in their efforts to use existing funding to purchase
    naloxone and distribute it in their communities. The Substance Abuse
    and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) will provide
    enhanced technical assistance to states who have existing State
    Opioid Response funds, and will host peer learning forums, national
    policy academies, and convenings with organizations distributing
    naloxone beginning this spring.  
     
-   Ensure every jail and prison across the nation can provide treatment
    for substance use disorder. Providing treatment while individuals
    are in jails and prisons, and continuing their treatment in their
    communities, has been proven to decrease overdose deaths, reduce
    crime, and increase employment during reentry. By this summer, the
    Federal Bureau of Prisons will ensure that each of their 122
    facilities are equipped and trained to provide in-house
    medication-assisted treatment (MAT). Further, since more than 90
    percent of individuals who are incarcerated are in state and local
    jails and prisons, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
    will provide guidance this spring allowing states to use Medicaid
    funds to provide health care services—including treatment for people
    with substance use disorder—to individuals in those facilities prior
    to their release.  
     
-   Build on historic progress to drastically expand access to
    medications for opioid use disorder. The Biden-Harris Administration
    will further expand access to treatment by working with medical
    professionals to make prescribing proven treatments, including
    buprenorphine for opioid use disorder, part of routine health care
    delivery and ensure that manufacturers, wholesalers, and pharmacies
    are making medications available to everyone with a prescription.   
     
-   Launch a national campaign to educate young people on the dangers of
    fentanyl, and how naloxone saves lives. The Ad Council’s [Real Deal
    on Fentanyl](https://realdealonfentanyl.adcouncilkit.org/) campaign
    has raised awareness about the dangers of fentanyl among youth.
    ONDCP and the Ad Council will build on this work by launching a
    naloxone education component of the campaign, which will reach the
    young people who are the fastest-growing age group to experience
    opioid overdose and poisoning by engaging popular social media
    platforms, college athletes and campus-based organizations. The
    campaign will also develop media to be shared on college campuses,
    in bars, public transportation stations, and retail locations to
    educate young people about the dangers of fentanyl and highlight
    naloxone resources.

During his first State of the Union address, President Biden called on
Congress to get rid of outdated rules that stop doctors from prescribing
treatments and provide law enforcement with the tools necessary to stop
the flow of illicit drugs like fentanyl. In his State of the Union
today, President Biden will highlight a bipartisan effort that delivered
on his promise by **passing the MAT Act**, which removed the X-waiver as
a barrier for health care providers prescribing life-saving medications
for opioid use disorder at a time when fewer than 1 out 10 of Americans
can access the treatment they need. President Biden also signed into law
the Consolidated Appropriations Act that included a **two-year extension
to classify fentanyl-related substances as Schedule I substances** under
the Controlled Substances Act, ensuring law enforcement has the tools
they need to respond to the manufacture and trafficking of illicitly
manufactured synthetic opioids driving the overdose epidemic.

\###
