---
date: '2023-02-27'
published_time: 2023-02-27 16:36:04-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/27/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-the-windsor-framework/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on the Windsor Framework"
---
 
Today’s announcement between the United Kingdom and the European Union
on the Windsor Framework is an essential step to ensuring that the
hard-earned peace and progress of the Belfast/Good Friday Agreement is
preserved and strengthened. I appreciate the efforts of the leaders and
officials on all sides who worked tirelessly to find a way forward that
protects Northern Ireland’s place within the UK’s internal market as
well as the EU’s single market, to the benefit of all communities in
Northern Ireland.

I am confident the people and businesses of Northern Ireland will be
able to take full advantage of the economic opportunities created by
this stability and certainty, and the United States stands ready to
support the region’s vast economic potential. Joe Kennedy, our new
Special Envoy to Northern Ireland for Economic Affairs, will drive this
effort in close cooperation with Ambassador Jane Hartley in London and
Ambassador Claire Cronin in Dublin, as well as with business leaders in
Northern Ireland.

Northern Ireland can accomplish the extraordinary when its leaders work
together in common cause. And I hope – as we all do – that Northern
Ireland’s political institutions are soon back up and running. Those
institutions embody the principle of devolved, power-sharing,
representative government at the core of the Good Friday Agreement. 

As Northern Ireland prepares to celebrate the 25th anniversary of the
Agreement in April, let us remember that ending decades of conflict was
not easy or inevitable. It required hard work and determination, and an
unfailing faith that a better future was possible. Today, an entire
generation of young people has grown up knowing only possibility and
growing prosperity—the hard-earned dividend of peace. I am deeply proud
of the role the United States has played for decades to help achieve,
preserve, and strengthen that peace enshrined in the Agreement. And I
look forward to continuing to work closely with our partners in Northern
Ireland, the Governments of the United Kingdom and Ireland, and the
European Union, to further that peace and prosperity.

\###
