---
date: '2023-02-15'
modified_time: 2023-02-14 18:27:20-05:00
published_time: 2023-02-15 05:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/15/fact-sheet-the-congressional-republican-agenda-to-increase-the-debt-by-over-3-trillion/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: The Congressional Republican Agenda to Increase the Debt by Over\
  \ $3\_Trillion"
---
 
[Congressional](https://rollcall.com/2019/09/12/mccarthy-addressing-debt-would-be-republicans-top-priority-if-they-take-back-house/)[Republican](https://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/2chambers/post/republican-leaders-double-down-on-deficit-concerns/2012/05/20/gIQABJ5DdU_blog.html)[leaders](https://www.speaker.gov/commitment/cta-one-pager/) insist
that the national debt is among our nation’s greatest challenges, and
reducing it is among their highest priorities. In fact, they claim that
reducing the debt is so urgent it
warrants [endangering](https://www.moodysanalytics.com/-/media/article/2023/debt-limit-brinkmanship.pdf) the
entire U.S. economy through debt limit brinksmanship. ***But their
legislative agenda to date points in a very different direction—with
proposals that would increase the debt by over $3 trillion****.*

-   The
    first [bill](https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th-congress/house-bill/23) passed
    by the new Republican House majority increased the debt by [**$114
    billion**](https://www.cbo.gov/system/files/2023-01/hr23_IRS.pdf) by
    allowing wealthy people and corporations to continue to cheat on
    their taxes.  
     
-   Congressional
    Republicans [proposed](https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th-congress/house-bill/812) repealing—and
    are even [running
    ads](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/senate/rick-scott-releases-attack-ad-biden-claims-cut-medicare) attacking—reforms
    President Biden signed to lower prescription drug costs. Repealing
    these policies would increase the amount of money Medicare pays Big
    Pharma, raise costs for seniors, and add [**$159
    billion**](https://www.crfb.org/blogs/cbo-scores-ira-238-billion-deficit-reduction) to
    the debt.  
     
-   House Republicans
    have [advocated](https://www.reuters.com/world/us/republican-takeover-us-congress-would-mean-tax-fights-are-back-2022-11-04/) and [proposed](https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th-congress/house-bill/812?s=1&r=16) repealing
    tax increases on large corporations that President Biden has signed
    into law, adding [**$296
    billion**](https://www.cbo.gov/system/files/2022-09/PL117-169_9-7-22.pdf) to
    the debt.  
     
-   [House
    Republican](https://thehill.com/policy/finance/3832344-key-republicans-oppose-house-gop-bill-to-abolish-tax-code/) [leaders](https://www.washingtonpost.com/us-policy/2022/10/17/republicans-tax-trump-biden/) have
    also committed to extend the expiring Trump tax cuts, a [**$2.7
    trillion**](https://www.crfb.org/blogs/cbo-estimates-tcja-extensions-could-cost-27-trillion) debt
    increase that would give the top 0.1% (with incomes over $4 million
    per year)
    a [$175,000](https://www.taxpolicycenter.org/model-estimates/make-individual-income-tax-and-estate-tax-provisions-2017-tax-act-permanent-1) annual
    tax cut, over 2.5 times a typical family’s [annual
    income](https://www.census.gov/library/publications/2021/demo/p60-273.html).

Grover Norquist, President of Americans for Tax Reform, exposed the
political logic of Congressional Republicans’ fiscal hypocrisy.
He [told](https://dailycaller.com/2023/02/05/opinion-six-steps-republicans-should-take-on-debt-ceiling-grover-norquist/) Republicans
their focus should be “not the deficit” after all: it’s to shift public
discussion to cutting spending, paving the way for more tax cuts for the
wealthy.

That trickle-down economic theory has never worked. President Trump and
President Bush’s tax
cuts [added](https://www.crfb.org/blogs/president-trumps-4-trillion-debt-increase)[trillions](https://www.cbpp.org/research/federal-tax/the-legacy-of-the-2001-and-2003-bush-tax-cuts) to
the debt and failed to deliver their promised benefits for the economy
or American workers. And taking revenues—and even savings from cutting
corporate subsidies—off the table means Congressional Republicans
consistently propose deep cuts to programs seniors and middle-class and
working families count on.

That’s why*** the American people deserve to see Congressional
Republicans’ full and detailed budget plan and compare it with the
President’s Budget plan ***to invest in America, bring down costs for
families, protect and strengthen Social Security and Medicare, and
reduce the deficit, which he will release March 9.

**Congressional Republicans’ Commitment to Debt Increases**

The fiscal consequences of the debt increases Congressional Republicans
have put at the top of their agenda are stark. ***After a decade, these
policies, if enacted, would add over $3 trillion to the debt (accounting
for debt service costs), increasing debt as a share of the economy by
almost 10 percentage points***.  
**Congressional Republicans’ debt increases include:**

***<u>The Tax Cheats Protection Act</u>***: House Republicans’
first [bill](https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th-congress/house-bill/23) in
the new Congress would add [**$114
billion**](https://www.cbo.gov/system/files/2023-01/hr23_IRS.pdf) to the
Federal debt by repealing President Biden’s legislation that cracks down
on wealthy tax cheats. While working people
pay [99%](https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/p1415.pdf) of taxes on their
income from wages and salaries, the top [1% hides about
20%](https://www.proquest.com/docview/755431382) of their income from
tax, including by funneling it through offshore accounts and tax havens
that do not report earnings. President Biden passed a law to make our
tax system fairer by cracking down on wealthy tax cheats, while
protecting middle-class taxpayers and small businesses and improving
taxpayer service. But [221 House
Republicans](https://clerk.house.gov/Votes/202325) voted to enable tax
fraud by wealthy Americans and large corporations.

***<u>Increase Spending With a Handout to Big Pharma</u>***: House
Republicans have introduced
a [bill](https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th-congress/house-bill/812) to
repeal the entire Inflation Reduction Act (IRA), including the reforms
President Biden signed into law to lower prescription drug costs.
Congressional Republicans and Big Pharma have launched
a [concerted](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/senate/rick-scott-releases-attack-ad-biden-claims-cut-medicare)[attack](https://www.forbes.com/sites/joshuacohen/2023/02/07/novartis-ceo-narasimhan-suggests-possible-legislative-action-to-reverse-inflation-reduction-acts-impact-on-drug-prices-what-can-and-cant-be-done/) on
the IRA’s prescription drug reforms, advocating to increase both Federal
spending and seniors’ costs to increase Big Pharma’s profits. Thanks to
the new prescription drug law, Medicare will finally be able to
negotiate drug prices, and drug companies will pay rebates to Medicare
if they try to hike their prices faster than the rate of inflation.
Congressional Republicans want to repeal these policies, giving
a [**$159
billion**](https://www.crfb.org/blogs/cbo-scores-ira-238-billion-deficit-reduction) handout
to Big Pharma, raising costs for seniors, and driving up the Federal
debt.

***<u>Enrich Multi-Billion Dollar Corporations:</u>*** In
2020, [55](https://itep.org/55-profitable-corporations-zero-corporate-tax/) of
the largest, most profitable corporations paid $0 in taxes. The
President signed into law legislation to level the playing field for
companies and small businesses that are already paying their fair share
in taxes. Under his corporate minimum tax, the largest, most profitable
corporations—those with over $1 billion in profits—have to pay a 15%
minimum tax on the profits they report to their shareholders. But House
Republicans—through their Inflation Reduction Act repeal bill and
other [statements](https://www.reuters.com/world/us/republican-takeover-us-congress-would-mean-tax-fights-are-back-2022-11-04/)—have
made clear that they want to enrich large corporations that don’t pay
their fair share. That would add [**$222
billion**](https://www.cbo.gov/publication/58455) to the debt.

***<u>Increase the Tax Subsidy for Stock Buybacks:</u>*** President
Biden signed into law a surcharge on corporate stock buybacks, which
reduces the differential tax treatment between buybacks and dividends
and encourages businesses to invest in their growth and productivity as
opposed to paying out corporate executives or funneling tax-preferred
profits to foreign shareholders*. *The President in his State of the
Union
address [proposed](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/02/07/remarks-of-president-joe-biden-state-of-the-union-address-as-prepared-for-delivery/) quadrupling
the stock buybacks tax to 4% to address the continued tax advantage for
buybacks and encourage long-term investment over giveaways to
executives. House Republicans instead want to repeal the stock buybacks
tax and let corporations continue to funnel tax-preferred profits to
shareholders instead of investing in productivity and the broader
economy. That would add [**$74
billion**](https://www.cbo.gov/publication/58455) to the Federal debt.

***<u>Extend President Trump’s Unpaid-for Tax Giveaway to the Wealthy
and Large Corporations</u>**:*** President Trump and Congressional
Republicans deliberately sunset portions of their tax giveaway to the
wealthy and large corporations. They did this to conceal how much their
plan added to the debt as well as how large the tax breaks were for
multi-millionaires and large corporations. Now,
House [Republican](https://www.washingtonpost.com/us-policy/2022/10/17/republicans-tax-trump-biden/)[Leadership](https://thehill.com/policy/finance/3832344-key-republicans-oppose-house-gop-bill-to-abolish-tax-code/) has
made clear that extending President Trump’s tax giveaway to the wealthy
and large corporations is one of their top priorities. An analysis by
the [Tax Policy
Center](https://www.taxpolicycenter.org/model-estimates/make-individual-income-tax-and-estate-tax-provisions-2017-tax-act-permanent-1) found
that doing so would mean an average tax cut of $175,000 for the top
0.1%—Americans making more than $4 million per year. That average tax
cut is more than 2.5 times a typical family’s [annual
income](https://www.census.gov/library/publications/2021/demo/p60-273.html).
Meanwhile, extending the expiring Trump tax cuts would add [**$2.7
trillion**](https://www.crfb.org/blogs/cbo-estimates-tcja-extensions-could-cost-27-trillion) to
the Federal debt over 10 years.

The President supports a fiscally responsible approach to continuing
current tax policies for people making less than $400,000 per year, and
opposes any tax increase for this group. Meanwhile, Congressional
Republicans—including the [more than three
quarters](https://www.atr.org/pledge-database/) of them who are
signatories to Grover Norquist’s tax pledge—have made clear they will
oppose paying for middle-class tax cuts by raising taxes on the wealthy
and large corporations.

**Even Without a Budget, Congressional Republicans Are Already Showing
Who Will Pay the Price**

The proposals Congressional Republicans have put forward show that, even
as they commit to massive tax cuts for the wealthy and large
corporations, they are more than ready to raise taxes on middle-class
and working families. The House Republican IRA repeal bill would cut
premium tax credits that are helping an estimated 14.5 million people
pay for health insurance. And the House Budget Committee [last
week](https://twitter.com/DonFSchneider/status/1623383490401017857) doubled
down on eliminating Affordable Care Act premium tax credits for
middle-income people with high health insurance premiums: a tax increase
of [$7,600](https://www.kff.org/interactive/subsidy-calculator/#state=&zip=&income-type=dollars&income=55000&employer-coverage=0&people=1&alternate-plan-family=&adult-count=1&adults%5B0%5D%5Bage%5D=62&adults%5B0%5D%5Btobacco%5D=0&child-count=0) per
year for a typical 62-year old earning $55,000.

In addition, some Congressional Republicans continue to push a national
retail sales
tax [bill](https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th-congress/house-bill/25) that
would repeal most existing taxes and impose a new 30% sales tax on
American families. The legislation would increase debt
by [trillions](https://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2023/1/26/23563563/fairtax-national-sales-tax-kevin-mccarthy)—and
cut taxes for a couple making a million dollars a year by more than
$200,000—and at the same time would raise taxes by at least $7,000 for a
retired couple with $60,000 in Social Security income and at least
$6,000 for a single mom making $38,000, a
recent [analysis](https://www.americanprogress.org/article/the-fair-tax-act-would-radically-restructure-the-nations-tax-system-in-favor-of-the-wealthy/) found.

The bottom line is: having committed to over $3 trillion in debt
increases and also insisted they are committed to reducing the
debt, ***Congressional Republicans owe the American public a complete
and transparent accounting of who will foot the bill.*** Will it be
middle-class and working families, seniors, students, or all of the
above?

\###
