---
date: '2026-05-22'
modified_time: 2026-05-25 17:04:54-04:00
published_time: 2026-05-22 23:11:28-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2026/05/memorial-day-2026/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Memorial Day, 2026
---
 
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

The greatest fighting force the world has ever known is built upon
the extraordinary service of selfless men and women who safeguard our
liberty and preserve our way of life.  Since the birth of our Nation
nearly 250 years ago, countless souls have lost their lives in this
noble and righteous pursuit.  On Memorial Day, we honor these American
heroes. 

America endures in strength, power, and prosperity because of the
awe-inspiring selflessness and valor of those in uniform willing to lay
down their lives in its defense.  From the frozen fields of Valley
Forge and the beaches of Normandy to the jungles of Vietnam and the
mountains of Afghanistan, the sacrifice across our Armed Forces is the
foundation upon which our Republic stands.  Today, we especially
remember the 13 members of the Joint Force who have fallen in support of
Operation Epic Fury to defend our national security and preserve the
blessings of liberty for future generations.  These warfighters lost
their lives for freedom’s cause and we will never forget the cost. 

All Americans inherit the glorious gift of liberty that has been
purchased with the spilled blood of brave warriors and the tears and
heartache of those they left behind.  It is fitting and necessary for
our Nation to pause for an annual reminder of the enduring and
perilously high cost of freedom, but the immeasurable gravity of what
has been sacrificed for the greater good deserves our eternal reverence
and unwavering gratitude every day. 

On this solemn day, the First Lady and I ask you to join us in prayer
for lasting peace in this volatile world, for the protection of those in
harm’s way, and for the grace of Almighty God to comfort all who grieve.
  

In honor of all of our fallen heroes, the Congress, by a joint
resolution approved May 11, 1950, as amended (36 U.S.C. 116), has
requested the President issue a proclamation calling on the people of
the United States to observe each Memorial Day as a day of prayer for
permanent peace and designating a period on that day when the people
might unite in prayer. The Congress, by Public Law 106–579, has also
designated 3:00 p.m. local time on that day as a time for all Americans
to observe, in their own way, the National Moment of Remembrance.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, do hereby proclaim Memorial Day, May 25, 2026, as a day of
prayer for permanent peace, and I designate the hour beginning in each
locality at 11:00 a.m. of that day as a time when people might unite in
prayer. I ask all Americans to observe the National Moment of
Remembrance beginning at 3:00 p.m. local time on Memorial Day. I also
request the Governors of the United States and its Territories, and the
appropriate officials of all units of government, to direct that on
Memorial Day the flag be flown at half-staff until noon on all
buildings, grounds, and naval vessels throughout the United States and
in all areas under its jurisdiction and control. I also request citizens
to display the flag at half-staff from their homes for the customary
forenoon period.

​IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-second day
of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-six, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred
and fiftieth.

                              DONALD J. TRUMP
