---
date: '2023-10-27'
modified_time: 2023-10-27 13:57:24-04:00
published_time: 2023-10-27 13:57:23-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/10/27/a-proclamation-on-national-first-responders-day-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National First Responders Day,\_2023"
---
 
     Every day, Americans across the country witness the absolute
courage and selfless sacrifice of our first responders.  Whether they
are police officers and sheriff’s deputies protecting our communities;
firefighters running into burning buildings; or emergency medical
technicians, paramedics, 911 dispatchers, 988 crisis responders, and
other public health workers providing emergency care, these heroes are
always there for us when we need them.  On National First Responders
Day, we honor and celebrate these extraordinarily brave women and men
who put themselves in harm’s way to keep our Nation safe.  
  
     Today we ask more of our first responders than ever before.  Law
enforcement officers who serve and defend communities across America are
constantly confronted with dangerous threats.  Firefighters face growing
challenges as climate change makes deadly fires more frequent and
ferocious.  Relief workers are responding to public emergencies that
have no precedent.  Emergency medical service providers are working
longer hours since the pandemic while taking on new roles and risks.
 Yet every day, our first responders answer the call while seldom
seeking recognition in return, irrespective of the personal toll.  
  
     My Administration is committed to supporting and protecting our
Nation’s first responders.  That is why I signed the American Rescue
Plan, which provides States, cities, and Tribes with billions of dollars
to retain and hire more law enforcement officers, firefighters, and
emergency health providers; pay overtime and bonuses; and keep
communities safe.  Last year I was proud to sign into law the most
sweeping gun safety bill in nearly 30 years to ensure our officers are
not out-gunned on the streets.  We are also strengthening background
checks for gun purchasers, cracking down on illegal gun sales, and
reining in ghost guns that are frequently used in violent crimes.  In
2021, I signed into law the Protecting America’s First Responders Act,
expanding death, disability, and education benefits for first responders
killed or permanently disabled in the line of duty as well as their
families.   
  
     In addition, I secured $600 million in my Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law package to boost Federal firefighter pay and increased the minimum
wage to $15 an hour — a critical first step in giving these heroes the
pay, respect, and dignity they deserve.  Meanwhile, we are supporting
crisis response efforts through my Investing in America agenda, which
includes funding to improve community resilience to natural disasters.
 My Administration also launched the National Firefighter Registry for
Cancer, the largest effort ever undertaken to understand and reduce the
risk of cancer among firefighters.  I was proud to sign the Federal
Firefighters Fairness Act of 2022 to provide access to job-related
disability benefits to firefighters diagnosed with certain kinds of
cancer or lung disease as well as legislation funding research on
mitigating the risks firefighters face from toxic PFAS — so-called
“forever chemicals” — while ensuring the Department of Defense will no
longer purchase gear that contains PFAS as soon as an alternative is
available.  
  
     Today and every day, we thank our first responders for their
immeasurable service and recommit to giving them the tools they need to
succeed.  We remember the patriots who lost their lives running toward
danger to protect others.  We honor the families of the first responders
who continue to sacrifice so their loved ones can serve the rest of us
and keep our communities safe.  These heroes possess a rare commitment
to their fellow Americans.  They represent the best of who we are, and
they are a big reason why I have never been more optimistic about our
country’s future.  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 28, 2023, as National First Responders Day.  I call upon all the
people of the United States to observe this day with appropriate
programs, ceremonies, and activities to honor our brave first responders
and to pay tribute to those who have lost their lives in the line of
duty.  
      
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-seventh
day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
 

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
