---
date: '2023-10-31'
published_time: 2023-10-31 14:47:46-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/10/31/a-proclamation-on-national-diabetes-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Diabetes Month,\_2023"
---
 
     One in ten Americans has diabetes, and of that group, one in five
of them do not know that they do.  While this chronic condition is
becoming more common, there is so much that we can do to help prevent
and manage it.  During National Diabetes Month, we recommit as a Nation
to making treatment more affordable, improving care, and finally finding
a cure.  
  
     Every day, millions of Americans with diabetes struggle to afford
life-saving insulin.  It costs drug companies just $10 a vial to
produce, but some charge more than 30 times that amount.  Americans
across the country have told me how those high prices sometimes force
them to ration their medication, too often resulting in dangerous health
complications that could have been avoided.  Too many of them know what
it is like to lay awake at night, staring at the ceiling, wondering how
to choose between putting food on the table and buying the insulin they
need to stay alive.  It is wrong.    
  
     I ran for President to rebuild the middle class — and that includes
working to make health care a right in this country, not a privilege.
 For decades, big pharmaceutical companies have blocked efforts to lower
prescription drug costs, but together, we took them on and won.  Last
year, I signed the Inflation Reduction Act, one of the most significant
laws ever passed to reduce prescription drug prices, capping insulin at
$35 per month for seniors on Medicare, down from as much as $400 per
month.  The Inflation Reduction Act finally gave Medicare the ability to
negotiate for lower drug prices, starting this year with ten drugs —
including treatments for diabetes — benefiting more than nine million
Americans.  The law also requires drug companies that raise prices
faster than inflation to pay the difference back to the Government,
saving seniors up to $618 per dose of medication.  Seniors and other
Part D enrollees with high drug spending will have their out-of-pocket
drug costs capped at about $3,500 next year.  In 2025, the Inflation
Reduction Act will cap total out-of-pocket drug costs for all seniors on
Medicare at $2,000 per year, period.  There is more to do, but these
steps will put money back in the pockets of millions of families, easing
fears and giving them just a little more breathing room.  
  
     While we keep working to make diabetes medications more affordable,
my Administration is also focused on prevention, early interventions,
improving treatments, and finding a cure.  Today, one in three American
adults has prediabetes, with a risk of developing Type 2 diabetes within
5 years.  Diabetes has serious consequences.  It is a leading cause of
death in the United States, and once diagnosed, increases one’s risk of
heart attack, stroke, blindness, kidney failure, and loss of toes, feet,
or legs.  It is important to be aware of diabetes risk factors, many of
which relate to nutrition and physical activity deficits.  To learn more
about risk factors and how to combat prediabetes, visit the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention National Diabetes Prevention Program: 
https://www.cdc.gov/diabetes/prevention/index.html.  
  
     Last year, we launched the Advanced Research Project Agency for
Health (ARPA-H) to drive breakthroughs in preventing, detecting, and
treating deadly diseases, including diabetes.  Research advances have
already helped develop several new diabetes drugs, including the first
that can delay the onset of Type 1 diabetes, giving recently diagnosed
people more time before starting insulin.  This year, the Food and Drug
Administration also approved the first cell therapy for adults with Type
1 diabetes who cannot safely manage their glucose levels with insulin as
well as the first new oral medication for children with Type 2 diabetes
in over two decades.  We remain committed to robust research investment
and to providing pathways to drive the development and delivery of
additional, effective treatments and much-needed cures.  
  
     At the same time, we have expanded health coverage nationwide and
lowered health care costs for millions of Americans, including the
nearly 15 million Americans who buy their coverage under the Affordable
Care Act and are saving $800 per year on their premiums.  We are also
cracking down on surprise medical bills and junk health insurance plans
that look affordable but then stick consumers with big hidden costs.
 Last year, we held the first White House Conference on Hunger,
Nutrition, and Health in over 50 years where we convened advocates,
health care providers, food companies, and officials from every level of
government.  We have laid out a vision to prevent and reduce the
pervasiveness of diet-related disease, like diabetes, across the United
States by 2030, outlining a comprehensive strategy to end hunger and put
healthy food on the table.  Our plan incorporates steps to better
prevent and manage diabetes, including by expanding access to nutrition
counseling and working with the Congress to make the Medicare Diabetes
Prevention Program permanent.   
  
     We want all 37 million Americans with diabetes to know that we have
their backs and that the historic progress we have made to lower insulin
prices is just the first step.  This month, we celebrate the courage and
resilience of this community; and we honor the medical professionals,
loved ones, and advocates who do so much to help support it and keep
driving us toward a cure.  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the
month of November 2023 as National Diabetes Month.  I call upon all
Americans, school systems, government agencies, nonprofit organizations,
health care providers, research institutions, and other interested
groups to join in activities that raise diabetes awareness and help
prevent, treat, and manage this disease.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
   
 

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
