---
date: '2023-10-23'
modified_time: 2023-10-23 15:27:45-04:00
published_time: 2023-10-23 15:27:44-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/10/23/a-proclamation-on-united-nations-day-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on United Nations Day,\_2023"
---
 
Seventy-seven years ago, leaders from around the globe gathered for the
first United Nations General Assembly. With the horrors of World
War II weighing on their hearts and the hopes of humanity resting on
their shoulders, they establishedinstitutions that are an
enduring legacy of the progress we have made in creating a
world where all people can live with dignity.  This United Nations
Day, we renew our commitment to sustaining and strengthening those
institutions.  As we commemorate the 75th anniversary of theadoption of
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, may we live up
to itsfundamental promise by continuing to advance the causes of
freedom, justice, and peace in the world.

We are at an inflection point in world history.  From Russia’s brutal
invasion of Ukraine and Hamas’ brutal terrorist attack on Israel to the
threat of climate change, we face enormous challenges to the systemsour
forebearers fought so hard to create.  The decisions we make now will
determine our course for generations to come.  The United States has
a duty to lead in this critical moment.  We will continue to join
together with international partners undera common vision for the future
of the world. This means working together to accelerate progress
toward the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) — 17 goals adopted by
all United Nations member states in 2015 as a call to action and clear
roadmap for people and the planet. Through the SDGs, we
can advance toward a future where extreme poverty does not exist, our
children do not go hungry, everyone has access to quality
health care, workers are empowered, our environment is
protected,entrepreneurs and innovators can access opportunity, conflicts
are resolved peacefully, and countries can chart their own course. We
will also continue to strengthen the United Nations’ ability to end
conflicts, build peace, defend human dignity, and respond to the
humanitarian impacts of war.  No nation can meet these challenges alone,
and my Administration recognizes the critical role the United
Nations plays in bringing about that vision.

Our country stands ready to continuethe charge toward making that vision
a reality by seeking a more secure, prosperous, and equitable world
for everyone.  We are working across the board to make global
institutions more responsive, more effective, and more
inclusive.  Working closely with our international partners, we are
closing global infrastructure gaps, bolstering the bonds that unite our
nations, and unlocking endless opportunities that represent hope
and possibility for all people.  Through our Partnership for
Workers’ Rights, we are partnering with other United Nations member
states around the world to give workers the tools they need to exercise
their rights,promote a safe and decent work environment,advance a
worker-centered clean energy transition, harness technology, and
confront and condemn workplace discrimination in all its ugly forms.
 Meanwhile, we will continue working with our international partners to
tackle the climate crisis and any other challenges we are confronted
with.

When we stand together and recognize the common hopes that bind all
humanity, we hold in our hands the power to bend the arc of history.  So
often, the work of the United Nations has been a reminder of those
hopes, bringing us all closer together andpushing us to recognize one
another as human beings worthy of dignity and respect. This United
Nations Day, let us rededicate ourselves to supporting the United
Nationsin its mission to preserve peace, prevent conflict, and alleviate
human suffering.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October 24, 2023,
as United Nations Day.  I urge the Governors of the United States and
its Territories, and the officials of all other areas under the flag of
the United States, to observe United Nations Day with appropriate
ceremonies and activities.

​IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-third day
of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                                           JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
