---
date: '2023-10-31'
modified_time: 2023-10-31 14:44:30-04:00
published_time: 2023-10-31 14:44:29-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/10/31/a-proclamation-on-national-adoption-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Adoption Month,\_2023"
---
 
     Children are the kite strings that hold our Nation’s ambitions
aloft, and every one of them deserves to grow up in a safe and loving
home.  This National Adoption Month, we celebrate all the families made
whole through adoption and recommit to ensuring that every child can
build a life of happiness and well-being.  
  
     Today, more than a hundred thousand children are awaiting adoption
in our Nation’s foster care system, hoping for the love, connection, and
a lasting foundation that a permanent family can provide.  To help more
families cover the cost of adoption, I have urged the Congress to make
the adoption tax credit fully refundable so that every adoptive family
benefit, regardless of income, and can focus on building supportive
lives together.  I have proposed making legal guardians eligible as well
so that loving grandparents, aunts, uncles, and others can care for
children and keep extended families together.  I have also expanded the
Military Parental Leave Program, allowing service members to spend more
time with their families after a child is born, adopted, or placed with
them through long-term foster care.  At the same time, my Administration
is working to remove barriers that make it harder for LGBTQI+ families
to adopt, including by providing State child welfare agencies with
training and funds to better support and place LGBTQI+ youth in safe and
compassionate environments.   
  
     Still, thousands of young people unfortunately will not be adopted
before they age out of foster care.  To help ease that transition, my
latest budget called for $9 billion to provide housing vouchers to all
20,000 adolescents exiting foster care annually; and I sought another $1
billion to support job placement, health care, access to higher
education, and other programs.  My Administration is also working
closely with States to help foster youth stay in school, train for jobs,
pay their bills, and begin promising adult lives.  
  
     During National Adoption Month, we recognize the bonds of love
shared by adoptive families across America.  We celebrate the millions
of adoptive and kinship families who have opened their hearts to provide
safe and caring homes.  We thank the foster families and dedicated
professionals who help so much along the way.  We stand with foster
youth and adoptees of all ages and want you to know that you are never
alone.  This month especially, we encourage anyone who is considering
adoption to take that brave and loving step forward, growing their
families and adding profound meaning to their lives.  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
November 2023 as National Adoption Month.  I encourage all Americans to
honor this month by helping the children and youth in your communities
secure their forever homes and find the love and connection that they
need to thrive.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
   
 

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
