---
date: '2023-10-04'
modified_time: 2023-10-04 07:58:54-04:00
published_time: 2023-10-04 09:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/10/04/president-biden-names-thirty-ninth-round-of-judicial-nominees/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "President\_Biden Names Thirty-Ninth Round of Judicial\_Nominees"
---
 
The President is announcing his intent to nominate one individual to a
federal circuit court and two individuals to federal district courts—all
of whom are extraordinarily qualified, experienced, and devoted to the
rule of law and our Constitution.  
  
These choices also continue to fulfill the President’s promise to ensure
that the nation’s courts reflect the diversity that is one of our
greatest assets as a country—both in terms of personal and professional
backgrounds.  
  
This will be President Biden’s thirty-ninth round of nominees for
federal judicial positions, bringing the number of announced federal
judicial nominees to 191.

**<u>  
United States Circuit Court Announcement</u>**

1\. **<u>Seth R. Aframe: Nominee for the United States Court of Appeals
for the First Circuit</u>**

Seth R. Aframe has been an Assistant United States Attorney in the U.S.
Attorney’s Office for the District of New Hampshire since 2007. He has
served as Chief of the Criminal Division in that office since early 2023
and Appellate Chief since 2010. Previously, Mr. Aframe was an associate
at Choate Hall & Stewart L.L.P from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Aframe served as a
law clerk to Judge Jeffrey R. Howard on the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the First Circuit from 2003 to 2007 and to Justice Judith A. Cowin on
the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court from 1999 to 2000. He received
his J.D., *magna cum laude*, from Georgetown University Law Center in
1999 and his B.A., *summa cum laude*, from Tufts University in 1996.

**<u>  
United States District Court Announcements</u>**

1\. **<u>Judge Edward S. Kiel: Nominee for the United States District
Court for the District of New Jersey</u>**

Judge Edward S. Kiel has been a United States Magistrate Judge for the
District of New Jersey since 2019. Previously, Judge Kiel was a partner
at Cole Schotz, P.C. from 2001 to 2019. Before that, he was an associate
at Cole Schotz from 1998 to 2001, at Beattie Padovano from 1994 to 1998,
and at Jamieson Moore Peskin & Spicer from 1992 to 1994. Judge Kiel
served as a law clerk for Presiding Criminal Judge Michael R. Imbriani
of the Superior Court of New Jersey, Somerset County from 1991 to 1992.
He received his J.D. from Notre Dame Law School in 1991 and his B.A. and
B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Rutgers University in 1988.

2\. **<u>Sarah F. Russell: Nominee for the United States District Court
for the District of Connecticut</u>**

Sarah F. Russell is a law professor and director of the Civil Justice
Clinic at Quinnipiac University School of Law in North Haven,
Connecticut, where she has taught since 2011. Previously, Ms. Russell
was a lecturer in law and director of the Arthur Liman Public Interest
Program at Yale Law School from 2007 to 2010. From 2005 to 2007, Ms.
Russell was an Assistant Federal Defender in the Office of the Federal
Public Defender for the District of Connecticut. She served as a law
clerk for Judge Chester J. Straub on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit from 2003 to 2005 and for Chief Judge Michael B. Mukasey
on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York from
2002 to 2003. Ms. Russell received her J.D. from Yale Law School in 2002
and her B.A. from Yale College in 1998.

\###
