---
date: '2023-10-31'
published_time: 2023-10-31 14:53:14-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/10/31/a-proclamation-on-national-alzheimers-disease-awareness-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Alzheimer\u2019s Disease Awareness Month,\_2023"
---
 
     Over six million Americans live with Alzheimer’s disease, a form of
dementia that deprives people of their precious memories, thoughts, and
identity.  During National Alzheimer’s Disease Awareness Month, we honor
the extraordinary courage, strength, and resilience of people facing
this devastating disease.  We recognize the support of families and
caregivers who stand by their loved one’s side and help them age with
dignity.  We resolve to continue advancing scientific research and
treatment options to ensure a brighter future for all Americans facing
Alzheimer’s.   
  
     Today, Alzheimer’s remains a leading cause of death in older
adults.  It exacts an emotional, physical, and financial toll on the
entire family of those who are diagnosed — especially for African
Americans and Latinos, who are more likely to develop dementias than any
other races or ethnicities, and for individuals with Down syndrome, who
are at higher risk for Alzheimer’s.  My Administration has taken
numerous actions to help treat and prevent this terrible disease.  We
worked with the Congress to secure $2.5 billion in bipartisan funding
for the Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health (ARPA-H).  This
agency is developing critical breakthroughs in preventing, diagnosing,
and treating Alzheimer’s and other deadly diseases and pioneering
partnerships to get those breakthroughs out to clinics and patients.    
  
     Earlier this year, the Food and Drug Administration granted the
first-ever approval for a prescription drug that can alter the course of
Alzheimer’s in some people, rather than simply treat symptoms — a sign
of hope to so many patients and families affected by this disease.  In
addition, I was proud to sign an Executive Order on Increasing Access to
High-Quality Care and Supporting Caregivers.  As a result, the Centers
for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) announced a groundbreaking
model that will offer a comprehensive package for care management and
coordination for people living with Alzheimer’s and related dementias,
caregiver support and education, and respite services.  Meanwhile, CMS
continues to offer services that help people access cognitive care
assessments, ensuring that those with Alzheimer’s receive the care they
need.  In addition, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is
creating a uniform national public health infrastructure focused on
increasing early detection and diagnosis of Alzheimer’s disease and
related dementias, reducing dementia risk, preventing avoidable
hospitalizations, and supporting caregivers of those living with
dementia.  
  
     This November, let us honor the memory of those we have tragically
lost to Alzheimer’s.  Let us recognize the millions of Americans who are
living with the impact of this condition every day and all the
incredible caregivers, doctors, researchers, and advocates supporting
them.  Let us come together as a Nation; carry forward a spirit of hope;
and recommit to doing everything we can to prevent, treat, and eliminate
this disease.  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
November 2023 as National Alzheimer’s Disease Awareness Month.  I call
on the people of the United States of America to honor and support those
living with Alzheimer’s and the many people who continue extraordinary
and tireless efforts to combat this disorder.  I encourage all Americans
to visit www.Alzheimers.gov for evidence-based resources and
information.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
   
 

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
