---
date: '2023-10-31'
modified_time: 2023-10-31 14:50:28-04:00
published_time: 2023-10-31 14:50:27-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/10/31/a-proclamation-on-critical-infrastructure-security-and-resilience-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience Month,\_\
  2023"
---
 
     Throughout our history, America has been a can-do country full of
possibilities.  Our people are models of grit, drive, and determination,
and when we properly prepare ourselves, we can meet any challenge that
comes our way and ensure future generations thrive.  This Critical
Infrastructure Security and Resilience Month, let us recommit to
reinforcing our critical infrastructure and remaining vigilant to
threats that undermine our collective security and economic
prosperity.  
  
     That means protecting our investments from all hazards and ensuring
the infrastructure that American people rely on every day is secure and
resilient.  Climate change is making natural disasters more frequent,
ferocious, and costly, straining our highways, railways, waterways, and
energy systems.  These disruptions — whether a natural disaster, a
pandemic, or a cyberattack — exploit vulnerabilities in our supply
chains and make it more difficult to access critical products when
people need them.  State and non-state actors, such as criminals and
violent extremists, continue to target our power grids, pipelines,
health care systems, and water systems — threatening the infrastructure
that underpins our economy, public health and safety, and national
security.  As President, I am committed to building a better future for
our country by making America’s critical infrastructure more secure and
addressing the threats and hazards that place them at risk.  
  
     Bolstering the Nation’s infrastructure is a cornerstone of my
Investing in America agenda.  With a combination of funding from the
American Rescue Plan, Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the Inflation
Reduction Act, and the CHIPS and Science Act, we are investing billions
of dollars to enhance the security of our infrastructure by elevating
roads and bridges above projected flood zones, supporting community
resilience programs, reducing the strain put on our power grids, and so
much more.  These investments will save lives, protect our families,
render a strong and innovative economy, enhance our resilience to
disasters, and provide peace of mind to millions of Americans.  
  
     We know that to protect our critical infrastructure we must improve
our cybersecurity.  From the very beginning of my Administration, we
have worked tirelessly to strengthen our Nation’s cyber defenses. 
During my first year in office, I issued an Executive Order on Improving
the Nation’s Cybersecurity, a crucial step toward defending against the
increasingly malicious cyber campaigns targeting our infrastructure.  My
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law builds on this progress by investing $1
billion to bolster cybersecurity for State, local, Tribal, and
territorial governments.  I am proud to have appointed senior
cybersecurity officials who are laser-focused on anticipating and
responding to cyber threats and ensuring that the Federal Government
leverages all of its resources to improve the cybersecurity of the
Nation’s critical infrastructure.  These priorities have been catalyzed
by my National Cybersecurity Strategy released earlier this year, which
lays out our strategy to enhance the cybersecurity and resilience of our
Nation’s critical infrastructure and the American people.    
  
     While my Administration is investing to protect America’s critical
infrastructure, we are also working with our international partners to
build sustainable, resilient infrastructure around the globe.  At the
G20 Summit earlier this year, through the Partnership for Global
Infrastructure and Investment, I was proud to unveil the launch of the
landmark United States partnership with the European Union to develop
the Trans-African Corridor.  We are working with partners to connect the
Democratic Republic of the Congo and Zambia to regional and global trade
markets through the Port of Lobito in Angola, including by launching
feasibility studies for a new greenfield rail line expansion between
Zambia and Angola.  This reliable and cost-effective corridor will
increase efficiencies, secure regional supply chains, enhance economic
unity, generate jobs, and decrease the carbon footprint in both
countries.  We hope to pursue opportunities to connect our initial
investments across the continent to Tanzania and, ultimately, the Indian
Ocean.  Through quality infrastructure investments in key economic
corridors like these, we are creating a better future filled with
opportunity, dignity, and prosperity for everyone.  
  
     The United States is the only country in the world that becomes
stronger after every challenge we face.  Time and again, we have seen
that when we work together, nothing is beyond our capacity.  This
Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience Month, let us come
together in common cause to bolster our Nation’s critical infrastructure
and create a more resilient Nation and economy for generations to
come.  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
November 2023 as Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience Month. 
I call upon the people of the United States to recognize the importance
of protecting our Nation’s infrastructure and to observe this month with
appropriate measures to enhance our national security and resilience.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
   
 

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
