---
date: '2023-10-13'
published_time: 2023-10-13 16:32:01-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/10/13/a-proclamation-on-national-forest-products-week-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Forest Products Week,\_2023"
---
 
     For generations, America’s forests have been a source of recreation
and relaxation for millions of people; a sacred place for Tribal
ceremonies and cultural practices; and a source of livelihood for
foresters, loggers, mill workers, carpenters, Tribes, local communities,
and others who rely on forest products and healthy forest ecosystems to
support themselves, their families, and their communities.  This
National Forest Products Week, my Administration recommits to conserving
our beautiful forests.  When we responsibly steward the abundant
renewable resources found in our Nation’s forestlands, we not only
protect the environment but also support a critical pillar of our
economy that uplifts communities across America.  

     From lumber and paper to clean water and fresh air, we depend on
our forests to protect our environment and fuel our economy.  But our
forests — and the jobs and livelihoods of those who work in them — are
endangered by a range of risks, including the existential threat of
climate change.  Extreme heat, more intense droughts, and decades of
poor forest management have turned wildfire season into wildfire years —
destroying countless acres of forestland and spreading smoky haze across
our country. 

     From day one, my Administration has been committed to maintaining
the health, diversity, and productivity of our forests.  In my first
week as President, I signed an Executive Order establishing the “America
the Beautiful” Initiative — our country’s first-ever national
conservation goal — committing to conserve at least 30 percent of all
our Nation’s lands and waters by 2030 through voluntary, locally-led
efforts across the country.  Keeping foresters and farmers working
across our country in a sustainable manner is central to this
initiative.

     We are building on these successes with my Investing in America
Agenda.  Through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, we are making our
forests and our communities more resilient by removing overgrown
vegetation from land near homes and power lines, improving evacuation
routes in areas susceptible to wildfires, and finding and removing
invasive species that can cause fires to spread more easily.  With
historic funding from the Inflation Reduction Act — the largest climate
investment in the history of the world — for tree planting, sustainable
forest management, and fire prevention, we are reducing the effects of
climate change on our forests.  I am proud to have increased the Federal
firefighter minimum wage to $15 an hour — a critical first step in
giving these heroes the pay, respect, and dignity they deserve.

     My Administration is also working to create more opportunities for
producers of American forest products.  With a combination of funding
from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and the Inflation Reduction Act,
my Administration is supporting American businesses that advance forest
conservation and create jobs — awarding millions of dollars through the
Wood Innovations, Community Wood, and Wood Products Infrastructure
Assistance grant programs.  These initiatives are expanding the
sustainable and innovative use of American wood products and wood waste
materials to produce renewable energy, strengthening emerging wood
markets, and supporting sustainable forest management.

     Our Nation’s majestic forests are at the heart of who we are as
Americans, connecting us to something bigger than ourselves.  Conserving
them not only sustains a vital part of our country’s economy but also
preserves a key part of the American story for future generations. 
During National Forest Products Week, my Administration recommits to
safeguarding and stewarding our precious forests so that we, our
children, and our grandchildren can enjoy them for many years to come.

     To recognize the importance of the many products generated by our
Nation’s forests, the Congress, by Public Law 86–753 (36 U.S.C. 123), as
amended, has designated the week beginning on the third Sunday in
October of each year as “National Forest Products Week” and has
authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in
observance of this week.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 15 through October 21, 2023, as National Forest Products Week. 
I call upon the people of the United States to join me in this
observance and in recognizing all Americans who are responsible for the
stewardship of our Nation’s beautiful forested landscapes.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirteenth day
of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
