---
date: '2023-10-31'
modified_time: 2023-10-31 14:48:54-04:00
published_time: 2023-10-31 14:48:53-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/10/31/a-proclamation-on-national-veterans-and-military-families-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Veterans and Military Families Month,\_2023"
---
 
     The poet John Milton once wrote, “They also serve who only stand
and wait.”  During National Veterans and Military Families Month, we
recognize that our military and veteran families answer our Nation’s
call to duty, and we recommit to doing right by their service and
sacrifice.  
  
     For me, the First Lady, and the entire Biden family:  It is
personal.  When our son Beau was deployed to Iraq, we learned what it
meant to pray every day for the safe return of someone you love.  Our
grandkids learned what it meant to have their dad overseas in a warzone
instead of at home, tucking them into bed and reading them a story every
night.  Millions of Americans have had that experience.  To all the
mothers and fathers, sisters and brothers, sons and daughters, spouses
and partners, and loved ones who stand alongside our veterans and
service members:  You are the solid steel spine that bears up under
every burden and the courageous heart that rises to every challenge.  
  
     Our Nation has only one truly sacred obligation — to prepare those
we send into harm’s way and care for them and their families while they
are deployed and when they return home.  Since the beginning of my
Administration, fulfilling that obligation has been my top priority.  In
June, I signed an Executive Order that establishes the most
comprehensive set of administrative actions in our Nation’s history to
support the economic security of military and veteran spouses,
caregivers, and survivors.  It encourages all Federal agencies to do
more to retain military spouses through flexible policies, improves the
ability for spouses to maintain their employment when moving overseas,
allows spouses to seek advice on overseas employment issues through
military legal assistance offices for the first time, and improves
spouses’ access to quality, dependable, and affordable child care.  
  
     Since the beginning of my Administration, I have signed more than
30 bipartisan bills to expand the services and benefits that support our
veterans and their families, caregivers, and survivors — including the
Sergeant First Class Heath Robinson Honoring our Promise to Address
Comprehensive Toxics (PACT) Act, the most significant expansion of
benefits and services for toxin exposed veterans and survivors in over
30 years.  We released a national strategy to reduce military and
veteran suicide by tackling some of the root causes of this crisis —
like addressing financial insecurity by expanding job training
opportunities for transitioning service members and veterans and their
spouses and increasing funding to prevent and eliminate homelessness. 
Further, I signed an Executive Order that implemented historic,
bipartisan military justice reforms to transform how the military
handles sexual assault and domestic violence cases in order to make our
military safer and more just.  Earlier this year, I directed the
Department of Defense to review pay and benefits for our military
members, because our Armed Forces and their families deserve a 21st
century compensation system that reflects their service and sacrifice.
Additionally, the First Lady’s Joining Forces initiative is providing
support to military and veteran families, caregivers, and survivors by
improving economic opportunity for military families, making school
transitions easier for military children, and expanding resources to
promote health and well-being for this community.  
  
     Our fighting force is the greatest in the world — in no small part
because, year after year and decade after decade, military and veteran
families have had their loved ones’ backs.  As a country, we owe it to
these families to have their backs.  This year — as we celebrate 50
years of an all-volunteer force — may we also recognize the bravery and
dedication of our military and veteran families and work to repay the
debt of gratitude we owe each one of them.  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
November 2023 as National Veterans and Military Families Month.  I call
upon the people of the United States to honor veterans and military
families with appropriate ceremonies and activities.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
   
 

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
