---
date: '2023-10-13'
modified_time: 2023-10-13 16:50:43-04:00
published_time: 2023-10-13 16:50:42-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/10/13/a-proclamation-on-national-character-counts-week-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Character Counts Week,\_2023"
---
 
     Whenever the First Lady and I travel across America, we witness
both the incredible diversity of our country and the essential qualities
that hold us all together.  Americans possess an optimism that is tested
yet resolute; a courage that digs deep when we need it the most; and an
unshakable faith in one another, our Nation, and the future we can build
together.  During National Character Counts Week, we recognize the
extraordinary character that resides in the soul of every American and
the collective power we wield when we embrace one of our country’s most
fundamental principles:  E pluribus unum ‑- Out of many, one.

     Every day, Americans prove that we are a good Nation because we are
good people.  I have seen firsthand the incredible character of
firefighters, police officers, service members, and their families, each
of whom sacrifice every day to protect the rest of us.  I have seen that
very character in nurses and doctors, who are a source of light and hope
for so many enduring hard times.  I have seen it in artists, scholars,
and journalists, who dare to tell the truth of our Nation.  I have seen
it in the union workers, who fight to make sure all of us get the
dignity and respect we deserve.  I have seen it in mothers, fathers, and
caregivers, who work hard to build a future worthy of their children’s
greatest dreams.  I have seen it in all the teachers who go above and
beyond to help students believe in themselves.  I have seen it in our
country’s young people — the most talented, tolerant, and educated
generation in history.

     Americans with exemplary character abound in our Nation.  That is
why I have never doubted that America can do great things when we work
together.  In my first State of the Union Address, I proposed a Unity
Agenda that outlined four problems we can solve together as a Nation: 
beating the opioid epidemic, tackling the mental health crisis,
supporting our veterans and their families, and ending cancer as we know
it.  We have made real progress.  Together, we passed a law making it
easier for doctors to prescribe effective treatments for opioid use
disorder.  We passed the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act, making
historic changes to gun safety laws and key investments in mental health
services.  We launched Advanced Research Project Agencies for Health
(ARPA-H) to drive breakthroughs in the fight against cancer,
Alzheimer’s, diabetes, and so much more.  We passed the Sergeant First
Class Heath Robinson Honoring our PACT Act to ensure that veterans
exposed to toxic substances during their military service get the
benefits and care they deserve and never have to fight alone.

     While we have made strides to unite the Nation around common
causes, we have also made it a priority to fight back against forces
that divide us and to remove obstacles that limit Americans’ ability to
realize their full potential.  We hosted the “United We Stand” Summit at
the White House, where we reaffirmed our commitment to fighting hate and
racism and announced new measures to make sure hate has no safe harbor
in America.  We released a national strategy to end hunger and reduce
diet-related disease by 2030, a moral duty we all share.  No matter what
we are working toward — whether it is addressing the climate crisis,
reducing the cost of health care, or rebuilding our economy — respecting
the character and dignity of the American people is at the heart of
everything we do.

     I have often said that America is the only Nation in the world
founded on an idea:  that we are all created equal and deserve to be
treated equally throughout our lives.  Though we have never fully lived
up to this promise, our national character has ensured we have never
fully walked away from it either.  Today of all days, let us remember
that character is destiny — in our lives and in the life of the Nation —
and that the soul of America depends on the souls of all Americans.  As
we reflect on the very best of our Nation’s character, may we recommit
to lifting each other up and working together to form a more perfect
Union.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 15 through October 21, 2023, as National Character Counts Week. 
Now and throughout the year, I encourage all Americans to engage in
efforts that honor and express the best attributes of our character,
extend the hand of fellowship to their neighbors, and unite in service
to their communities.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirteenth day
of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
