---
date: '2023-10-05'
published_time: 2023-10-05 16:10:09-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/10/05/a-proclamation-on-national-manufacturing-day-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Manufacturing Day,\_2023"
---
 
     On National Manufacturing Day, we celebrate American workers — the
best workers in the world, who are leading a new manufacturing boom in
our Nation — and we pledge to keep investing in them to make sure the
future is Made in America.

     Manufacturing is the backbone of our economy, but for the past few
decades, we have not always treated it that way.  We were told that
trickle-down economics was the only way forward ‑- cutting taxes for the
wealthy and big corporations; slashing public investment in priorities
like education, infrastructure, and health care; and letting American
manufacturing jobs be shipped overseas.  As a result, economic
inequality only grew.  And with every manufacturing town that was
hollowed out, communities lost not just jobs but also pride and
self-worth.

     I ran for President to change that — to grow our economy from the
middle out and bottom up, not the top down, moving from trickle-down
economics to what some in the press are calling “Bidenomics.”  Our plan
is working.  We have seen over 13 million new jobs created, including
800,000 manufacturing jobs.  Unemployment has been below 4 percent for
the longest stretch in over 50 years.  And our inflation rate is among
the lowest across the world’s major economies.  It is simple:
 Bidenomics means we are growing our economy by strengthening the middle
class and making things in America again.

     As a result, companies are reinvesting in America, building
factories that will power our economy for years to come.  Since I took
office, we have attracted over $500 billion in private investment to
American manufacturing and the industries of the future.  Real spending
on factory construction doubled in the last 2 years, and hit a record
high in August, after falling under my predecessor ‑- and so far this
year, it has contributed more to gross domestic product growth than any
6 months on record.  Instead of exporting American jobs, we are creating
American jobs and exporting American products again.

     This progress is possible because we are doing what has always
worked best in our country — investing in America and in American
workers.  The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law that I signed puts Americans
to work rebuilding our Nation’s roads, bridges, ports, and more using
American-made materials.  We have already announced more than 37,000 new
projects across all 50 States.  The CHIPS and Science Act is making sure
the United States leads the world in innovation by bringing
semiconductor manufacturing home so we never again rely on foreign
supply chains for the computer chips that power everything in our lives,
from cellphones and cars to sophisticated weapons systems.  The
Inflation Reduction Act is powering a clean energy revolution,
increasing our production of essential batteries and clean energy
technologies and making sure a sustainable and energy independent future
is Made in America. And we are collaborating with employers, unions,
community colleges, high schools, and other partners to help more
Americans train for the good manufacturing jobs and careers that these
investments are creating.

     But we are not only making things in America again — we are making
sure the Federal Government buys American as well.  I started by
introducing the most robust updates to the Buy American Act in nearly 70
years, increasing the proportion of American-made content required in
federally-acquired goods.  I announced new standards requiring that the
lumber, glass, fiber optic cables, and other construction materials used
in Federal infrastructure projects must be made in America.  And
I signed an Executive Order requiring Federal research-and-development
agencies to prioritize domestic manufacturing when it comes time to
bring taxpayer funded inventions to market.  When the Federal Government
spends taxpayers’ money, we are making sure it is on American products
made by American workers, creating American jobs. 

     For too long, too many of us have been told to give up on American
manufacturing.  I will never do that.  We are living through one of the
greatest industrial revivals in our Nation’s history.  There is no one
that America cannot outcompete.  We used to lead the world in
manufacturing, and by investing in America and in our people, we are
leading the world in manufacturing growth.  Jobs are coming home.
 Factories are coming home.  And we are feeling pride once again in the
phrase that is finally a reality and not just a slogan:  “Made in
America.”

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 6, 2023, as National Manufacturing Day.  I encourage all
Americans to look for ways to get involved in your community and join me
in participating in National Manufacturing Day and, most importantly,
buying American.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fifth day of
October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
