---
date: '2023-10-06'
published_time: 2023-10-06 14:22:42-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/10/06/a-proclamation-on-indigenous-peoples-day-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Indigenous Peoples\u2019 Day,\_2023"
---
 
  On Indigenous Peoples’ Day, we honor the perseverance and courage of
Indigenous peoples, show our gratitude for the myriad contributions they
have made to our world, and renew our commitment to respect Tribal
sovereignty and self-determination. 

     The story of America’s Indigenous peoples is a story of their
resilience and survival; of their persistent commitment to their right
to self-governance; and of their determination to preserve cultures,
identities, and ways of life.  Long before European explorers sailed to
this continent, Native American and Alaska Native Nations made this land
their home, some for thousands of years before the United States was
founded.  They built many Nations that created powerful, prosperous, and
diverse cultures, and they developed knowledge and practices that still
benefit us today.  
  
     But throughout our Nation’s history, Indigenous peoples have faced
violence and devastation that has tested their limits.  For generations,
it was the shameful policy of our Nation to remove Indigenous peoples
from their homelands; force them to assimilate; and ban them from
speaking their own languages, passing down ancient traditions, and
performing sacred ceremonies.  Countless lives were lost, precious lands
were taken, and their way of life was forever changed.  In spite of
unimaginable loss and seemingly insurmountable odds, Indigenous peoples
have persisted.  They survived.  And they continue to be an integral
part of the fabric of the United States.

     Today, Indigenous peoples are a beacon of resilience, strength, and
perseverance as well as a source of incredible contributions.
 Indigenous peoples and Tribal Nations continue to practice their
cultures, remember their heritages, and pass down their histories from
generation to generation.  They steward this country’s lands and waters
and grow crops that feed all of us.  They serve in the United States
military at a higher rate than any other ethnic group.  They challenge
all of us to celebrate the good, confront the bad, and tell the whole
truth of our history.  And as innovators, educators, engineers,
scientists, artists, and leaders in every sector of society, Indigenous
peoples contribute to our shared prosperity.  Their diverse cultures and
communities today are a testament to the unshakable and unbreakable
commitment of many generations to preserve their cultures, identities,
and rights to self-governance.  That is why, despite centuries of
devastation and turmoil, Tribal Nations continue to thrive and lead in
countless ways.

     When I came into office, I was determined to usher in a new era in
the relationship between the Federal Government and Tribal Nations and
to honor the solemn promises the United States made to fulfill our trust
and treaty obligations to Tribal Nations.  That work began by appointing
Native Americans to lead on the frontlines of my Administration — from
the first Native American Secretary of the Interior Deb Haaland and
dozens of Senate-confirmed Native American officials to the over 80
Native American appointees serving across my Administration and in the
Federal courts.  I restored the White House Council on Native American
Affairs to improve interagency coordination and decision-making as well
as the White House Tribal Nations Summit to bring together key members
of my Administration and the leaders of hundreds of Tribal Nations. 

     Last year, I signed a new Presidential Memorandum that creates
uniform standards for consultation between the Federal Government and
Tribal Nations.  And together, we are making historic investments in
Indian Country.  That includes $32 billion from the American Rescue
Plan, the largest one-time direct investment in Indian Country in
American history; more than $13 billion to rebuild infrastructure, the
single largest investment in Indian Country infrastructure in history;
and the biggest investment ever to combat the existential threat of
climate change, including $700 million dedicated to climate change
response in Native communities.  
  
     We are also working to improve public health and safety for Native
Americans.  That is why I signed an Executive Order that helps us
respond more effectively to the epidemic of missing and murdered
Indigenous peoples.  And when we reauthorized the Violence Against Women
Act last year, I was proud to include historic provisions that reaffirm
Tribal sovereignty and restore Tribal jurisdiction.  I have also
requested a $9.1 billion infusion for Indian Health Services and asked
the Congress to make that funding a mandatory part of the Federal budget
for the first time in our history.  
  
My Administration will also continue using all the authority available
to it, including the Antiquities Act, to protect sacred Tribal lands. 
We have already restored protections for Bears Ears and Grand
Staircase-Escalante in Utah and the Northeast Canyons and Seamounts
National Monument in New England.  I have declared new national
monuments at the Camp Hale-Continental Divide in Colorado, Avi Kwa Ame
in Nevada, and Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni in Arizona to protect lands
that are sacred to so many Tribes.  My Administration has also signed at
least 20 new co-stewardship agreements with Tribes, and we are working
on many more. 

     As we celebrate Indigenous Peoples’ Day, may we renew the enduring
soul of our Nation-to-Nation relationships — a spirit of friendship,
stewardship, and respect. 

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 9, 2023, as Indigenous Peoples’ Day.  I call upon the people of
the United States to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and
activities.  I also direct that the flag of the United States be
displayed on all public buildings on the appointed day in honor of our
diverse history and the Indigenous peoples who contribute to shaping
this Nation.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
sixth day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three,
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred
and forty-eighth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
