---
date: '2023-10-10'
published_time: 2023-10-10 17:32:33-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/10/10/a-proclamation-on-international-day-of-the-girl-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on International Day of the Girl,\_2023"
---
 
     On International Day of the Girl, we recognize that when every girl
around the world has the opportunity to realize her potential, the
possibilities for our future are limitless.

     Girls are dreamers and doers leading our world forward — growing up
to become changemakers, innovators, entrepreneurs, service members,
activists, public servants, and so much more.  When we empower girls and
ensure they have the resources they need to thrive, countries and
economies are stronger, and the entire world is more secure.  Yet in far
too many places, girls are still being denied equal opportunity,
prohibited from contributing to their communities and deprived of the
freedom to pursue their dreams without violence and intimidation. 

     That is why my Administration puts women and girls at the heart of
everything we do.  I established the White House Gender Policy Council
to advance gender equity and equality across all domestic and foreign
policy.  I released the first-ever United States National Strategy on
Gender Equity and Equality, which provides a road map to advance the
economic security, safety, health, and well-being of women and girls at
home and around the world.

     Every girl in America deserves an equal shot at fulfilling her
highest aspirations and setting a strong foundation for the future often
begins in the classroom.  That is why my Administration has secured a
historic $130 billion for America’s K-12 schools and invested $39
billion in colleges and universities.  Funding from our American Rescue
Plan has put more teachers in our classrooms and more counselors, social
workers, and other staff in our schools and is providing high-quality
tutoring; supporting record expansion of summer and after-school
programming; improving air quality in schools and addressing
environmental and safety needs in aging school buildings; and providing
a wide range of student supports. 

     We are also working to ensure that we tackle the mental health
crisis, which is taking a toll on our Nation’s kids — especially girls. 
The American Rescue Plan made our country’s biggest-ever investment in
mental health and substance use programs — including resources to
recruit, train, and support more providers at the State and local
levels, including in our schools.  We are also working to increase the
number of school psychologists and mental health counselors available to
our kids to make it easier for schools to bill Medicaid to deliver
health services, including mental health care, and to expand the
Certified Community Behavioral Health Clinics that deliver 24/7 care to
those in need, regardless of their ability to pay.   

     Young women have also demanded that our Nation do better to protect
us all from the scourge of gun violence.  Last year, I signed the
Nation’s first major gun safety law in nearly 30 years to prevent gun
violence, increase access to mental health care, and save lives.  We
established the first-ever White House Office of Gun Violence Prevention
to build upon these measures. 

     My Administration also remains committed to ending gender-based
violence, a human rights issue that undermines the safety, security, and
dignity of girls everywhere.  This includes taking steps to address the
harmful impacts of social media on young people and responding to online
harassment and abuse, which disproportionately impacts youth,
particularly girls.  In my State of the Union Address, I called on the
Congress to pass legislation that strengthens our children’s privacy and
online safety.  We have worked with the Congress to reauthorize and
strengthen the Violence Against Women Act, and we recently released a
National Plan to End Gender-Based Violence — our country’s first
Government-wide plan to prevent and address sexual violence, intimate
partner violence, stalking, and other forms of gender-based violence. 
We will continue supporting the rights of all women and girls —
including transgender women and girls and all members of the LGBTQI+
community — across the Nation.

     The United States is committed to empowering girls globally.  Last
year, we requested a historic doubling of foreign assistance to promote
gender equity globally — to provide a record $2.6 billion in 1 year,
including investments in the health, education, and empowerment of girls
and young women — and I am pleased to say we have not only met but
exceeded that request.  Additionally, we are supporting equitable access
to health care.  We are working to improve access to education with a
goal of reaching 15 million girls and young women by 2025.  We are
continuing to advance the efforts outlined in our updated United States
Strategy to Prevent and Respond to Gender-Based Violence Globally. 

     Today, I am reminded of a message First Lady Jill Biden delivered
to girls everywhere at an event honoring the Secretary of State’s
International Women of Courage awardees:  “When you learn and explore,
when you raise your voice, when you move through the world with your
shoulders back and your head held high, step by step, you shift the
ground beneath you…And as you take those steps, as you grow into the
women you will be, remember:  You are never alone.”  On International
Day of the Girl, let us renew this commitment.  Let us continue to build
a future worthy of the abilities and ambitions of all girls — one with
no limit to how far their dreams and talents can carry them. 

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 11, 2023, as International Day of the Girl.  I call upon the
people of the United States to observe this day with programs,
ceremonies, and policies that advance equity and opportunity for girls
everywhere.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this tenth day of
October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
