---
date: '2023-10-20'
modified_time: 2023-10-20 12:24:05-04:00
published_time: 2023-10-20 12:24:04-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/10/20/a-proclamation-on-minority-enterprise-development-week-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Minority Enterprise Development Week,\_2023"
---
 
     During Minority Enterprise Development Week, we honor the
innovators and job creators who run our minority-owned businesses and
recommit to providing them with the resources they need to thrive and
continue being engines of our economy.

     Minority enterprises provide critical goods and services; generate
nearly $2 trillion in revenue each year; and serve as reminders of
realized American dreams and fulfilled hopes of economic mobility,
community uplift, and generational wealth.  But even as minority
entrepreneurs make critical contributions to our country, they still
face barriers that prevent them from reaching their full potential. 
Capital is frequently inaccessible to minority-owned businesses.  Firms
owned by minorities are more likely to experience financial stress than
those owned by non-minorities.  For too long, minority-owned companies
had less access to Government contracts, keeping them from accessing
some of the more than $650 billion spent by the Federal Government on
purchasing goods and services.  These conditions have made it so people
who have the skills, the drive, and the determination to succeed are
often unable to win in our economy.

     My Administration is working to open the doors of opportunity to
include those who have been left behind for too long.  On my first day
as President, I issued an Executive Order directing the Federal
Government to use all the tools at its disposal to advance racial equity
and support underserved communities, and we have taken steps to promote
opportunities specifically for small disadvantaged businesses ever
since.  For example, in my Executive Order on Further Advancing Racial
Justice and Support for Underserved Communities, I directed agencies to
make efforts to increase the share of Federal contracts going to these
companies to 15 percent by 2025.  Within a year, we increased the amount
these companies earned from Federal contracts by $7.5 billion — totaling
nearly $70 billion in Fiscal Year 2022 alone.  In addition, the Small
Business Administration (SBA) has supported billions of dollars in
lending to small businesses that would otherwise struggle to access
vital capital.  As part of those efforts, SBA has supported over $4
billion in loans to Black- and Latino-owned small businesses.  Since
2020, the rate of SBA-backed loans going to Asian American-owned
businesses has increased by about 40 percent; more than doubled for
Black-owned businesses; and doubled for Latino-owned businesses,
reaching a record $3 billion in lending.  Indeed, Asian American-,
Black-, and Latino-owned businesses are seeing faster creation rates
today than they have in years.  We have provided billions of dollars in
investments to support Historically Black Colleges and Universities,
Hispanic-Serving Institutions, and Asian American and Native American
Pacific Islander-Serving Institutions as they help build the next
generation of minority entrepreneurs.

     Through the American Rescue Plan, which I signed soon after coming
into office to vaccinate the Nation and rebuild our economy, we invested
$10 billion to re-establish and improve the State Small Business Credit
Initiative — a program that leverages investments from the public and
private sectors to increase access to capital for small businesses
across the country.  Our Bipartisan Infrastructure Law also expanded and
made permanent the Minority Business Development Agency to ensure that
support is always available to minority-owned businesses.  We have also
implemented other historic bills like the Inflation Reduction Act and
the CHIPS and Science Act, we are ensuring minority business enterprises
benefit from billions of dollars of investments to rebuild our roads and
bridges, bring manufacturing back to America, and unleash a clean energy
boom here at home.

     America is the only Nation in the world founded on the idea that we
are all created equal and deserve to be treated equally throughout our
lives.  We have never fully lived up to that promise, but we have never
walked away from it either.  This Minority Enterprise Development Week,
my Administration remains dedicated to living up to our founding idea by
leveling the playing field for minority-owned businesses, ensuring every
American has the chance to build a business they can be proud of and
realize their American Dream.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 22 through October 28, 2023, as Minority Enterprise Development
Week.  I call upon the people of the United States to acknowledge and
celebrate the achievements and contributions of minority business owners
and enterprises and commit to promoting systemic economic equality.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
twentieth day of October, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-three, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-eighth.

                                           JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
