---
date: '2023-10-13'
published_time: 2023-10-13 17:01:56-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/10/13/a-proclamation-on-blind-americans-equality-day-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Blind Americans Equality Day,\_2023"
---
 
On Blind Americans Equality Day, my Administration celebrates the
contributions that people who are blind or low vision have made to our
country, and we recommit to creating a more accessible Nation where
everyone has the opportunity to realize their full potential.

More than 33 years ago, the United States Congress passed the Americans
with Disabilities Act, a landmark civil rights law that banned
discrimination against people with disabilities in many areas of public
life.  I was proud to co-sponsor that historic bill as a United States
Senator, and I am proud of its lasting impact today.

Despite the progress we have made, we have more work to do to uphold the
rights of Americans with visual disabilities.  Less than half of blind
or low vision Americans are employed.  Public services — including
online resources — are often designed in ways that make them
inaccessible to this community.  These are but a few of the many
obstacles blind and low vision Americans still face.

As President, I have made it a priority to end discrimination, increase
independence, and expand opportunity for everyone, including Americans
who are blind or low vision.  Soon after taking office, I issued an
Executive Order to establish a Government-wide policy of diversity,
equity, inclusion, and accessibility in the workplace to promote
fairness in the labor market for Americans with disabilities.  This
Executive Order directs agencies to find and remove barriers to hiring
and promotion for job applicants and employees who are disabled.
 Further, my Administration ended the practice of paying people employed
through the AbilityOne Commission — which creates opportunities for
people who are blind or have significant disabilities — less than
minimum wage.  I have also named the first-ever White House Disability
Policy Director, whose team is working every day to defend and advance
the rights of Americans with disabilities.  I awarded José Feliciano the
National Medal of Arts, recognizing his immense contributions as a
guitarist and pioneering artist who has bridged cultures and styles, won
Grammy Awards, and opened doors for generations of Latino artists and
the heart of our Nation.

My Administration has also taken steps to increase accessibility for
blind and low vision Americans.  Through the Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law, we are reducing the barriers that blind Americans face in their
daily lives by investing $1.75 billion to improve the accessibility of
transit stations across America.  Under my direction, the Department of
Transportation is working to expand access to transportation for people
with disabilities.  Meanwhile, the Department of Justice has proposed a
new rule that would make State and local governments’ web and mobile
apps more accessible, enabling those who are blind or low vision to
access critical online resources.  Additionally, the National Institutes
of Health designated people with disabilities as a population with
health disparities, which will encourage research specific to the health
issues and unmet health needs for blind and low vision Americans.  I am
also proud to have secured billions of dollars to expand educational
opportunities for students with disabilities.

This Blind Americans Equality Day, let us rededicate ourselves to
defending and strengthening the rights of blind and low vision Americans
so each and every person in our Nation has the chance to achieve the
American Dream.  

By joint resolution approved on October 6, 1964 (Public Law 88-628, as
amended), the Congress authorized October 15 of each year as “White Cane
Safety Day,” which is recognized today as “Blind Americans Equality
Day,” to honor the contributions of blind and low vision Americans.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October 15, 2023,
as Blind Americans Equality Day.  I call upon all the people of the
United States — including all government officials, educators, and
volunteers — to mark this day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and
activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirteenth day
of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
