---
date: '2023-10-06'
published_time: 2023-10-06 14:12:25-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/10/06/a-proclamation-on-fire-prevention-week-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Fire Prevention Week,\_2023"
---
 
 During Fire Prevention Week, my Administration reaffirms our commitment
to preventing fires before they happen and mitigating the damage when
devastation strikes.  We also honor our brave firefighters and first
responders, who put their lives at risk to save others and help their
communities rebuild from the rubble.

     This year, we have already seen tens of thousands of wildfires burn
over two million acres to the ground.  And climate change will only
intensify the threats that wildfires pose.  Further, over one thousand
Americans and dozens of firefighters have died in fires this year. 
Whether they are fires that start at home, in parks or neighborhoods, or
in forests and the great outdoors, the devastation these fires cause
mean far more than numbers can capture — they reflect lives lost;
families heartbroken; natural resources wiped out; and homes,
businesses, community centers, and so much more destroyed. 

     That is why my Investing in America Agenda includes the most
significant climate investment in history.  As part of that agenda, the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is investing billions of dollars for
enhanced drought resilience, early wildfire detection, and post-wildfire
restoration and rehabilitation.  And with historic funding for green
manufacturing, clean energy development, and climate-smart agriculture,
the Inflation Reduction Act is putting us on a path to cut America’s
carbon emissions by at least half by 2030.

     My Administration is doing everything we can to make sure
firefighters have the resources they need to do their jobs as safely,
effectively, and efficiently as possible.  I am proud to have increased
the Federal firefighter minimum wage to $15 an hour — a critical first
step in giving these heroes the pay, respect, and dignity they deserve. 
We have also created new programs to improve recruitment, retention, and
professional opportunities for Federal firefighters.  In addition, we
have increased Federal funding for local fire departments to hire more
firefighters and expanded Federal grant programs to pay for hundreds of
emergency response vehicles and thousands of sets of turnout gear.

     In times of tragedy, we so often find the most profound stories of
hope and heroism.  Across the country, the First Lady and I have been
amazed by the courage and strength of those we have seen reestablishing
their lives in the aftermath of devastating fires — neighbors helping
neighbors, communities coming together, and people from all walks of
life working with one another to rebuild what has been lost, making our
Nation more resilient.  We remain focused on the recovery and rebuilding
efforts in Maui, where the First Lady and I visited in August to
demonstrate our support for the community.  To the people of Maui, who
have shown such courage — this Nation stands with you. 

     This week, we also encourage Americans to take the time to educate
themselves on fire prevention and safety.  This year’s Fire Prevention
Week theme — “Cooking safety starts with YOU. Pay attention to fire
prevention” — emphasizes the simple actions we can all take to remain
safe while preparing food.  That includes:  being alert while cooking
and turning the stove off if leaving the kitchen is necessary; keeping
anything that can catch fire away from stovetops; turning pot handles
toward the back of the stove; and keeping a lid nearby.   

     This Fire Prevention Week, let us honor those we have lost in these
catastrophes, remain vigilant to prevent future fires from occurring,
vow to support those who rush into danger to help us in times of need,
and recommit to spreading awareness about the importance of fire safety.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 8 through October 14, 2023, as Fire Prevention Week.  I call on
all Americans to participate in this observance with appropriate
programs and activities and by renewing their efforts to prevent fires
and their tragic consequences.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
sixth day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three,
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred
and forty-eighth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
