---
date: '2023-10-06'
modified_time: 2023-10-06 14:16:16-04:00
published_time: 2023-10-06 14:16:15-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/10/06/a-proclamation-on-national-school-lunch-week-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National School Lunch Week,\_2023"
---
 
     I have often said that children are the kite strings that keep our
national ambitions aloft.  During National School Lunch Week, we
recognize that the health and well-being of children is a national
priority and that every student should have access to healthy meals.  We
also reaffirm our support of the National School Lunch Program and all
school nutrition professionals nationwide for the work they do to feed
30 million children each school day.

     School lunches have long been a lifeline for so many students
across our country.  For all families, including those that qualify for
free or reduced-price school lunch, parents have the peace of mind of
knowing there is a healthy, balanced meal available to their children.
 And children, fueled by their school lunches, can more effectively
focus and learn in the classroom.  In fact, studies show that nutritious
school lunches may increase academic performance and reduce the
likelihood of childhood obesity.  And we know these school lunches are
especially important for lower-income children, children of color, and
children living in rural areas or territories, since they are less
likely to have access to food outlets that sell healthier foods. 

     In order to build a stronger and healthier Nation, my
Administration has made the well-being of American families and our
children a priority.  Our American Rescue Plan expanded the Child Tax
Credit, which helped keep food on the table for millions of families
during the pandemic, slashed child poverty by nearly 50 percent, and cut
food insufficiency for families with children by more than 25 percent. 
My Administration also modernized the Thrifty Food Plan for the first
time since 1975, making sure that the millions of families receiving
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program benefits can afford a
nutritious, practical, cost-effective diet.  And last year, I convened
the first White House Conference on Hunger, Nutrition, and Health in
over 50 years, bringing together advocates, food companies, health care
providers, and leaders from across the Government and Federal agencies. 
We also released a national strategy to end hunger and reduce
diet-related diseases by 2030.  This strategy includes the goal of
expanding access to healthy, free school meals to 9 million more kids in
the next decade, a major step toward free healthy school meals for every
student.  

     We have already made significant progress.  By making permanent the
American Rescue Plan program that gives families money to buy groceries
in the summer months when school is not in session, we are fulfilling
our commitment to ensure each American child has a nutritious meal every
day.  We are also giving more schools the option to make healthy school
meals available to all students at no cost to their families during the
school year.  And we are continuing to support schools so they can cook
more meals from scratch and purchase more food from local farmers and
ranchers.  That means children will have healthier meals, and farmers
and ranchers will be able to participate in reliable markets,
strengthening rural economies.  I also continue to call on the Congress
to restore my enhanced Child Tax Credit, which helped millions of
families afford healthy food at home.

     In America, no child should ever go to bed hungry — without healthy
food, our children cannot thrive.  And no child’s future should be
determined by where they were born or their family’s income.  During
National School Lunch Week, we recognize that helping our children
fulfill their highest potential begins with access to healthy and
nutritious meals at school.  And we honor all the farmers, ranchers,
teachers, school nutrition professionals, and staff who make these
lunches possible and nourish the soul of America. 

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 8 through October 14, 2023, as National School Lunch Week.  I
call upon all Americans to recognize and commemorate all those who
operate the National School Lunch Program with activities that raise
awareness of the steadfast efforts in supporting the health and
well-being of our Nation’s children.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this sixth day of
October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
