---
date: '2023-10-18'
modified_time: 2023-10-17 23:30:43-04:00
published_time: 2023-10-18 09:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/10/18/president-biden-names-fortieth-round-of-judicial-nominees-and-announces-nominees-for-u-s-attorney-u-s-marshal-and-the-u-s-sentencing-commission/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "President\_Biden Names Fortieth Round of Judicial Nominees and Announces Nominees\
  \ for U.S. Attorney, U.S. Marshal, and the U.S. Sentencing\_Commission"
---
 
The President is announcing his intent to nominate two individuals to
federal district courts—both of whom are extraordinarily qualified,
experienced, and devoted to the rule of law and our Constitution.

These choices also continue to fulfill the President’s promise to ensure
that the nation’s courts reflect the diversity that is one of our
greatest assets as a country—both in terms of personal and professional
backgrounds.

This will be President Biden’s fortieth round of nominees for federal
judicial positions, bringing the number of announced federal judicial
nominees to 193.

The President is also announcing his intent to nominate two new nominees
to serve as U.S. Attorney and two new nominees to serve as U.S. Marshal.
These are officials who will be indispensable to upholding the rule of
law as top federal law enforcement officials.

These individuals were chosen for their devotion to enforcing the law,
their professionalism, their experience and credentials, their
dedication to pursuing equal justice for all, and their commitment to
the independence of the Department of Justice.

The President has now announced 74 nominees to serve as U.S. Attorneys
and 24 nominees to serve as U.S. Marshals.

The President is also announcing his intent to re-nominate two
experienced and qualified Commissioners of the U.S. Sentencing
Commission, a bipartisan independent agency created during the Reagan
Administration. The Commission was created to reduce sentencing
disparities and promote transparency and proportionality in criminal
sentencing.

The Commission lacked a quorum and was prevented from doing critical
business from 2019 until 2022, when the President first nominated a
bipartisan slate of seven Commissioners. If confirmed again, these two
U.S. Sentencing Commission members would continue serving with the
President’s other five bipartisan nominees whose terms have not expired.

**<u>United States District Court Announcements</u>**

1.  **<u>Sara E. Hill: Nominee for the United States District Court for
    the Northern District of Oklahoma</u>**

Sara E. Hill served as Attorney General of the Cherokee Nation from 2019
to 2023. She is currently a lawyer in private practice. Ms. Hill
previously served the Cherokee Nation as Secretary of Natural Resources
from 2015 to 2019, Deputy Attorney General from 2014 to 2015, and an
Assistant Attorney General from 2004 to 2014. From 2014 to 2015, she
served as a Special Assistant U.S. Attorney in the U.S. Attorney’s
Office for the Northern District of Oklahoma. Ms. Hill received her J.D.
from the University of Tulsa in 2003 and her B.A., *cum laude*, from
Northeastern State University in 2000.

1.  **<u>John D. Russell: Nominee for the United States District Court
    for the Northern District of Oklahoma</u>**

John D. Russell has been a shareholder at the Oklahoma law firm
GableGotwals since 2015. Previously, Mr. Russell was in private practice
at Fellers Snider Blankenship Bailey & Tippens from 2002 to 2014. From
1995 to 2002 he served as an Assistant U.S. Attorney in the U.S.
Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Oklahoma and from 1991 to
1993 he was a trial attorney in the Tax Division of the U.S. Department
of Justice in Washington, D.C. Mr. Russell was an associate at Bracewell
& Patterson in Washington, D.C. from 1988 to 1991. He received his J.D.
from the University of Oklahoma College of Law in 1988 and his B.S. from
Oklahoma State University in 1985.

**<u>United States Attorney Announcements</u>**

1.  **<u>Judge Johnny C. Gogo: Nominee for United States Attorney for
    the Districts of Guam and Northern Mariana Islands</u>**

Judge Johnny C. Gogo is a Judge with the Superior Court of California,
County of Santa Clara, located in San Jose, California where he has
served since 2019. Previously, Judge Gogo served as a Deputy District
Attorney with the Santa Clara County District Attorney’s Office from
2001 to 2019 and from 1999 to 2000. From 2000 to 2001, he was an
associate attorney at Calvo and Clark, LLP in Tamuning, Guam and from
1997 to 1999, he served as an Assistant Attorney General in the
prosecution division of the Guam Attorney General’s Office. Judge Gogo
received his J.D., *cum laude*, from Thomas Jefferson School of Law in
1996 and his B.A. from the University of California, San Diego in 1991.

1.  **<u>Joshua S. Levy: Nominee for United States Attorney for the
    District of Massachusetts</u>**

Joshua S. Levy has served as Acting United States Attorney for the
District of Massachusetts since May 19, 2023, after serving as First
Assistant U.S. Attorney in that district since January 2022. Previously,
he was a partner at the law firm Ropes & Gray from 2004 to 2021 and an
associate at the firm from 1993 to 1997. From 1997 to 2004, Mr. Levy was
an Assistant U.S. Attorney in the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the
District of Massachusetts. Mr. Levy served as a law clerk for Judge
Harold H. Greene on the U.S. District Court for the District of
Columbia. He received his J.D. from Georgetown University Law Center in
1992 and his B.A. from Brown University in 1987.

**<u>United States Marshal Announcements</u>**

1.  **<u>Clinton J. Fuchs: Nominee for United States Marshal for the
    District of Maryland</u>**

Clinton Fuchs has been an Assistant United States Attorney in the U.S.
Attorney’s Office for the District of Maryland since 2008. From 2014 to
2015, he was detailed to serve on the staff of Senator Patrick Leahy on
the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee. Prior to that, Fuchs was an
associate at Kirkland & Ellis, LLP in 2008. He served as a law clerk for
Judge William D. Quarles Jr. on the U.S. District Court for the District
of Maryland from 2005 to 2006 and Judge Richard J. Leon on the U.S.
District Court for the District of Columbia from 2006 to 2007. Fuchs
received his J.D. from Columbia Law School in 2005 and his B.A. from
Georgetown University in 1998. He served as an active-duty officer in
the U.S. Marine Corps between college and law school.

1.  **<u>David L. Lemmon II: Nominee for United States Marshal for the
    Southern District of West Virginia</u>**

David Lemmon has been Dean of Professional and Technical Studies at
Southern West Virginia Community and Technical College since 2021.
Previously, Lemmon served in the West Virginia State Police from 1992 to
2019, rising from the rank of trooper to major. He received his
Doctorate of Education from Marshall University Graduate School in 2019,
his M.A. from Marshall University Graduate School in 2008, his R.B.A.
from West Virginia State University in 2006, and his A.D. from Marshall
University in 1993.

**<u>United States Sentencing Commission Announcements</u>**

1.  **<u>Judge Claria Horn Boom: Nominee for Commissioner of the United
    States Sentencing Commission</u>**

Judge Claria Horn Boom has served as a Commissioner of the United States
Sentencing Commission since 2022 and a United States District Court
Judge for the Eastern and Western Districts of Kentucky since 2018.
Judge Boom was previously a partner at Frost Brown Todd LLC. Judge Boom
served as an Assistant U.S. Attorney in the U.S. Attorney’s Office for
the Eastern District of Kentucky in 2002 and for the Western District of
Kentucky from 1998 to 2002. From 1995 to 1998, Judge Boom was as an
associate at King & Spalding LLP. Judge Boom served as a law clerk for
Judge Pierce Lively on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit
from 1994 to 1995. She received her J.D. from Vanderbilt University Law
School in 1994 and her B.A. from Transylvania University, *summa cum
laude*, in 1991.

1.  **<u>Judge John Gleeson: Nominee for Commissioner of the United
    States Sentencing Commission</u>**

Judge John Gleeson has served as a Commissioner of the United States
Sentencing Commission since 2022 and is a partner at Debevoise and
Plimpton LLP in New York, where he has practiced since 2016. From 1994
to 2016, Judge Gleeson served as a United States District Court Judge
for the Eastern District of New York. From 1985 to 1994, Judge Gleeson
served as an Assistant U.S. Attorney in the U.S. Attorney’s Office for
the Eastern District of New York. Judge Gleeson served as a law clerk
for Judge Boyce Martin on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth
Circuit. He received his J.D. from the University of Virginia School of
Law in 1980 and his B.A. from Georgetown University in 1975.

\###
