---
date: '2023-10-31'
published_time: 2023-10-31 14:52:14-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/10/31/a-proclamation-on-national-entrepreneurship-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Entrepreneurship Month,\_2023"
---
 
     Whether they are running family restaurants or opening new
factories, American entrepreneurs create businesses that are the heart
and soul of our communities.  This National Entrepreneurship Month, we
honor the job creators, business owners, and daring innovators who
remind us of the promise of the American Dream.  
  
     When I first took office, the American economy was reeling.  Small
businesses across the Nation were being crushed.  Hundreds of thousands
of storefronts were closed for good, and millions more were hanging on
by a thread.  But over the past few years, our economic plan has
unlocked extraordinary opportunities for entrepreneurs.  In my first 2
years in office, we saw a record 10.5 million new business applications
— the most ever recorded in a 2-year period in American history.  Asian
American-, Black-, and Latino-owned businesses are seeing faster
creation rates today than they have in years.  The economy has created
nearly 14 million new jobs.  Our entrepreneurs form the backbone of our
Nation’s economy, and I remain committed to making sure they have the
resources they need to succeed.   
  
     As my Administration implements historic legislation that is
transforming our economy, we are working to ensure entrepreneurs reap
the benefits.  My Administration is leveraging American Rescue Plan
funds to provide billions of dollars of capital and technical support to
small businesses across the country so they can start and scale their
businesses in high-growth, high-wage industries.  We are also investing
in small disadvantaged businesses to provide fair opportunities to
entrepreneurs from underserved and underrepresented communities who have
historically been left behind, including through the Minority Business
Development Agency, which was made permanent through the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law.  Last year, the Federal Government awarded a record
$162.9 billion in contracts to small businesses, and $69.9 billion of
that investment went to small disadvantaged businesses.  In addition,
the Small Business Administration has supported over $4 billion in loans
to Black-owned and Latino-owned small businesses, marking significant
increases from 2020.  Through the CHIPS and Science Act, we are making
strategic, localized investments to drive technology- and
innovation-centric growth and create good jobs for American workers from
all backgrounds.  The Inflation Reduction Act is cutting health
insurance and energy costs for entrepreneurs, doubling
research-and-development tax credits for small businesses, and
incentivizing manufacturers to use American suppliers.   
  
     Our entrepreneurs are models of drive, resilience, and
determination — the very virtues that built America.  From small towns
to big cities, these dreamers and doers are the glue that holds our
communities together and the fuel that propels our Nation forward.  As
President, I recognize the critical contributions that our Nation’s
entrepreneurs make, and I remain committed to giving them the support
they need to thrive.  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
November 2023 as National Entrepreneurship Month.  I call upon all
Americans to commemorate this month with appropriate programs and
activities and to celebrate November 21, 2023, as National
Entrepreneurs’ Day.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
   
 

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
