---
date: '2023-10-10'
published_time: 2023-10-10 17:39:55-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/10/10/a-proclamation-on-general-pulaski-memorial-day-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on General Pulaski Memorial Day,\_2023"
---
 
Today, we celebrate the life and legacy of General Casimir Pulaski —
whose story is forever woven into our Nation’s fight for independence
and who remains a source of inspiration for all those standing for the
cause of freedom around the world.

     Born and raised in Warsaw, General Pulaski long fought against the
Russian domination of Poland.  In 1777 — after learning of our young
Nation’s aspiration for independence — he stepped up to serve alongside
American soldiers in the Revolutionary War, including leading a critical
counterattack that helped slow British advances.  In 1779, General
Pulaski made the ultimate sacrifice for our country — giving his life so
that our Nation and our ideas of freedom, equality, and democracy might
live.

     General Pulaski’s heroism represents just one of the countless
contributions that Polish people have made to promote liberty around the
world — contributions we continue to see today.  Since Russia’s brutal
full-scale invasion of Ukraine last year, the world has witnessed
countless acts of courage and conviction by the people of Poland for the
causes of freedom and human decency.  They have donated tanks,
artillery, and aircraft to support Ukraine’s self-defense and have
become a key hub for aid from other partners.  As I have seen first-hand
during my trips to Poland these past 2 years, they have embraced
Ukrainian refugees during this dark moment, offering them safety, hope,
and light. 

     General Pulaski famously wrote to George Washington regarding the
fight for our independence, “I came here, where freedom is being
defended, to serve it, and to live or die for it.”  He laid down his
life, not for a place, person, or President but for an idea unlike any
other idea in all of human history — the idea of the United States of
America, a citadel of liberty and beacon of freedom.  As we pay tribute
to his life and service, may we also honor our friends in Poland and our
vibrant Polish American community, which continues to uphold his legacy
and keep the flame of freedom burning bright.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October
11, 2023, as General Pulaski Memorial Day.  I encourage all Americans to
commemorate this occasion with appropriate programs and activities
paying tribute to General Casimir Pulaski and honoring all those who
champion freedom around the world.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this tenth day of
October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
