---
date: '2023-10-31'
published_time: 2023-10-31 14:51:25-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/10/31/a-proclamation-on-national-native-american-heritage-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Native American Heritage Month,\_2023"
---
 
     During National Native American Heritage Month, we recognize the
invaluable contributions of Native peoples that have shaped our country
and honor the hundreds of Tribal Nations who continue exercising their
inherent sovereignty as vital members of the overlapping system of
governments in the United States.  We also recommit to supporting Tribal
sovereignty; upholding the Federal Government’s solemn trust and treaty
responsibilities; and working in partnership with Tribal Nations to
advance prosperity, dignity, and safety for all Native peoples.  
  
     Since time immemorial, Native communities have passed down rich
cultures, knowledge, traditions, and ways of life.  But throughout our
history, Native peoples’ cultures, identities, and governments were not
always seen as a part of this Nation but as a threat to it.  Native
people were pressured to assimilate, banned from practicing their
traditions and sacred ceremonies, and forced from their homes and
ancestral homelands.  This violence and devastation cost countless
lives, tore families apart, and caused lasting damage to Tribal
communities and institutions.  
  
     Despite centuries of violence and oppression, Native peoples remain
resilient and proud.  Today, Native Americans are essential to the
fabric of the United States.  They serve in the United States Armed
Forces at higher rates than any other ethnic group.  They continue to
steward so many of our great lands.  Their contributions to science,
humanities, arts, public service, and more have brought prosperity for
all of us.  Their diverse cultures and communities continue to thrive
and lead us forward.  
  
     Since the beginning of my Administration, I have been determined to
help champion a new and better chapter in the story of our
Nation-to-Nation relationships.  I started by appointing Native
Americans to lead in my Administration — including the first Native
American Secretary of the Interior Deb Haaland, dozens of
Senate-confirmed Native American officials, and over 80 Native American
appointees serving across my Administration and in the Federal courts. 
I restored the annual White House Tribal Nations Summit to advance
communication between key members of my Administration and the leaders
of hundreds of Tribal Nations.  My Administration formally recognized
Indigenous Knowledge as one of the many important bodies of knowledge
that contributes to the scientific, technical, social, and economic
advancements of the United States and our collective understanding of
the natural world.   
  
     Together with leadership from Tribal Nations, we are making
historic investments in Indian Country.  Our American Rescue Plan
invested $32 billion in Tribal Nations — the largest one-time direct
investment in Indian Country in American history.  Our Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law invested more than $13 billion to rebuild
infrastructure, the single largest investment in Indian Country
infrastructure in history.  Our Inflation Reduction Act also made the
largest investment ever to combat the existential threat of climate
change, including $700 million dedicated to climate change response in
Native communities.  Last year, I signed a Presidential Memorandum that
improves consultation between the Federal Government and Tribal
Nations.  
  
     My Administration is also working to address the impacts of harmful
Federal policies of the past while ensuring Native communities are safe
and healthy.  Through the Department of the Interior’s Road to Healing
initiative, Native language preservation, public safety initiatives, and
bold new investments, we are supporting Native American families and
their communities as they heal.  We are also working to improve public
health and safety for Native Americans.  I signed an Executive Order
that helps us respond more effectively to the epidemic of missing and
murdered Indigenous peoples.  Last year, when we reauthorized the
Violence Against Women Act, I was proud to include historic provisions
that reaffirm Tribal sovereignty and restore Tribal jurisdiction.  My
budget for Fiscal Year 2024 also requested a $9.1 billion infusion for
the Indian Health Service, and I have asked the Congress to make that
funding a mandatory part of the Federal budget for the first time in our
history.  
  
     We are also committed to partnering with Tribal Nations to protect
and steward their sacred and ancestral lands and waters.  Through Tribal
co-stewardship agreements, we work directly with Tribal Nations to make
decisions about how to manage those lands that are most precious to them
— recognizing and utilizing the invaluable knowledge they have from
countless generations.  I established new national monuments protecting
lands sacred to Tribal Nations at Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni in Arizona,
the Camp Hale-Continental Divide in Colorado, and Avi Kwa Ame in
Nevada.  I also restored protections for the Northeast Canyons and
Seamounts Marine National Monument in New England and Bears Ears and
Grand Staircase-Escalante in Utah.   
  
     This month, we celebrate Native American history and culture.  We
are reminded that with hard work and a commitment to our founding
ideals, we can address the wrongs of our past and become a more perfect
Union — one that ensures liberty, justice, dignity, and equality for
all.  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
November 2023 as National Native American Heritage Month.  I urge all
Americans, as well as their elected representatives at the Federal,
State, and local levels, to observe this month with appropriate
programs, ceremonies, and activities.  Also, I urge all Americans to
celebrate November 24, 2023, as Native American Heritage Day.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
   
 

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
