---
date: '2023-10-06'
modified_time: 2023-10-06 14:13:09-04:00
published_time: 2023-10-06 14:13:08-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/10/06/a-proclamation-on-leif-erikson-day-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Leif Erikson Day,\_2023"
---
 
It is believed that, roughly a millennium ago, Leif Erikson and his crew
became the first Europeans to set foot in North America.  These Norse
explorers boldly charted new paths that would inspire adventurers for
centuries to come.  With bravery, optimism, and tireless effort, Leif
Erikson embodied many of the same traits that future generations of
Danes, Finns, Icelanders, Norwegians, and Swedes would weave into the
fabric of America’s story.  This Leif Erikson Day, we join together to
honor the heritage of our Nordic communities and celebrate all they have
done to strengthen our country.

     Throughout our Nation’s history, countless Nordic immigrants have
come to America — many with little more than the hope in their hearts. 
Motivated by the promise of possibilities and the search for the
American Dream, these families packed up their lives on distant shores
to build new homes here.  Establishing communities across our Nation,
Nordic Americans have contributed so much to our society.  Nordic
migrants helped lay our country’s foundations by fighting for liberty in
our Armed Forces; establishing churches, schools, and businesses; and
playing essential roles in the labor movement.  And as public servants,
doctors, engineers, entrepreneurs, community leaders, and so much more,
Nordic Americans continue to push our Nation ever forward, enriching
every part of American life.

     Today, my Administration also reaffirms our strong relations with
Nordic nations and their people.  Grounded in our shared values of
democracy, freedom, and justice, America is working with our Nordic
partners to take on our greatest challenges.  We are collaborating to
address the climate crisis by increasing opportunity and investments in
emerging technologies.  And we are working together to preserve a free
and open Indo-Pacific and to provide security and humanitarian
assistance to the people of Ukraine as they defend themselves against
Russia’s brutal invasion.  In service of these missions, last year, the
United States supported the ratification process for Finland to join
NATO — culminating in the fastest ratification period in modern history.
 We continue to fully support Sweden’s membership in our alliance.  Our
nations are stronger together, and we will continue working with these
capable and committed partners.

    This Leif Erikson Day, we celebrate the tremendous contributions of
Nordic Americans to our Nation.  Most of all, we rededicate ourselves to
the American spirit of adventure embodied in Leif Erikson’s journey
roughly a millennium ago.  Let us continue to pursue bravely principles
of liberty, equality, and justice so all people in our country can
achieve the American Dream.

     To honor Leif Erikson, son of Iceland and grandson of Norway, and
to celebrate Nordic-American heritage, the Congress, by joint resolution
(Public Law 88-566) approved on September 2, 1964, has authorized the
President of the United States to proclaim October 9th of each year as
“Leif Erikson Day.”

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, do hereby proclaim October 9, 2023, as Leif Erikson
Day.  I call upon all Americans to celebrate the contributions of Nordic
Americans to our Nation with appropriate ceremonies, activities, and
programs.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this sixth day of
October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
