---
date: '2023-10-31'
published_time: 2023-10-31 14:46:37-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/10/31/a-proclamation-on-national-lung-cancer-awareness-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Lung Cancer Awareness Month,\_2023"
---
 
     This year, nearly 250,000 Americans will be diagnosed with lung
cancer, the leading cause of cancer death in the United States.  During
National Lung Cancer Awareness Month, we honor the resilient people who
have faced this diagnosis, the loved ones who rally to their side, and
the medical professionals who do all they can to help patients survive
and heal.  We recommit to ending cancer as we know it by investing in
new, affordable ways to prevent, detect, and treat this deadly
disease.   
  
     In recent years, improved treatments, as well as enhanced early
detection, have brought us closer toward turning cancer diagnoses from
death sentences into treatable diseases.  However, challenges persist
for patients and their families.  It can be challenging to determine the
best course of treatment.  The treatment itself can be grueling.
 Medical bills can pile up.  For some, progress is still too slow. This
includes Black men, who are disproportionately likely to develop and die
from lung cancer; people living in rural communities, where mortality
rates remain stubbornly high; and women under 50 years old, who are
diagnosed with lung cancer at higher rates than men of the same age.  
  
     As a Nation, we must come together to change that.  That is why the
First Lady and I reignited the Cancer Moonshot, setting ambitious goals
to cut the cancer death rate by at least half in the next 25 years and
improve the experience of patients and families.  As a first step, my
Administration secured $2.5 billion in funding for the Advanced Research
Projects Agency for Health (ARPA-H).  The scientists, innovators,
and public health professionals funded by ARPA-H are driving
breakthroughs in preventing, detecting, and treating cancer and other
deadly diseases.  Throughout our history, the United States has led the
world in scientific innovation and discovery.  We will continue to do so
on our way to ending cancer as we know it.   
  
     My Administration is also investing in screening and early
detection — services that are critical to diagnosing lung cancer in its
beginning stages and saving lives.  The Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention — along with other agencies, community health centers, and
partners in the private sector — is providing early detection knowledge
and support services to underserved communities.  We remain committed to
increasing lung cancer screening rates for those most at risk and
encourage everyone to talk to their doctor about symptoms.  
  
     There are additional steps each of us can take to reduce the impact
of lung cancer in our own lives.  For many, that starts with quitting
smoking, the number one cause of lung cancer and the single-largest
driver of cancer deaths in America.  This year, our White House Smoking
Cessation Forum brought together public health workers, health care
providers, people living with cancer and their caregivers, and others to
expand access to programs that help people who want to quit and ensure
that these programs are accessible to everyone.  Last year, the Food and
Drug Administration proposed rules to prohibit menthol cigarettes and
flavored cigars to help adults who are trying to quit smoking and to
prevent children from becoming the next generation of smokers.  Help is
available to those who want to quit smoking at www.BeTobaccoFree.gov or
www.smokefree.gov or by calling 877-44U-QUIT.  
  
     Additionally, my Administration has taken significant steps to make
cancer treatments affordable for everyone.  Through the Inflation
Reduction Act, out-of-pocket drug costs for seniors on Medicare will
soon be capped at $2,000 per year — including expensive cancer drugs
that sometimes cost several times that.  We strengthened Medicaid and
the Affordable Care Act (ACA), expanding health care coverage for
millions of Americans and helping nearly 15 million people save an
average of $800 per year on health insurance premiums.  I remain
committed to maintaining the accessibility of cancer care secured in the
ACA, including requiring insurers to pay for cancer screenings and
primary care visits and covering cancer survivors and others who have
preexisting conditions.  I signed the PACT Act into law — one of the
most significant laws ever to help veterans exposed to toxic materials,
some of whom develop lung cancer and other diseases.  This law expands
access to benefits and services to veterans, ensuring they have access
to health care, free screenings, and benefits through the Department of
Veterans Affairs.  The law also provides access to survivor benefits for
families of veterans who died due to a toxic-related illness.  I was
also proud to sign the Federal Firefighters Fairness Act, giving more
than 10,000 firefighters and their families critical workers’
compensation and other benefits by making sure certain kinds of heart
problems, lung disease, and cancers are presumed to be caused by the
job.    
  
     Cancer has touched nearly every family in America — including mine.
 During National Lung Cancer Awareness Month, the First Lady and I have
one message to the Nation:  There is hope.  We see it in the
extraordinary courage and strength of all who are facing this deadly
disease and in the families and loved ones who support them.  We see it
in the researchers who are chasing new breakthroughs and the health care
workers who care for their patients with compassion and skill.  This
month and every month, we must seize the urgency of this moment to find
better solutions, treatments, and cures and to unite as one Nation to
end cancer as we know it.   
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
November 2023 as National Lung Cancer Awareness Month.  I call upon the
people of the United States to speak with their doctors and health care
providers to learn more about lung cancer.  I encourage citizens,
government agencies, private businesses, nonprofit organizations, the
media, and other interested groups to increase awareness about what
Americans can do to prevent, detect, and treat lung cancer.   
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
   
 

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
