---
date: '2022-06-13'
modified_time: 2022-06-13 19:01:31-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-13 19:00:01-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/06/13/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre,\_June\_13,\_2022"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

3:42 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hey, good afternoon, everyone.

Q    Hello.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hello, hello.  You guys will be very excited: I do not
have anything at the top for all of you.  So we’re going to go straight
to questions.

Darlene, want to kick us off?

Q    Thanks.  Yep, I would.  On the gun framework that was announced
over the weekend, can you talk a little bit about what specifics the
White House would like to see as the lawmakers sit down and try to turn
this into a bill?  Specifics on what you want regarding access to
juvenile records, red-flag laws, and redefining which gun sellers now
have to do expanded background checks.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, as you know, the text is now going to be
written, so we’re going to allow the negotiators to go through that
process.

What — what we do believe and what the President has said is this is a
historic agreement, and it’s the most significant legislation that we
have seen to reduce gun violence since more than 20 years.  And so it’s
a bipartisan.  The President is pleased to see this as a step forward.  

As we know, you know, this is about saving lives.  And so the President
is going to — wants to see Congress act.  He wants to see this on his
desk as quickly as possible.  And — and that’s — and that’s going to be
our focus. 

As it — as it relates to his involvement in any of this, his team
continues to talk to Congress on a regular basis, as we have been, as
they have been this past several weeks.  And we’re going to continue
talking to negotiators on the Hill, to congressional members and staff
on the Hill.  And — and we will continue to have those conversation. 
But we want to — the President wants to see this on his desk to sign as
soon as possible.

Q    Will the White House weigh in at all in terms of the final
legislative language and text and specific things that you would like —
you, the White House, would like to see?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any specifics on — on any — any, you
know, pieces of the legislation and our involvement there. 

What we will say is we want to see this move quickly.  The President
wants to see this move quickly.  This is about saving lives.  And we
think — again, this is a step — a step forward in getting that done. 

You know, legislating is — when you think about legislating, it’s about
negotiating.  It’s about getting to a place where both sides can come to
an agreement.  And this is a bipartisan handshake, a framework, as you
all know.  And we want to — we’re pleased by that, and we want to get
that done.

Q    One other question.  Over the weekend, before the President left
Los Angeles, he was asked whether he had decided to go to Saudi Arabia. 
And his answer was, “No, not yet.”  And there was a follow-up question,
and then he said, “That’s the reason I’m going.”  So, can you settle
it?  Is he going?  Is he not going?  Just tell us.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I don’t have anything to announce for you today.

Q    When will you?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, let me just say this: When the President is
ready to make that announcement, that’s when we will.

But we continue to plan for a trip to Israel and Saudi Arabia.  This
would be an opportunity for the President to engage with leaders from
across the Middle East region.  Again, I don’t have anything to announce
for you today.  

You know, if you think about the focus — what the focus would be, and
the agenda, it’s on delivering results for the American people.  That is
what the President — when he has these leader-leader conversation, that
is the number one priority: those strategic partnership with those
leaders and making sure that it indeed delivers for the American people.

And so, in this — in this particular case, if this were to happen or
when we are ready to announce, if and when we are ready to announce,
it’s — it’s — would be about — about diplomacy — leading through
diplomacy to bring stability to the Middle East region, which he has
talked about himself. 

And — but again, I don’t have anything to — any further — anything
further to preview at this time.

Q    Thank you.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Last week, you said that when the President met
with the parents in Uvalde, they told him they just wanted to see some
action, that they wanted to see if Congress can, quote, “put their
politics aside and come in a bipartisan way and deliver something.” 
Does this agreement that was announced yesterday deliver on what those
parents in Uvalde were telling the President that they wanted to see?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, let me just make clear: What he heard and all of
you may have heard from the folks in the community as well is to do
something.  And so the President has called on Congress to do
something.  They are doing something. 

Now, does this framework has everything that the President wants or that
everything that the President has called for?  It does not.  And the
President is going to continue to fight for — for — for the renew our
ban on assault weapons; for, you know, making sure that we confirm Steve
Dettelbach to lead ATF — right? — which is something that we — we
believe is going to happen.  And so — expanding background checks to
keep guns out of the hands of criminals.

So there are things that he wants to continue to see done.

But — but, you know, again, this is about saving lives, and this is
what’s important right now.  And this is a step towards that direction.

Q    You said — you said repeatedly now for several weeks that the
President was going to give lawmakers time and space.  And in the
statement, he said yesterday, as you just said, that it didn’t do
everything that he thinks is needed.  If he had gotten involved, is
there something now, where we are at this point in the conversation and
negotiations — if he had gotten off the sidelines, is there one thing
that could have ended up in the agreement that he would have liked to
have seen? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I disagree with the framing of that question.  The
President has been involved.  He has been involved since, I would say,
day one of his administration — the first couple of days that he’s
walked into his administration. 

And what I mean by that is the executive actions that he took very early
on and — the most executive actions than any president at this time of
his presidency, when it comes to dealing with a public health epidemic,
which is gun violence. 

And so he put that forward.  He did everything at the time that he can
from his perch in making sure that we — we deal with this epidemic.  He
has said if there’s anything more he can do on the executive action
side, he will take a look, his team will take a look. 

He’s talked about it — most recently State of the Union and also the
first joint address. 

So he has been vocal.  He has been talking about this.  And he also did
a primetime — a primetime delivery to the American people that, as you
all know, that was about almost two weeks ago.  So he has been involved,
and to say that he is not — he hasn’t been is just not true. 

Next?

Q    I meant in the negotiations.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m sorry?

Q    I meant in the negotiations with this bipartisan group.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But — no, but I’m — but more broadly, he has been
involved.  And he had Chris Murphy here just last week to — to get a —
to get a download on the negotiations from him directly.  And I think
that shows involvement, and that shows him wanting to make sure that we
push this forward.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  On Saudi Arabia briefly, just to circle back on
Darlene’s question: The President seemed to say over the weekend that
his trip would not focus on energy.  You said just now that any trip to
the region will focus on delivering results for the American people.  If
that’s the case, why not make energy a major topic of the of the trip,
considering gas prices are such a big part of what Americans care about?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, let me — let me first say: There — there’s no
trip to announce at this point. 

Q    But he’s been talking about (inaudible).

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just saying that there’s nothing to preview for
you at this time. 

But I will say this: You know, to view engagement with Saudi Arabia and
energy security as asking for oil is simply wrong and a misunderstanding
of both the complexity of that issue and our multifaceted discussions
with the Saudis. 

That said, Saudi Arabia is the chair, as you know, of OPEC Plus and its
largest exporter.  Of course, we discuss energy with the Saudi
government, as we do with oil producers around the world.  And we
welcome its leadership in achieving a consensus amongst the group
members last week.

Q    And just briefly on Afghanistan, if you could: Nearly half of
Afghan — Afghans are starving or don’t have enough food.  Is the
administration considering doing more to send direct aid to Afghanistan,
not just the United Nations, even if that means recognizing the Taliban?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything further on what else we might be
doing, as ai- — for aids — as aid to the people of Afghanistan.  As you
know, we have announced humanitarian aid that go directly to the people
and not to — not to the government.  But I don’t have anything further
to share on that.

Q    Are you sort of in a rock-and-a-hard-place position here?  If the
President were to go to Saudi Arabia, would you not see a benefit in
embracing the idea that with gas prices at record levels, of course you
would speak to the Kingdom and its role in OPEC Plus in trying to
increase supply?  So why not embrace that? 

Because if you’re going to go to Saudi Arabia, wouldn’t that be a
benefit for the President to try to deliver on that, even though there
are some political downsides to doing that domestically as well?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I think what we’re trying to say is that there
are more complexities to that issue, and it’s multifaceted — discussions
with Saudi Arabia.   And it is an array of agenda — of agenda that we
would — we would potentially be talking about.  

Look, I want to be careful because we don’t have — I don’t have — we
don’t have a trip to preview for you at this time.  But I also — you
know, as I said, Saudi Arabia is the chair of OPEC and is the largest
exporter.  So we talk to them like we do with any other oil producers
around the world.  So that is — there’s no difference there.  But — but
again, I don’t want to go into — go into specifics.

Q    Just on the surface, understanding no trip has been announced yet —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — we’ll get there when we get there — but the idea that the
President would engage with Saudi and not talk about oil production and
gas prices when Americans are at the highest level they’ve been in a
long time just doesn’t make sense to me.  It would seem the White House
would embrace that as one of the many complex issues you would deal with
with Saudi Arabia.  And we’ve all been covering Saudi Arabia’s
relationship, which has been fraught on many levels with the United
States for a long time, so we know there are many issues.  

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah. 

Q    But you’re not avoiding saying he’s going to be dealing with —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, what I — what I did say is: Of course, he will
be — they will discuss energy with the Saudi government.  I think what
I’m trying to say is to look at this trip as it being only about oil is
not — it would be simply wrong to do that.  So we just wanted to be very
clear on that — on that regard.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  President Biden once bragged about the stock
market hitting “record after record after record on my watch.”  How
about now?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Meaning the stock market —

Q    All the gains from President Biden’s time in office have been wiped
out. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you know, we are watching — we’re watching
closely.  We know families are concerned about inflation and the stock
market.  That is something that the President is — is really aware of. 
And so, look, we face global challenges.  We’ve talked about this.  This
is — we’re not the only country dealing with what we’re seeing at the
moment as it relates to inflation. 

You know, Putin — Putin’s price hike, inflation, coming — coming out of
a once-in-a-generation global pandemic — all of those things play a
factor. 

And, you know — but the thing — the way that we see this is that the
American people are well positioned to face these challenges because of
the economic historic gains that we have made under this President —
under this President in the last 16 months.  

Q    Okay.  So, as you say that Americans are well positioned to weather
this stock market decline, what is the President’s message to somebody
who might want to retire but their 401(k) is getting wiped out? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So we know — we know that the — that high prices are
having a real effect on people’s lives.  We get that.  And we are
incredibly focused on doing everything that we can to make sure that the
economy is working for every — American people.  But we are coming out
of the strongest job market in American history, and that matters.  And
that — a lot of that is thanks to the American Rescue Plan, which only
Democrats voted for that — Republicans did not — and it led to this
economic boom — this historic economic boom that we’re seeing with jobs.

Q    Didn’t it also lead to historic inflation?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  That is not —

Q    No?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That is — that is — that is not — that is not how
we’re seeing the American Rescue Plan. 

Look, the President came in — we have to remember what the President
walked into.  When he walked into this administration, the economy was
at a standstill.  Schools were closed. Businesses were shutting down. 
Twenty million people were on unemployment insurance benefits.  That is
what he walked into.  And he took action.  He got the American Rescue
Plan done.  Democrats — only Democrats voted for it.  And it helped turn
the economy around, including getting more than 200 million people
vaccinated, having a comprehensive vaccination plan that — that was not
in place when he walked into the administration.

Q    Okay.  And then, quickly, is the President running for reelection? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He has — first of all, let’s — let’s reset for a
second.  I cannot talk about elections.  I cannot be a political analyst
from here or — you know, or the midterms or anything like that, or
including 2024.  

The President, as you know, has been asked that question many times, and
he has answered it.  His answer has been pretty simple, which is: Yes,
he’s running for reelection.  I’m — I can’t say more than that.

Q    Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Karine, thank you.  Back on the discussions about the gun
framework.  You said he spoke with Senator Murphy.  You say negotiators
continue to talk to people here at the White House.  Has the President
himself spoken with any of the Republicans engaged in the
negotiations?  

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I hear the question.  I don’t have any — any calls
to preview or read out to you at this time.

Q    Did he — I know he was flying this morning during the latest
January 6th hearing.  But has he had a chance to go back and watch any
of it, or is somebody keeping him updated on developments?   What does
he make of it all?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So as you know, the President is very busy today, and
so he won’t be catching it blow by blow but he’ll get updates from —
from his staff.

Q    Do you know who’s been giving him the updates?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I don’t have a person to — to share with who’s
been giving his up- — an update. 

Q    And has he been briefed on the arrests of the 31 men found inside a
U-Haul truck near a Pride event in Idaho on Saturday?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes, he’s been — yes, he’s been briefed. 

Q    Oh, okay.  Thank you.  (Laughter.)

Q    Karine?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  All right.  (Laughs.)  We’ll move on then.  Go
ahead.

Q    Hi, Karine.  I wanted to switch gears to Brexit for a moment. 
Britain, I guess, vo- — Boris Johnson’s party published today plans to
override some of the post-Brexit trade rules for Northern Ireland.  I
know Blinken told Foreign Secretary Truss that — to continue good-faith
negotiations with the EU to resolve — reach a solution that preserves
the Belfast/Good Friday Agreement.  But I know that Boris Johnson
characterized the changes as “relatively trivial,” and I wanted to know
if the White House agreed with that. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So the U.S. priority remains protecting the gains of
the Belfast/Good Friday Agreement and preserving peace, stability, and
prosperity for the people of Northern Ireland. 

We have welcomed the provisions in the EU-UK Trade and Cooperation
Agreement and the Northern Ireland Protocol as a way to manage the
practical challenges of preserving distinct EU and UK markets while
preventing the return of customs infrastructure on the land border.  

We recognize there have been challenges over the implementation of the
Northern Ireland Protocol.  We urge the UK and the EU to return to talks
to resolve these differences. 

We support a strong and close EU-UK partnership.  Transatlantic peace,
security, and prosperity are best served by a strong UK, a strong EU,
and the closest possible relationship between the two. 

Q    Thank you.  And if I could just follow up quickly. Will this become
an impediment to the U.S.-UK trade dialogue talks in Boston or a
potential future U.S.-UK trade deal? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I don’t believe it will be.

Q    Okay, thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Karine, just back on the Saudi issue for a second.  Does President
Biden believe that Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman was responsible for
Kamal — Jamal Khashoggi’s death?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, we’ve spoken to this before.  I think he was
asked this question directly recently last week. 

So, look, the President is focused on getting things done for the
American people; that is engagement, leader and le- — leader-to-leader
engagement around the world.  He takes that very seriously.  And he
takes delivering for the American people very seriously.  

If he determines that the interests of the United States to engage with
a foreign leader and that such an engagement can deliver results, then
he’ll do so.  And so, as we — as you have heard her say — as you have
heard us say, Saudi Arabia has been a partner to the United States for
more than 80 years — an important partner on a host of initiatives that
we are working on, both in the region and around the world.

Q    On the question that I asked though, does he believe that MBS was
responsible for Khashoggi’s death?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So we issued — when the President — when the President
walked — came into office, you know, the murder of Jamal Khashoggi was
something that we and so many others around the world took very, very
seriously.  He — he issued an extensive report on Khashoggi’s murder. 
And we instituted the so-called “Khashoggi ban” to make sure that any
country that seeks to use tools of repression against people abroad who
criticize their government will pay a price.  We’ve used it multiple —
multiple times since.  And we imposed sanctions or visa restrictions on
over 70 Saudi individuals and entities, including the Saudi Royal
Guard’s Rapid Intervention Force.

As we emphasized then, it was also important to reorient but not rapture
\[rupture\] relations with Saudi Arabia.  So we took that incredibly
seriously, and the po- — the President spoken to this before, and I’m
going to just let his word stand.

Go ahead.

Q    Does he believe — 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I’m — I’ve already answered the question. 

Go ahead.

Q    Karine, regarding all the trapped agriculture exports in Ukraine,
there’s been some reporting that there was a cable sent from the Biden
administration kind of warning African nations to not buy grain from
Russia under the pretenses that it may be stolen from Ukraine.  Is the
White House warning African nations like Senegal to not buy any grain
from Russia right now?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I can’t speak to the wire that you’re speaking of
right now.  But what I can say is: We are working with other countries
to prevent the sale of grain that has likely been stolen from — from
Ukraine.

Q    Would there be any consequences for nations if they do buy grain
from Russia at this time (inaudible)?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s a hypothetical that I’m just not going to
answer from here. 

Q    Can I have one more question?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.

Q    Recently, the family of Emad Sharghi told CBS — he’s an American
Iranian citizen who was detained in Iran four years ago.  His family
told our colleague, Margaret Brennan, that they’ve requested a meeting
with the President numerous times but has not received a response from
the White House.  Their latest request was a couple of weeks ago.  They
also haven’t received requests from the State Department.  Is there any
update on when this meeting may take place?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have an update for you.  I’m happy to check
with the team.  That is also a question for State Department, as they
handle those types of engagements, situations. 

As you know, the President is committed to bringing home U.S. nationals
that are being held abroad.  And that is a commitment that he has made
to the American people. 

Q    Does the President think the Fed is running the risk of hiking
rates too quickly as it tries to tame inflation?  There are some reports
suggesting that there’s going to be a larger rate hike than we expected
on Wednesday.  

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The President believes — as you heard from him
directly multiple times and even in his op-ed most recently — that the
Federal Reserve is — needs to have their independence.  And he leaves —
he wants to give them their space to make their own decision — monetary
decision on how to deal with inflation.  They have made that — the Fed
has made that a priority. 

And so, that is what the President believes, and I’ll leave it as that. 

Q    Just one more follow-up question.  The U.S. Ambassador to Beijing,
Nick Burns, said over the weekend that the U.S.-China relationship is at
its lowest moment since 1972, given the aggressive comments by China’s
Defense Minister on Taiwan.  Is the — does the President have any plans
to speak with President Xi Jinping?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me just say this, since you asked a question
about — about China: The National Security Advisor, Jake Sullivan, met
today with Chinese Communist Party Politburo Member and Director of the
Office of the Foreign Affairs Commission in Luxembourg.  The meeting was
about four and a half hours long. 

This meeting, which followed their May \[March\] 18th phone call,
included candid, substantive, and productive discussion of a number of
regional and global security issues, as well as key issues in U.S.-China
relations. 

Sullivan understood the importance of maintaining open lines of
communication to manage competition between our two countries. 

To your question on a POTUS — POTUS-Xi meeting, Nancy: Interactions are
planned at a range of officials across the U.S. government, but nothing
to announce on a POTUS-Xi meeting at this time.

As you know, they last talked on the phone, as I just mentioned, on
March 18th.  We will continue to maintain open lines of communication
with China. 

Q    But what about even just a phone call?  Not even —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to preview at this time.

Q    I mean, just building on Nancy, does the President want to talk to
Xi Jinping by the end of the year?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just don’t have anything to preview.  As you know,
and I said this moments ago, leader-to-leader conversations and
communication is important to the President as we deal with, you know,
important issues across — across the globe.  I just don’t have anything
for you right now.

Q    On Roe vs. Wade: When the President was in California, he spoke to
Jimmy Kimmel, and he said that there were some executive orders under
consideration if Roe v. Wade was overturned.  Can you share a little bit
about what is being considered? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t — we don’t have anything to preview at this
time.  Yes, I remember — I was there.  I remember the President saying
that.  We just don’t have anything to share at this point. 

Q    Are there any, like, specific areas where the administration feels
that they —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, the team — 

Q    — have had some space?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The team is looking into it; we just don’t have
anything for you at this time. 

Q    And just one more.  At the Summit of the Americas, the Argentine
President, Alberto Fernández, he — he invited Biden to speak at the next
Plenary of CELAC, where he’s the pro tem president.  Is that an
invitation that the President is considering? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We don’t have anything to — to preview or announce at
this time.

Q    Karine, I had a question about China and tariffs.  With inflation
still an issue, there has been some pressure on President Biden to lift
some of the tariffs on China, but it’s also meeting some resistance from
union members.  As he heads tomorrow to the AFL-CIO, what does he want
to see done as it relates to China and tariffs?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you know, the President has asked his team to
look at that particular issue.  He will make a decision on that; I don’t
want to get ahead of it.  So that is going to be for the President to —
to speak to when he’s — when he’s ready.  

Q    And what’s the timeframe on that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have a timeframe.

Q    And just to follow up on MBS: I heard you mention the report, but
does the President believe that MBS is responsible for Khashoggi’s
death?  I didn’t hear you, sort of, engage with that part of the
question.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, the President has talked about that.  I’ve
been asked about words that — comments that he’s made during the
campaign.  He — he stands by those comments. 

What I’m trying to say is that — you know, the President said this last
week: He’s not going to change his view on human rights, and he’ll — let
me quote him right now: “But as President of the United States, my job
is to bring peace if I can, and that’s what I’m going to try to do.” 
And that’s how he answered the question when he was —

Q    I know, but that’s a generalized statement.  I mean, this is a very
specific question about what he believes. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, we put — we put measures in place — we put out a
report last year on that particular — the serious nature of what
happened, and we take that very, very seriously. 

The President has spoken to it himself.  And, you know, I’m going to
leave his words — as he has said himself, leave his words stand.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  I want to follow up first on the Chinese goods and
tariffs question.  How quickly does the White House anticipate it would
take for Americans to feel the effects on the price of goods if it lifts
tariffs on some of these products? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, the President hasn’t made a decision on that. 
So I — that’s a hypothetical that I actually can’t — can’t answer. 

Q    Does the White House feel that it would have a significant effect
on inflation?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I mean, that is a decision that is going to be
put together and — by his team.  And the President is going to make a
decision. 

I — that’s a hypothetical I literally cannot answer.

Q    And one last thing.  On the January 6th hearings, based on the
evidence that lawmakers have presented so far, does the President
believe that Attorney General Merrick Garland should prosecute former
President Donald Trump? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, the President has said this before in voicing
his support for the vital work of the bipartisan January 6th Select
Committee.  And as Kevin McCarthy said just days after the attack, “We
cannot sweep this under the rug.” 

We agree all Americans should watch and remember the horrors of one of
the darkest days in our history.  But this is up to the Department of
Justice.  This is the Department of Justice.  And the President has been
very clear.  The Department of Justice is inde- — is independent.  

The President chose Attorney General Garland because of his loyalty to
the law and our Constitution, and to restore the independence and
integrity of the Justice Department.  And this — that’s exactly what the
Attorney General is doing.  So we leave it up to the Department of
Justice. 

Go ahead. 

Q    Has the President spoken to Senator Schumer since the agreement on
guns was reached?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have a call to read out for you. 

Q    And on the arrests in Idaho over the weekend, what was the
President’s reaction when he was briefed?  And what, if anything, has
the administration done in response?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, that’s still under investigation.  I can’t speak
to that from here. 

Q    Karine?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ll go to some people I haven’t gone to.  No one up
here.  Okay.  (Laughs.)

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  A question on gas prices.  They hit the — an
average of over $5.00 this weekend.  So I was wondering: Is the
administration reconsidering the idea of a federal gas tax holiday?  And
what other things are you guys thinking about are on the table?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, don’t have anything new for you.  We don’t have
anything new for you to announce on gas prices or the gas tax. 

But as you know, gas prices are up nearly $2.00.  And that has been the
case — per gallon.  That has been the case since Putin started to
threaten the borders of Ukraine with — with the troop enforcement at the
border.

The U.S. is on track to produce a record amount of oil next year.  We’re
releasing a record 1 million barrels of oil per day from the Stra- —
Strategic Petroleum Reserve.  That has been for six months.

We’ve rallied our partners to join us, releasing an additional 240
million barrels of oil.  And that has been because of the President’s —
President’s leadership. 

We’ve also expanded access to E-15, which will lower prices for
thousands — thousands of gasoline stations, including people, families
in the Middle East.  So that was an important move. 

And as I mentioned before, we welcomed the production increase announced
by OPEC Plus to increase global supply. 

And if the President had not taken these actions, we would not have been
able to blunt the — to blunt what we’re seeing now — the prices.  It
would have been even worse. 

And so — but as far as anything new to share, we don’t have anything new
to share on that.

Q    Let me ask you: The President expressed some real frustration with
Exxon last week.  Is he reaching out to these CEOs?  Is there talk about
having a meeting with them?  Is there anything like that on the table?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, in just the first three months of this year — just
to give you a little bit of why the President made those comments last
week — Exxon made $8.8 billion in profits.  That’s triple what they made
during the same year — the same time last year and the most they’ve made
in nearly a decade.

Those record profits aren’t because they produce more oil.  In fact,
Exxon produced less oil this quarter than any quarter this — since
1999. 

Oil companies making their largest profits in years have a choice: to
put money into producing and refining oil or to put in — to put it into
the pockets of wealthy sha- — stakehol- — shareholders while American
families suffer at the pump.  

Exxon made that choice.  They made the choice.  This quarter, Exxon
announced that it is tripling its buybacks to $30 billion. 

So, look, we’re on track, as I just mentioned, to — to reach record
levels of production next year.  But oil companies also need to do their
part as well.  And that’s why the President was — was very, very clear
about what he said last week.  

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  A couple of questions, please. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.

Q    So as the Ukraine war drags on and the food cris- — the resulting
food crisis is clearly not going away — it’s only just getting worse —
there seems to be pressure growing in Europe from some of the U.S.
allies to get Ukraine to a point where they’re going to make some kind
of deal with the Russians, or at least some sort of ceasefire — anything
— primarily for the food situation. 

So ahead of the President’s trip to Europe this month, would you say his
emphasis remains on helping Ukraine fight, or is it starting to shift
into a place where the U.S. is going to be asking Ukraine to find a way
to stop it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I mean, the President has been very clear:
Nothing about Ukraine without Ukraine.  Right?  That — I mean, he’s been
very clear about that.  He wrote an op-ed in the New York Times, saying
— reiterating those comments.

We are going to continue to assist Ukraine in helping to defend their
democracy.  Again, you know, we’ve said this many times is — this is
Putin’s war.  This is Putin’s aggression — unprovoked aggression onto
another country’s sovereignty.  This is Putin’s war to end and not
Ukraine.  

Ukraine needs to defend its country, and they have done that in — in an
incredibly impressive of way.  And, you know, we hoped that it would end
with negotiations.  But right now, we don’t see that coming from the
Kremlin.  

And so, we want to make sure we put Ukraine in the strongest possible
place so that if that time comes, they can do that.

When it comes to grain exports and what you’re asking me about food
insecurity, this is a priority for the President.  He’s spoken to this. 
You know, again, Russia has been repeatedly damaging grain storage
facilities in Ukraine, stealing Ukrainian grain, and actively blocking
the export of food from Ukrainian ports, increasing world hunger. 

Russia could immediately cease its war in Ukraine, which is devastating
global food security, and allow the free flow of Ukrainian food and
agricultural exports.

Q    And a quick domestic one, please.  Most presidents, I’m guessing,
would say they don’t pay attention to the polls.  But does President
Biden feel any concern that his approval rating is, really, pretty
amazingly low and consistently low?  I believe today it went under — the
average went under 40 percent for the first time. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The President is focused on delivering for the
American people.  That’s his focus right now.

Q    Karine, thank you.  Inflation has been above 5 percent for an
entire year now.  Why did the President wait until almost December to
decide who would be leading the Federal Reserve?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The President has taken — taken the economy as a whole
and inflation very seriously, especially these past several months, in
making sure that he does everything he can when it comes to — as we
know, inflation is — is increasing — is increasing costs in two
important areas for the American people: food and gas.  I have listed
out the things that the President has done. 

And so, that — you know, that hasn’t changed.  It has been a priority. 
That’s why we see the economy in a — in a strong — stronger place than
it’s been — a historic place than it’s been in decades. 

And so, the President is going to continue to do that — to do that
work.  We do have a Federal Reserve — you know, the Chair and others in
place.  We’re going to leave that and make sure that they’re
independent, leave the work to them.  They have the strongest tools in
dealing with inflation.  They have made this a priority.  And so, we’re
going to leave it to them. 

All right.  Go ahead. 

Q    The experts now suggest that —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m going to move on. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thank —  

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Over the weekend, a crisis pregnancy center in
Oregon was firebombed.  That’s the fourth one so far.  And then, last
weekend, of course, a would-be- assassin was arrested outside the home
of Justice Kavanaugh.  I know that the administration condemns violence
and you’ve said as much several times previously, but I’m wondering: Is
there anything that the President is doing to cool passions before the
Dobbs decision drops?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You mean in — with — as it relates to abor- — the
decision? 

So, I want it to be really clear: You know, the Department of Justice,
as it relates to Kavanaugh, has U.S. Marshals providing support to the
Supreme Court Marshal.  And the President supports legislation to fund
increased security for court and judges.  

And it is how — it has now been reported that the marshals our
administration assigned to help protect judges were instrumental in the
person not accomplishing the horrible deed that he set out to do.  This
is the threat that we saw against Kavanaugh.  

And so, we have taken this very seriously.  Like you said, we have
condemned — condemned it.  The President has, and we will continue to do
so. 

Any int- — intimidation or threats against judges is something that we
take very seriously. 

And so, you know, one of the reasons — again, one of the reasons the —
the act did not happen last week was because the Department of — DOJ
took that very seriously from the beginning when we were — when we were
hearing the threats and the intimidation and put U.S. Marshals there.

Q    And then, with regard to some of the arson that we’ve been seeing
around the country?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, that’s something, clearly, the DOJ is looking
into.  And, you know, they’ve taken that very seriously.  We have seen
an uptick of that type of arson and bombing and — or attempt to bomb, as
we saw just recently over the weekend.  And so, again, that’s for — DOJ
is taking that very seriously, and they’re going to continue to do so.

Q    And then just one quick follow-up.

(An aide sneezes.) 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Bless you, Chris. 

Q    Jen was asked about some of these protests that were occurring
outside of Supreme Court justices’ home — homes, and she reiterated that
the administration wants them to remain peaceful.  But does the
President believe that there should be any type of protesters picketing
outside of judges’ homes when there’s a case pending before them?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, you know, we have not weighed in on where people
should or should not protest.  We have said that all Americans have the
right to peacefully protest, whatever their point of view, but that —
but that attempts at intimidation and violence are totally unacceptable
and that they need to be condemned at any time they happen, regardless
of who does it.

Q    Thank you, Karine. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  

Q    Yeah, thank you.  The President signed the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Bill on November 15th of last year for supply chains —
(phone alarm goes off) — time is not up yet.  (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  Time is up, Ed.  Your time is up. 

Q    I know.  

We heard at that that point — that — “wait until year, and then the sli-
— supply chains will start to work themselves out.”  Well, it’s June —
seven months later — and we’re still waiting for supply chains to work
themselves out.  So what’s happening?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me just say that we’re funding major new
initiatives on the docks and on-dock rail systems –the Port of Long
Beach — to move goods more quickly.  So we’re making those investment
right now.  

An example that I want to give because the President was just at a port
in Los Angeles, as you know — the Port of Los Angeles, to be specific —
and announced May cargo volumes.  There, he announced that May cargo
volumes landed at approximately 970,000 container units, the third-best
month in ports in a 115-year history.  The port set a new record,
averaging 12,000 units loaded off and back on each vessel, and
half-shelved \[on-shelf\] availability is at 89 percent, just a tick
below pre-pandemic.  

So we have seen the investments are — are out there.  And we have seen
some improvements.

Q    But when is relief coming?  Because when he signed it, inflation
was 6.8 percent.  It’s now 8.6 percent.  So when is that relief coming?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, we’re going to continue to expand capacity of
our ports, and that’s going to be thanks to the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law. 

So we’re — again, we’re seeing investments now.  I just gave an example
of how we saw an uptick — uptick in the, you know, container units,
which is very important as we’re talking about supply chain and what the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law has been able to do.  And we think we’ll
continue to see that. 

Go ahead.  

Q    And can I ask you — can I ask you a question on —

Q    Thank you, Karine.  

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I was calling him and then we can — yeah.

Q    Yeah, can I ask you a question on —

Q    Thanks, Karine. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, go ahead. 

Q    So there’s a coalition of civil rights groups that have been
calling for President Biden to sign an executive order that would do
essentially what H.R. 40 is — which is create a commission to study
enslavement in the United States and consider reparations.  

They’ve renewed these calls in the aftermath of the Buffalo shooting,
saying that this is a symptom of the U.S. — their inability — the
failure to respond or have — to, sort of, reparatively respond to this
issue. 

I saw — I talked to members of the Congressional Black Caucus, including
Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee.  They are in support of President
Biden signing this order, given the inability to get H.R. 40 passed in
Congress in this session and probably not in the next session.  

I know you were asked about reparations previously, earlier this month,
in relation to the California Reparations Task Force — that President
Biden’s position has not changed on this. 

However, considering the fact that President Biden did sign an executive
order that created a commission to study reforming the Supreme Court,
would he sign an executive order to create a permission for reparations?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — look, again, the President’s position has not
changed on this.  You know, we’ve been asked this question many times. 
I haven’t checked in with him on this new — kind of, new ask from
congressional members because — as it’s connected to Buffalo.  But the
President’s position just hasn’t changed.  I don’t have anything more
for you to share on that.

Go ahead.  You can go.  I — I — sorry.

Q    Yeah, thank you. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I accidently —

Q    That’s okay.  

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah. 

Q    So, President Zelenskyy has been pressing for a quick Ukraine
submission into the European Union.  Does the President Biden support
granting Ukraine accelerated path to the EU?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, that’s not up to us.  We’re not part of the EU —
the European Union.  That is something that the members have to decide. 
We’re — we’re not going to inject ourselves in something that we just
don’t belong to.

Q    One more, please. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, sure. 

Q    So, Ukrainian officials warned that without a rapid increase in
military assistance, Ukraine faces a defeat in a crucial region of
Donbas.  Is President Biden willing to respond to those demands?  And is
the President satisfied with military assistance for Ukraine from U.S.
Allies in Europe, especially France and Germany?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, you know, we — as it relates to our Allies, we
have seen them get involved in their own way.  I think it’s up to them
on how they want to assist Ukraine.  But we have seen a coalition when
it comes to NATO Allies, when it comes to our European partners in
coming together in a way to help Ukraine.  And that — a lot of that is
because of this President’s leadership. 

So, I know that you’re — you’re talking about a specific area in the
east — right? — that people have been talking about.  You know, it — I
don’t want to — I don’t want to speculate with hypo- — hypotheticals on
what might happen there.  I know the city has been under fierce assault
and Ukrainians have been fighting bravely under constant bombardment and
difficult conditions. 

President Zelenskyy has described the fighting as “severe” as Ukrainian
forces battle Russian’s forces “for every meter.”  We are continuing to
surge security assistance to Ukraine to help them defend that area of
the Donbas.  So that is something that we’re doing every day.  There’s
security assistance going into Ukraine on a daily — on a daily clip, if
you will.

Secretary Austin will be in Europe this week holding the next round of
meetings of the Ukraine — Ukraine Contact Group, where he will host
ministers of defense and chiefs of defense from dozens of countries and
ask them to continue to provide weapons and equipment as well.  So that
also answers your question about getting others to get involved. 

Q    Thanks, Karine.  

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh — oh, we’re done?

Q    Do one more. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  (Laughs.)

Q    Can I — can I ask you a question on —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, my gosh, who do I want to go to?

Q    (Cross-talk by reporters.)  

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, you in the corner.  I haven’t ever called on
you. 

Q    Thank — thank you, Karine.  

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, in the back.

Q    Thank —

Q    Thank you.  So I have two questions on baby formula.  So, first,
what is the White House — what is the latest update the White House has
received on the current infant formula situation across the country?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, let me see if I have anything new for you on
that because I think it’s been a couple of days since we have asked —
been asked that question.

Okay.  I don’t have anything new.  I know we made some announcements
last week, I don’t — I just don’t have them in front of me. 

But if you want to come back, and we’ll — we’ll talk through the things
that we have been able to do in the past — what — the most recent
activities that we’ve done.

Q    And a second question.  So, House Appropriations Chairwoman Rosa
DeLauro sent a letter to the HHS Inspector General asking the FDA to —
or asking the Inspector General to investigate the FDA’s recent policy
to use enforcement discretion for certain importation of infant
formula.  

So — but she expressed concerns that the rapid pace that they’re making
these approval decisions, with only nine full-time staff members.  So is
the President confident that the FDA is being able to make these
decisions to make sure infant formula that is being imported is safe and
—

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, first, I haven’t seen the letter.  So that’s
number one.  So, can’t really speak to the letter. 

If you’re asking me if the President has confidence in the FDA: He
does. 

Okay.  Thanks, everybody.  

4:27 P.M. EDT
