---
date: '2022-06-28'
modified_time: 2022-06-28 05:57:09-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-28 06:15:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/06/28/background-press-call-by-a-senior-administration-official-on-president-bidens-third-day-in-europe/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call by a Senior Administration Official on President\_Biden\u2019\
  s Third Day in\_Europe"
---
 
9:10 A.M. CEST  
   
MODERATOR:  Hi, everyone.  It’s \[moderator\].  We’ll go ahead and get
started.  I know the time is limited.

So this call is on background, attributable to a “senior administration
official.”  And for your awareness and not for reporting, our speaker
today is \[senior administration official\].  We just have a couple of
things at the top.  And then, hopefully, we can take some questions and
go from there.

And then, as a reminder, after the G7 ends, we’re going to head to
Madrid for NATO, and Jake and Karine are going to be gaggling on the
record on the plane then as well.

So, \[senior administration official\], over to you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, \[moderator\], and thanks,
everyone, for joining.  I’ll keep this short and take a few questions.

A couple of notes up at the top on some new commitments being made and
then happy to hear from you.

First, the G7 will commit to contribute up to $5 billion to address
global food security, over half of which will come from the United
States.  President Biden will commit $2.76 billion in additional U.S.
government funding to support efforts in over 47 countries and regional
organizations.

Of that $2.76 billion, $2 billion will go to help save lives through
direct humanitarian interventions, and $760 million of that will be for
sustainable near-term and medium-term food assistance to help enhance
the resilience and productivity of food systems around the world,
particularly in vulnerable regions.

Obviously, Putin’s actions have been at the core and the thing from
which you can draw a direct line to all of the vulnerability that we’re
seeing around the world, in terms of food security.

His actions have strangled food and agriculture production, have used
food as a weapon of war, including through the destruction of
agricultural storage, processing, and testing facilities; the theft of
grain and farm equipment; and the effective blockade of Black Sea ports.

Estimates suggest that up to 40 million people could be pushed into
poverty in 2022 as a result of Putin’s war in Ukraine and its secondary
effects, most especially around food security around the globe.  This is
just one piece of our efforts, and we are committed to do everything we
can both as the United States and the G7 to work with partners around
the world to address this.

Secondly, the G7 has also had very productive set of conversations on
China and other 21st century challenges.  Some examples, I think, you’ll
see in the communiqué when it’s released today.

One, you’ll see leaders release a collective statement, which is
unprecedented in the context of the G7, acknowledging the harms caused
by China’s non-transparent, market-distorting industrial directives. 
The leaders will commit to working together to develop a coordinated
approach to remedy China’s non-market practices to help ensure a level
playing field for businesses and workers.

Leaders will also speak to China’s role in leaving, in particular, low-
and middle-income countries in debt traps.  That’s also a first for the
G7.

And the G7 will commit to accelerate progress to tackle forced labor,
with the goal of removing all forms of forced labor from global supply
chains, including state-sponsored forced labor, such as in Xinjiang.  We
will commit to take further measures to strengthen cooperation,
including through increased transparency and other measures to address
forced labor globally.

The final G7 communiqué will be out later today, around the time the
President heads to Spain for NATO.  A consistent theme that will carry
over from the G7 to NATO is our commitment not just to the transatlantic
alliance but also to our focus on the Indo-Pacific.

We believe that these two are linked, as you saw with Japan at the G7
launching the infrastructure partnership, joining our aggressive
sanctions, and the G7 coming together to call out harmful practices of
China that impact Europe and the Indo-Pacific.

President Biden looks forward to seeing Indo-Pacific leaders at NATO for
the first time, including when he will attend a trilateral meeting with
President Yoon of the Republic of Korea and Prime Minister Kishida of
Japan to follow up on their conversations in Seoul and Tokyo last month
and confer on issues related to the Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea.

There will be a lot more to come on the NATO trip.  And I’m happy now to
take a few questions.  Thanks.

MODERATOR:  Great.  If anyone has any questions, could you please raise
your hand?

All right.  Let’s go to Shannon Pettypiece from NBC, please.

Q    Hi.  On the food security announcement — just real quick — over
what time period is that funding for?  And where would that money be
coming from?

And also around the food issue, have there been any discussions among
the leaders about trying to get the grain out of Ukraine using, like, an
intermediary country?  I know there was talk about that before the
meeting.  Has that come up — like any proposed ideas about getting the
grain stuck in Ukraine out?  
      
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  So, with respect to the
commitment from the United States and the President, that $2.76 billion
comes from the second Ukraine supplemental.  That is money that will be
allocated and delivered before the end of this fiscal year.  So it’s new
money.  It’s meant for immediate action.  And those are new commitments
from the United States to address the food security challenge.

To your second point, obviously, getting grain out of Ukraine to global
markets is at the very top of the list of priorities that leaders have,
with respect to addressing the food security challenge.

Obviously, Ukraine is a extremely important global grain producer and
exporter, and the shortfalls in global markets as a result of Ukraine’s
grain not being on global markets, and indeed those pressures even
becoming more acute as Ukraine reaches harvest season, are, if anything,
increasing the focus that G7 leaders have on this issue.

I think it’s fair to say that leaders were focused on discussing a range
of approaches to addressing the issue of how to get — how to facilitate
Ukraine’s grain to global markets.  I don’t have anything specific to
add in terms of particular pathways or routes and assessments of them.

MODERATOR:  All right.  Let’s do Paolo Mastrolilli, please.  Can you ask
your question?

Q    Yes.  Thank you very much for the briefing.  I would like to ask if
after the price cap on oil is the U.S. willing to consider also a price
cap for Russian natural gas?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So the U.S. focus has been on oil.  You
know, I think that our belief is that this is a step that G7 leaders can
take right now to get aligned around a set of objectives that’s going to
both limit Putin’s revenues and squeeze the resources that he has to
wage war and, secondly, to increase stability and the security of supply
in global oil markets.

Leaders — I think you’ll see in the communiqué later today — are going
to task ministers to work urgently towards developing — consulting with
third countries and the private sector in an effort to develop a price
cap around oil.  And we look forward to the work that ministers do
urgently in the days, weeks ahead.

MODERATOR:  All right, let’s do our last question to Jessica Ni,
please.  Could you ask your question?

Q    Yes.  Thank you for doing this.  Last year, the communiqué had some
language on peace and security in Taiwan Strait.  Just wondering, would
there be the same this year?  And also, about the language on China, can
we expect it to be stronger than last year or just about the same? 
Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks for that question.  I think that
you will see very similar language in this year’s communiqué around the
Indo-Pacific, including the Taiwan Strait. And secondly, with respect to
the language on China, the economic practices, forced-labor practices,
debt sustainability and China’s role in hampering efforts to enhance
debt sustainability for lower-income countries, I think you’re going to
see material steps forward across each of those dimensions versus the G7
statement last year, which was unprecedented in its own right by virtue
of calling out China’s economic behavior for the first time at the G7
level.

So, yeah, I expect, across each of those dimensions relative to last
year, to see some steps forward.

MODERATOR:  Great.  Thanks, everyone, for joining.  As a reminder: call
was on background, attributable to a “senior administration official,”
and the embargo lifts after this call ends.  Thanks.

9:20 A.M. CEST
