---
date: '2022-06-27'
published_time: 2022-06-27 05:09:30-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/06/27/background-press-call-by-a-senior-administration-official-on-president-bidens-second-day-in-germany/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call by a Senior Administration Official on President\_Biden\u2019\
  s Second Day in\_Germany"
---
 
8:39 A.M. CEST

MODERATOR:  All right.  So, in the interest of time, we’re going to go
ahead and get started.  First, you know, I’m sorry that we had to move
the time up — just, you know, shifting schedules that we just couldn’t
plan for.  So I’m — again, I’m sorry, and thank you for joining so early
this morning.  
  
So we’re going to preview some announcements that are going to be coming
as part of a coordinated G7 announcement on Tuesday, but we wanted to
give you a sense of where things are and also a laydown of some new U.S.
actions.  
  
This call is on background.  It is attributable to a “senior
administration official.”  And the contents of the call are embargoed
until 10:00 a.m., Germany; 4:00 a.m., U.S.  
  
So, with that — and, sorry, for your awareness but not for reporting,
our speaker is \[senior administration official\].  
  
So, \[senior administration official\], I’ll turn it over to you.  And
then we’ll try to take as many questions as we can.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  Thanks, Saloni.   
  
And thanks, everyone, for joining.  We had a packed day at the G7
yesterday, and we are now headed into day two.  
  
President Biden and the whole team here have been working around the
clock to leverage the fact that close to 50 percent of the world’s
economy is in one place and put forward further efforts to support
Ukraine, hold Russia accountable, and manage the impacts of Putin’s war
on the global economy.  
  
I want to take just a few minutes to preview some of the efforts the
U.S. will be taking in coordination with the G7.  But before I get to
that, I want to start with setting some context.  
  
As you all know, the United States has rallied over 30 allies and
partners around the world to impose drastic historic costs on Russia.  
  
It was reported overnight that Russia defaulted on its sovereign debt
for the first time in more than a century.  
  
So, in the span of a few months, U.S. exports to Russia, including of
critical technology inputs that Putin needs to maintain his military,
those have decreased 97 percent.  Russia’s imports of goods from around
the world could fall by as much as 40 percent this year.  
  
Factories across Russia are struggling to maintain production.  Russia’s
GDP is likely to fall by double digits this year, and inflation is
rising to over 20 percent.  
  
So, just by way of context, and I think this morning’s news around —
around the finding of Russia’s default for the first time in more than a
century situates just how strong the reactions are that the U.S., along
with allies and partners, have taken, as well as how dramatic the input
— the impact has been on Russia’s economy, both today and cumulating —
accumulating across time.  
  
Today, the United States will continue — pardon me — the United States
will continue to increase pressure on Putin.  That’s why today we’re
announcing:

First — and on this first one, you know, we’re still in final
discussions with other G7 counterparts, working to finalize this, but
we’re very close to a place where G7 leaders will have decided to
urgently direct relevant ministers to develop mechanisms to set a global
price cap for Russian oil in shipments to countries outside of the U.S.,
EU, the UK, and the broader G7.  
  
The goal here is to starve Russia — starve Putin of his main source of
cash and force down the price of Russian oil to help blunt the impact of
Putin’s war at the pump.

As I’ve said repeatedly, we have dual objectives here.  The dual
objectives of G7 leaders have been to take direct aim at Putin’s
revenues, particularly through energy, but also to minimize the
spillovers and the impact on the G7 economies and the rest of the
world.  
  
And G7 leaders are going to acknowledge those two objectives and also
acknowledge that the path forward is to urgently direct ministers to
work on achieving a price cap, which can, in our judgement, best achieve
both of those objectives simultaneously.  
  
Secondly, G7 leaders will align and expand targeted sanctions to further
restrict Russia’s access to key industrial inputs, to services and
technologies produced by our economies, particularly those supporting
Russia’s armament industrial base and technology sector.  
  
On Tuesday, the United States Departments of State and Treasury will
aggressively target Russian defense supply chains by imposing blocking
sanctions on major state-owned defense enterprises, in addition to
defense research organizations, and dozens of other defense-related
entities and individuals, and limit Russia’s ability to replace the
military equipment it has already lost during its brutal war against
Ukraine.

We will align on using tariffs on Russian goods to help Ukraine. 
Earlier this year, G7 leaders committed to strip Russia of “most favored
nation” trading status, which guaranteed low tariff rates for Russian
goods sold globally.  
  
President Biden and other G7 leaders will seek authority to use revenues
collected by new — any new tariffs on Russian goods to help Ukraine and
to ensure that Russia pays for the cost of its war.  
  
President Biden is also announcing that, pursuant to Congress’s
revocation of trade — Russia’s trade status in the U.S., the U.S. will
implement a higher tariff rate on more than 570 groups of Russian
products worth approximately $2.3 billion.  
  
These measures will restrict Russia’s ability to benefit economically
from sales to the U.S. market and are carefully calibrated to impose
costs on Russia, and are not expected to have impacts on U.S. supply
chain or raise costs to U.S. consumers.  
  
G7 Leaders will decide to impose sanctions on those responsible for
human rights abuses, including war crimes, exercising illegitimate
authority in Ukraine, and involved in Russia’s tactics to steal
Ukrainian grain or otherwise profit illegitimately from the war.  
  
On Tuesday, the U.S. Departments of Treasury and State will implement
blocking sanctions on private military companies operating in Ukraine,
Russian military units that have been credibly implicated in human
rights abuses or violations of international humanitarian law in
Ukraine, and Russia-installed senior officials in contested areas,
including ministers and mayors of contested cities.  
  
State will impose visa restrictions on approximately 500 officials for
threatening or violating Ukraine’s sovereignty, territorial integrity,
or political independence, or suppressing dissent in Russia.  
  
And lastly, you will see significant G7 — significant G7 commitment to
help Ukraine cover its short-term budgetary shortfalls, including a $7.5
billion commitment from the United States from the recently passed
second supplemental.

  
With that, I will go ahead and stop and take any questions from the
group that we have time for.  Thank you.  
  
MODERATOR:  Great, thank you.  If you have a question, could you please
raise your hand?  
  
All right, let’s go to Jim from the Times.  Jim, can you ask your
question, please?

  
Q    Yes.  Thanks so much for doing this.  \[Senior administration
official\], can you tell us more about how the price cap is shaping up? 
Who all would implement it?  How might it work?  I know you haven’t
figured out the details yet.  But — and, sort of, what would the — a
potential price cap be that is in the ballpark of what you guys are
discussing?

  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, Jim.  So, again, I would take a
step back and say: What leaders are likely to articulate here is a set
of shared objectives.  Those objectives are denying Russia’s energy
revenues, their resources to continue to wage war, and also to minimize
the spillovers on the rest of the economy, minimize the disruption in
global energy markets, minimize the impact for consumers in the United
States and around the world.  
  
What is been — what is likely to be further acknowledged here is that
while we are — in the U.S., the EU, Canada, the UK — implementing our
own oil embargos on Russian oil, we collectively have a set of tools
that can go to the services that are provided to allow Russian oil to be
transported elsewhere in the world. 

And by zeroing in on those services and the way in which they’re
provided — and particularly, potentially, through the mechanism of a
price gap — there’s an ability to achieve both of those objectives
simultaneously. 

What leaders are likely to do is task the relevant ministers, including
finance ministers across the G7, to work intensively with other partners
around the world, to work intensively with the private sector in the
period of time ahead to urgently take steps to determine how to design
and implement such a mechanism and, again, design and implement such a
mechanism with those two shared objectives squarely in mind.

MODERATOR:  Great, thank you.  Let’s go to Zeke Miller from the AP. 
What’s your question, please?  
  
Q    Thanks for doing this.  \[Senior administration official\], can you
just clarify a little bit — so it sounds like you’re saying there is an
agreement in principle but not an agreement on substance on the price
cap and — including no details on how it would actually work.  How long
would it take to actually come up with those details to be in a place
where this would be able to be implemented?

And then also, what do you predict the impact would be, if any, of this
action on the price of U.S. energy and U.S. consumer prices?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, so I’d say a couple of things. 
You know, one: Yes, what we’re likely to achieve here is leaders
aligning around those shared objectives, leaders acknowledging that a
price cap on Russian oil implemented through the services that G7
economies provide collectively to transport Russian oil elsewhere in the
world — that that is a very promising avenue to pursue to achieve our
shared objectives — again, denying Putin revenue, minimizing the
disruption in global energy markets, providing greater stability and
supply in global energy markets. 

You know, there are — this, as you might imagine, requires a great deal
of coordination, a great deal of effort across a number of different
ministries in the G7.  It requires a great deal of coordination with
international partners.  That’s what the statement recognizes.  That’s
what it tasks ministers to go do urgently. 

And we would expect, in the coming period of time, that we will have —
that we will get — that we will take steps towards identifying the
precise mechanisms through which this would be achieved. 

And in terms of impact on consumer prices, you know, I don’t want to
make any forecasts.  Again, I think what we have been focused on is how
do we achieve these dual objectives.  And importantly, you know, one of
those dual objectives is ensuring stability in global energy markets,
ensuring supply on global energy markets.  We think this is a tool that
is going to do exactly that: provide additional clarity that there will
be supply and stability in global energy markets. 

And so we are of the belief that this is a tool that is going to — that
is — while I don’t want to make any forecasts — is going to achieve
those objectives of providing stability, providing greater certainty,
and providing greater comfort around supply in global energy markets in
ways that that we think will have the intended effect with respect to
energy prices.

MODERATOR:  Great.  Thanks, \[senior administration official\].  So I
think we just have time for one more, and then I know you have to run. 

So let’s do Andrea Shalal from Reuters.  What’s your question, please?

Q    Hi.  Hey, thanks so much for doing this.  \[Senior administration
official\], can you just sort of explain to me how much, you know,
further this takes it?  There’s 30 countries already doing sanctions. 
This set of measures that G7 leaders are expected to agree to, does it
take you to, sort of, 90 percent of what’s possible?  You know, can you
just sort of characterize what this is — stepping back, zooming out — in
terms of ratcheting up pressure on Russia?

And then if I could just ask you with regard to the price cap and the
transportation of oil and — I’m wondering whether your conversations,
you know, with other countries that have been the so-called fence
sitters on this and have continued to draw oil — are you making
headway?  Have any substantial countries — say, India — agreed?  Have
you had conversations with China about how they will deal with this and
whether they’re willing to reduce their purchases or — you know, how
would the price caps affect those purchases?

Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks.  So, just to take the second
question first: I don’t want to get ahead of news, to get ahead of
consultations, but I think what you will see — what you’re likely to see
reflected in what leaders say is a recognition that the ministers that
have been tasked to do this work need to engage intensively with
potential partner countries around the world; engage intensively with
stakeholders, including those in the private sector.  That’s going to be
a very intensive set of dialogues, an intensive set of conversations in
the days and weeks ahead.

I don’t want to characterize the state of those to date, the state of
what those might be going ahead, other than to say we’re very intensely
focused on having that dialogue and having those conversations around
potential partners in this effort and ensuring that we work closely with
the private sector and other stakeholders to implement this step
effectively.

And then, with respect to the broader perspective on the sanctions
package, I mean, I think that you’ve seen through the steps that G7 have
taken together an ongoing focus on a few things on ensuring that
Russia’s economy is isolated from the global economy. 

I think, with respect to the actions that you saw yesterday on gold,
that was taking another step to disconnect Russia’s financial sector
from the global financial system, cutting off yet another route for
Russian transactions back into the global financial system. 

I think what you’re seeing today is also a continuation of a number of
themes that we’ve been articulating for a while: degrading Russia’s
defense industrial base and significant new steps and actions there. 

I think you also see an ongoing effort to focus on individuals who are
most egregiously connected to Russia’s aggression. 

And that’s what you’re seeing today with respect to the set of steps
that are being articulated on those who are credibly implicated in human
rights abuses and war crimes, those who are profiteering from Russia’s
invasion. 

You know, these — there are an existing set of, I think — there have
been an existing set of lines of effort, of themes that have been
getting advanced over the months since Russia’s invasion.  And these are
our collective next set of steps to ensure that we’re continuing to
ratchet up the pressure across each of those lines of efforts.

MODERATOR:  Great.  Thanks, \[senior administration official\].  And
thanks, everyone, for joining.  As a reminder, this call was on
background, attributable to a “senior administration official,” and the
contents are going to lift at 10:00 a.m., Germany; 4:00 a.m., D.C. 

I’m going to send a factsheet shortly.  So if you don’t get it in the
next 10 to 15 minutes, just feel free to ping me.  And if you have any
other questions, let us know.  Thanks for your time.

 8:57 A.M. CEST
