---
date: '2022-06-23'
published_time: 2022-06-23 16:50:29-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/06/23/press-briefing-by-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-public-health-officials-86/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by White\_House COVID-\u206019 Response Team and Public Health\_\
  Officials"
---
 
Via Teleconference

2:40 P.M. EDT  
  
DR. JHA:  Good afternoon, everybody.  My name is Ashish Jha, and I am
the COVID-19 Response Coordinator for the White House. 

First of all, apologies for the technical delays getting us started, but
I am excited and delighted to get going this afternoon with two familiar
faces, two colleagues who have been tirelessly battling the pandemic
since the beginning of this pandemic more than two years ago.  You know
them both well: Dr. Rochelle Walensky and Tony Fauci.

Today, we want to update you on a really important topic, one that many
parents and, really, America has waited for for a long time: the first
COVID-19 vaccines for our youngest kids.  You know, it’s been nearly 18
months since the first set of vaccines became available for adults.  And
just over the last week, we saw the FDA authorize and CDC recommend
vaccines for children six months and above, for the first time.

Now, this is an important moment for families of kids under five, but
it’s a historic moment for our nation, because essentially, every
American, from our oldest to our youngest, is now eligible for the
protection that vaccines provide.

Now, we know that these vaccines are extraordinarily safe and highly
effective.  Remember, after an extensive review by career FDA and CDC
scientists, they were unanimously approved by an independent group of
expert scientists. 

Now, I like to remind people it’s hard to get a group of independent
scientists agree on anything, and yet 21 independent scientists who
serve on VRBPAC unanimously voted in agreement that the benefits of
these vaccines clearly outweigh the risks.  And then, 12 independent
scientists that make up the a ACIP agreed, recommending these vaccines
for kids six months and above.

Now, we have been, at HHS and in the administration, have been planning
and preparing for this moment for a long time.  When the President took
office, he made a commitment that — to keep all families safe from
COVID-19 across America.  The availability of these vaccines brings us
that much closer to that goal.

Now, to make sure that these vaccines get to the families that want
them, we have launched a comprehensive effort with trusted partners. 
These partners include states, local health departments, pediatricians,
family physicians, rural and community health centers, and pharmacies. 
In fact, our largest federal pharmacy partners — Walgreens, CVS, and
Walmart — are stepping up and are already vaccinating children, as are
many pediatricians across the country.

Now, as I have said to all of you on many occasions, we know this
vaccination program will ramp up over time.  Remember, vaccines could
not be shipped until they were authorized by the FDA on Friday.  As of
today, I can report that more than 4 million doses have been delivered
within days of authorization to approximately 13,000 sites across the
country.  And as more doses are received and more sites make those doses
available, that information will also become available on Vaccines.gov.

Now, when you look at this vaccination program for our littlest
Americans, it will feel a little different than the vaccination programs
we’ve run before.  And that’s because we know parents will be turning to
their pediatricians and their family physicians. 

We have been guided in our approach by very clear data that says that
most parents want to vaccinate their littlest ones in familiar
settings.  We also know that many parents have questions.  And we want
to encourage every physici- — I’m sorry — every parent to talk to their
physician, to talk to the pediatrician, to talk to the family physician.

We also know that confidence in vaccines builds over time.  And I remind
people that at the start of the adult vaccination program back in
December of 2020, only one in three adults said they were eager to get
the shot.  Today, nearly 90 percent of adults have gotten at least one
shot.

We know the importance of working with trusted voices and community
leaders, and we’re doing just that.  HHS has partnered with over a
thousand organizations, many of which work in minority and rural
communities, organizations like the National Parent Teacher Association
and the Cobb Institute of the National Medical Association.  Both of
them have been great partners.

We’ve also started the COVID-19 Community Corps, an effort that has
grown to include 17,000 members across healthcare, sports, rural, and
faith organizations — organizations like Black Doctors for the COVID-19
Consortium and the National Indian Health Board.

Now, I want to address one issue that’s very important, and that is the
issue of misinformation about vaccines and about kids and COVID in this
pandemic. 

So let’s set the record straight, because the data here is actually
quite clear: Kids are better protected if they are vaccinated.  If they
are vaccinated, they are far less likely to get seriously ill.  They’re
far less likely to end up in the hospital, far less likely to end up in
the ICU.

Tens of millions of children in the U.S. and around the world have
already been vaccinated against COVID.  And the safety profile of these
vaccines is extraordinary. 

I have three children, all of whom have been vaccinated.  In fact, every
physician I know, including and particularly pediatricians, have all
vaccinated their eligible children.

Now, we’ve come a long way in our fight against COVID-19, with vaccines
and treatments and other tools, like testing that have become widely
available. 

And I’m pleased to make another announcement today: The Biden-Harris
administration is making more accessible tests available for individuals
who are blind or visually impaired.  These tests are available for free
through COVIDTest.gov.

We developed this plan in close partnership with members of the
disability community.  An issue raised consistently was that individuals
who are blind or low vision are often unable to utilize rapid self-tests
on their own.  The President has made clear he is committed to
addressing the needs of individuals with disabilities regardless of
where they live or the level of community transmission.  Ensuring
everyone has equitable access to COVID-19 testing and all other critical
missio- — all other critical mitigation strategies is of the utmost
importance.

So, in closing, the numbers in our fight against COVID-19 speak for
themselves.  Nearly three months after cases began to rise in the U.S.,
the deaths are actually down, and down 90 percent since the day the
President took office.  Why?  This has not happened randomly.  Deaths
are down because two out of three Americans are fully vaccinated, and
half of them are boosted, because we have widespread availability of
therapeutics like Paxlovid.  
  
So, yes, we’ve made a lot of progress, but our job is not done.  The
pandemic is not over.  And while we still have a lot of worth to — work
to do, it is worth celebrating milestones.   
  
And this week, as the littlest members of our society begin to get
vaccinated, we need to take a moment and reflect on the good news that
is.  
  
All right, with that, I’m going to turn it over to Dr. Rochelle Walensky
who will update us on the state of the pandemic and the importance of
getting vaccinated — getting children vaccinated.  
  
Over to you, Rochelle.

DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you, Ashish.  And good afternoon, everyone.  As per
my usual, I’d like to start by walking through the latest data.  
  
So, our current seven-day daily average of cases is about 99,400.  And
that represents a decrease of about 4 percent over the prior week.  
  
The seven-day average of hospital admissions is about 4,400 cases per
day, which is an increase of about 2 percent over the prior week.  
  
And as Dr. Jha noted, the seven-day average of daily deaths is about 250
per day, which is a decrease of about 16 percent over the prior week.  
  
CDC does follow COVID-19 community levels, and that allows individuals
and communities to take action to protect themselves and others based on
their local community level.  This also allows us to focus our efforts
on protecting those who are most at risk of severe COVID-19 illness.  
  
Last week, CDC reported 21 percent of the U.S. population was living in
a high COVID-19 community level, and nearly 40 percent was living in a
medium community level, and 39 percent was living in a low community
level.  
  
We will have updated COVID-19 community levels posted tonight, and we do
anticipate things shifting among our communities across the country.  So
please go to CDC.gov where you can find your COVID-19 community level
online.  
  
As Dr. Jha noted, this past week, we’ve taken another important step
forward in our fight against COVID-19.  Following rigorous scientific
review and a transparent and comprehensive discussion by ACIP on their
immune response, safety, and ability of vaccines to protect children
against disease, CDC expanded its COVID-19 vaccine recommendations to
all children six months through five years of age.  This makes nearly 20
million additional children eligible for vaccines.  
  
I know there’s been a great deal of anticipation for parents surrounding
the authorization and recommendation of COVID-19 vaccines for our
youngest children.  And for many, the opportunity to vaccinate their
children comes as a welcome relief.  
  
For those who may still be hesitant, I want to emphasize that COVID-19
vaccines have and continue to undergo the most intense safety monitoring
in our history.  
  
Parents, it is, of course, okay if you still have questions.  And if you
do, I encourage you to talk to your child’s provider or your local
pharmacist to learn more about the benefits and, of course, the safety
of these vaccines.  
  
In the meantime, I’d like to outline why COVID-19 vaccinations for our
children are particularly important.  
  
We do know that COVID-19 illness can be serious for children and that,
as parents, we are always looking to do what’s right to protect them
against harm.  
  
While we want to prevent severe outcomes for every age, it’s exper- —
it’s especially concerning to see severe outcomes in our youngest
children — the hospitalizations and deaths.   
  
Children should not need to be hospitalized.  They should not need to go
to the ICU, to be on a ventilator, and they certainly should not lose
their life to this virus at such a young age.  
  
During the Omicron wave, we saw a huge spike in COVID-19 cases in
children and the highest hospitalization rates in children than at any
other point during this pandemic, especially among our youngest, ages
six months through four years, who had the highest rate of
hospitalization among any age group under the age of 17.  
  
Since January 2020, we’ve lost 215 children — each six months to four
years — to COVID-19.  
  
To put that in perspective, during March 2020 through April 2022,
COVID-19 was among the top five leading causes of death in every age
group of children under the age of 19 and the number one infectious
cause of death in children.  
  
No parent should have to face the stress of having a child who’s
severely ill.  Protecting — protection gained from COVID-19 vaccination
could be the difference between a hospitalization, a hospital — a
hospital visit, or even che- — saving a child’s life.   And that’s
unequivocally great news for parents.  
  
We all want to do what’s best for our children.  And for the safest
vaccine and protection against COVID-19, do go and get your child
COVID-19 vaccinated.  
  
Young children do not need to have an underlying condition to be at risk
of severe disease.  In fact, over half of children hospitalized with
COVID-19 were otherwise healthy and had no underlying medical
condition.  And children who have previously had COVID-19 can also still
benefit from a COVID-19 vaccine.   
  
Evidence has shown that vaccine immunity results in a broader
neutralizing antibody response that has broader protection against
variants compared with infection-induced immunity alone.  
  
So as a parent, as a physician, and as your CDC director, I strongly
encourage all parents to get their child vaccinated.   
  
Our fight against COVID-19 is not over, as Dr. Jha mentioned.  But we
are in a much better place.  And we are now armed with vaccines for our
very youngest, and we have the armamentarium in our toolbox to face this
virus head on.  
  
Thank you.  I’ll now turn things over to Dr. Fauci.

  
DR. FAUCI:  Thank you very much, Dr. Walensky.  What I’d like to do over
the next minute or two is to just underscore and answer preemptively
some of the questions that Dr. Walensky and Dr. Jha and I have received
over the last few days since the announcement was made.  
  
Let’s just take a very quick review of the questions that people ask. 
For example, parents ask: How did they come to this conclusion?  What
was the data that led to the approval and recommendation of these
drugs?  Well, as you know — of these vaccines.  
  
As you know, we have two in question — Moderna and Pfizer.  Both of
those have gone under extensive placebo, blinded control trials, which
is the gold standard of determining efficacy and safety.  
  
If we go first to the Moderna trial, it involves 6,400 children and
infants.  The important point to emphasize is that this is a vaccine
which is two doses four weeks apart.   
  
Importantly, the immune responses that were elicited by the vaccines
were comparable to those responses in younger adults and in adults that
were receiving a higher dose that unequivocally, in a clinical trial,
led to a clinical benefit.   
  
So even though this is mostly an immunological bridging study, the fact
remains that it is highly correlated with a good clinical effect.  
  
What about the safety of the Moderna?  When you do vaccines, one of the
things you address is what’s called reactogenicity.  Namely, what’s the
immediate local or systemic effect?  
  
So in summary, and very briefly, the reactogenicity of this vaccine was
essentially the same — no better or worse than what we’ve seen with any
of a number of childhood vaccines that we regularly administer to our
children.  
  
There was no incidence of myocarditis or multisystem inflammatory
syndrome of children.  
  
Very quickly, moving on to the Pfizer, which was a bit different — it
was in three doses.  First doses separated by three weeks, second dose
by eight weeks.  
  
Again, the bridging immunological situation indicated that the responses
that were elicited by this vaccine was equivalent to the responses in
other studies, including young adults and in adults which were clearly
associated with a beneficial clinical response. 

With regard to the safety data of Pfizer BioNTech, the same thing: The
reactogenicity — for example, fevers, pain at the site — were really
quite comparable to what we’ve seen in vaccines that all of us have been
administering to our children over years and years.

The bottom line of all of this is that the FDA evaluation and analysis
of the safety, effectiveness, and manufacturing data were very
rigorously and comprehensively looked at to support the EUA.  The known
and potential benefits clearly outweigh the known and potential risks in
this pediatric population. 

And we want to make sure you understand, parents, that prior to making
the decision to authorize and recommend these vaccines, the FDA’s and
CDC’s independent advisory committees, as you heard, were consulted and
voted unanimously in support of the authorization and the
recommendation.  Therefore, we are all very enthusiastic about getting
your children vaccinated with these now available products.

Back to you, Dr. Jha.

DR. JHA:  Great.  Thank you, Drs. Fauci and Walensky.  Let’s go ahead
and go to questions.  And I’m going to ask my colleague, Kevin Munoz, to
get us get us going on that.  Kevin?

MODERATOR:  Thanks, Dr. Jha.  I say this a lot, but we have to keep to
one question per person.  So, please do that so we can get through as
many as we can.

Sheryl Stolberg, New York Times.

Q    Hi, thanks for doing this call.  I’m going to immediately violate
your admonition and ask two questions.  The first is about the kids’
vaccines.  I noticed on the Vaccines.gov that a lot of these pharmacies
say they’ll vaccinate ages three and up, and I wondered why that is and
if there’s a problem with getting vaccines to the youngest children.

And then — so this is for Dr. Fauci.  Dr. Fauci, I think a lot of
Americans are just wondering how you’re feeling and what your experience
with COVID was and how you got infected.  And I just wondered if you
could share a little bit of that.

DR. JHA:  Well, why don’t we start there?  Tony, give us an update on
how you’re feeling.

DR. FAUCI:  Well, I’m actually — Sheryl, thank you for asking — I’m
feeling really fine.  I had some mild symptoms last Tuesday.  I checked
my antigen test on Wednesday.  It was positive.  I had one day of
symptomatology.  I started on Wednesday on Paxlovid.  And I was on
Paxlovid for five days, and I have now finished Paxlovid and I’m still
feeling really quite fine.

I think I’m an example, given my age, of what we’re all talking about
today.  I’m vaccinated.  I’m doubly boosted.  And I believe if that were
not the case, I very likely would not be talking to you looking as well
as I look, I think, right now.  So, all is well with Fauci, and thank
you for asking.

DR. JHA:  You look great, Tony.  So, indeed, thank goodness for vaccines
and Paxlovid. 

On the issue of kids under three, this is — and vaccinating kids under
three, this is really about the PREP Act. And, Rochelle, I don’t know if
you know more about the details behind this to comment about why it is
that some places will vaccinate kids under three and other places on
won’t.

DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, no, I would say much of this may be related to the
PREP Act, but also ability of pharmacies to handle younger kids and also
the willingness of parents to potentially want to take their younger
kids to where they routinely get vaccinated, whether it’s their local
community health center or their local pediatrician.

DR. JHA:  Great.  Next question.

MODERATOR:  Let’s go to Tamara Keith at NPR.

Q    Thanks for taking my question.  President Biden was recently asked
if there is enough supply of vaccines for these children, and he said
that, “We’ll get through at least this year,” with the current level of
funding.  I’m hoping you could verify whether that is the case and also
expand out.  Is there enough funding for every American who needs a
bivalent vaccine, if one of those is developed, to be able to get that?

DR. JHA:  Yeah, so he was asked — I think I was there when he was asked
this question.  He was largely being asked about the current campaign
for kids.  And so, let me be very clear on that.  We have more than
enough Moderna and Pfizer for every child who wants one or every parent
of a child who wants one for this pediatric vaccine campaign.

As you all know, we’ve been very open that we have moved money from
other critical programs at HHS to an effort to buy some vaccines.  We do
not believe we have actually, just based on — again, without getting
into the details of the contracting, which has not happened yet — we
will not have enough vaccines for every American who wants one this fall
and winter.  So, that’s, of course, the bivalent vaccines that we’re
talking about.  We should have enough for potentially high-risk
individuals. 

But one of the reasons we’ve been asking for additional funding from
Congress is we need funding to make sure that every American who wants a
bivalent vaccine, should one be authorized by the FDA, has the ability
to do that.

MODERATOR:  Let’s go to MJ Lee at CNN.

Q    Thank you.  This question is for Dr. Jha.  Just revisiting the
warning that you had made last month that the U.S. could potentially see
100 million new COVID infections if Congress doesn’t approve more
funding.  Given that that was based on preliminary and early data from
modelers and experts, I’m just wondering whether now, more than a month
later, you have an update or a revision on the forecast for the fall and
winter, or does the 100 million new infections still fall somewhere in
the middle of the projections that you have been studying.

DR. JHA:  Yeah, so, MJ, as I — as I said about a month ago, we are
constantly looking at a whole range of data, both internal models
developed by government scientists, as well as external models.  And
we’re planning for a range of scenarios. And that’s — of course, one of
the range of scenarios we have is that we could see a substantial wave
of infections.

We’re expecting new models and new data in the upcoming weeks.  Again,
it’s always hard to make longer-term projections.  As we get closer to
the date, you get more modeling data coming out. 

And, you know, my feeling is that we’re going to update people with kind
of both what we’re seeing in the modeling data, but also what kinds of
different scenarios we’re planning for. At the end of the day — and I’ve
said this before — we try not to be in the prediction business and we
try to be in the planning business.  And we have to plan for a range of
scenarios, obviously always hoping that we get a very mild winter that
we have very few infections.  But hoping is not a strategy.  We are
planning for a range of different scenarios.

Q    So is the 100 million still somewhere in the ra- — the middle of
the range of the projections that you’ve been seeing, since that was a
warning you had made last month?

DR. JHA:  Yeah, so it was a couple of months ago, and I said it was one
of the many things that we were seeing.  And we have not gotten any
updated numbers that I can report back on today.

MODERATOR:  Let’s go to Tom Howell at the Washington Times.

Q    Hey, thanks for doing this.  Just real quick, do you know how many
of these pediatric shots have been administered this week, not just
delivered?  And can you talk about how or why the U.S. became the first
country in the world to offer these vaccines to zero to four years old? 
It seems like places like the UK or Israel sometimes beat the U.S. to
the punch.  I’m just wondering why that was not the case this time. 
Thanks.

DR. JHA:  Yeah.  So let me start on the second.  And then the first
question of when we will have data on vaccines administered, I’m going
to turn it over to Dr. Walensky, since CDC tracks that very closely.

You know, we had been among the first on getting vaccines authorized for
almost every age group.  Certainly on mRNA vaccines, we were the first
to do that for adults.  And then we have moved very quickly on getting
authorizations for kids 12 to 17, then 5 to 11, and now zero to 4.

I think it is a combination of really vigorous scientific work that’s
been done by the companies in close partnership with FDA, who has been
very transparent and open about the standards required to get these
authorizations.  So I think it’s been a lot of very proactive work on
these vaccines that has actually made America pretty consistently a
leader, certainly on the mRNA vaccines, in terms of authorizing it for
different populations.

On the issue of how many kids have gotten vaccinated, administered
doses, I’m going to turn it over to Rochelle.  Rochelle, when are we
going to be able to see data coming in on that?

DR. WALENSKY:  Great.  Thank you, Ashish.  We intend — we plan to be
very transparent in terms of the administration numbers, as we have been
for all of our cohorts of children and adults getting vaccinated and
boosted.  Right now, we’re doing the work of delivering and then, of
course, the administration.  And we’re working with our immunization
partners in our jurisdictions to receive the administration data.  When
we have those in a more complete fashion, we’ll be able to report those
publicly.

DR. JHA:  All right, next question.

MODERATOR:  Let’s go to Meg Tirrell at CNBC.

Q    Well, thank you.  Just one quick one, and then another one.  The
clinical guidelines from the CDC say that the doses can be spaced for
the primary series for the littlest kids from you know, four or three,
depending if it’s Moderna or Pfizer, up to eight weeks.  Just wondering
how you’d advise parents to think about how far they should space out
those doses.

And then, just more broadly, you talked about the individual protection
against severe disease from these vaccines.  What will some of the
social effects be of having this vaccine available?  Will it mean things
like you won’t have to quarantine if you’re in daycare, things like
that?  What will be — what will be the effect on parents and families?

DR. JHA:  Rochelle, why don’t I have you handle both those?

DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, so I would say part of the reason for the range is
to just recognize that it may be hard to keep — especially during
summertime, with travel and with kids in camp, it may be hard to be
strict to do the three or four weeks.

But I would say if you’re at risk of severe outcomes, if you’re —
certainly if you’re immunocompromised, you want to be able to be fully
protected as soon as possible.  So I would err on the earlier side of
that administration course.

With regard to guidance for families and for updated guidance, you know,
we are actively — always continuously looking at our guidance.  I would
say the most important thing to do is to get your child vaccinated and
get your family vaccinated, and that will deliver the most protection to
you and your family and allow you to not be at risk of severe disease.

MODERATOR:  Let’s go to Cheyenne Haslett at ABC News.

Q    Thank you for doing this.  To follow up on the issue of COVID
funding, can you say how many vaccines you’ve been able to purchase with
that money that you diverted, or when you might be able to announce
that, if it’s still in negotiations?

And what is the plan, if that’s not going to cover all Americans — since
COVID funding seems off the table — to get people vaccines, you know,
even if they’re not free from the government?

DR. JHA:  Yeah.  Two good questions.  So we can’t talk about numbers
because the negotiations have just gotten started, so there are no
numbers to report.

Again, just to be very clear, we’re talking about bivalent vaccines that
would be purchased for this fall and winter.  Those bivalent vaccines
have not even been authorized by the FDA.  We think the FDA is going to
authorize bivalent vaccines, but we’re not sure.

So, first of all, we’re going to hear more from the FDA next week. 
Then, negotiators — kind of, contract negotiators on behalf of U.S.
government are going to enter into contract negotiations with Moderna
and Pfizer, with the resources that we’ve been able to pull together,
cobble together for vaccines for the fall.  It’s very clear we’re not
going to have enough vaccines for every adult who wants one.  
  
But — and then we continue to have conversations, and we’ll continue to
have conversations, with both Republicans and Democrats on the — on the
Hill.  
  
You know, look, I — I’m an eternal optimist.  I remain convinced that
Congress is not going to walk away at this point in the pandemic, when
we have made so much progress and as we are looking into a fall and
winter, with a new generation of vaccines.  I don’t believe Congress
will walk away and say, “We’re not going to make sure that every
American who wants a vaccine is able to get one.”  
  
There isn’t — there is not a commercialization plan that somehow would
be — would be ready in time for this fall and winter.  So we really have
to make sure we have the resources we need so that people who want a
vaccine this fall and winter from, you know, again, this new generation
of vaccines — which we’ll hear more about from the FDA in the next week
or so –we’ve got to make sure that that’s available to every American.

  
MODERATOR:  Last question.  Let’s go to Zeke Miller at the AP.   
  
Q    Thanks for doing this.  Just to follow up on the last question: Is
there a — has any country cut in front of the U.S. on the contracting
front?  Last month, when you were — Dr. Jha, when you were saying the
U.S. needed the money now to start the contracting process, it was to
prevent other countries from moving in front of the line.  So if you can
clarify, is the U.S. still at the front of the line?  
  
And, relatedly, just on your last point there, you said there’s no
commercialization plan in place for the fall.  So if the U.S. doesn’t
have money to provide free vaccines for populations that aren’t high
risk — other adults, they won’t even be able to buy those vaccines out
of their own pocket?  They’re just out of luck?  Is that the
administration’s message to them right now?

DR. JHA:  So, first of all, on the issue of countries, I can talk about
what’s public.  I know Germany has signed contracts for a next
generation of vaccines, these bivalent vaccines.  I believe, both with
Moderna and Pfizer — although I’m not 100 percent sure — but they
certainly have — what we know is that many European countries are far
along in their — in their contract negotiations with these companies.  
  
We have not entered into those negotiations.  We’re about to, because
we’ve pulled these resources together.  
  
So, you know, this is a problem, right?  And we want to make sure that
when these vaccines get authorized by the FDA and they get produced,
that Americans are able to get them in time, before we see any kind of a
fall or winter surge where we just see one.  
  
So the — one of the reasons we pulled resources from other critical
programs was we just felt like we couldn’t wait any longer.  And if we
waited much longer, we would not be able to get these vaccines —
certainly for our high-risk individuals — in time to protect them. 
Certainly, if we got an early surge of infections, we would be — we
would really not have the vaccines we needed.  
  
In terms of, you know, what to do for people who are not high risk for
whom we may not be able to purchase vaccines — look, this is a huge
challenge.  As I said, there is not an obvious way to get these things
commercialized.  
  
If you think about it from the perspective of these companies, they’re
negotiating with countries around the world.  They have certain
limitations to their — to their production capacity.  And — and it’s —
there’s not an easy way to make sure that the commercial purchasers
somehow get in and beat out other countries to have product available.  
  
So, we don’t — we’re — we’re looking at all the contingencies.  We don’t
get to walk away, right?  And it’s one thing for Congress to say, “We’re
not going to support this.”  The administration doesn’t get to do that. 
We are in this.  We’re going to figure out solutions.  But it would be a
whole lot easier to make sure every American who wants a vaccine can get
one and be protected if we can get funding from Congress.

  
MODERATOR:  We are done, Dr. Jha.  
  
DR. JHA:  Thank you very much, Kevin.  Thank you, everybody, for joining
us.  Huge thanks to my colleagues, Drs. Walensky and Fauci.  Great to
see Dr. Fauci fully recovered and doing better.   
  
Thank you for — all of you for joining us this afternoon.  We will be
back again to give you more updates, but really appreciate people taking
the time.  And thank you for your patience in the beginning when we had
some technical issues.  And have a great day.  Thank you.  
  
3:12 P.M. EDT

You can view the slides
[HERE](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/06/COVID-Press-Briefing_6.23.22.pdf)
