---
date: '2022-06-08'
modified_time: 2022-06-08 18:05:29-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-08 18:05:28-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/06/08/press-gaggle-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-en-route-los-angeles-ca/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security Advisor\
  \ Jake Sullivan En Route Los Angeles,\_CA"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Los Angeles, California

1:51 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Hey, everybody.  I have a topper for you, and
then I’ll hand it over to Jake. 

Okay.  Whoa.  Thanks for joining us for our trip to Los Angeles where
the President looks forward to — (eye glasses fall off) — that’s not
good — looks forward to hosting fellow leaders from throughout our
hemisphere.

The United States actually hosted the first Summit of Americas in Miami
in 1994.  Now 28 years later, we are meeting to talk about some of the
most pressing challenges of our time.   The summit will focus on
building a sustainable, resilient, and equitable future for our
hemisphere.  The summit is a place to discuss and advance solutions that
help — that will help the people of the region.

On that note, we’ve worked hard over the last several months to
negotiate hemispheric consensus on several topics.  As you — as you may
have seen, this morning we announced investments the United States is
making to strengthen the region’s health systems and health security.

The pandemic revealed the many cracks in our global health systems and
underscored the importance of strong, resilient, and accessible health
systems for the entire population, health security, and pandemic
preparedness and response.

Tonight, the President will announce the APEP, the Americas Partnership
for Economic Prosperity — APEP.  And we’ll have a preview tonight at
7:30 p.m. Pacific Time of deliverables to expect tomorrow.

And right now, I will hand it over to Jake Sullivan, the President’s
National Security Advisor. 

And hold on, guys — it’s bumpy.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Thanks.  And I’m sorry we’re doing this in the middle of
a slightly bumpy ride.  So, as Karine said, the U.S. hosted the first
Summit of the Americas back in 1994.  And this is our second opportunity
to host it some 28 years later.

It comes at a moment when the United States and many of our partners in
the region are looking to pursue an affirmative vision for the
hemisphere that will lead to an Americas that is secure, middle class,
and democratic — from Canada to Chile and everywhere in between — but
also at a moment of profound challenge, as we emerge from the COVID-19
pandemic, as we deal with the climate crisis, as we deal with the
pressures of food prices, energy, and so much else. 

And so, much of the substance of this summit is designed to tackle the
challenges this region is facing head on.  And in five areas, we will
have significant, substantive deliverables in food, health, in climate,
in economic growth, and on migration.

On food, the United States will be announcing $300 million — and the
President will talk about this tonight, and then it will be rolled out
in the days ahead — $300 million in food security financing, both for
the acute challenges the region is facing right now and also to help
build more resilient food systems to be able to withstand future shocks.

In addition, we’ll have a number of countries signing up to the Roadmap
for Food Security that Secretary Blinken launched at the United Nations
a couple of weeks ago.  And this region is home to some of the largest
food-producing countries in the world, and we’ll be working with our
partners to come together around a shared declaration for how we can
leverage the agricultural capacity of the Americas to help address the
global food security issue.

On climate, the President will announce, and then the Vice President
will lead, a Caribbean climate partnership that’s focused on two things:
first, greater energy security, as we go through the transition, by
getting Caribbean countries access to low-carbon energy sources; and
second, climate adaptation and resilience.  And the specifics of that
will be laid out in a launch event that the Vice President hosts, I
believe tomorrow, Thursday.

On health, the President will announce an initiative to help train
500,000 health workers in the Americas over the next five years so that
they are equipped and empowered to be able to deal with a range of
health challenges, including the remaining challenges of the COVID-19
pandemic, but also much more than that.  That will be in partnership
with the Pan American Health Organization.

On migration, the President will host a number of other countries, a
number of other leaders for the announcement of the Los Angeles
Declaration on Migration and Protection, which will lay out in four
pillars an approach to a migration management that is rooted in shared
responsibility and involves source countries, transit countries, and
destination countries for the first time ever. 

We regard this as an unprecedented set of statements and actions by the
countries of the region to deal with a hemispheric crisis that is
affecting all of the countries of the hemisphere, not just the United
States, and for which all of the countries in the hemisphere need to
step up and help solve the problem.  And the Los Angeles Declaration
will be a very strong step in the direction of doing that.

Accompanying the declaration, the U.S. will have a variety of specific
announcements on labor pathways, on cracking down on smuggling networks,
and other steps that we will take.  And other countries also will be
making announcements to show that they’re putting skin in the game to
help address this challenge.

And then, finally, as Karine mentioned on economic growth, we’ll be
launching the Americas Partnership for Economic Prosperity tonight.  And
we will have a number of countries putting out supportive statements. 

This builds on the chain of free trade agreements we already have in the
hemisphere.  And it’s really designed to deal with 21st century
challenges like supply chains and decarbonization, but also a vision of
economic growth that is rooted in President Biden’s principles about
economic growth having to come from the bottom up and the middle out
rather than the top down.  And we think that that will be highly
welcomed in the hemisphere.

One of the elements of the Americas Partnership that we think is very
significant and will have lasting effects is institutional reform of the
Inter-American Development Bank — adjusting the way in which
concessional financing is done, increasing the United States’ commitment
to the private sector arm of the IDB, and also bringing other
international financial institutions more into the work of the
hemisphere, including the IMF.

So there will be some meaty elements to this economic partnership, in
addition to setting forth a plan to end up discussing and then
negotiating arrangements with other countries on issues like supply
chain resilience and decarbonization of the economy.

So, again, on these five areas — food, health, climate, migration,
economic growth — we think we will have a potent story to tell.  And
that story won’t be words, it will be actions both taken and pledged at
this summit.  And at the end of it, we’ll be better positioned to deal
with the major challenges facing the — facing the hemisphere than we
were going in.

So let me stop there, and I’m happy to take your questions.

Q    So, a question on Venezuela.  So why was Guaidó not invited?  Did
the Mexican President ask for him not to be invited?

And separately, what is the status of negotiations between the
opposition and the Maduro regime at this point?  Is there some
indication that things might be stalled? 

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, we’re not responding to anything from President López
Obrador when it comes to the invitation of Guaidó.  I don’t know that he
made any specific ask on that one way or the other. 

But what I will say is the following: First, we continue to recognize
Guaidó as the Interim President of Venezuela.  Second, we support a
Venezuelan-led dialogue that leads to free and fair elections and a
better future for the Venezuelan people.

And third, we thought the best way to lift up our desire to see that
Venezuelan-led dialogue and, ultimately, a better future for the
Venezuelan people was to focus on the invitations to Venezuelan civil
society activists who will participate in various aspects of the summit.

I also anticipate that President Biden will speak with Guaidó at some
point here, and we’ll keep you posted on that.

Q    (Inaudible.)

MR. SULLIVAN:  Oh, then on —

Q    Do you know when it’s going to happen?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I can’t tell you right now.

In terms of the actual negotiations, I’ll leave it to the two sides to
lay out where they are.  The United States has made clear that we
support the return to those talks, and we’re prepared to take steps if
those talks move forward.

We still believe that there is scope for that to happen.  But it’s
ultimately going to be up to the two sides to make it happen and —

Q    In terms of those talks, it makes it sound like they’re not
happening right now, that there is a (inaudible).

MR. SULLIVAN:  I’m sorry, by “those talks,” I mean Mexico City. 
Obviously, the two sides are in communication about getting back to
Mexico City and getting a more formal political process underway that
can ultimately lead to the outcome that we’re seeking. 

Q    And let me just follow up on Venezuela very quickly.  So — and
what’s the status of our negotiations with Venezuela as far as getting
them involved in getting oil and gas supply to the region and the energy
crisis that we’re in right now?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, our position on this is quite clear. We’ve made it
clear to them privately — and I’ve said it personally, publicly — which
is that we’re prepared to take steps if they take steps, but it has to
be action for action.  And the first critical step would be to come to
some set of agreements with the opposition that showed good faith, that
showed progress, and then then gets meaningful traction going in a
political dialogue.

Q    Where do Venezuelan hostages —

Q    On Brazil, real quickly: How does the President plan to handle, you
know, President Bolsonaro’s climate record when he meets with him at the
summit, and also the comments that he’s made about not only perhaps
casting a question on his own reelection, but also on President Biden’s
reelection?  I think President Bolsonaro has actually said that
President Biden shouldn’t bring up the topic.  Does he plan to bring it
up?  And, again, how does he plan to handle those issues on Amazon and
climate that they have disagreements on? 

MR. SULLIVAN:  There are no topics off limits in any bilateral the
President does, including with President Bolsonaro — first. 

Second, I do anticipate that the President will discuss open, free,
fair, and transparent democratic elections.

Third, climate will be an important topic of conversation, and we
believe that it can be an area of progress in the U.S.- Brazil
relationship, particularly around concrete and tangible action to
protect the Amazon.  And the U.S. has already shown, going back to
Glasgow, that we’re prepared to put a lot on the table when it comes to
helping countries like Brazil protect the Amazon from further
deforestation.

The President announced a major initiative on forests at Copenhagen.  He
pledged billions of dollars between now and 2030 to mobilize — that’s
public dollars — to mobilize more private sector financing for the
purpose of protecting the Amazon and other forests from further
decarbonization. 

He supports the LEAF Coalition, which is all about a public-private
effort to compensate landowners for not cutting down forests. 

And at this summit here, the Summit of the Americas, we’ll have a modest
but meaningful slug of money particularly devoted to the Amazon for
technical assistance and other purposes to help with protection. 

All of that, I think, should pave the way for a good-faith effort on the
part of every country, every stakeholder in the Americas — Brazil
included — to take the necessary action and the necessary
responsibility.  We’ll see what President Bolsonaro comes to the table
with on his side.

Q    Jake, what kind of money —

Q    Can you say how much money is allocated for the Amazon? 

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, first, on — in terms of the commitment the
President made at Glasgow, I believe the number is $9 billion globally. 
But a huge chunk of that would end up getting devoted to the Amazon,
including — in terms of the announcement at the Summit of the Americas,
I’ll come back to you with the precise dollar figure.

Q    Jake, on money, regarding the economic measures — I mean, the call
today — there wasn’t much money discussed.  I mean, does the plan really
meet the moment of the day?  I mean, you have China making more and more
inroads there, basically with an open checkbook.  I mean, what is — how
does the administration, how does the United States compete with that? 
And what is Biden’s real vision in that area?

MR. SULLIVAN:  The United States has never seen its comparative
advantage in the world as just leveraging huge numbers of state dollars,
but rather leveraging all of the tools available to us — yes, some
public financing, but really unlocking substantial amounts of private
sector financing to be able to drive inclusive economic growth across
the Americas.  And that’s what these countries most want.

So just as an example, at the summit, the President will make a
financial commitment to IDB Invest, to the private sector financing arm
of the Inter-American Development Bank.  That will unlock significant
amounts of private sector financing for infrastructure, for clean
energy, for digital. 

And on top of that, we will be putting specific dollars into producing
tangible results that matter to people — training 500,000 workers,
mobilizing hundreds of billions of dollars on food security.

When you tally all that up and look at the practical impact of what the
summit deliverables from the United States will mean for the hemisphere,
it is significantly more impactful on the actual lives and livelihoods
of the people of this region than the kinds of extractive projects that
China has been invested in.

So, we think we are mobilizing and coming to the table with a lot. 

I will also add that one of the things he will talk to the leaders of
the region about is a global infrastructure partnership that he first
raised at the G7 last year and that he will formally launch at the G7
this year in just a few weeks’ time.  That will include signature
projects from major geographies around the world, including the
Americas.

So, we believe that whether you’re talking about infrastructure, talking
about food security, the clean energy transition, investments in health,
and the use of the major multilateral investment tools — both the IDB
and the World Bank and IMF — that, collectively, that is going to add up
to a major investment by the United States and outcomes for the
hemisphere. 

Q    Jake, on the immigration — on the migration declaration, how much
support is the U.S. going to be providing to the countries that are
willing to participate in this declaration and house migrants at various
stages like you described?  And what incentives are there for these
countries to participate in this declaration?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So we have — and not to get ahead of the announcement
with too much detail — but we are — have developed an innovative
concessional financing facility that will be for countries that
typically can’t get access to that kind of financing because they’re
middle-income countries, but providing support on migration will unlock
that.  So, we think that provides one form of incentive. 

The second form of incentive is that we’re putting on the table
something that a lot of these countries are asking from us, which is
labor pathways to the United States for both migrants transiting their
countries and for the source countries, from citizens of their home
country. 

And we’ll have announcements related to labor pathways as part of the
Los Angeles Declaration and, actually, an interesting and very
innovative new program between our Department of Agriculture and the
United Farmworkers that is designed to ensure that those labor pathways
meet the highest labor standards and are not used for abuse or for a
race to the bottom.

So we think when you look at the set of things we’re putting on the
table in conjunction with this declaration, and then the commitments
other countries are signing up to along with the principles they will be
signing on to with respect to the declaration itself, it amounts to a
really significant paradigm shift in how the region is tackling this
migration crisis.  And I think people will look back at the Los Angeles
Declaration as a new platform upon which we build a migration strategy
collectively as a hemisphere for the years going forward.

Q    Should we question how seriously Central America, though, is taking
it if the three leaders of the Northern Triangle are not coming?  I
mean, that’s where most of the source — at least most of U.S. source of
migration is coming.  But those leaders are not coming.  I mean, does
that — is that a sign that they are not as committed to this as the
United States?

MR. SULLIVAN:  It’s not a sign at all.  They’re all coming.  They’ll all
be represented.

Q    Not the leaders.

MR. SULLIVAN:  The leaders are not coming for each individual
idiosyncratic reason, none of which has to do with the migration issue. 
And in each case, those countries have committed to working with the
United States in a collaborative way on the migration issue. 

And Mexico, whose leader also is not coming and will be represented at
the foreign minister level, who will similarly be signing on to the Los
Angeles Declaration, is making its own commitments with respect to what
it’s doing on the migration front. 

And so, I think there’s no way you can look the substantive outcomes of
the summit and find that there is a link between the lack of
leader-level representation from those countries and what those
countries’ commitments are on the migration question.

And then finally, just on López Obrador: He’ll be coming to D.C. in July
— actually, specifically to build on summit outcomes like this one. 

So the substantive work of the summit has in no way, shape, or form been
touched or adjusted or reduced by the participation question.  These two
things are operating in entirely distinct lanes. 

And, you know, we’re happy to have senior-level participation from each
of these countries, even though the leaders, each for their own reason,
has chosen not to come to Los Angeles. 

Q    Can I just follow up on migration very quickly?  You mentioned the
labor pathways initiatives that you have.  Is that — any of that going
to require congressional approval?

And, two, will it deal with the severe labor shortage that the United
States has had for some time?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I’m not going to pretend like what we announced today is
going to solve the whole of the systematic challenge that we have, but
it will make a — it will help us make progress on it.  It will.

And then, the specific announcements we’re making don’t require new
congressional legislation.  But more broadly, we are looking to Congress
to step up and be a partner on a bipartisan basis on the migration
question in a way that they — that we haven’t seen over the course of
the last year.

Q    Jake, does the absence of some of those Central American leaders
undermine the role of the Vice President in building ties with them and
in helping to combat some of the root cause issues of migration?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I think you really have to look to see what those
countries are signing up to, what they are committing to on the major
priorities of the United States and the major priorities to the
Americas.  And if you look at the substantive agenda, substantive
outcomes, and where they’re putting their name on the bottom line, it
shows that they’re invested in the agenda we’ve set forward. 

The fact that their leaders aren’t coming is, in each case, its own
reflection of, again, these idiosyncratic decisions each of them are
making, and I honestly wouldn’t read too much into it one way or the
other.

Q    Jake, on (inaudible) actions, right now it doesn’t look like the
President has a press conference on his schedule at the end of this
summit, which we’re hosting.  What message does that lead to — give to
our neighbors about democracy, freedom of the press, especially to those
neighbors that we’re trying to encourage to change their ways?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I mean, the President — I have now accompanied him on
multiple foreign trips.  This one is not foreign, although it involves
foreign policy.  And I think it’d be hard to argue that he hasn’t taken
many, many questions from the press. 

He’ll be, over the course of the next three days, obviously in front of
and addressing the press in various ways.  And I think by the end of
this, you can be pretty confident that he will be displaying — putting
on full display America’s raucous democracy in all of its wonderful and
attractive forms. 

So I don’t — I don’t see the kind of formal press conference issue as a
particular litmus test.

Q    A question on democracy.  I mean, given that a number of leaders
are not coming because of concerns about authoritarian governments not
being invited, does the administration see a fracturing of the consensus
around democracy, given that previous summits have had a sort of a
consensus that non-democratic governments were not going to be invited? 
Is there a concern about backsliding in the hemisphere — a concern that,
you know, you’re not really getting that same push for democracy that
you used to have?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I think this doesn’t have to do with the fundamental
question of democracy.  I think it has to do with a difference of
opinion — a diversity of opinion, frankly — across the hemisphere —
frankly, across our Congress, across the American public sphere — as to
what the right way to approach the invitation of a dictator or a
non-invitation of a dictator is. 

And that’s really, kind of, more of a question about the role and
purpose of participation in a summit like this.  It’s not a question
about whether democracy is a good form of government or a bad form of
government.

Q    You don’t see that eroding?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I’m sorry?

Q    You don’t see that eroding in the hemisphere — the support for
democracy? 

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, I definitely see challenges to democracy in the
hemisphere; there’s no doubt.  We see challenges to democracy all over
the world. 

And part of what the President wants to send a strong message of at this
summit is that the United States is put — is putting its shoulder to the
wheel in terms of supporting democratic principles and, very critically,
that as the host of the summit, we are going to lift up a vision for the
hemisphere that is fundamentally democratic.

Q    On a different topic from a colleague: Can you respond to the
react- — get a reaction on Tehran moving two of the IAEA monitoring
cameras from its nuclear site?  How will this — will this impact the
resumption of Vienna talks?

MR. SULLIVAN:  We see the issue of the IAEA compliance by Iran with its
Safeguards agreement, with its obligations at the NPT, and its
negotiations with Grossi — particularly on the files that Grossi has
expressed concerns about and that the board is speaking to today — as
operating on one track.  On another track is a negotiated resolution to
Iran’s nuclear program through a compliance-for-compliance return to the
JCPOA. 

From our perspective, we have to view these on separate tracks, and
that’s how we’re going to proceed.  What actually happens in those
negotiations is something we will see.  But there is, in our view, a
deal on the table that would effectuate a compliance-for-compliance
return to the JCPOA without dealing with extraneous issues.  That deal
is available to Iran.  They should take it.  If they don’t, that’s on
them.

Q    Secretary Yellen said today that the administration is working to
recalibrate tariffs on China.  And she also said there’s consideration
of an oil price cap on Russia.  On both those items, can you give us a
timeline of when there might be a decision? 

And on the oil cap in particular, is that something you’re aiming to
finalize at the G7 later this month?  And how much buy-in do you have
from European partn- — or, I guess, partners outside of Europe?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I won’t go beyond what Secretary Yellen said generally
because we want to be able to protect space for intensive consultations
with our European partners.  Those are taking place in multiple
channels, but one of the channels is in the G7 Sherpa channel.  And so
we’ll see what kind of progress we make generally on the question of
energy at multiple different options for reducing revenue to Russia that
could be available to us as the G7 over the course of the next three
weeks.

On the question of China tariffs, all I will say is there have been — I
think the last time I was on this plane with some of you, I said we —
the President has been presented with a variety of views on this.  He’s
sought more information.  He’s actively considering options.  He said
that himself when we were in Tokyo.  And I don’t have a timeline for
you, but I don’t expect that it will — this will go on indefinitely.  He
will make a decision.

Q    Jake, on Ukraine — Jake, are you — is the U.S. concerned about the
advance of Russian troops in the Luhansk region in the eastern part of
the country? 

And you also just announced the NATO meeting — the trip the President
will be taking later in the month.  How difficult is it for the U.S. to
maintain the Alliance, given the length of this war, the fact that fuel
prices are going up in Europe, you know, the fact that we’ve seen some
concern among France and Germany about providing Ukraine with
longer-range weapons?  Can you talk about just the strength of the unity
right now?

MR. SULLIVAN:  It’s interesting — there is this natural instinct, I
think, in the commentariat and in the press to presume the inevitable
decline in Western unity, resolve, staying power.  But all facts are to
the contrary, as we stand here today.

You’ve got European nations making new announcements of security
assistance day by day.  You have the European Union coming together not
a month ago, but a week ago, to announce a far-reaching new package of
sanctions, including on energy.

So, the notion that there is somehow, you know, signs of cracking or
division or disunity, I think, is belied by what we’re actually seeing. 
And I think that both the G7 and NATO will be very impressive signs of
strength and resolve.

And let’s remember also that the United States has allocated $40 billion
to this effort.  That’s not for a week or a month or three months; that
is a commitment that we’re — will endure for many months to come and put
us in a position to continue to very strongly support the Ukrainians.

We’re concerned by every act of aggression the Russians have undertaken,
every inch of Ukrainian territory they sit upon, they wreck, they bomb,
they destroy, both in the areas they’re moving on the ground and in the
areas they’re raining missiles down on from afar.

And that’s why we’re so committed to providing the necessary equipment
and tools to the Ukrainians to be able to resist Russian advances in
where they can push them back.

Q    Are we in a fundamentally different place when it comes to the
willingness of OPEC-Plus to finally support the global economic
recovery, as you’ve been asking them to do?  And do you take credit for
that, in terms of your outreach to Saudi?

MR. SULLIVAN:  That’s a question for OPEC-Plus.  I will simply note that
at the last OPEC-Plus meeting, there was a recognition that the supply
issue needs to be addressed.  And we expect that it will continue to be
addressed as we go forward.

And how’s that for a super clear and specific answer?

But, you know, that’s — we thought this last meeting was important,
positive.  And we look forward to continue our consultations to see
OPEC-Plus playing a constructive role as we go forward.

Q    What factors are complicating a presidential visit to Saudi Arabia?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I’m sorry?

Q    I said: What factors are complicating a possible presidential visit
to Saudi Arabia?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I don’t have any — anything for you on an — on a trip to
Saudi Arabia today.  I’ll only say the President is going to travel to
places and meet with people with whom he wants to work to help solve
problems for the American people.

Q    Has the President had any conversations with Putin?  Any updates on
that?

MR. SULLIVAN:  No.

Q    Does the President plan to go to Latin America?  Obviously, he’s
been occupied with things happening in Asia, with Europe.  The Vice
President has only been to Latin America twice so far.  Any more trips
to Latin America?

MR. SULLIVAN:  We’re literally on our way to the Summit of the Americas
—

Q    No, but (inaudible) to Latin America.

MR. SULLIVAN:  — and your question is whether he’s paying attention to
Latin America?  I mean, a little unfair. 

I think we can fairly say that spending the next two and a half days
engaging with the leaders of the hemisphere and, even more importantly,
engaging with the challenges and opportunities in the hemisphere will be
a display of the President’s commitment on these issues.  And there will
be an enormous amount of follow-up that comes out of that, including, by
the way, already-scheduled plans to see additional leaders like the
President of Mexico and the President of Argentina.  And I think you can
expect further announcements of him welcoming Latin American leaders to
Washington coming out of the next three days.

Q    Jamal Khashoggi’s widow is asking to meet with the President as a
sign that he hasn’t given up on the legacy of the journalist.  Is that
something that the President would consider doing before he goes
anywhere in the Middle East?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, I don’t want to speculate on a trip, so I don’t
want to speculate on anything he would do in preparation for a trip. 
But, of course, he takes not just the principle of human rights
seriously, he takes the personal impact of human rights very seriously. 
And that will always be true of Joe Biden.

So, if and when we have anything to announce, I’ll let you know.

Q    Any plans to bring up, when he has a meeting with the Brazilians,
the searching for Dom Phillips?  He was a BBC — or a British journalist
who disappeared a few days ago in the Amazon.  Is there any movement or
intention to bring that up or encourage the government to help find him?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So we have, at various levels of the U.S. government,
reached out to say we’re prepared to do what we can to try to be helpful
on this.

And I don’t know if the President will end up raising it, but we’ll ask
our team.  If that would be helpful, then of course he would do it.

Q    Has there been any update on North Korea?  Has the U.S. heard —
received any response from the North Korean government?  And as these
tests have continued over the last few months, is that a sign that maybe
this approach is not working and there needs to be some sort of change
in a way to engage North Korea on this issue?

MR. SULLIAN:  We have not heard from North Korea.  We continue to
obviously monitor and respond to the tests that they have been
conducting.

One thing that it has done is only further cemented the strength of our
alliances with both the ROK and Japan, and we’ve been able to conduct
joint exercises with both of them in response to some of these launches.

We’re also watching very closely the continuing possibility of a nuclear
test, to which we would also have a robust response.

And otherwise, we cannot do anything other than take the course of
action that we think is strong, steadfast, and clear.  And that is an
openness and willingness to engage in diplomacy if North Korea is
prepared to come to the table, and an absolute and resolute commitment
to defending our allies in the ROK and Japan.  That’s the position we’ve
taken.  We think it’s the right position, and it’s a position we will
sustain as we go forward.

And maybe I’ll take one more question.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Last question.

Q    Sorry, I know you’ve laid everything out — all of what you’re
hoping to get out of — out of this summit.  What’s the kind of
boilerplate success, you know, you walk away at the end of a couple of
days?  What do you want the American people to know or take away from
this summit?

Well, what I want people to know — it might sound a little nerdy, but I
think it’s super important in this moment — and that is that for all of
the people of the Americas, the same set of interconnected challenges
are pressing them — are pressing on their families, on their
livelihoods, and in some cases, on their lives.

And this summit needs to produce tangible action against each of those
challenges.  And that’s where I started, and that’s where I’ll finish. 
It’s food, it’s energy and climate, it’s health, it’s migration, and
it’s inclusive economic growth.

And I think you guys should measure us against whether or not we are
producing tangible results on those five things.  And I would challenge
you to go back and look at the last five Summit of the Americas and look
at the results of those, and ask whether, in fact, what we’ve done here
will end up exceeding that in terms of the substance, the ambition, and
the roadmap we set going forward.  And I think the answer to that
question is going to end up being “yes.”

So, thanks, guys.

Q    Thanks, Jake.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  I already had a topper, so — (laughs) —
I’ve done that part.

Q    Do you have any response to the arrest of a man outside — near
Brett Kavanaugh’s house?  As we’ve been standing here, we’ve seen that
he’s been charged with attempted murder as well.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, the President condemns the actions of this
individual in the strongest terms and is grateful to law enforcement for
quickly taking him into custody.

As the President has consistently made clear, public officials,
including judges, must be able to do their jobs without concern for
their personal safety or that of their families.  And any violence
threats — threats of violence or attempts to intimidate justices have no
place in our society.  He has said that himself, and we have been
forceful from the podium many times.

Attorney General Garland has also blasted any threats to the justices,
saying, “The rise of violence and unlawful threats of violence directed
at those who serve the public is unacceptable and dangerous to our
democracy.” 

The Department of Justice has U.S. Marshals providing support to the
Supreme Court Marshal, and the President supports legislation to fund
increased scrutiny for the Court and judges. 

The Department of Homeland Security has said they are working with their
partners across every level of government and the private sector to
share timely information and intelligence to prevent all forms of
violence and to support law enforcement efforts to keep our communities
safe.

Q    Karine, just a quick question about the President’s statement to us
as we boarded Air Force One this morning.  By validating the voter
recall of San Francisco’s district attorney, is the President giving
into a right-wing narrative about rampant crime that needs to be met
with severe punishment?  And what does it say about the prospects for
criminal justice reform that an advocate of progressive prosecutions was
tossed out?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, first of all — and I’m just going to reiterate a
little bit of what he said.  The voters last night delivered a clear
message: It’s time for both parties to get more serious about fighting
crime and gun violence. 

And this is something that the President has said throughout his first
16 months — that that’s why he has never supported “defund the police” —
he’s been clear about that — and why he sent state and local government
billions of dollars last year through the American Rescue Plan to hire
more police.  He said that right before coming on board, speaking to all
of you.  It’s past time that they put that money to use hiring
accountable, well-trained police officers.

And the president — you know, the President has asked Congress in March
for more funds to beef up policing coast to coast.  We continue to call
on Congress to pass the President’s budget.

And finally, it’s important for the Senate to move on gun measures.  He
thinks those things go hand in hand, like the ones President Biden
discussed yesterday while he met with Senator Murphy to get guns out of
the hands of dangerous people.

We don’t — we don’t need a bunch of speeches today on crime; we need
state officials to — and Congress to move.  So, he sees those things
hand in hand as we talk about gun reform as well. 

Q    Sorry, but none of the things you talked about, the — when the
President ran, he talked about criminal justice reform, he talked about
cash bail, but none of those things are part of the conversation
anymore.  Has the President given up on criminal justice reform because
of —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, absolutely not.

Q    — the GOP narrative on crime?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What — he ac- — he signed — he signed an executive
order to deal with police reform.  Right?  I mean, he poli- — criminal
justice reform is something that he has supported from the moment that
that — the moment that legislators on the Hill started talking about
coming together, trying to have something to move forward with in
Congress. 

And again, he signed an executive action on police — police reform, on
measures that we can do from the executive — from the federal — from the
federal side of things, from the White House, from the administration.

So, clearly, he hasn’t given up on that.

On bail reform, as you were just asking me: You know, on the campaign
trail — to your point, Trevor — the President said that cash bail has
become the modern-day debtor’s prison. No one should be held just
because they are poor.  And a person who is dangerous but has the money
to pay bail shouldn’t have a get-out-of-jail card free. 

So, I mean, he still stands by that, from what he said at the campaign
trail. 

And I’ll take another question.  Who else has a question?

Q    The President looked pretty friendly at yesterday’s bill signing
with Senator Manchin.  They were joking around a little bit.  He was
standing right behind the President when it was signed.  How would you
characterize their relationship at this point?  And can you give us a
temperature check on reconciliation talks?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as — as we say, I’m not going to negotiate from
here, not from Air Force One heading to LA. 

I have to tell you, I missed — I missed that interaction because I was
preparing to come back out for my second briefing in front of you all. 

But, look, we’ve said this many, many times: Senator Manchin and the
President have a good relationship.  They are friends.  They are long —
longtime friends, and that continues, and you saw it for your very own
eyes yesterday at the — you know, at the White House.  But I don’t have
anything else to share on any of the negotiations that are happening.

Q    (Inaudible) between the President or Senator Manchin that you can
read out or plan —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I don’t to have anything to read out or to
announce.

Q    Karine, there’s going to be new consumer price index data coming on
Friday while the President is in Los Angeles.  What’s the overall
assessment of whether inflation is beginning to moderate?  And are we
going to see the President talking about this at the end of the week,
after the numbers come out?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, on the CPI data, which is what you’re asking
about, Ken: Given the impact of Putin’s price hike at the pump on gas
prices in May, we expect the headline inflation number to be elevated. 
And we expect the war in Ukraine to have some effects on core inflation
too, particularly when you look at things like airfares and the effect
of higher jet fuel costs.

But despite these disruptions and the fact that the numbers can be
volatile from month to month, as we say — we say pretty regularly, we
continue to believe that the economy can transition from what has been a
historic recovery from — of the economy — to stable, steady growth and
inflationary pressures moderating, which is what experts have been
saying for some time now.

And we are already — we already begin to see this happen in a range of
measures.  For example, core PCE, which is the inflation measure the Fed
watches most closely, was around 4 percent at an — at an annualized rate
in the last three months and is down from 6 percent annualized in the
last months before that.

Q    Are we going to hear him talk about it, though, on Friday?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything, you know, to lay out.  I know
last Friday he talked about the jobs numbers and — but I don’t have — I
don’t have anything to read out or to lay out for you about that.

Q    And on inflation, retailers have actually started to warn that now
they might have an opposite problem of having too much supply on their
shelves.  I mean, do you view that as a sign of success, or is that
another kind of concern for you for the economy? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — that goes back to what we’ve been saying.  Like,
this has been an economic re- — historic recovery, and that is because
of what this President has been able to do.

When you think about the American Rescue Plan more than a year ago that
the President laid out and only Democrats signed — voted for the
American Rescue Plan at a time when the President walked into the
administration, the economy was in crisis, schools were closed,
businesses were shutting down, there was no comprehensive plan to get
people vaccinated.  And he put all — he put that plan forward. 

And now we are in a place — just last Friday, as I was saying to Ken, he
talked about the jobs numbers in May — 390,000 jobs that we saw in the
last report for May.  And that is part of the trajectory that we’re —
we’ve seen with this economic, historical, you know, turnaround of the
economy. 

And so, that is all important, and I think that’s — that’s one way to
look at that now.  Now, we’re — we’re going to be transitioning to a
more stable — stable growth, which is going to help us tackle
inflation. 

And so — and we’re — you know, we’re going to do our best.  The
President is going to continue to work very hard to make sure that we
lower those costs when we think about food and we think about gas
prices.

Q    Does the President plan to watch any of the January 6th hearing
tomorrow?  And, if not, how does he plan to monitor it?  Is he going to
comment on the first hearing? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I mean, we’ve been very clear that it is an
independent — we support the January 1st Committee hearings — Committee,
I should say, to be more clear — on January 6th.

What we saw that day over a year ago was one of the darkest times in our
democracy.  But it is an independent committee.  And clearly, he’ll be
very busy, as you heard Jake lay out and myself lay out what the next
couple of days are going to be.

You know, he might catch it here and there, but he’s going to be very
focused on his trip, talking to Western Hemisphere leaders and making
sure that he continues to deliver for the American people.

Q    Karine, the President’s approval rating in a new Morning Consult
poll is his worst yet, with disapproving voters saying they’re more
likely to vote GOP.  Is he concerned about what this bodes for his
party, for the Democrats in the upcoming elections? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, as you know, I can’t get into politics from my
position, so I’m not going to, you know, give any political ana- —
analysis as I’ve done in my past career.

But, you know, the President is going to continue to do what he’s doing
right now, what he’s about to do, which is focus on the American people,
make that — continue to make that his number-one goal as we talk about
the economy; as we talk about, you know, the work that we have done to
see, you know, jobs come back into — come back into the market; as we,
you know, try to deal with costs, whether it’s gas prices as he’s doing
all that he can to bring those down, the food prices as we’re really
understanding what the American people are feeling.

And that’s going to be his — his purpose.  That’s going to be what he’s
going to be focusing on and what his administration is going to be —

Q    Has he seen the poll?  Is he reading polls?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, I — that — honestly, that is not the — that is
not what is on — on the President’s — number one on the President’s
mind.  It’s the American people and how — what he can do to continue to
deliver.

Q    And back on negotiations again — I’m sorry.  Is he continuing to
get updates — either daily, hourly — on the negotiations?  Like — and do
you have a sense —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Are you talking about the gun reform, the — yeah,
specifically?

Q    Yeah, specifically.  And is he — is he optimistic — has he got a
sense of optimism or pessimism about how things are going?  And I know
you’re not —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He’s — he said he’s encouraged.  Right?  We have that
the President is encouraged at what he is seeing in Congress, in
particular with the Senate negotiations. 

You know, I’ve said this yesterday, and he has said this as well: The
House has — has taken some actions.  They took some actions last week. 
They’re going to take some actions this week, if they haven’t already. 
I already forgot what day it is of the week.  It’s been going so fast
this week. 

But, you know, Senator — Senator Murphy came, as you all know, to the
White House to give the President an update.  We’re very appreciative of
his leadership.  We’re appreciative of what Senator Schumer and others —
and their leadership. 

And, you know, there’s no deal to talk about right now.  They are still
working — working out the details. 

But what the President truly believes — and he has said this himself;
you heard him say this last Thursday — is we have to “do something.” 
And that is the two words that he heard from the families in Uvalde, who
— parents who lost their children in a horrific, horrific mass
shooting. 

And that’s what he’s calling on Congress to do — is to do something, to
take a step forward so that we can deal with one of our public health
epidemics, which is gun violence. 

All right?

Q    Thanks, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thanks, guys. 

2:38 P.M. EDT
