---
date: '2022-06-01'
modified_time: 2022-06-02 11:39:30-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-01 11:27:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/06/01/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-june-1-2022/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, June 1,\_2022"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

4:09 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hello.  Good afternoon.  Oh my, it’s four o’clock.  Oh
my.  So, no BTS today, but you do have KJP.  (Laughter.)  Thank you. 
Thanks, Peter.  I worked on that.

Okay, let me see.  Yes, okay.  So there are two graphs behind me.  What
— basically, what they show is more supplies being sold on the market
compared to a year ago.  So — and this is without Abbott being in the
market right now, clearly.  And we’ve seen a lot of progress happening,
as you can see, in 2022 compared to 2021, and as you can see up here as
well.  

And so — and that’s due to our actions here at the White House and just
across the administration.  So, obviously, we admit that there is still
a lot more work to be done, but you do see some progress — some
significant progress.

So, today, the President hosted a roundtable with infant formula
manufacturers — including ByHeart, Bubs Australia, Reckitt, Perrigo, and
Gerber — to receive updates on their progress in increasing the supply
of formula.

Additionally, the President announced two new Operation Fly Formula
missions.  Beginning June 9th, United Airlines will air — will airship
the equivalent of approximately 3.7 million eight-ounces bottles of
Kendamil infant formula.  This is the first Operation Fly Formula flight
donated by an airline carrier.

Also starting June 9th, Bubs Australia will transport the equivalent of
4.6 million eight-ounce bottles of formula.  This is the first shipment
of 27.5 million bottles that Bubs Australia plans to export to the U.S.

These shipments are not — are on top of the 1.5 <s>trillion</s>
\[million\] bottles of formula transported in the first two Operation
Fly Formula flights.

These actions build on other important actions to ensure there is enough
safe infant formula for families.  And the President has been clear he
will pull every lever to get more safe infant formula to American
families. 

Tomorrow, the President will join a meeting with NATO Secretary-General
Stoltenberg and National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan at the White
House.  They will discuss preparations for the NATO Summit in Madrid at
the end of June and the strength of our transatlantic alliance.

We will have a readout after the meeting for tomorrow.

 

And also, this is June 1st.  As we all know, it is the first day of
Pride Month.  This month, the Biden administra- — Biden-Harris
administration will be spotlighting the voices of LGBTQI+ people across
America, especially children and families.

The President had made clear that the proliferation of hateful and
discriminatory bills targeting kids in classrooms and families in their
homes are simply bullying. 

So, this Pride Month, we will be focused on protecting, uplifting, and
supporting LGBTQI+ kids and families.

This month, you can expect to see the President and his administration
reiterating calls on Congress to pass the Equality Act, agencies across
the administration and embassies around the world raising Pride flags to
celebrate our commitment to equality, Cabinet members meeting with
LGBTQI+ families and community leaders, the White House fighting back
against the onslaught of anti-LGBTQI+ legislation we’re seeing just
across the country.

President Biden has always been a champion for families, and that
includes LGBTQI+ families.  We are proud of the historic progress this
administration has taken to ensure everyone, no matter who they are or
whom they love, has an equal place in our country.  And we are excited
to keep building on those actions this Pride Month and beyond.

One final thing, which is very hard to say but I’m very excited about
this as well for our friend here, Vedant: I would be remiss not to
mention that it is our very own Assistant Press Secretary Vedant Patel’s
last day here at the White House. 

I’m sure many of you know and have had the pleasure of working with
Vedant, but for those who haven’t: He has been with us since day one of
the Biden campaign and also the Biden-Harris administration.  While —
while here, he has worked in very — on very important issues — areas
including climate, immigration, and education. 

I cannot stress enough how integral Vedant has been to our team.  He’s
been a rockstar.  He’s going to be incredibly missed.  He is a true
talent, an excellent communicator, a gifted writer, and a wonderful
coworker and friend. 

I and the rest of the press team will miss him dearly, but we know that
he’s on to better and bigger things as he moves over to the State
Department — so he’s not going very far — as the Principal Deputy
Spokesperson. 

We are so proud of you, Vedant.  We will miss you terribly, and we
cannot wait to see you at State.  And congratulations to you, my friend.

MR. PATEL:  Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, with that, go ahead, Zeke.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  After U.S. intelligence assessed that Mohammed bin
Salman, the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia, was behind the killing of U.S.
journalist Jamal Khashoggi, the President said he’d — came out and said
he’d make Saudi Arabia pay a price and a pariah.  There’s a report today
that the President plans to visit Saudi Arabia, including having a
meeting with that Crown Prince.  How is that consistent with making
Saudi Arabia pay a price or turning it to a pariah?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Let me just say first: His — his words still stand. 

The President’s words — what you just laid out is — still stands today. 
I don’t have a visit to preview.  I don’t have a trip to announce, so
there’s nothing for me to just lay out for you at this time.

Q    I’m just wondering, though, what price did Saudi — has Saudi Arabia
paid already for the killing of that journalist that the President —
that would then turn around — the President would reward them with a
visit to that country?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I hear you, Zeke, but I don’t have — I don’t even have
a visit to announce or to preview at this time.  So there’s really no
discussion to have because I don’t have a visit to even talk through at
this time.

Q    But, right now, the President believes Saudi Arabia should be a
pariah.  That — those — his words from then still stand, given its
actions?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m saying that that has not changed.  The President’s
words still stand.  But you’re also asking me if there’s a trip being
announced or a trip to preview; I just don’t have one at this time.

Q    And changing gears to the —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, sure.

Q    — event that was just held in the South Court and the meeting with
formula executives.  One after another executive said they knew
immediately, within hours or days of the shutdown of that Abbott plant,
the magnitude of the crisis facing the U.S. baby infant formula industry
was going to face — that supply crunch that we all saw play out over the
last several months.

The President, though, said he didn’t — wasn’t informed about that until
April —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So —

Q    — and then waited a full month to invoke the Defense Production Act
and begin Operation Fly Formula, which we’re starting to see affect the
marketplace now.  So what this — the reason for the disconnect there? 
And is he going to hold anyone accountable?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So let me just lay a timeline for you of what we have
talked about before, but I’m happy to reiterate at this time. 

So, we have been working on this issue since day one of the recall.  The
recall happened on February 17th.  On February 18th, USDA issued
detailed guidance to states on how to seek waivers in their W-I-C — WIC
programs.  We know directly from companies this is one of the most
important areas for action to be taken from the government. 

And this month, we are building on that work, with last week’s
announcement urging states to cut all WIC red tape.  So, that actually
happened — this is June 1st, so that happened in May. 

Also, importantly, agencies have been working closely with manufacturers
to help them optimize process and boost production, which I just showed
on these graphics that were behind me just a second ago.  Because of
quick action and it is not to — it is not by accident, today there is
more infant formula coming off factory production lines in the U.S. than
before the Abbott factory recall.  That wouldn’t happen without —
without the work that we have done.

For the last three months, the FDA has also been working with retailers
to impose purchasing limits to prevent the possibility of hoarding. 

And just to take a step back, so we — so just to remind folks how we got
here: You know, we are in this position because there were safety
concerns at an Abbott facility.  The scientists and the experts at FDA
have been working around the clock, 24/7, to come to an agreement, but,
ultimately, have to ensure its facility meets their standards for the
American people. 

And as Califf said last week, the FDA has been clear they need to look
into how we got here, how this all happened.  So, he is calling for an
after-action report.  And so, that is something that the FDA has said
last week during their oversight hearings.

Q    You said — and, sorry, I know it’s a lot from me — but does the
President want to see an after-action report about how this building
responded to that?  Because he wasn’t informed until April.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, let me just say that the President is
frustrated, himself, about the situation, about the issue that we have
on beha- — and he’s frustrated on behalf of the American families. 

And so, we are doing — he is doing everything that he can to make sure
that we take action.  And we have been doing that 24/7 to make sure that
we —

He gets what families are going through, how hard it is right now for
many families to feed their infant, to feed their child.  And so, this
is something that he’s not taking very lightly.  You heard from him, you
saw him meeting with the manufacturers.  And so, we’re going to continue
to work around the clock to get this done.

Go ahead.  
  
Q    So you — February 17th was the recall.  February 18th, FDA issued
instructions to states.  Let’s — let’s — can we continue that through
April?  When did somebody call the White House to say, “This is a
problem; you guys may need to get involved”?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I could say that, again, the recall happened on
the — day — day one of the recall, we took action as a
whole-of-government approach — right? — with FDA, USDA, as I just laid
out.   
  
And the President understands — again, he understands how difficult this
is.  He understands how challenging this is, and we have acknowledged
that.  He understands that this is the job of the President to be able
to multitask, to get things done, especially when it comes to making
sure that your child gets healthy — healthy food.  
  
Q    Okay, but, again —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And so, that is what —  
  
Q    Mid-February, April —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That is what we’ve been doing.  
  
Q    When was someone called here at the White House to say, “This could
be an issue that requires presidential involvement”?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t have the timeline on that.  All I can tell
you, as a whole-of-government approach, we have been working on this
since the recall in February.  
  
Q    The independent regulatory agency, the FDA, the one that questions
have been referred to in the past, is now being embraced as
“whole-of-government.”  Let’s point that out here.  
  
The other thing: Why wasn’t Abbott invited today?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, well, because Abbott, as we know, they agreed on a
path to safely reopen the Sturgis facility after safety concerns that
FDA called — called them out on.  
  
So look, we understand Abbott is working hard to get back to safely
making infant formula.  That process is ongoing and should remain
between them.  And we are encouraged by the progress they’ve made. 
Today is about progress and action we can take to ramp up right now.  
  
But I want to — you know, I do — I need to say this, and I want to lay
this out: Look, this meeting was focused on ramping up production and
availability of safe infant formula to American families.  That is what
matters.   
  
We have to remember what FDA did was to make sure that families were
getting food that was safe for — for their kids.  That is important. 
And that’s what matters.  That’s why we showed the chart, to show where
we are today compared to a year ago.  
  
So, increasing production here at home and importing high-quality
formula from <s>aboard</s> \[abroad\].  We are working with many
manufacturers.  The companies joining today represent a sub- — a subset
of companies working with the administration to increase on supply,
whether it be through the DPA, which is something that we know that the
President called on; Operation Fly Formula; and FDA’s <s>importance</s>
\[importation\] guidance.   
  
And so, the actions are making a difference.  And so, I just want to
make sure that we see what this administration has done — this
whole-of-government approach.  
  
Q    But you all can understand that — you’re doing this now on June 1. 
If he knew about —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, we have been do- —  
  
Q    — this in April —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, no, no.  We have been doing this — a
whole-of-government approach since — since the recall.  
  
Q    Yeah, but the Defense Production Act —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That is what — and it’s not.  
  
Q    — wasn’t invoked until last month.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Because we had to make sure —  
  
Q    That’s what got things moving.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We had to make sure and really look into what would
work and what was the best direction to move forward.  That’s what — we
have talked about, we have talked to you all every day — every day that
we can about each step that we’re taking, whether it’s the Defense
Production Act or whether it’s the Operation Fly Formula.   
  
So, every step of the way, we’ve explained why we’ve taken these steps. 
We’ve explained what the process has been to take — to take on these
certain items.  And so, this is — this is what we’ve been doing.  And we
have been working on this 24/7.  And we have seen an increase of
production.  
  
The President met with manufacturers today.  He met with manufacturers
two weeks ago.  And so, we have been working very hard to make sure that
American families out there who have children are getting what they
need.  Whether it’s a mom, a dad, whether it’s a caregiver — are getting
safe — safe and healthy products, food to their children.

Go ahead.  
  
Q    Just to put a finer point on that: Is it my understanding that what
you’re saying is that even if the President had known sooner, before
April, that your response would have been exactly the same?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not saying when the President knew or didn’t
know.  He spoke —  
  
Q    But he — but he said —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know.  He spoke to that himself, so I’m going to let
that stand.  I am saying that we have been working on this — we, as a
whole-of-government approach, have been working on this since the
recall, which was in February.  That is what I’m saying.   
  
I’m talking about internally, not just the agencies, not just FDA, USDA,
but also internally.  We have been working on this for months — for
months.  And we have taken this incredibly seriously and have been in
this briefing room and the President has spoke to this on — on his own
about the different steps that we have taken.  And we’ve also laid out a
timeline for you all so that you know what — the steps that we have
done.  
  
Q    It sounds like you’re saying, though, even if the President had
known sooner, would that have made a difference?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, that’s not what I’m saying.  I’m saying that we
have been working on this since we have found out — we found out about
the recall, since day one.  That is what I’m laying out to all of you as
a timeline.  That is what it’s important here to know — that, as a
whole-of-government approach, we have taken this on since the first day
that we learned about the recall.  
  
Q    Okay.  On another topic here again, can you explain just a little
bit more the President’s role in these ongoing negotiations over gun
reform legislation?  Because, yesterday, you said the President would
get involved “when helpful.”  A short while ago, he told us that he has
been involved.  So can you just sort of explain —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I mean —  
  
Q    — kind of, how does he view his role as these talks are ongoing?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I mean, a couple of things: He has been
involved.  He has been involved since day one of his administration,
since calling on Congress to take action.   
  
Just this past two weeks, he went to — he went to Buffalo to grieve with
the family, to make sure that he listened, and they had a conversation
with the family — right? — because it was so important to him to do
that, to console them, to hear from them.  He went to Texas on Sunday to
do the same.   
  
He’s spoken about this from his — the first — the first joint — his
first joint address to Congress.  That was last year.  He spoke about
this in — in the Rose Garden when he talked about his comprehensive gun
reform — the executive actions that he’s ta- — he was ta- — he was going
to do.  
  
He talked about this at a State of the Union.  
  
So this is something that the President has been doing since day one. 
And not only that, you know, he worked on this in the Senate.  You know,
he knows how to get this done, and he’s done it before.  As a senator,
he helped pass our ban on assault weapons and high-capacity magazines,
as well as enacted legislation that made the federal gun background
check — check we use today.  
  
So, this is something that he has been doing for a long time.  And he
understands — what we were talking about yesterday — he understands how
these negotiations work.  Sometimes, you have to give it a little space
so it has that quiet so that congr- — congressional members, senators
can work on the issue.  
  
But he has been involved from — from, I would say, from day one, since
he walked into this administration.  
  
Q    But on these negotiations, on any possible legislation now, is he —
is he involved right now?  Or is he giving them that space?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He’s giving them space to do the work, to have that
conversation.  But — but since the — since the shootings, since Buffalo,
our — our teams here — the Office of Leg Affairs has had more than a
dozen calls with the negotia- — with the negotiators and senators and
congressional members on the Hill.  They have been having active
conversation and working — working with them or talking through — to
them about what — what actions and steps need to be taken and where they
are with the process.

Go ahead.  
  
Q    Just very quickly on Abbott.  They’ve said that they can get the
Sturgis plant restarted by Saturday.  The FDA has said other things. 
What — what is your assessment of the credibility of that claim from
Abbott?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  When did they say this?  
  
Q    This week.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  This week?  Okay.  I don’t have a — you know, we’re
going to — like I said, we’ve been working very closely with Abbott —
not “we,” but the FDA has been working very closely with Abbott to get
Sturgis facility up and running.   
  
So that is something that they’ve been, you know, in touch with FDA
about.  I don’t — I cannot speak to their timeline.  That’s for Abbott
to speak to.  Clearly, this is something that we want to get done as
soon as possible.  But it also has to be done in a safe way.  
  
Q    Okay.  And then on the President’s New York Times op-ed about
Ukraine, he said that the policy here is to see a “democratic,
independent, sovereign, and prosperous Ukraine.”  But he did not say,
“within its internationally recognized borders.”  And so, we’re
wondering if that was a deliberate omission, intended to signal that
Zelenskyy, that Ukraine is going to have to give up some territory in
its negotiations with Russia?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I wouldn’t — I wouldn’t read into that in that
way.  But I — the President just put out a statement that I do want to
iterate just two lines from it:

“The people of Ukraine continue to inspire the world with their courage
and resolve as they fight bravely to defend their country and their
democracy against Russian aggression.  The United States will stand with
our Ukrainian partners and continue to provide Ukraine with weapons and
equipment to defend itself.”  The “new package will arm them with new
capabilities and advanced weaponry, including HIMARS with battlefield
munitions, to defend their territory \[and\] Russian advances.  We
continue to lead the world in advo- — in providing historic assistance
to support Ukraine’s fight for freedom.”

And that is going to continue to be our focus.

Q    But is your assessment that they’re going to have to give up
territory as part of these negotiations? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s not something that I’m going to talk about this
from — from the podium, from here.

Q    Okay.  And then just one last thing: The Bolsonaro meeting that’s
happening at the Summit of the Americas.  Do you guys have a date on
that?  And are you going to raise concerns with Bolsonaro about his
questioning of the voting system?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything — I don’t have anything to
preview at this time on the Summit of Americas for you.

Go ahead.

Q    Karine, just to follow up on the baby formula meeting.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.  Sure.

Q    So, if the President is saying the baby formula manufacturers knew
that things would be really bad as soon the Abbott recalls happened, the
shutdown of the plant happened, but he did not, I guess, can you help us
understand why they knew but he didn’t?  Who failed to inform him?  Why
didn’t he know if they knew?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, again, what I will tell you is that we have been
working on this issue from day one since the recall.

You know, what you hear from the President is — is his frustration with
the issue itself — with American families having to deal with and what
they’re going through because this market — because this more — this
concentrated market and the problems of the Sturgis facility. 

We have to remember how we got here.  We got here because FDA learned
that the Sturgis facility was not operating in a safe way.  And so, we —
they’ve — FDA wanted to make sure that families were getting healthy —
healthy food to their babies. So, this is a responsibility that FDA has
and that FDA did. 

From our part, we did everything that we can from the moment that we
learned about the recall to — to work 24/7 to make sure that the
production went up.

Q    I guess that just doesn’t address the question of why it was that
the President didn’t know, when the manufacturers are saying that they
knew — as soon as the recalls happened, as soon as the plant was shut
down — that this would be a very serious problem.  Was there a breakdown
in the process here?  Did somebody fail to inform him?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I have not spoken to the President.  I know that
he just said that a few moments ago, so I would have to — I would have
to talk to him about the April date.

But what I can tell you is what he has seen — and this I know for
certain — is that seeing the empty shelves is unacceptable, seeing what
families are going through is unacceptable.  This is why we have been
working 24/7 to make sure that we are using every lever at our disposal
to deliver for the American people. 

That is what I know for sure that I can share with you at this moment. 
And — and that’s how we’re going to, you know, going to continue to move
to make sure that we’re doing everything that we can and beyond.

Q    Yeah.  Could you help us understand then — you know, you’ve said
that the administration has been working 24/7 around the clock since
February to try to address this issue.  The President says he didn’t
understand how bad the issue was until April.

So is it that you were working around the clock since February to
address this serious problem, but the — but the President didn’t know? 
I just want to be clear about that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, the actions across the government began day one
and — of the recall, as I’ve said.  The White House has been in close
regular contact with agencies responsible for addressing this issue
since then.

While these action made serious progress, including by ensuring there
was more infant formula coming off factory lines than before, the recall
— it’s clear there is more work to be done and more levers to be pulled,
which is why you’ve seen higher-profile actions this month.  And we’re
going to continue to do everything that we can.

So, to your question, the White House has been working with — across
government to make sure, since day one of the recall, to do everything
that we can.

Q    So then perhaps the President wasn’t aware of the work that was
going on around the clock since February to address the issue?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, look, I mean, the President has multiple —
multiple issues — crises at the moment.

You know, when he walked into the administration, he talked about the
multiple crises that we needed to deal with as a country.

And so — and so — so, that’s number one to remember.  But the most
important thing is that as a — as a White House, as the — working with
the inter-agencies, we have been working on this since day one since the
recall. 

Q    Okay. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    And I actually —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And this is his White — this is his White Hou- — his
White House.

Q    I actually had a follow-up to a question that we asked in here over
two weeks ago, very much related to what we’ve been talking about.  We
had asked if there were specific actions that the administration took —
including meetings, phone calls, briefings — either in February or
earlier to begin addressing the shortage.  You had said at the time that
you didn’t have any specifics then, but you’d be happy to go back and
get that information and be fully transparent.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, but I —

Q    But it doesn’t sound like you have that update for us today.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I don’t have that information.  But, again, I can
say to you, since the recall in February, we have been working around
the clock on this issue.  It is an important issue.  We understand how
frustrating it is for parents.  And so, this is something that the White
House, across — across the agencies have made a priority.

Q    So do you plan on getting us that information that you said you
would check —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, for sure.  I mean, feel free to reach out to me
directly.  You have my e-mail.  You have my number.  Feel free to reach
out to me, and we will do everything that we can.

Q    Can I just do one follow-up on a separate topic?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I mean — (laughs) — MJ, we — I got to move on. 
I got to move on.  Yeah.

Q    That’s fine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead. 

Q    So, I think the question here is: We all understand that government
operates at many levels.  The President is not read in on every issue. 
Why this one seems to stand out is that these executives talked about it
as a crisis.  The President talks about it as one of the most personal
crises that he has experienced.

And you’re now sort of saying that the White House was operating on this
without the President being aware of or directing those actions.  And
so, there will be future crises and so I think we’re all trying to
understand the information flow and the decision making when there is a
crisis that rises to the White House’s involvement and is the President
involved in that.

And so, the question really is — it sounds like you’re questioning the
April date that the President just gave us.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I am not questioning the President at all.  I’m
just saying I have not spoken to the President.  I know he just
mentioned that date.

Q    But you’re saying White House officials were involved in and
engaged on this issue prior to the President being briefed on it
himself?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Right, which is not an unusual thing, as you know,
Kelly O.  This is a — this is a very common way of operation, way of
moving.  Nothing unusual about this.

You’re asking me to confirm something — and I — I was in my office.  I
did not actually hear what the President said.  I do not like to speak
on something without —

Q    Understood.  Understood.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — without commen- — having a conversation with the
President first.  And so — so that’s number one.

Number two, what I’m trying to say is that his team on very high levels,
who run his policy offices, who runs his department, have been working
on this since day one.  And that is —

Q    So they can act without the President’s direct involvement and make
decisions before he’s even briefed on a subject that’s become one of the
biggest issues for American families today?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, it’s not uncommon.  I mean, what — it’s not —
I mean, it’s not an uncommon thing to do to offer assistance, to offer
help, to offer guidance to an agency when they need it.  That is not an
uncommon — an uncommon thing to do.

Yeah.

Q    So, just to follow up on the rest of the front row.  Who decided,
after six or eight weeks, that —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You said that.  Hopefully, the back row here hears. 
(Laughter.)

Q    Well, who decided — who is the person in the West Wing who decided,
after six or eight weeks, that this baby formula shortage was finally
something that somebody should tell the President about?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, again, I’d have to go back and talk to the
President.  I did not hear him take questions or answer any questions to
all of you.  And so, this is — I want to do my due diligence — right? —
as his spokesperson to make sure that I have a conversation. 

What I can tell you is what we have been doing as an administration
since day one of a recall. 

And — and just — let me — let me just say this, because I want to make
sure — since, you know, we have folks watching — that the actions that
we’re taking — that we took actually made a difference here.

DPA is allowing manufacturers to reliably plan for scaling production. 
In the case of Abbott and their suppliers, an increase of 25 percent,
\[so\] they have — they can be manufacturing at 100 percent capacity.

Likewise, Reckitt plans to expand production by 40 percent.  Operation
Fly Formula has cut three- to four-week timelines for Nest- — for Nestlé
product to move — the Europe — Europe to 72-hour periods.

Through FDA’s enforcement discretion, we will get 27.5 million bottles
from Bubs Australia. 

So, these, are all important actions, including the graphs that I just
showed how high production — production is higher than it was a year
ago.  So, this is also important.  We want to make sure that the
American people, the American families know that we have been working on
this 24/7.

The President has done everything that he is able to do or has been able
to do.  And we’ll continue to do more work, because we understand
there’s more work to be done. 

Q    Okay.  Another big topic.  When are you guys going to admit that
you were wrong about inflation?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  No easy questions today, huh?

Q    The Treasury Secretary says that she was wrong, so why doesn’t
anybody here at the White House?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Okay.  So, look, what — what the Secretary was
pointing out — this was talking about yesterday, when she was doing her
hit with — her TV hit with CNN — is that there have been shocks to the
economy that have exacerbated inflationary pressures, which couldn’t
have been foreseen 18 months ago, including —

Q    Why not?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, let me — I’m — I’m trying to answer your
question. 

Q    It’s a big problem.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I — hold on.  I was just getting to the “Why
not?”  Including Russia’s decision to invade Ukraine, multiple
successive variants of COVID, and lockdowns in China.

As she also noted during that interview, there has been historic growth
and record job creation.  And our goal is now to transition to steady
and stable growth as inflation is brought down, as Brian Deese said
yesterday to all of you when he was standing behind this podium.

So, the President’s economic plan, as we see it, is working.  Just
today, we learned that the manufacturing was up in May, building on the
545,000 manufacturing jobs that have been created since he took office —
further proof that companies are investing in America, we are on a path
to stable growth, and we are addressing supply chain problems.

Our plan to tackle inflation, lower costs reduces the deficit and
respects the <s>FDA’s</s> \[Fed’s\] independence.  It’s the best way for
us to achieve sustainable and durable economic growth.  So that’s how
we’re — we’re doing — what — the work that we’re doing every day to make
sure that we (inaudible) lower costs — well, higher costs. 

Q    And just so that I under- — just that I understand: The Treasury
Secretary says that she was wrong, but the White House was not wrong
about inflation.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So here’s the thing: We have — we have achieved a —
first of all, I explained to you what she was trying to say.  So, I just
laid that out.  So those are your words, not my words.  I just laid out
what she was trying to say and try to explain in full- — in fullness her
part and her answer.

We have achieved an historic recovery through an extraordinarily
unprecedented economic moment.  The President has consistently noted
that the primary drivers of inflation are the pandemic and Putin’s
invasion of Ukraine. 

The twists and turns of both these monumental events have affected
energy prices and also food prices that we have seen these past several
months.  This is Putin’s price hike, which the President refers to, and
that is what Secretary Yellen was referring to if you — if you read the
entire transcript.  And that’s what I’m — I’m trying to say to you,
hopefully.  Hopefully that lands.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  You say Legislative Affairs has had more than a
dozen calls —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — with lawmakers on guns recently.  Which ones?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:   Oh, I don’t have a list.  And we are — we are always
— you know, we are always very clear about not sharing who — you know,
not saying who we talked to and keeping — keeping conversations
private. 

We’re just trying to give you a number so you see our efforts and what
we’ve been trying to do.  But I don’t — I don’t have a list.  I won’t
list our list to you right this time. 

Q    Right.  I just ask because, often, the White House Press Office
hasn’t given any level of specificity as a policy about conversations
like that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I did say — I mean, look, I did say we’re
talking to negotiators.  So, I think that could give you a sense of who
we’re talking to. 

Q    Sure.  And then a question — a couple questions briefly —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, sure.

Q    — on baby formula.  Would the President support the FDA continuing
to allow more foreign imports of baby formula permanently, more than
just a temporary solution, given that we’re seeing that this crisis —
this can become a crisis very quickly, given that we have just a few
manufacturers who have a corner on the market.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, we understand that we need to look at this
further and figure out what needs to be done so that this doesn’t happen
again.  I don’t have anything new to share on if this is going to be a
long-term way of doing — of moving forward with baby formula.  I don’t
have a policy update on that.  But I’d note, to tell you now, as I’ve
been saying, we are doing everything that we can possibly to make sure
that the American families are getting their children healthy and safe
formula.

Q    And then just a real brief follow-up.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, sure.

Q    We talked — when the President spoke earlier, it was di- — came up
in one of the questions that was asked — just the timeline of the FDA’s
response when it came to investigating this Abbott facility.  There are
questions about what communications there were between the FDA and the
White House.  I mean, is the President satisfied with the FDA’s response
in this crisis?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes, he satisfied.  But last week, the over- — during
their oversight committee, he talked — Califf said that there needs to
be an after- — he called for an after-action report.  He appointed — he
appointed Woods- — Woodcock to doing that after-action report.  He wants
to get down to the bottom of what happened, and so that is important.

I don’t know if you’re asking me does he still have confidence in the
FDA.  He does.  And we’re going to — we’re going to — the FDA themselves
are going to try and figure out what exactly happened and how do we
avoid what happened these past several months with Abbott and their
facility shutting down.  And so, that is an important thing as well.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  On this baby formula issue, you said that the
whole-of-government approach began in February — right afterwards.  And
I think a root of this sort of questions and — or that folks are having
is that it, in fact, doesn’t seem like this extended beyond the FDA
until, certainly, the President found out in April, but especially when
this became really an acute issue in May, when the Defense Department
was brought in, the Agriculture Department was brought in. 

So can you — other than the FDA, who was part of this
whole-of-government response, especially in this kind crucial
February-to-April timeline where the President wasn’t aware of what was
going on?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Right.  I mean, I mentioned the FDA.  I mentioned the
USDA.  I’ve mentioned, you know, policy departments here within the —
within the White House.

Q    What did USDA do during the February —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The USDA issued detailed guidance to states.  This is
the — when the recall happened on February 17th.  On — the next day, on
February 18th, USDA issued detailed guidance to states on how to seek
waivers in their WIC programs, which we learned was a very important
element, which was red tape —

Q    So, no- — not producing more formula?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — well, which was a red tape as we’ve learned that
needed to be — needed to be cut. 

So — and we know directly from companies that this is one of the most
important areas for action to be taken from the government.  And — and
we’re building on that work with — with that — with the announcement
that we made as it’s related to the USDA urging states to cut all of WIC
red tape.  So that was — that was that role in that particular
component.

Q    What — were there any efforts outside the FDA about encouraging
either the import or production of additional formula?  It would seem
like —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — from an outsider that if a plant goes down, you know that it’s
going to be a crisis, that you would immediately start looking for other
sources of supply.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, I can’t speak to, specifically, what the FDA
was doing at that moment.  All I can speak to is when — what happened at
the recall, when it comes to production.  I can talk to what we have
done these last several months, meeting with manufacturers. 

Again, the graphs that I showed showed how the production has even
increased from last year — I think 8 million more in one of the graphs
that I showed.  And so, we’re going to continue the work.  We know that
there’s more work to be done. And we’re going to make sure that we get
to the other side of this.

Q    One other on a different topic.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, sure.

Q    About a month ago, the Supreme Court decision or draft decision
leaked on abortion rights.  A lot of folks, including the President, at
the time talked about how that really, you know, reframed the fate and
the stakes for the midterm elections. 

But since then, the President hasn’t publicly met with any abortion
rights groups.  He hasn’t spoken about it in weeks, given a speech on
it.  I know that you’ve and the Vice President have kind of occasionally
mentioned it from the podium, but there’s been no sort of presidential
action on it. 

So, I’m wondering: Does that signal that the President is understanding
of the politics of this issue have changed in any way?  Or is there an
event with the President that is going to happen before the Summit of
the Americas or before he travels to Europe?  I mean, it just seems to
have fallen completely off his schedule.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I mean, I don’t have anything to preview on his
schedule.  But the President is clear on this. You know, he believes the
right to peace- — he believes the right that a woman has — has the right
to make their own decisions when it comes to their own healthcare and
their own health and their own reproductive rights.  I mean, that’s
something that he has said.  That is something that he believes.

You know, our teams here are in constant communication and having
regular meetings with groups out there who are — you know, who are
focused on making sure that that continues — the rights of women to
choose continues.  But I don’t have anything to lay out.

Q    Do you know why it — the President just hasn’t made this — I mean,
he kind of —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — laid the stakes out as, you know, this should be something at the
front of voters’ minds.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I mean, let me — if we step back for a second,
it is — it was a draft, it was a SCOTUS draft.  We spoke to it.  We were
very forceful about it.  The President put out a statement.  You’ve
heard from the Vice President.  You’ve heard from other members of our
team.  So it’s not like we didn’t take this seriously and we don’t
continue to take this seriously.  So, this is an important issue for the
President.  We know that.  We know that for the American people.

I just don’t have anything to share with you on — on his schedule.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  On Ukraine, the U.S. has been really clear that it
would not engage Russia directly because it did not want to escalate the
conflict.  But General Paul Nakasone — and I apologize if I
mispronounced that — but — who heads the U.S. Cyber Command, he
reportedly told Sky News that the United States is engaged in offensive
— offensive cyberactivity against Russia.  Can you talk about that?  Why
disclose that?  That seems — that seems contrary to what the
administration’s position is.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, you know, as it — as it relates to the Kremlin,
to President Putin, you know, we don’t negotiate our security assistance
packages to Ukraine with the Kremlin.  They have been — they have not
been pleased by the amount of security assistance we’ve been providing
to the Ukrainians since far before this most recent phase of conflict
began.

But we are doing what exactly the President said he would do, which is —
and he told President Putin directly — we would do — what we would do if
he — if he attacked Ukraine, back in December, which is provide security
assistance to the Ukrainians that is above and beyond what we are — what
we were already providing to help Ukrainians defend their country.

So that’s exactly what we’ve done and will continue to do.  You know,
remember, and we say this all the time: This is Russia that chose to
launch a brutal war, that chose to attack Ukraine’s sovereignty and its
territorial integrity.  And so, this is — this is Russia’s war.  And so,
they started this conflict, and we could — they could choose to end it
at any time, and they have not.  But we continue to maintain that dec- —
deconfliction channels with the Russians for — for when necessary.

Q    But just speaking specifically about the offensive cyber action
being taken from the United States against Russia, is that not contrary
to what the President has said in the past about not wanting to engage
directly —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, it’s not. 

Q    — with Russia?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s — we don’t — we don’t see it as such.

Q    Can you — can you talk about why offensive cyber activity against
Russia is not?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We — I mean, it’s just — we just don’t see it as
such.  We have talked about this before.  We’ve had our cyber experts,
here at the podium, lay out what our plan is.  That has not changed. 
So, the answer is just simply: No.

Go ahead, Tyler.

Q    Just following up on inflation question.  I understand you walked
through what Secretary Yellen was — was talking about, but she still
said that she was wrong then about the path inflation would take. 
President Biden made similar statements saying that inflation would be
temporary.  Brian Deese was here yesterday; I asked him the same
question.  Does anyone in the White House have regrets about how they
talked about inflation, given that it has turned out to do exactly what
they said it would not do?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, I laid out from — from — if you look at
the whole transcript, what it is that Secreta- — Secretary Yellen was
trying to lay out when she was asked that question.

She was pointing out that there have been shocks in the economy that
have, again, exacerbated inflationary pressures, which could have been —
who — which could not have been foreseen 18 months ago.  I mean, that is
—

Q    But whether or not the —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — that is — that is just a reality that we’re — we’re
working with.

Q    Whether or not it could have been foreseen — what the President
said and what all of his top aides said turned out not to be true and
turned out not to happen.  So, I’m wondering if there’s any sense within
the White House that that was a mistake to say so, given that it turned
out to occur very differently?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, there were — there were certain shocks to the
economy that exacerbated the inflation pressures, right?  So that
includes Russia’s decision to invade Ukraine; multiple successive
variants of COVID, as I’ve mentioned already; and the lockdowns in in
China.

The President has consis- — consistently noted that the primary drivers
of inflation are the pandemic and Putin’s invasion of Ukraine.  The
twists and turns, again, as I’ve talked about, have been monumental
events.  And so, as the Secretary Yellen has also noted, there has been
historic growth and record economic creation.  And our goal is to now —
to do the transition, which is what — which is what Brian Deese was
talking about to make sure that it is steady and stable growth as
inflation is brought down.

So that — there are things that have occurred that has been
unprecedented in this past year or two — or, actually three years.  And
that’s what we’re speaking to.

Q    I hear you on that.  But that still doesn’t necessarily answer the
question about whether inside the White House there is a feeling that
there should be a concession, like Janet Yellen made yesterday on TV,
that the way that the administration talked about inflation was not best
suited to — to describe to the American people the economic pain that
they would eventually be feeling as we continue to see prices rise. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, the President is working — has said this
and — over and over again, we have said this: We understand what the
American people are going through.  We understand the high costs that
they’re dealing with.  We understand what inflation is doing to gas and
to food prices. 

We have done — we have done — you know, we have taken multiple actions,
which the President explains himself in his own voice in the Wall Street
Journal, just a day or — a day ago.  And so that has been our focus as
well.  And we have — we’re coming out of a very strong economic —
economic period.  And so, now we’re going into a transition.

There are things when — as it relates to inflation, there are things
that were not predictable 18 months ago, that were not predictable from
day one.  So we were speaking to them as we saw it at the time.  And so
that is also important to note.

I mean, I know you’re asking me that — the question of did we speak
about it wrong, or did we, you know, say — you know, did we misspeak or
not — or not have it right at the time. 

I mean, this is what — what I’m trying to lay out, is that there are
things that happened — COVID variants; Russia — Russia’s war in Ukraine
— that was not predicted at the time. 

And so what we’re trying to do, what the President is trying to do is do
everything that he can to make sure that we deal and attack and fight
inflation.  So that is our focus at the time.

Q    I hear you.  Just one last one on this.  I understand that you guys
did not — I understand that you did not predict that, but there were
many economists — Larry Summers, among others — who were very clear in
warning about the risks of inflation.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, so if we have learned anything the past two
years, it’s that our globalized economy is tied to the world around us. 
Right?  That’s the number one.  You know, again, the variants of COVID;
lockdowns, and shut- — and slowdowns in foreign countries due to the
pandemic; Putin’s unprovoked invasion Ukraine — each of these events
impact prices here at home and abroad.

It impacts the cost of food here at home, the supply of food abroad, the
cost of gas here at home, and supply of oil around the world.  Inflation
is also a global issue.  Inflation in Europe increased a record 8.1
percent in May, compared to last year.  So that is how we’re looking at
this.  And this is also a global challenge.

Okay.  Go ahead.

Q    Karine, just two questions.  First, on baby formula, all of my
colleagues’ questions have basically gotten to the same point, which is:
People want to know who in this building knew what when in the leadup to
the formula shortage.  You’ve said that — that folks internally were on
this since day one.  You said that senior leadership in the
administration was on it.  But you also said that you don’t have that
timeframe.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I said I don’t — you were — they were asking me
specifically about the President.  And I just don’t have that timeframe
to share.  What I can say is the White House began working on this from
the first day of — of the recall, from day one of the recall, which was
back in February.

Q    Are you able to provide or commit to providing a timeline of who
knew what when in this building?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, that’s the same question that MJ just asked me
and I answered that question to her.  I have laid down what has happened
since the recall, which was on February 17th.  I’ve laid that down.  I
talked about on February 18 with the USDA.  I talked about WIC
programs.  I’ve laid out — I’ve laid down what happened — reminding
folks what happened with Abbott and the factory, why we got here. 

And I’ve also talked about what the FDA has said that they’re going to
do — and they talked about that last week — which is look into this,
make sure that we get to a place that we get to the bottom of what
happened, do an after-action report.  When that after-action report, we
will have a lot more and that will come directly from them, and what
they did and what they see could be done better. 

So that’s the thing that’s really important.  There will be an
after-action report.  We will be able to see exactly what happened from
then — from their standpoint. 

Again, we have been working on this since the first day of the recall on
February 17th.  That is our involvement here with the White House and —
and FDA and what we’ve been trying to do.

Q    And then, just lastly, on the Summit of the Americas, obviously
this administration has been preparing for this for months.  We’ve had
many conversations about invitations to heads of state for months.  We
are now less than a week out of this, and there are still several
significant, outstanding potential invitations.  How did that happen
that we’ve gotten so close to the 11th hour and you still haven’t
decided whether to invite anyone from Venezuela, including the
opposition leader who you recognize as the Interim President?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think, if you’ve been following this administration
for the past year and a half, one week is not the 11th hour when it
comes to — when it comes to, you know, how things move. 

And so, that is that is a lifetime away for us as a — as a White House. 
I think any White House would say that.  And so, look, we still have
some final considerations.  And as soon as we have the final list, we
will share that. 

Look, you know, we’re gathering people together to focus on our
collective responsibility to forge a more inclusive and prosperous
future for the hemisphere.  And that’s something also to note.  I know,
there’s always questions about the invite.  There’s always question
about who’s coming and who’s not.  But we also should talk about and
focus on what the — what the purpose of this meeting is.  And that’s
also critical and important.

But I have to tell you: A week away, that’s a lifetime.  That’s a
lifetime.  And I think any administration would share that.

I’m going to try and go in the back.  Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Yesterday, there were leaders from Airlines for
America and the U.S. Travel Association here at the White House for
meeting staff, and they urged the administration to end the
pre-departure COVID testing requirements for vaccinated travelers who
are coming to the U.S. from overseas.

(A cellphone disrupts the briefing.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What was that?   (Laughs.)  Was that BTS?  (Laughter.)

Q    That was not my phone. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  That’s what she says, folks.  (Laughter.)

Q    Is the administration considering ending that requirement for COVID
testing for international travelers?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we’re constantly evaluating our policy.  The
pre-departure testing requirement remains in place, as we have it
today.  And any decision on pre-departure testing requirement would be
made by our health and medical experts.

Q    Is there a sense of how long that could and should remain in place
at this point and what purpose it’s serving right now?  The people in
the United States can travel freely without any sort of testing.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, I don’t.  It’s in constant — constant
evaluation, as I just laid out.  I don’t have anything more to share
from here.

I’m trying to see who to go to.  Go ahead.  I don’t think I’ve called on
you in a while.  Go ahead.

Q    Yeah.  Oh, thanks, Karine.  A question for you about this report
out of California on reparations.  I was wondering if the President has
seen it, and if he would use it to guide any sort of executive action
since the last thing he did on reparations was say that he supported
study that Congress is potentially wanting.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, his stance on reparations and supporting the study
hasn’t changed.  I have not seen the California report.  But his
personal — his stance — policy stance has not changed on reparations.

Q    Also, one more quick one.  Deb Haaland has tested positive for
COVID.  Do you know when the — when the President and First Lady were
last tested?  Because they were with her on Monday.  And would they be
considered close contacts?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I do not know when she last saw the President or
the First Lady — Secretary Deb Haaland. 

Q    They were together on Memorial Day.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, were they?  Okay.

Q    There are pictures of them.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, great.  Well, thank you for that reminder. 

I know that — and we’ve said this multiple times: The President has a
regular weekly cadence on testing that — that has been, you know,
approved and talked with his doctor.

I don’t have when the last time he was tested.

Q    And you weren’t aware about her positive test?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  This is — I’m just learning about this now. 

Okay.  I’m trying to see who else.  Okay.  You, sir, way in the back.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Just one question.  A few weeks ago, the State
Department said that the U.S. did not look favorably on the construction
of the EastMed oil pipeline from Israel to Cyprus to Greece, and then
presumably to Europe.  Has any of this changed as so many European
countries try to wean themselves off Russian oil?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any more to share on that.  I would have
to check with our — with our policy folks at NSC.  I do not know if that
position has changed from what we’ve heard from the White House, but I
would just have to check with the NSC to make sure. 

Q    From the State —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m so sorry, from the State Department?

Q    Yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, yeah I would — I would refer you to the State
Department and check in with — with that — with them on that piece.

Q    And not the NSC?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, because you said it was the State Department.  I
think I misheard.  But I think you said that it was the State Department
that had put out that announcement. 

Okay.  Oh, my goodness.

Q    A question from the back —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    A question from the back —

Q    Me?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  If —

Q    Yeah, sure.  Thanks, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  If you have a question.

Q    I do.  I do.  But you’re — your finger is waving around a lot, so I
—

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know.  I’m trying to pick people I haven’t called on
in a while —

Q    No, you’re right.  You’re absolutely right.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — so it’s fulsome — so people are getting a question.

Q    I think (inaudible) —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    I’ll ask just one question.  The — something the President
mentioned when were in there now when he was talking about inflation —
the wheat supplies or the food supplies.  Can you talk specifically
about — I guess he was referring to Ukrainian — the inability to export
Ukrainian wheat.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Mm-hmm. 

Q    And that something had to be done about that. 

Well, what the Ukrainian foreign ministers have been talking about this
week about supposedly they’re in talks with other countries about navies
going into the Black Sea and creating a corridor to get that wheat out. 
Is this something that is being discussed on any level in the White
House?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That is something that I would actually have to go
check on as well.  That is not — I just don’t have an update on that as
far as the wheat.  That’s clearly something that we’ve been monitoring.

And we have said: Russia’s aggression on Ukraine has — has certainly
raised prices, as we’ve talked about, on gases and food.

Wheat, I believe, is about a good percentage of — in Ukraine, a good
percentage of the — of the kind of the global — the global market, and
so we have seen prices go up.

I don’t have any update on that.  I would have to check with — this
time, I would have to check with NSC.

Q    Can I ask you a question from the back?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh my gosh. 

Q    Can I ask you a question from the back, Karine?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go — go ahead, Phil.

Q    Thank you.  I have a question about the President’s Wall Street
Journal op-ed, but I wanted to ask a more general question first.  And
my more general question, which is, I think at the heart of a lot of
things that you’ve been asked is: How serious does an issue have to be
before it’s brought to the President’s attention?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me just lay this out because I think this is
really important, and I’ve said this multiple times: The reason that we
are where we are with Abbott and this facility, with the baby formula,
in this current situation — and we have seen production go up — again,
the graphs that I showed — and are — and that has happened because of
our involvement in what we were able to do.

Look, the market — there are four — four manufacturing facili- —
companies.  Just four.  And that is something that we also have to
address down the line.  And this is something, as we talk about
competition, the per- — the President has been very focused on. 

But FDA, as I — as we’ve said, called out a safety hazard — a safety
issue with Abbott, and they had to shut down one of their facilities. 
When that happens, they do all the things that happens when — when a —
when a safety issue comes up, and Ab- — Abbott had to shut down that
facility. 

So that’s the thing.  That’s why we got to where we got to.  From the
moment that we heard of the recall in February — on February 17th, as
I’ve laid out, we took action.  We took action, and we moved forward. 
And we did everything that we can.  And I’ve laid out the — cut the red
tapes. 

And now we — the DPA — the Defense Production Act and other things that
we’re — the flying in formula from across the board — all of those
things — from abroad — all of those things were actions that we took to
make sure that we dealt with this crisis. 

But the government, the White House has been involved since they — we
first learned about the recall.  And so that is important to know.

The President deals with multiple crises.  His administration deals with
multiple crises. 

When we walked in, a little bit over than a year ago, we talked about
the economy; we talked about COVID; you know, we talked about climate
change.  All of the things that the President attacked and dealt with —
and his White House dealt with on — all at once. 

And we have seen his comprehensive plan when it comes to COVID and what
we’ve been able to do in getting people vaccinated and boosted.  We see
where the economy is currently; now we’re in this transition. 

All of those things are important to note — that there are always
multiple crises happening that we are dealing with all at once. 

Q    Okay.  And then on the Wall Street Journal op-ed.  In that essay,
the President reiterated that he supports the independence of the
Federal Reserve.  He called on Congress to pass tax credits.  And he
also called, again, for changes to the tax code to bring in more
revenue, to drive down deficits.  Correct me if I’m wrong, but these
proposals aren’t exactly new.  I mean, we’re coming up on a 40-year high
of inflation.  Does he have anything else in the pipeline?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I’m happy — and I’m happy to lay that out — lay
that out as how he’s fighting inflation.  Look, as you — as you just
said —

Q    But anything new that wasn’t reiterated in that op-ed?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, well, I mean, let me — let me just — let me just
tell you what we have been doing and what we will continue to do and
what we know is important in order to fight inflation. 

So, you mentioned it — giving the Fed the independence it needs to take
the steps to bring down — to bring inflation down; pushing Congress to
lower costs on things families rely on like prescription drugs, which we
— you’ve heard us talk about, that eat up too much of Americans’
budgets; taking steps to stabilize the energy markets — for example,
coordinating a historic release from the Strate- — Strategic Petroleum
Reserves here in the United States and from countries around the world —
all of these things matter.

And the lowering the deficit — this is a place where we have made
notable progress, as we’ve talked about.  More than $1.5 trillion in
reduction in the deficit this year alone.  And we want to keep making
that progress, so that’s not going to end there. 

And there’s more — other ways too.  The lowering cost of high-speed
Internet for 50 million fam- — 50 million families; building more than 1
million new — new affordable homes to help bring housing and rent prices
down; helping America’s farmers increase crop yields to help bring down
food prices; and fixing our supply chains to reduce the cost of moving
goods to shelves and to families and homes.  And we’re always looking at
other things that we can do. 

But these are actually action items that we have taken that are not
small.  That are — that shows the work that this President has done to
really attack inflation. 

We understand that there’s more work to be done.  We understand what
families are feeling right now.  But we are doing the work to try and
address this.

Q    Karine, can I ask something that the administration launched today,
please?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Let me see who else. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  So, today, the VP announced the launch of the Global
Water Security Action Plan —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — which seems important because it essentially says that now the
U.S. foreign policy will consider global water security as one of its
core issues.  Right?  So, I guess I wanted some explanation from you as
to why this was — will this be another element of the VP’s portfolio or
is she just launching it?  I mean, how do you — how are you guys
dividing this up?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, the First Lady had — I mean — “the First
Lady,” my goodness. 

The Vice President has, clearly, her own portfolio and things that she
wants to attack that helps — that helps families; that helps, you know —
that helps make sure that we’re — we’re delivering for the American
people.  And so, she has multiple things that she does.  Clearly, that
is something that’s going to be critical to foreign policy, critical to
how it — how it tracks back here to the American public. 

I can’t speak to — you know, I can’t speak to what — what her portfolio
looks like and what things that she’ll be focusing on.  There are so —
there’s an array of issues to focus on.  I would reach out to her office
directly.

Q    And then I have a follow-up on China. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    China has called for the United Nations Human Rights Commissioner
to investigate mass shootings and gun violence in the U.S.  So, can we
get a reaction from you?  So, this is, again, China requesting the U.N.
Human Rights Commissioner to investigate mass shootings and gun violence
in the U.S.  Can we get a reaction? 

And specifically, does the President consider gun violence as — you
know, protection from gun violence as a part of human rights and a right
to live? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, he definitely has said that it is a — it is an
epidemic.  He’s called a public health — he called it a “public health
epidemic.”  So, he has taken this issue very seriously.  He has laid out
a comprehensive gun reform plan through executive actions.  He has the
most executive actions than any President at this time in this adminis-
— administration. 

He’s calling — he’s calling for Congress to act, and to continue the
work that needs to be done on the legislative — on the federal side,
whether it is a — whether it is expanding background checks; red-flag
laws, as we’re hearing Congress talking about right now; making sure
that we are keeping our children safe; we’re keeping, you know, churches
and places where people go to — go to, like grocery stores or any public
facility or even your home, safe. 

And it is really important to this President.  He’s made this a priority
since he was a senator and a Vice President and now as President. 

So this is something that he’s take —

Q    But any specific comment on China?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m — I don’t have a — I don’t have — I’m not
responding to — that. 

Q    Thanks, Karine. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay. 

(Cross-talk by reporters.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re done.  Thank you so much, guys.  See you
tomorrow. 

Q    Thank you. 

Q    Thank you, Karine. 

Q    Can you take questions from across the room next time?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I did.  I did.  I took five questions —

Q    I mean, you spent 30 minutes on the first and second row.   

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But I took Phil.  I took your question. 

Q    And it seems like you don’t —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I took your question from your colleague right here.

Q    — you don’t — you don’t respond to my e-mail.  You don’t allow me
to —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I have not — I have not gotten an e-mail from you,
Simon. 

Q    I’ve sent you e-mail that you haven’t seen.  And you don’t even
follow up after the briefing —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, maybe you have my wrong e-mail. 

5:13 P.M. EDT
