---
date: '2022-06-07'
modified_time: 2022-06-07 19:09:16-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-07 19:09:15-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/06/07/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-matthew-mcconaughey/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and Matthew\_McConaughey"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:25 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everyone.  So, I’d like to welcome
Matthew and Camila McConaughey to the White House today to speak on an
urgent issue our nation is currently facing.  You may know Matthew as an
actor, but more importantly, he is a father; a native of Uvalde, Texas;
and a gun own- — and a gun owner.

He is here today to use his platform to call on leaders to take
bipartisan action to end this senseless killing and pass reasonable gun
responsibility measures that we know will save lives.

Just a few minutes ago, Matthew met briefly with the President to talk
about the importance of taking action, keeping our communities safe.

But without further ado, I would like to bring up Matthew.

MR. MCCONAUGHEY:  Thank you. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Here you go.

MR. MCCONAUGHEY:  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you, Camila. 

To make the loss of these lives matter.

My wife and I — my wife and I — Camila — we spent most of last week on
the ground with the families in Uvalde, Texas, and we shared stories,
tears, and memories.

The common thread, independent of the anger and the confusion and
sadness, it was the same: How can these families continue to honor these
deaths by keeping the dreams of these children and teachers alive? 

Again, how can the loss of these lives matter?

So while we honor and acknowledge the victims, we need to recognize that
this time it seems that something is different.  There is a sense that
perhaps there is a viable path forward.  Responsible parties in this
debate seem to at least be committed to sitting down and having a real
conversation about a new and improved path forward — a path that can
bring us closer together and make us safer as a country, a path that can
actually get something done this time.

Camila and I came here to share my stories from my hometown of Uvalde. 
I came here to take meetings with elected officials on both sides of the
aisle.  We came here to speak to them, to speak with them, and to urge
them to speak with each other — to remind and inspire them that the
American people will continue to drive forward the mission of keeping
our children safe, because it’s more than our right to do so, it’s our
responsibility to do so.

I’m here today in the hopes of applying what energy, reason, and passion
that I have into trying to turn this moment into a reality.  Because as
I said, this moment is different.  We are in a window of opportunity
right now that we have not been in before, a window where it seems like
real change — real change can happen.

Uvalde, Texas, is where I was born.  It’s where my mom taught
kindergarten less than a mile from Robb Elementary.  Uvalde is where I
learned to master a Daisy BB gun.  I took that — that took two years
before I graduated to a 410 shotgun.  Uvalde is where I was taught to
revere the power and the capability of the tool that we call a gun. 
Uvalde is where I learned responsible gun ownership.

And Uvalde called me on May 24th, when I learned the news of this
devastating tragedy.  I had been out of cellular range working in the
studio all day when I emerged and messages about a mass shooting in the
town I was born in began flooding my inbox. 

In a bit of shock, I drove home, hugged my children a bit tighter and
longer than the night before, and then the reality of what had happened
that day in the town I was born in set in.

So the next morning, Camila, myself, and the kids, we loaded up the
truck and drove to Uvalde.  And when we arrived a few hours later, I got
to tell you, even from the inside of our vehicle, you could feel the
shock in the town.  You could feel the pain, the denial, the
disillusion, anger, blame, sadness, loss of lives, dreams halted.

We saw ministries.  We saw first responders, counselors, cooks, families
trying to grieve without it being on the frontpage news.

We met with the local funeral director and countless morticians who —
who hadn’t slept since the massacre the day before because they’d been
working 24/7 trying to handle so many bodies at once — so many little,
innocent bodies who had their entire lives still yet to live.

And that is there that we met two of the grieving parents, Ryan and
Jessica Ramirez.  Their 10-year-old daughter, Alithia — she was one of
the 19 children that were killed the day before.

Now, Alithia — her dream was to go to art school in Paris and one day
share her art with the world.  Ryan and Jessica were eager to share
Alithia’s art with us, and said if we could share it, then somehow maybe
that would make Alithia smile in heaven.  They told us that showing
someone else Alithia’s art would in some way keep her alive.

Now, this particular drawing is a — is a self-portrait of Alithia
drawing, with her friend in heaven looking down on her drawing the very
same picture.  Her mother said, of this drawing — she said, “You know,
we never really talked to her about heaven before, but somehow she
knew.” 

Alithia was 10 years old.

Her father, Ryan — this man was steady.  He was uncommonly together and
calm.  When a frazzled friend of his came up and said, “How are you so
calm?  I’d be going crazy,” Ryan told him — he said, “No, you wouldn’t. 
No, you wouldn’t.  You’d be strong for your wife and kids, because if
they see you go crazy, that will not help them.”

Just a week prior, Ryan got a full-time line job stringing powerlines
from pole to pole.  And every day since landing that well-paying,
full-time job, he reminded his daughter, Alithia — he said, “Girl, Daddy
going to spoil you now.”  Told her every single night.  He said, “Daddy
is going to take you to SeaWorld one day.

But he didn’t get to — he didn’t get to spoil his daughter, Alithia. 
She did not get to go to SeaWorld.

We also met Ana and Dani- — Danilo, the mom and the stepdad of
nine-year-old Maite Rodriguez.  And Maite wanted to be a marine
biologist.  She was already in contact with Corpus Christi University of
A&M for her future college enrollment.  Nine years old.

Maite cared for the environment so strongly that when the city asked her
mother if they could release some balloons into the sky in her memory,
her mom said, “Oh no, Maite wouldn’t want to litter.”

Maite wore green high-top Converse with a heart she had hand-drawn on
the right toe because they represented her love of nature.

Camila has got these shoes.  Can you show these shoes, please? 

Wore these every day.  Green Converse with a heart on the right toe. 
These are the same green Converse on her feet that turned out to be the
only clear evidence that could identify her after the shooting.  How
about that? 

Maite wrote a letter.  Her mom said if Maite’s letter could help someone
accomplish her dream, that then her death would have an impact, and it
would mean her dying had a point and wasn’t pointless — that it would
make the loss of her life matter.

The letter reads: “Marine biologist.  I want to pass school to get to my
dream college.  My dream college is in Corpus Christi, by the ocean.  I
need to live next to the ocean because I want to be a marine biologist. 
Marine biologists study animals and the water.  Most of the time, I will
be in a lab.  Sometimes, I will be on TV.”

Then there was Ellie Garcia, a 10-year-old, and her parents, Steven and
Jennifer.  
  
Ellie loved to dance, and she loved church.  She even knew how to drive
tractors and was already working with her dad and her uncle mowing
yards.

“Ellie was always giving of her gifts, her time, even half-eaten food on
her plate,” they said.  They said, “Around the house, we’d call her the
‘great re-gifter.’”  Smiling through tears, her family told us how Ellie
loved to embrace.  Said she was the biggest hugger in the family.  
  
Now, Ellie was born Catholic, but had been going to Baptist church with
her uncle for the last couple of years.  Her mom and dad were proud of
her because, they said, “She was learning to love God, no matter
where.”  
  
The week prior to her passing, she had been preparing to read a verse
from the Bible for the next Wednesday night’s church service.  The verse
was from Deuteronomy 6:5.  “And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with
all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy might.”  
  
That’s who Ellie was becoming.  But she never got to read it.  Service
is on a Wednesday night.  
  
Then there was the fairytale love story of a teacher named Irma and her
husband, Joe.  What a great family this was.  This was an amazing
family.  
  
Camila and I, we — we sat with about 20 of their family members in the
living room, along with their four kids.  They were — the kids were 23,
19, 15, and 13.  They — they shared all these stories about Irma and Joe
— served the community and would host all these parties, and how Irma
and Joe were planning on getting a food truck together when they soon
retired.  
  
They were humble, hardworking people.  Irma was a teacher, who, her
family said, “went above and beyond, and just couldn’t say no to any
kind of teaching.”  Joe had been commuting to and from work 70 miles
away in Del Rio for years.  
  
Together, they were the glue of the family.  Both worked overtime to
support their four kids.  Irma even worked every summer when school was
out.  The money she had made two summers ago paid to — paid to paint the
front of the house.  The money she made last summer paid to paint the
sides of the house.  This summer’s work was going to pay to paint the
back of the house.  
  
Because Irma was one of the teachers who was gunned down in the
classroom, Joe, her husband, literally died of heartache the very next
day when he had a heart attack.

They never got to paint the back of the house, they never got to retire,
and they never got to get that food truck together.  
  
We also met a cosmetologist.  All right?  She was well versed in
mortuary makeup.  That’s the task of making the victims appear as
peaceful and natural as possible for their open-casket viewings.  
  
These bodies were very different.  They needed much more than makeup to
be presentable.  They needed extensive restoration.  Why?  Due to the
exceptionally large exit wounds of an AR-15 rifle.  Most of the bodies
so mutilated that only DNA tests or green Converse could identify them. 
Many children were left not only dead, but hollow.  
  
So yes, counselors are going to be needed in Uvalde for a long time. 
Counselors are needed in all these places where these mass shooters have
been for a long time.  
  
I was told by many that it takes a good year before people even
understand what to do next.  And even then, when they become se- —
secure enough to take the first step forward, a lifetime is not going to
heal those wounds.  
  
Again, you know what every one of these parents wanted, what they asked
us for?  What every parent separately expressed in their own way to
Camila and me?  That they want their children’s dreams to live on.  That
they want their children’s dreams to continue to accomplish something
after they are gone.  They want to make their loss of life matter.  
  
Look, we heard from — we heard from so many people, all right?  Families
of the deceased — mothers, fathers, sisters, brothers.  Texas Rangers,
hunters, Border Patrol, and responsible gun owners who won’t give up
their Second Amendment right to bear arms.  And you know what they all
said?  “We want secure and safe schools, and we want gun laws that won’t
make it so easy for the bad guys to get these damn guns.”  
  
So, we know what’s on the table.  We need to invest in mental
healthcare.  We need safer schools.  We need to restrain sensationalized
media coverage.  We need to restore our family values.  We need to
restore our American values.  And we need responsible gun ownership —
responsible gun ownership.   
  
We need background checks.  We need to raise the minimum age to purchase
an AR-15 rifle to 21.  We need a waiting period for those rifles.  We
need red-flag laws and consequences for those who abuse them.  
  
These are reasonable, practical, tactical regulations to our nation,
states, communities, schools, and homes.  
  
Responsible gun owners are fed up with the Second Amendment being abused
and hijacked by some deranged individuals. 

These regulations are not a step back; they’re a step forward for a
civil society and — and the Second Amendment. 

Look, is this a cure-all?  Hell no. 

But people are hurting — families are, parents are.  And look, as — as
divided as our country is, this gun responsibility issue is one that we
agree on more than we don’t.  It really is.  But this should be a
nonpartisan issue.  This should not be a partisan issue.

There is not a Democratic or Republican value in one single act of these
shooters.  It’s not. 

But people in power have failed to act.  So we’re asking you and I’m
asking you, will you please ask yourselves: Can both sides rise above? 
Can both sides see beyond the political problem at hand and admit that
we have a life preservation problem on our hands?

Because we got a chance right now to reach for and to grasp a higher
ground above our political affiliations, a chance to make a choice that
does more than protect your party, a chance to make a choice that
protects our country now and for the next generation.

We got to take a sober, humble, and honest look in the mirror and re- —
rebrand ourselves based on what we truly value.  What we truly value.

We got to get some real courage and honor our immortal obligations
instead of our party affiliations. 

Enough with the counterpunching.  Enough of the invalidation of the
other side.  Let’s come to the common table that represents the American
people.  Find a mil- — middle ground, the place where most of us
Americans live anyway, especially on this issue.

Because I promise you, America — you and me, who — we are not as divided
as we’re being told we are.  No.

How about we get inspired?  Give ourselves just cause to revere our
future again.  Maybe set an example for our children, give us reason to
tell them, “Hey, listen and watch these men and women.  These are great
American leaders right here.  Hope you grow up to be like them.”

And let’s admit it: We can’t truly be leaders if we’re only living for
reelection.

Let’s be knowledgeable and wise, and act on what we truly believe.

Again, we got to look in the mirror, lead with humility, and acknowledge
the values that are inherent to but also above politics.  We’ve got to
make choices, make stands, embrace new ideas, and preserve the
traditions that can create true — true progress for the next generation.

With real leadership, let’s start giving us — all of us, with real
leadership — let’s start giving all of us good reason to believe that
the American Dream is not an illusion.

So where do we start?  We start by making the right choices on the issue
that is in front of us today.

We start by making laws that save innocent lives and don’t infringe on
our Second Amendment rights.  We start right now by voting to pass
policies that can keep us from having as many Columbines, Sandy Hooks,
Parklands, Las Vegases, Buffaloes, and Uvaldes from here on.

We start by giving Alithia the chance to be spoiled by her dad. 

We start by giving Maite a chance to become a marine biologist.

We start by giving Ellie a chance to read her Bible verse at the
Wednesday night service.

We start by giving Irma and Joe a chance to finish painting their house,
maybe retire and get that food truck.

We start by giving Makenna, Layla, Maranda, Nevaeh, Jose, Xavier, Tess,
Rojelio, Eliahna, Annabell, Jackie, Uziyah, Jayce, Jailah, Eva, Amerie,
and Lexi — we start by giving all of them our promise that their dreams
are not going to be forgotten. 

We start by making the loss of these lives matter.

Thank you.  Thank you.

Q    Sir, when you spoke to the President, did he say anything about
this?  Were you grandstanding just now, sir?

Q    Are the changes that are being discussed (inaudible), Mr.
McConaughey? 

Q    What’s your response to (inaudible)?

Q    What was your message to the President, Mr. McConaughey?  

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  I know that the President has an event right
after this.  I think it’s running — it’s running a few minutes — a few
minutes behind.  So, I will — we’ll do the briefing until we have to —
we have to move to the event.

I have a couple of things at the top, and then we’ll open it up. 

As I just mentioned, soon the President will sign into law nine
bipartisan bills that support veterans, and he will be joined by members
of Congress from both parties, veteran advocates, and veterans who will
benefit from these laws.

President Biden ran on the promise to unite the country, which is why
supporting veterans is a key part of his Unity Agenda announced at the
State of the Union.  Supporting our country’s veterans is an issue that
all Americans can agree on.

Among the impact of the bills being signed into law today are two that
will improve access to breast imaging services for veterans, including
those who experienced toxics — toxic exposures during military service.

Other bills to be signed include three to honor the legacy of service to
our nation, including one to award a single Congressional Gold Medal to
the U.S. Army Rangers World War II.  The Rangers played a crucial role
in the D-Day invasion of Normandy, which began exactly 78 years ago
yesterday.

Also today, the Senate voted to advance the PACT Act.  The President was
clear in his State of the Union that addressing toxic exposures is a
priority and Congress should move with the urgency for our veterans. 

Today, Congress took a major step forward.  President Biden looks
forward to final passage of this legislation so that he can sign it into
law and continue to uphold our sacred obligation to support those who
have served our nation, their families, caregivers, and survivors.

Today, the administration announced new investments from the American
Rescue Plan to help provide every American with access to affordable
high-speed Internet.

These investments will bring down costs for families and small
businesses, particularly in rural and remote areas, and ensure
affordability.

This morning, Treasury announced the first state awards from the $10
billion Capital Projects Fund, which will make resources immediately
available in Louisiana, New Hampshire, Virginia, and West Virginia to
connect over 200,000 homes that currently lack access.

On a sad note, our dear friend and colleague, Michael Gwin, will be
leaving us for Treasury, where he will be ser- — where he will serve as
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs.  Gwin has served as the
White House Director of Rapid Response for the past 16 months,
responding to the most challenging and difficult issues imaginable. 
Yet, amidst these often emotionally-wrenching stories, Gwin’s poise and
moral clarity are unfailing, and his willingness and ability to step up
has made him an indispensable member of the team. 

And joining Gwin at the Treasury Department will be our very own Michael
Kikukawa, where he will serve as a spokesperson.  Michael, better known
here to all of you, to all of us as “Kiku,” has served not just as a
Press Assistant but as the strong engine and reliable engine at the
press shop.  His relentless work ethic and dedication to the mission of
this team have been second to none. 

Kiku and Gwin, we will miss you both.  Thank you so much.  Very
heart-wrenching, but I’m very excited for both of you.  Wishing you the
best.

And we do have some “hellos.”  I know we keep announcing people leaving,
but we actually have people coming, backfilling — some great, great
folks who are joining our team.  Two new members who are here to our
team. 

I’d like to first introduce Abdullah Hasan right here — some of you know
him already — who will be joining us as an Assistant Press Secretary,
having previously served as the Deputy Associate Director for
Communications for the White House Office of Management and Budget. 
Amongst many topics, Abdullah will be covering civil rights,
immigration, and climate. 

We also would like to extend a warm welcome to Alexandra LaManna — hello
— who is joining us on detail from Treasury, where she has served as
senior spokesperson.  Part of Alexandra’s profile will be working on
housing, infrastructure implementation, and other economic issues. 

Abdullah and Alexandra haven’t even gotten their full-time badges yet,
but we are already getting them hard at work, and we appreciate all of
their work thus far.  It has — we have felt the impact of it.

Okay, please join me in welcoming the team. 

And with that, I think that’s all I have.  All right.  Go ahead.  Go
ahead, Zeke.  

Q    Thanks, Karine.  I know we’re getting ready to start here kind of
late, and (inaudible) briefing, I’m hoping you might be able to pick
this up after the President’s event, just because we got a lot of people
who have questions.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I hear you.  I have other — I have other obligations
as well after this, so we’ll see.  We’ll see what we can do.  But I
can’t make any promises.  But let’s — why don’t we get going?

Q    Great.  So, on the subject of guns, the President had a meeting
with Chris Murphy, but he didn’t speak to the public today.  Does the
President have a clearer sense of where things are, what is possible on
Capitol Hill?  And also, why is he turning to a Hollywood actor to make
the message — take the message to the American people?  Does he feel
like his voice doesn’t matter?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  His voice does matter.  You heard him speak on
Thursday very clearly, very loudly, very passionately during primetime
at a — at a critical time during the day where he made sure that he can
communicate with the American people. 

And so — he’s the President of the United States.  His voice carries and
it does matter.  What he says is — has — carries weight that is pretty
tremendous.

Matthew was here because, as you heard, he has a very personal
connection to Uvalde.  He met with the family.  He is from there.  He
was born there.  He lives in Texas.  And we thought hearing from him
directly, him using his platform, is incredibly important.

We all know what it’s like or how important it is for folks — especially
on — whether you are an actor, whether you are in the business sector,
wherever you are — to use your platform, how critical and important it
is.

And I think his words here today were incredibly powerful and
emotional.  And I thank him and Camila for coming here today.  They met
with the President, as I just mentioned.  And so I just, you know,
wanted to just address that, Zeke.

The President received an update, as — as you all know, as we’ve
mentioned, from Senator Murphy on the state of negotiations on Capitol
Hill.  He told Senator Murphy he strongly support his efforts to find a
compromise, and encouraged him to get the strongest possible results.

In the end, the President said that the message he took from the
families from — at Uvalde, when he was there, was to do something.  It
was to “please do something.”  That’s what the grieving family told
him.  Some of you heard that yourselves from the community memb- — from
the community when he was in Uvalde.  And so that is what Senator Murphy
and his colleagues are going to do.  They’re going to do just that.

Q    And on a different — just on a different subject, the President is
meeting with President Bolsonaro of Brazil.  The AP is reporting that
the Brazilian government, that President Bolsonaro wanted concessions
from the President for that meeting and for his attendance at the Summit
of the Americas that he wouldn’t bring up Bolsonaro’s casting doubts
about Brazil’s election system as well as environmental concerns in the
Amazon.  Can you confirm that report?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I cannot confirm that report.  The President is
looking forward to leaving tomorrow to head to the summit that clearly
that we’re — that we are hosting.

I can say this: The United States continues to recognize Juan Guaidó as
the Interim President of Venezuela.  That said, while the interim
government was not invited to participate in the main summit, they are
welcome to participate in all three stakeholder forums and other
events.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Is the President now getting more directly involved in the
negotiations on the Hill now that he has met with Senator Murphy?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I — you know, I want to be very clear here:
Senator Murphy has said this many times during interviews on various
networks here that he believes it’s time for the Senate to act.  And
that is what they’re doing.   
  
The President is encouraged about what he is seeing with this team of
negotiators on the — on the Senate side.  And he is, like I said,
encouraged and wants to continue to see them move forward and take
action.  
  
Q    And in the meeting with Matthew McConaughey, did — did McConaughey
go through the same elements with the President that he did here at the
podium?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, they had a private conversation.  I’m not going
to readout their private conversation. 

As you can imagine, the President went to Uvalde himself.  He also met —
met with many of the family members.  He also is — heard many of the
stories that Matthew came here to — to share with all of you.  So, they
certainly connected on that aspect.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Is the President willing to accept whatever agreement lawmakers
come to, should they come to an agreement, when it comes to guns?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, here’s — as you know, the President has been very
involved in gun reform as senator, as Vice President, and, clearly, now
as President, having signed the most executive actions on gun reform
than any president at this time of their presidency.  
  
And when — when he was senator, he was — he was talking about this today
— it took him years.  It took him years to get the 1994 assault ban —
assault ban legislation.  Now, that — that was law for 10 years and
expired in 2004.  
  
And so, we haven’t seen this type of — this type of negotiations or this
type of coming together from both sides in a very long time.  It’s been
decades.  
  
So, he is encouraged, he is optimistic about what — about what he’s
seeing, about what he is hearing — the update that he received.  And so,
we’re going to see how those negotiations go.   
  
And any — any step, we bel- — he believes any step is a step forward. 
He’s going to continue to call for all of the things that you heard him
lay out, when it comes to what he sees as comprehensive gun reform, on
Thursday.  But he also believes that any step forward is a — is
important.  
  
Clearly, we’re not going to negotiate from here.  And we’re going to
leave the specifics to the senators.  
  
Q    And one other question: Does he still seek to make Saudi Arabia a
pariah state?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I spoke to this — I spoke to this yesterday. 
And I could share some more thoughts on that now.   
  
But look, the President was very clear when he was asked about this on —
on Friday, when he was delivering his remarks on the economy.  And
basically, he said, as President, he believes that if there is any — any
way to get peace, he feels like he should take that — he should take
that direction.  
  
So, Saudi Arabia has been a strategic partner of the United States for
eight decades.  Every president since FDR has met with Saudi leaders. 
And the President considers Saudi Arabia an important partner on a host
of regional and global strategies, including other efforts to end the
war in Yemen, contain Iran, and counter terrorism.  
  
Saudi pilots flew with ours in the war against ISIS, its navy patrols
with — with ours in the Red Sea and the Gulf, and the U.S. military
personnel are based in Saudi Arabia.  
  
As I’ve said, the President will meet with any leader if it serves the
interests of the American people.  That’s what he puts first.  He
believes engagement with Saudi leaders clearly meets that test, as has
every president before him.  
  
I’m going to move around —  
  
Q    But all of those things were true —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m going to move around, Ka- — I’m going move
around.  
  
Q    All of those things were true —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m going to move around.  I’m going to —  
  
AIDE:  Hey, Karine.  He’s about to get started.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m going to — really?  Okay, I’m going to take one
more.  
  
Q    All of those things were true when the President vowed to make them
a pariah state.  So, I’m just curious: What changed?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m going to take — I’m — I’m going to — Kaitlan, I’m
going to take one more.  I’m going to take one more.  
  
Q    Just, on these negotiations: If changing background checks for
younger people than 21 is what ends up happening, opening these juvenile
records to more scrutiny is what comes of this, does the President
believe that that is meaningful change?  Is that satisfying?  If that’s
what comes of this moment, is he okay with that?

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, the President was clear last week that there’s
real urgency and — to make sure something like Uvalde or Buffalo and
many mass shootings prior can’t happen again.  And we’re encouraged,
again, by the progress that we’re seeing.  
  
You know, we’re — we’re going to stay closely engaged.  We’re going to
not negotiate from here.  We’re going to let the contours of the
legislation and those conversations play out.  And what we are
encouraged by is that the conversation is happening, both sides are
coming together.  We saw the House taking some — taking some actions
last week.  They’re — they also will take some actions this week.  
  
What we — what the President believes is that we have to do something. 
And like he said on Thursday, “Enough is enough.”  
  
Q    Is he confident there’ll be a deal by the end of the week?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I can’t speak to the timeline.  That is it going
to be up to Senator Schumer and — and Chris Murphy and their
conversations that we’re having.

  
(The press briefing stops for the presidential bill signing.)

(The press briefing resumes.)

Q    Welcome back.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I am — I am back by popular demand.

Q    Appreciate it.  Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, absolutely.  I’m — and look, I just want to be
very clear here — you know, sorry about that.  There are times where
briefings get delayed for reasons outside of our control, and we wanted
to make sure you all had the opportunity to cover the President signing
those bills for — to support veterans, which is incredibly important, as
you all know.

And so, taking your questions is very important to us and — which is why
we do it almost every day and — when we can.  And it’s why we strive to
be responsive to your questions here in the briefing room; on TV, as I
did this morning; and in individual conversations with administration
officials.  And our team does this on a daily basis.

So, with that, I wanted to just come in and take additional questions
for a few more minutes.  And, you know, I know a lot — a lot of you have
deadlines yourselves and have to do evening TV.  So I won’t be here for
too long, but I did want to come out and take some — and take some
questions.

Okay.  Let’s see.  All right.  I’m going to try and call on people I
haven’t called and start in the back, but there is like all these —

Go ahead.  Go ahead.  I don’t think I’ve called on you yet.

Q    Not lately, so thank you.

Listen, Matthew McConaughey was banging on that podium just a few
minutes ago before he left, and he had some specific policy asks.  And a
lot of them were — not all of them, but a lot were about guns.

He wanted to raise the age from 18 to 21 for AR-15s.  He talked about a
waiting period for AR-15s.  And he talked about red-flag laws and
background checks.

So my question is: You and the President have made very generalized
comments lately about doing something.  Why won’t he demand one of those
things be in an overall package?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You’re talking about the President — why won’t he
demand —

Q    I know he supports the policies, but —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — is his message to these negotiators that those gun measures needs
to be — need to be in the package?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  His message to the negotiators is that we have to do
something.  His message is, to the American people: We have to do
something.

He went to Uvalde, as you know.  He went to Buffalo.  And when he was in
Uvalde — and I was there with him, and we — and some of you were there
with him as well — the thing — the two words that he heard over and over
again is please — is: Do something.

And so, he is very encouraged by the engagement that he’s seeing on the
Senate side with the bipartisan group.  And he wants to give them the
space.  We’re not going to negotiate from here on what should be in the
package, what should not be in the package.

But we believe it’s a step forward.  The President is going to continue
to — continue to call for and fight for all of the comprehensive
components for — to prevent gun violence that he talked about on
Thursday.  That will not stop.  He’s going to continue to do that.  But
we’re just not going to negotiate from here.

Q    And John Cornyn, in his public comments, was talking today on the
Senate floor about really hardening doors at schools and these sort of
items.  If the package only has that and not one of these specific gun
measures, will it be a success?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I’m not going to negotiate from here.  We’re
going to let them — give them some space.  It’s a bipartisan — it’s a
bipartisan conversation that’s happening.  It’s going to be a bipartisan
agreement, we — we see or we feel.

And you know, Senator Murphy is very optimistic.  And we’re — and he has
said this is the most optimistic that he has been in some time.  And he
came in, as you know, and gave an update to the President.

So we’re going to see how this — this conversation continues to go.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Why do you think it is that 83 percent of
people polled by The Wall Street Journal say the economy is “poor” or
“not so good”?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, when it comes to consumer confidence — is what
you’re talking about there — we know that can reflect concern and
uncertainty about higher prices.  People feel the effect of high prices
when they go to the grocery store and they fill up their gans- — gas
tank, which the President understands very personally — when he was
growing up and understanding how — how when prices elevate even just a
bit, how much that can hurt a family, how much that can really affect,
you know, someone’s household.

But the fact is: We are in a fundamentally different place compared to
when the President took office and compared to this time a year ago.

And so, you know, during this President — during his pres- — this
presidency, people felt uncertainty — uncertain about the economy
generally, but they actually felt as good about their personal financial
situations as they ever have, according to the Federal Reserve survey,
with nearly 80 percent of adults reporting that they are financially
comfortable.

So, that matters as well.

Q    But to the point about the — you’re saying that people feel good
about their personal financial situation.  High gas prices, people can’t
get baby formula, the supply chain is messed up, everything is more
expensive.  Where’s the good part?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, the survey that I just read off started in 2013. 
And that is the first time that we saw numbers like this since 2013.  So
that does — no, that does mean something.  Just like you gave me 83
percent, I’m giving you —

Q    And I understand that.  Another number then —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I —

Q    — newer than 2013, 61 percent are saying now, in this Wall Street
Journal poll, they are generally pessimistic about people having an
opportunity to achieve the American Dream.  How’s that going look on a —
on a bumper sticker?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, what I’m — I guess what I’m trying to say, Peter,
is that we understand that people are feeling — feeling this.  They are
feeling the increase of prices, which — with food, in particular, right
now, and gas.  That is — that is something that we understand.

What we’re trying to say, what I’m trying to say to you is that the
economy is in a better place than it has been historically.

And so, we feel, here at this administration and other experts as well,
is that — we feel that we are in a good position to take on inflation. 
We are in a good position to really start really working on lowering
prices. 

We leave that piece to the Federal Reserve.  They have the monetary
policies to deal with the best — to have the best tools to make sure
that we bring down inflation.  That’s the — that’s the pain that the
American family is feeling.

And so, that’s what we’re saying.  We’re trying to — what we’re saying
is that we were in a different place a year ago, and now we are in a
much better place economically.  But there’s still work to do, and we
understand that.

Q    Okay.  And then, just quickly, on gas prices.  The Energy
Secretary, Granholm, is saying, “Oh, well, if you went to Canada, you’d
be paying $6.25 a gallon.  If you went to Germany, you’d be paying over
$8.80.  In the UK, it’s almost $8 a gallon.”  What kind of an argument
is that: “Just be happy you don’t live in Munich”?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think what she was — what she’s trying to say and
what we have all been trying to say is this is a global challenge.  This
is not just in the United States that people are feeling inflation or
people are seeing elevated gas prices.  This is a global challenge.  
  
Q    And isn’t it the President’s job to protect Americans from global
challenges?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He’s doing — he’s doing his part in trying to make
sure that we — the American people feel the impact less.  
  
But here’s the thing, and we’ve talked about this: Since Russia invaded
Ukraine, we have seen gas prices — these are the facts — go up by
$1.51.  We have seen food prices go up because of what — of what Ukraine
and Russia represent when it comes to wheat and corn.  This is just a
fact.  This is what we have seen for the past several months.  
  
The President has done — he’s tapped into the Strategic Petroleum
Reserve in a historic way with a million — a million barrels of oil a
month for six months.  We did — we made the announcement of the E15, the
homegrown biofuels that is going to help families in the Midwest.  
  
So, we know there is more to do.  We’re not disagreeing here.  We know
that there is more to do, and we’re going to continue to do the work.

Q    Does the President have any plans to invite any Republican senators
to the White House before he leaves for Los Angeles?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I don’t have any — I don’t have any meetings to
preview for you at this point.  
  
Q    Has he spoken to any Republicans as it comes to gun legislation?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have — I don’t have any meetings to — or calls
to read out.  
  
Okay, go ahead.  
  
Q    Karine, thank you.  I know you don’t want to negotiate from the
podium.  I just want to try one more time.  It seems as though talks are
coalescing around more funding for mental health, school safety, and
then expanded background checks and encouraging states to adapt red-flag
laws.  Is that the type of compromise legislation the President would
sign?  Would he sign that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I — again, I’m not going to negotiate from
here.  We don’t want to — I’m not going to talk through the contours of
the plan.  They’re still having those conversations on the other side of
the Hill.  
  
Q    I guess the question is —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But I can say — but no, no.  Let me —  
  
Q    Okay.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Let me finish.  I’ll get to — hopefully this will
answer it, which is: He supports red-flag laws.  That is something that
he has supported for some time.  He even talked about the red-flag law
that is in Delaware — is named after his son, Beau Biden, who was, as
you know, the Attorney General of — in Delaware.  
  
He has talked about expanding background checks.  I have talked about
it.  He has talked about it.  We’ve all talked about it.   
  
So, clearly, those are two things that we know are popular.  The
red-flag law — red-flag law we saw — I read a poll here last — yesterday
that has 72 percent for the red-flag laws.  We know that expanding
background check is overwhelmingly popular as well.  
  
So, clearly, those are two things that he support.  But I just don’t —
we do not want to get — give them some space, don’t want to get in the
middle of their negotiation.  
  
Q    I guess what I’m asking, Karine —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, sure.  
  
Q    — is, particularly as it relates to the red-flag laws, what it
seems to be coalescing around is a deal that would encourage states to
adapt red-flag laws.  Is that good enough for President Biden?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think it’s a step.  It’s — when red-flag laws are
actually enacted, it saves lives.  We have seen that in Florida.  We’ve
seen that in other states across the country.  In California, there’s
been cases where the red-flag law has actually saved lives.  
  
And we know, we understand not every component of what the President is
calling for is going to stop every tragedy, but we have to take the
steps, and we have to move forward, and we have to do something.

Q    There’s been so much focus on the legislation.  Is President Biden
considering any new executive actions on the (inaudible) guns?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You know, the President said this himself: If there is
any way or any other new actions that he can take, he will.  His team
—  
  
Q    Is he actively considering any?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  There’s nothing that I can — that I can preview for
you at this time.  I know that the team is looking at that.  We just
don’t have anything for you — to share at this time.  
  
Q    Let me ask you on Roe v. Wade, if I might.  We are anticipating the
Supreme Court will render its final decision on Roe v. Wade.  And based
on, of course, that leaked draft report, it appears as though the Court
is poised to overturn Roe v. Wade.  
  
What, if any, groundwork is the President, is this administration laying
to ensure that women who want or need abortions can still have access to
them?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, protecting the constitutional rights of
Americans afforded by Roe for — for nearly 50 years, ensuring that women
can make their own choices about their lives and bodies and families, is
something that the President and the Vice President support.  
  
For — for we’ve — we’ve taken actions over the past — the past year and
a half on making sure that — making sure that women have the protection
that they need, issuing a presidential memorandum to protect and expand
access to comprehensive repre- — reproductive healthcare and to revoke
the Mexico City policy, a global gag rule that prohibits federal funding
for organizations that provide abortion, counseling, and/or referrals;
issuing a final rule to strengthen the Title 10 Family Planning Program,
fulfilling the administration’s commitment to restore access to
equitable, affordable, client-centered quality family planning
services.  
  
So, we have done — we have done an array of things over the past year
and a half to give the protection that women need.  
  
Obviously, the decision, it was a draft decision.  We don’t want to get
into hypotheticals and we don’t want to get ahead of of what is actually
going to come forth.  But it’s something that it concerns us.  All of
the pieces of legislation that we see coming out of the states that are
incredibly radical, we’ve called them that and it does give us concern.

Q    Are there any tangible actions that the administration will take if
it’s overturned on that day or that week to ensure that women who need
abortions can have access to them or that they can cross state lines to
access an abortion?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, one thing that I can say — I don’t have anything
to preview or to announce or to lay out at this time.  What I can say is
that our team here — the Gender Policy Council, the Domestic Policy
Council, and the agencies who are involved, like HHS — have been in
constant communication with — with groups on what we can do from here. 
I just don’t have anything to preview.

Q    Karine, the January 6th Committee is going to hold its first public
hearing on Thursday while the President is in California.  Do you expect
the President to get briefed on what the committee has found in its
investigation, if he hasn’t already?  And how is he looking at these
hearings?  Does he see this as something that will move the needle in
how the public perceives what happened on that day?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you know, we’re leaving, as you were kind of
alluding to, tomorrow, and we’re going to go to LA. The President is
going to have a very busy week.  And, you know, of course, will be
keeping up on the committee’s work, as he has been.  And I’m sure he’ll
be following the news from the hearing as well.

I don’t have anything else to — in particular to share here.  The
President has been consistent voicing his support for the vital work of
the bipartisan January 6th Select Committee.  And he and his team have
said many times it is critical that we have a full investigation into
the events of January 6th to ensure something like what we saw that day
can never happen again.  And the work of this committee is crucial to
that effort.  And we will continue to speak out as appropriate or to
defend our democracy and the rule of law, and to support those who are
doing work to protect our democracy.

Q    Just one more.  Senator Romney and Senator Ossoff have asked for a
full investigation into the death of Shireen Abu Akleh.  She was a
Palestinian American journalist with Al Jazeera.  She was killed last
month while reporting in the West Bank.  Will the White House be
supporting an investigation into her death?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we’re in close touch with both Israeli and
Palestinian authorities.  The United States is not currently conducting
an official investigation.  As you know, we are working to bridge
cooperation between the two parties.

We have made clear our view to both Israeli and Palestinian officials
the administration’s call for thorough, transparent, and impartial
investigation of her — of her killing.  We expect full accountability
for those responsible.  We have also urged that both sides share their
evidence with each other.

We continue to call on all sides to maintain calm and avoid any further
escalation.

Q    Karine, thanks so much.  Secretary Yellen said over the weekend to
CNN that she was “wrong” in predicting that inflation was transitory. 
And shortly afterward, Treasury walked back the statement.  I’m just
curious if the White House or any senior aides here were involved in
walking back that — those comments.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I can tell you is that she — she was — even when
you look at the transcript, she was clear on exactly what she meant by
that.  And she — she — the Secretary, you know, spoke to this herself to
clarify her remarks.  And it’s true that nobody at the time foresaw the
extent of the global challenges that have caused record inflation all
around the world.  In fact, even Wall Street and the private sector
broadly thought that inflation would come down faster than it has.

I cannot speak to private conversation.  But all I can say is she put
out a — as you know, put out a statement clarifying what she said.

Q    And just one more question.  On Friday, senior White House staff
met with members of the Congressional Black Caucus to talk about some of
the President’s ideas for forgiving student debt.  I’m wondering: What
was the purpose of that meeting, as the President considers it?  And was
there any outcome from it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any readout from that meeting from Friday
night. 

Q    Thank you.  Based on what you know about the situation in both
Uvalde and Buffalo, is there anything that the Senate negotiators are
considering now that would have stopped those two shootings, or even one
of them?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I — look, I — you know, I’m no expert here, but
one thing that I do know that we all know is that both the shooters were
18.  And one of the things that are — that’s on the table is raising the
age limit.

Q    Are you sure that’s on the table?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What — I’m so sorry —

Q    Raising the age limit from 18 to 21 to buy AR-15s?  Because John
Cornyn has said that’s not on the table.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  I’m just saying it’s been discussed.  I don’t —

Q    Oh, I see.  Okay. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m —

Q    Okay.  If that was on the table, that would have affected these.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I —

Q    Okay.  But —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You’re — you’re asking me a question of when I thought
— what I think may have helped or — stopped this awful (inaudible).

Q    Certainly it would have been.  But in terms of what’s on the table
in the Senate?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t — I’m just saying that’s been one of the
conversations that’s been out there.  I do not know.  Again, we’re not
negotiating from here.  I’m just trying to make a point.  This is
something that the President supports — raising the age from 18 to 21. 
Because one of the things that we do know is both of the shooters were
18 years old.  The one in Uvalde, in particular, when he was 17, he
asked his sister to buy him a gun.  She said, “No.”  And as soon as he
turned 18, he went and bought — he bought — he bought a gun.

And so, that is something that we have heard about, that’s out there,
and that is something the President talked about on Thursday. 

And so, I was just speaking to your question on what you — what I —
what, potentially, could have helped.

Q    Well, I’m actually asking what the sen- — what among the things the
senators are considering could have prevented this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And, again, I’m not going to negotiate from here.  I’m
just trying to help in a way to show, “Hey, this is something that we
know is out there.”  This is something that the President talked about. 
I’m not going to negotiate from here.  They’re working through the
contours of the plan, and we’re going to let them figure that out.

Q    Can I just ask one quick one on red-flag laws?  So does the — does
the President prefer a federal red-flag law?  Or does he think it’s
better on a state-by-state level and the government — or the federal
government should incentivize states instead?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, he supports a red- — he supports — I want to be
really careful here because he’s not going to — we’re not going to
negotiate from here.  Right?  We are going to allow the — we’re going to
give them the space to come up with the contours of — of the deal.  And
we’re just going to give them that space. 

What we’re saying is: We support the red-flag law.  The Pre- — the
President has talked about it.  I’m not going to go into the
nitty-gritty of what that looks like.  We’re going to let the
negotiators figure that out.

Go ahead, Karen.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  First — or two questions.  First, can you commit
that going forward, if there was a guest or a celebrity here that you
would ensure that they would stay at the podium and take questions from
reporters —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, I —

Q    — after they speak?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That — they’re a guest.  That is not for me to
ensure. 

Q    Can you try to have them stay and take questions?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — they’re — Karen, they’re a guest of ours.  It is
up to them if they want to take questions or not.  We respect them and
what they want to do. 

Matthew was here.  And when he was done, he said thank you and he walked
away. 

That is — that really is up to — is up to him.

Q    And on COVID: Last week, a guest, Dr. Jha, was here. But he did
take questions after — 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  Yeah, well that’s a little different.  He
works here.  (Laughs.)

Q    Absolutely.  We appreciated him taking questions, but —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes.

Q    He said that what keeps them awake at night is that the U.S. would
run out of vaccines, not have enough of the next generation of vaccines,
run out of treatments and tests in the fall.  And this is something he
has been saying a lot in interviews recently. 

But can you give us an update on where the COVID funding talks stand on
the Hill, in terms of what the White House is doing right now?  What
officials are meeting with lawmakers up there?  Has there been any
progress?  Has the President talked with lawmakers about this?  And is
this getting overshadowed with the conversations that are happening
right now on gun talks?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, it’s a very good question.  You know, look, just
to kind of reiterate a little bit of what Dr. Jha has said is: Without
additional funding, you know, we are unable to purchase li- — lifesaving
treatments for the American people, including our most vulnerable. 
We’re already — we’ve already cut down on our purchase of treatments for
high-risk Americans. 

Imagine an — a 13-year-old with a heart condition who may not be able to
access preventive treatment to stay safe from a life-threatening
illness. 

We’re losing our spot in line while other countries are moving forward
and buying next-generation vaccines for all Americans that may be needed
in the fall and winter. 

So I think that’s what he’s talking about when he says he’s losing —
he’s losing sleep.  You know, when we think about the path forward and
how we’re going to get to where we need to be — you know, we are working
closely with members of Congress on a bipartisan basis to drive a path
forward on COVID funding, and the President is committing to get —
committed to getting that — getting it done. 

And so, Dr. Jha and OMB Director have been — have been on the Hill
having those meetings. 

So, you know, the President deals with multiple things at a time.  So
this is still a — very much a priority.  So we will continue doing our
part to protect the American people.  We’ll use the few funds we have
remaining to continue getting testing, treatments, and vaccine out to
the — to Americans for as long as we can. 

We will continue to work the phones, hold briefings, and make our case
public — publicly and privately with lawmakers, imploring Congress to
act immediately (inaudible) on our long-overdue COVID — to act on our
long-overdue COVID needs. 

And at the end of the day, it’s Republicans in Congress — they need to
act.  They have to answer to the American people if they can’t get the
vaccine treatments and tests that we will need come fall. 

So, you know, we’re going to continue doing the work.  The work doesn’t
stop. 

Q    (Cross-talk by reporters.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, my gosh. 

S.V.

Q    Yeah, thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Following up on the January 6th question: There have been
Republicans — prominent Republicans, as well as outside groups, who are
already making a concerted effort to downplay the entire thing before a
single word has been said about — in the hearings.  Has the President —
what are his thoughts about that?  And has he made any efforts to reach
out to Kevin McCarthy, to Mitch McConnell about, “Hey, this is
important.  We ought to be on the same page with this”?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So the President has been really clear — right? — he
supports the bipartisan effort — the January 6th Select Committee
bipartisan effort.  But we’re not going to get involved.  That is
something that is independent and needs to stay independent.

You know, it is important to protect our democracy.  That is something
that the President — what happened on January 6th was a very dark day in
our democracy.  And so, we have to continue to find ways to protect it.

So he supports what they’re doing.  We’re not going to get involved. 
It’s an independent committee.

Q    Karine?  Karine?  Back here.

Q    Yeah, so you said that we’re in a stable economic — or we’re
transitioning into a stable economic growth.  The Treasury Secretary
also testified today we’re going to a stable economic growth.  What
exactly is a “stable economic growth”?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think the way that we’re looking at it is just the
data, just what we have seen in this past year. 

I think people forget what the President inherited when he walked in. 
You had 20 million people who were collecting unemployment benefits. 
You — you had — unemployment was at more than 6 percent.

And the work that he did with the American Rescue Plan, getting that
done, and the Democrats — only Democrats voting for it, helped get the
economy moving, helped get the economy growing.

And so, the way we see it is that we are in a strong place.  The U.S.
economy may grow faster this year than China’s economy for the first
time since 1976.  With — with the right policies, we are confident that
the U.S. can transition from recovery to stable, steady growth and bring
down inflation without giving all of these historic gains that I just
laid out — 8.7 million new jobs in this past year and a half.

And so, one of the things that we’ve been very clear about is giving the
Federal Reserve the independence to deal with inflation.  And they are
committed to it; we are committed to it.  And they have the strongest
tools to come up with monetary policy to get that done.

Q    So — but is that — is that GDP growth, like under the Obama
administration, 1.5 percent, 1.8 percent for the year?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, I’m not going to get into, like, the specifics
of GDP growth.  But what I can say is the numbers — the data that we
have seen just on job growth — 390,000 jobs in the month of May — what
we have seen is historic numbers, is a his- — we are in a historic place
in history — historic place right now, as we have — as we look at where
we are with the economy.  Very, very different than where we were a year
ago. 

And that is because of what the President has been able to do with a
comprehensive plan to get people vaccinated, with a plan to get people
back to work.

Remember — and I know some of you know this — schools were closed when
he — when he entered the administration.  Businesses were closed when he
entered the administration.  The economy was in crisis.  We are in a
different place.  That’s what — that’s how we see this.

Q    One quick one.  Are we in a recession then?  Because the Atlanta
Fed GDP now looks at a snapshot, and it’s 0.9 percent.  It’s gone down
from 1.9 to 1.3 for the second quarter.  Two quarters in a row of
negative growth is a recession.  So are we there?  And how close —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, the way that we see it is we have the right
tools, and we are in a strong place to continue to get — to get our — to
be in this transition where we have stable — stable growth.  And that is
what’s important.  And so, that’s going to be our focus.

Q    Thank you.  Will you follow up?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you.  Thank you, guys.  I actually — I do have
to go.  I really do have to go. 

Q    Thanks for coming back out.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you.  I appreciate that.  Thanks, guys.  Thank
you.

4:37 P.M. EDT
