---
date: '2022-06-27'
published_time: 2022-06-27 15:53:49-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/06/27/background-press-call-on-the-presidents-national-security-memorandum-on-illegal-unreported-and-unregulated-fishing/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call on the President\u2019s National Security Memorandum\
  \ on Illegal, Unreported, and Unregulated\_Fishing"
---
 
Via Teleconference

1:42 P.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  Good afternoon, everyone.  We appreciate your patience with
us as we’re running a few minutes behind.  Today we’ll have a few
speakers discuss the National Security Memorandum on Illegal,
Unreported, and Unregulated Fishing and Other Harmful Practices that the
President signed this morning.

As a reminder, this call is on background, attributable to “senior
administration officials,” but the embargo has now been moved up to the
conclusion of this call.

For your awareness, not for your reporting, the senior administration
officials on this call are \[senior administration official\], \[senior
administration official\], and \[senior administration official\].

With that, I will pass it off to \[senior administration official\].

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  Thank you all for joining for
today’s call.  Really appreciate your patience with us getting it
started, and really look forward to sharing with you that, today,
President Biden has signed a National Security Memorandum focused on
illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing and associated labor
abuses.

This is a great capstone to National Ocean Month.  This is following the
President’s proclamation of June to be National Ocean Month and a
recognition of June 8th as World Ocean Day.

The White House began this month with a series of announcements of the
new steps the administration is taking to conserve and restore the
health and productivity of the ocean for the benefit of all Americans. 
And today is the kickoff of the U.N. Ocean Conference in Portugal, which
is the time for us to really highlight the international components of
our engagements around ocean conservation in particular.

Today, we’ll be sharing with you a bit more detail around what we’re
doing to combat IUU fishing.  Again, that’s illegal, unreported, and
unregulated fishing. 

IUU fishing threatens the health and precious biodiversity of our
oceans, which is also facing increasing threats posed by climate change,
acidification, and human pollution.

Additionally, IUU fishing threatens the food security of coastal
communities that may not have the capacity to combat these practices and
otherwise prevent overfishing in their waters and depleting of
resources.

IUU fishing can be interconnected with a web of other troubling security
challenges and criminal activities such as trafficking in persons,
forced labor, trade in illicit goods, wildlife trafficking, and other
violations of law.  Some states also encourage IUU fishing by associated
vessels as a method of reinforcing unlawful maritime claims. 

The U.S. is committed to combating IUU fishing globally, and the
National Security Memorandum that the President signed today provides
the U.S government with a defined set of actions to address the problem
of IUU fishing, including IUU fishing committed by distant-water fishing
fleets, and associated criminal activities, such as the use of force
labor in the seafood supply chain.

The memorandum, as you’ll see, directs departments and agencies with a
variety of engagement strategies, from increased coordination with
diverse stakeholders from public and private and foreign and domestic,
to address the challenges in a comprehensive, all-of-government way.  It
also uses the full range of existing conservation, labor, trade,
economic, diplomatic, law enforcement, and national security authorities
to address these challenges, and focuses around enhancing coordination
and the use of existing tools and authorities to address the challenge
of forced labor in the seafood supply chain.

Lastly, it also calls for increased access and diplomatic engagement
around training and technical support of foreign partners to carry out
engagements in combating this behavior in the fishing industry.

So with that, I am pleased to pass this over to my colleagues from State
to share a bit more and then to NOAA.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks very much, \[senior
administration official\].  And hello to everyone.  My name is \[senior
administration official\]. 

As \[senior administration official\] was just mentioning, the elements
related to combating IUU fishing on the National Security Memorandum
that was signed today by the President include diplomatic engagements.

The United States is one of the largest seafood markets.  We have one of
the largest exclusive economic zones and waters under our jurisdiction
in the world.  And we’re also a fishing country. 

But we cannot combat IUU fishing alone; it is a global problem.  It is
involved in the value chain that feeds not only the U.S. market but
other important markets.  And there are a lot of countries who have been
working to combat IUU fishing themselves. 

And we believe that one of the most important elements of our diplomatic
engagement is to combine and partner with all of the countries that are
engaged in this work to make sure that we are as successful as possible
in addressing IUU fishing but also the related human rights, labor
problems, and environmental impacts of IUU fishing.

And so we are very pleased this week to take advantage of the global
focus on oceans at the U.N. Ocean Conference.  And we will be launching
an IUU Fishing Action Alliance to bring together countries to commit to
a pledge to take urgent action against IUU fishing. 

This will help us in the international implementation of the actions
outlined in the National Security Memorandum, and it will help us
capitalize on the resources and commitment of other countries, whether
they’re coastal states, flag states, market states, or all of the above;
and really begin to generate increased transparency in terms of fishing
operations, increased accountability of fishers to the international
rules or the rules of their flag authorities, and to make sure that the
seafood products that are coming into the U.S. market are caught in
accordance with international rules and national rules.

So that’s one of the major actions we’ll be taking to begin immediately
to bring together the diplomatic efforts necessary to ensure the
National Security Memorandum is effectively implemented and does what it
is intended to do.

So with that, I’ll turn things over to \[senior administration
official\] to talk about some actions that NOAA will be taking as well. 
Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you, \[senior administration
official\].  Thank you, \[senior administration official\].

NOAA will be announcing two actions that help to achieve some of the
objectives outlined in the National Security Memorandum.

First, today, NOAA is issuing a proposed rule which will enhance and
strengthen its capabilities to combat IUU fishing and counter forced
labor in the seafood supply chain by implementing several provisions
under three different laws.

And I think the key — the key takeaway is that the —

what we will be able to do is we’re changing — well, we’re not changing,
we are making our definition of IUU fishing consistent with that of the
FAO’s, which will enable us in our comparability findings to both
include forced labor and how we determine whether a country has
comparable laws to ours, allowing the imports, and whether or not we
identify fishing in waters under the jurisdiction of a nation without
the permission of that nation or in violation of that nation’s laws and
regulations.  And so that will help us to prevent imports of those
products into the United States.

I encourage you to look at the full spectrum of the proposed rule for a
number of other provisions that are proposed here.

The second announcement that NOAA, together with the 21 agencies that
comprise the IUU fishing interagency working group, is — we are
announcing that we are finalizing a strategic — a five-year strategic
plan.  And in that strategic plan, we have identified a number of
partners that we will be working directly with to combat IUU fishing on
the ground.  And those partners are Senegal, Ecuador, Panama, Taiwan,
and Vietnam.

We’ll be doing capacity building in those countries, not because they
are the primary offenders of IUU fishing, but because they have
expressed a willingness to work with the United States to combat IUU
fishing in their countries.

With that, I’ll turn it back over to \[senior administration official\]
and the NSC.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you.  Keely, can you remind us
how to queue up questions, please? 

Q    Hi, thanks for the call.  Just so I’m clear, could you maybe
reiterate or be a little more specific about what the mem- — memorandum
directs the agencies to do? 

And then, as a secondary question, I wonder how much of this is due to
concerns about Chinese illegal fishing.  And, I mean, China says that
it’s a responsible fishing nation, but how would you characterize
China’s behavior in this area?  And has the U.S. ever broached
negotiations with China over these issues?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  Thank you for that question. 
So, with additional specificity, the NSM directs departments and
agencies to work toward ending human trafficking, including forced labor
and IUU fishing, while promoting sustainable use of the ocean in
partnership with other nations and the private sector, and advance
foreign and trade policies for the benefit of American workers. 

And specifically, it’s asking departments and agencies to increase the
coordination with diverse stakeholders, as I mentioned earlier, to use
that full range of tools that I mentioned earlier to you as well, but
also to do things like: investigate fishing vessels and operators
suspected to be harvesting seafood with forced labor and issue with hold
release orders as appropriate; to increase our engagement with key
private sector and foreign partners, including by providing training and
technical support to these partners; and to carry out research on labor
practices in the seafood industry through Department of Labor, for
instance, to coordinate more closely with the Department of Defense, the
Coast Guard, and other enforcement agencies as well.

Specific to your question about China and our engagements there: The
National Security Memorandum is not about any one specific country.  All
fishing nations, including those with distant-water fishing fleets,
carry a range of flag-state responsibilities including monitoring their
fleets and enforcing rules to prevent their vessels from engaging in IUU
fishing.

It is also critical that all flag states, including the PRC, fully
accept and implement their responsibilities to prevent and deter IUU
fishing, and ensures sustainable conservation and management of our
fishery resources.

The PRC is a leading contributor to IUU fishing worldwide, and it has
impeded progress on the development of measures to combat IUU fishing
and overfishing in international organizations.  And the PRC has a
responsibility to uphold these commitments as a flag state and actively
monitor and correct the activities of fishing fleet activities in other
countries’ waters — of its fleet fishing activities in other countries’
waters, including preventing its vessels from fishing outside coastal
states’ license agreements or without a license to fish at all.

The U.S. has engaged bilaterally with the PRC to identify concerns about
IUU fishing, to promote the PRC’s full implementation of flag-state
responsibilities, and encourage the PRC’s improved implementation of
international measures and in cooperation with agreements like the Port
State Measures Agreement that now — that \[senior administration
official\] mentioned briefly about PSMA. 

We also call on the PRC to fulfill its pledge and actively participating
in and support the international community in fighting against IU
fishing.

Thanks so much for the question.

Q    Hi, thanks for doing this call.  I had just some basic
nuts-and-bolts questions.  Is this the first time there’s been a
national security memo on IUU fishing?  And I also was hoping that the
representative from NOAA could explain the first measure — the first
action that they’re taking today in a little bit more detail.  It kind
of was a little bit confusing to me, and maybe she could walk us through
that.

And then, I also just wanted to know — I didn’t get a chance to read
through the entire memo, but the complaint that I often hear is that
there is not enough resources and not enough agents actually, you know,
working on these problems inside NOAA, inside CBP to enforce the laws
that already are on the books.  So, I’m wondering if there’s any
commitment from the Biden administration to increase hiring of people in
this field.  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  \[Senior administration official\], do
you want to start?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I can start.  Thank you for that
question.  Let me go through the proposed rule and see if I can clarify
a little bit more what I stated.

The proposed rule would strengthen NOAA’s ability to address IUU fishing
activities when implementing the U.S. Moratorium Protection Act — a key
engagement tool used to identify, consult with, and certify nations and
entities whose fishing vessels are engaged in IUU fishing, bycatch of
protected living marine resources, or shark catch on the high seas. 
What we’re talking about today is really focused on that first part —
the fishing vessels engaged in IUU fishing.

Specifically, the rule proposes to broaden the scope of activities that
NOAA can consider when identifying nations for IUU fishing to include,
the first thing, fishing in waters under the jurisdiction of a nation
without the permission of that nation or in violation of its laws and
regulations.  And the second piece is: fishing activities in waters
beyond any national jurisdictions that involve the use of forced labor. 

So, those are the key provisions that will — should the rule get
finalized with those, would allow NOAA to find a country in violation of
that and prevent those products from being imported into our market.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, \[senior administration
official\]. 

Regarding your question on the NSM, this is the first time there’s been
an NSM addressing IUU fishing. 

And regarding resources, we have been working closely with Congress to
ensure there are adequate resources directed at addressing these key
issues.  And we’ll continue to work closely with Congress on the
implementation of the memorandum.

MODERATOR:  Great.  And thank you to our speakers.  And thank you for —
you all for joining.  Apologies, we have to cut this quick at 2:00.  But
as a reminder, the embargo now lifts.  Thank you.  Reach out with any
other questions.

1:59 P.M. EDT
