---
date: '2022-06-28'
modified_time: 2022-06-28 10:57:09-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-28 10:57:08-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/06/28/press-gaggle-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-en-route-madrid-spain/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security Advisor\
  \ Jake Sullivan En Route Madrid,\_Spain"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Madrid, Spain

2:10 P.M. CEST  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, well, welcome to our second leg of the trip,
heading to Spain, Madrid, specifically.  Jake Sullivan here, our
National Security Advisor — the President’s National Security Advisor —
is going to give us a little bit lay of the land for NATO and answer any
of your questions.

Go ahead, Jake.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Thanks, everybody.  We’re obviously on our way to Madrid
for what we expect will be a historic NATO Summit at a time of war in
Europe. 

NATO today is more united, determined, and purposeful than it’s been at
any point in modern memory.  And that’s in no small part because of the
intense diplomacy and leadership that President Biden has invested over
the course of the past few months, including hosting a virtual NATO
Summit immediately after Russia’s invasion of Ukraine in February and
then calling for an emergency summit in Brussels a month later.

So, NATO leaders will now have had three opportunities since the start
of the war to get together, once virtually and now twice in person. 

And, obviously, Ukraine will be top of mind with Russia’s ongoing
brutality most recently on display with this gruesome and horrific
attack on the shopping center yesterday.

And then, NATO Allies will have the opportunity to talk about
capabilities and other forms of military assistance they’ll be providing
to Ukraine on an ongoing basis in the coming days and months.  And
they’ll also have an opportunity to reaffirm their determination to
remain united for as long as it takes to ensure a sovereign and
independent Ukraine and that Russia pays a severe price for its wanton
aggression against Ukraine.

More broadly, this summit will provide an opportunity to set the
strategic direction for the Alliance for the coming years.  And one of
the things that will be a significant outcome of the summit will be a
new Strategic Concept.  The last Strategic Concept was agreed among
Allies in 2010, 12 years ago.  So this is the first NATO Summit to
produce a new Strategic Concept since then. 

That Strategic Concept described Russia as a strategic partner and did
not refer to China. 

This Strategic Concept will describe in stark terms the threat that
Russia poses and the way in which it has shattered peace in Europe.  It
will speak very directly and in a clear-eyed way to the multifaceted
challenge posed by the People’s Republic of China.  And it will also
address modern and emerging threats, cyber and emerging technologies,
hybrid warfare, the growing national security implications of climate
change, and of course, the evolving threat of terrorism, which has
changed over the course of the 20 years since the Alliance went into
Afghanistan back in 2001.

In addition to the Strategic Concept, which will be agreed and adopted
by leaders, the Alliance will also agree on specific targets for
increased common funding for NATO, for its various budgets, to ensure
that all of the strategic lines of effort that are captured in that
Strategic Concept are fully resourced and that NATO has the funding that
is required for it to be able to actually carry out its activities.

One note on that: In addition to the deliverable of common funding at
the summit, what will be on display is a marked increase in national
contributions by countries to the point where we anticipate, at this
summit, you will see that a strong majority of NATO Allies will be
either at the 2 percent Wales benchmark or on track to meet it by 2024,
which is a — just over the course of the past 18 months, a substantial
shift in the intensity and commitment of NATO Allies in terms of putting
their money where their mouth is.

Germany, obviously, made a historic announcement earlier this year;
other countries have followed suit.  And we’re seeing a real commitment
across the board for countries to actually make the contributions to
national capabilities necessary for the Alliance to be very strong.

The other area where we expect to see a significant, indeed historic,
set of deliverables is on the issue of force posture.  The President
said before the war started that if Putin invaded Ukraine, the United
States and NATO would enhance its force posture on the eastern flank,
not just for the duration of the crisis, but to address the long-term
change in the strategic reality that that would present.

And in this summit, you will see the Alliance follow through on that
commitment and the United States follow through on that commitment. 
You’ll see a number of countries making commitments to increase their
defense contributions to the eastern flank of the Alliance, with a
special emphasis on the Balkan — the Baltics, but also other eastern
flank allies as well.

And the United States will be making specific announcements tomorrow on
land, sea, and air of additional force posture commitments over the long
term, beyond the duration of this crisis, however long it goes on.

One of those announcements, which the President will lay out today when
he meets with the Spanish President, will be an increase in the number
of destroyers based at Rota, Spain, from four to six destroyers.  Those
will help increase the United States’ and NATO’s maritime presence and
all the relevant maritime domains in the Euro-Atlantic area.  But that
will be just the first of several specific announcements, the rest of
which we will lay out for you all tomorrow, on the first day of the NATO
Summit.

And we think by the end of the summit, what you will see is a more
robust, more effective, more combat-credible, more capable, and more
determined force posture to take account of a more acute and aggravated
Russian threat, not just because of what they’ve done in Ukraine, but
also because of the way in which they have changed their posture
vis-à-vis Belarus, which has an impact on many of our Allies, especially
our Baltic Allies.

So we’ll go into more specifics on that set of announcements tomorrow. 
But that, we believe, will be a very important part of the outcome of
this summit.

Final thing to put on the table is: In addition to the meeting of 30
leaders tomorrow morning — the 30 Allies — there will be an afternoon
session with partners, and it will display the strong partnership that
Finland and Sweden have already shown as NATO partners.  But Allies,
including the United States, will have the chance to lift up and lend
their voice to — their voice of support to Finland and Sweden joining
the Alliance.  And we will continue to work with Turkey to address their
concerns so that Finland and Sweden can ultimately become members of
NATO and help contribute in an even more direct way to the security of
the Euro-Atlantic area and to the NATO Alliance. 

We will also have four Asia Pacific partners for the first time ever at
a NATO summit.  This is consistent with President Biden’s very strong
view and central premise that the linkage in security between the
Indo-Pacific and the Euro-Atlantic is only deepening.  And so, the ties
between allies in the two theaters have to deepen as well, not because
NATO is going to go be fighting wars in the Pacific but because there is
an interconnection between the robustness and vitality of our
Asia-Pacific alliances and our Euro-Atlantic alliances.  And so Japan,
Korea, Australia, and New Zealand will all be present. 

The President, tomorrow, will have the opportunity to host a trilateral
meeting with the President of Korea and the Prime Minister of Japan. 
This will be the first trilateral leaders-level meeting that we’ve had
in some time among the leaders of these three countries.  And it will be
mainly focused on the continuing threat from the DPRK, particularly
after an extended period of intense testing and other provocative
activities that the — that the North Koreans have undertaken. 

But in the session more broadly, he’ll have the opportunity to talk with
our Indo-Pacific partners and the NATO Alliance about the China
challenge and the ways in which it increasingly is a relevant factor for
the NATO Alliance, as will be reflected in the Strategic Concept. 

So I’ll stop there, and happy to take your questions.

Q    Jake, just on NATO accession: President Erdoğan said that the
President asked him for a meeting either tonight or tomorrow.  Are they
going to have a — sort of a formal engagement?  And does the President
now see a direct role for the United States in brokering NATO accessions
for Finland and Sweden?  And are there U.S. inducements that could help
sort of sweeten the deal or grease the wheels for Turkey here?

MR. SULLIVAN:  The Secretary General of NATO has taken the lead —
appropriately and correctly — in working with Finland and Sweden on the
one hand and Turkey on the other hand to find a way forward that
addresses Turkey’s concerns and ultimately delivers Finland and Sweden’s
entry into the Alliance.  We believe that is how it should be and how it
will remain. 

The United States is not going to supplant the Secretary General or take
on a brokering role in this.  Rather, we’re going to do what many other
Allies have done, which is indicate publicly and privately that we
believe it is in the interest of the Alliance to get this done.  And we
also believe that Finland and Sweden have taken significant steps
forward in terms of addressing Turkey’s concerns.  We also believe and
are confident that, ultimately, they will become members of the Alliance
and that Turkey’s concerns will be fully addressed. 

In terms of a bilateral meeting: We do expect, at some point tomorrow,
President Erdoğan and President Biden have the chance to talk.  What the
modalities of that will be precisely are still being worked out. 
There’s not a fixed time or — or framework for the meeting, but they’ll
have a chance to spend some time together to focus mainly on the
strategic issues between the U.S. and Turkey and regional issues that
are relevant to the two countries. 

Of course, the issue of Finland and Sweden will come up but we don’t
anticipate that that’s going to be the central focus of the President’s
meeting with President Erdoğan.

Q    Just on force posture: You mentioned persistent presence on the
eastern flank.  Is that going to be permanent basing?  Because obviously
there’s the NATO-Russia agreement from the late ‘90s.  There’s agreement
or commitment not to have permanent — permanent seems to be a bit of a
(inaudible).  Does the U.S. believe NATO is bound by that commitment to
Russia from 25 years ago not to have permanent basing on its — on its
borders?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, I am not going to get ahead of our announcement
tomorrow.  I’ll just say to you: Stay tuned in terms of the elements
that will be part of that, which will involve additional forces on the
eastern flank in a steady state.  But to the particular question on
rotational, permanent, et cetera: Stay tuned.

Q    I have a question that is not about NATO but is relevant to this
week.  Brittney Griner faces a trial in Russia.  What is the Biden
administration doing to help her, to get her home?  What’s the
involvement?  And do you have any update on how she’s doing?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, first, Brittney Griner is wrongfully detained,
unjustly detained, and we have made that clear as an official
determination of the U.S. government. 

Second, the Russian government should release her and allow her to be
returned and reunited with her family and come home safe and sound. 

Third, both myself and Secretary Blinken have had the opportunity, just
in the last few days, to speak with her — with her wife, Cherelle, and
to convey our very deep sympathy, to convey that, you know, we just
can’t even begin to imagine what the family must be going through, what
Brittney — what Brittney must be going through. 

The United States government is actively engaged in trying to resolve
this case and get Brittney home.  I’m not going to get into the details
of what that means because these are sensitive matters.  But I will tell
you it has the fullest attention of the President and every senior
member of his national security and diplomatic team.  And we are
actively working to find a resolution to this case, and will continue to
do so without rest until we get Brittney safely home. 

We also are trying to work actively to return all unjustly detained
Americans and hostages being held overseas, whether that be in Iran or
Afghanistan or Russia or Venezuela or China or elsewhere.

Q    Jake, President Zelenskyy has made clear that he wants this war to
draw to a close by the end of this year and believes that Ukraine, by
the winter, can regain the territory it has currently lost by Russia. 
What does the U.S. think of that assessment?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So we discussed this a little bit yesterday with the
pool.  And I don’t want to characterize President Zelenskyy’s words. 
I’ll let him speak for himself publicly on this matter. 

I would just say that at the — at multiple levels — diplomatic, military
to military, and President to President — we’ve had very deep and
detailed discussions with the Ukrainians about their plans, about how
they intend to proceed, both in terms of trying to halt Russian advances
in the east and, ultimately, take back territory in the south and other
places.

We’re communicating with them our analysis and assessment of those
plans.  We’re doing so privately.  But, in general,

we believe that it is the Ukrainians who should be setting the course of
the objectives in the war, and the United States and our Allies and
partners who should be supplying them with the capabilities to be able
to achieve those objectives.

That’s what we’re focused on, and that’s what we’re doing.  And that
will continue in the days and weeks ahead, including through the recent
delivery of the HIMARS that we believe are now being used to good effect
on the battlefield. 

Q    Jake, I wanted to ask you about the oil price cap discussions.  The
French pushed for that to be not just referencing Russia but also other
countries in the world, including the United States?  Can you say a word
about that? 

And can you —

MR. SULLIVAN:  Sorry —

Q    — so that —

MR. SULLIVAN:  — including the United States?

Q    Well, just to sort of have it be a broader initiative by the G7
rather than just focused solely on Russia. 

And I wanted to ask you: You know, Prime Minister Modi was there.  Were
there discussions with him about India’s purchases of Russian oil?  And
— or do you see any kind of progress on that front?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, what ministers have now been tasked with by the
leaders is to work on the specifics of how a price cap would actually
work.  One aspect of that, of course, is intensive engagement with key
consuming countries.  India is one of those countries.  That engagement
has begun.  We have begun talks with India about how a price cap would
work and what the implications of it would be.  And I will leave it at
that because, of course, those are ongoing diplomatic discussions.

Q    Did the President speak with Prime Minister Modi about this issue
specifically?

MR. SULLIVAN:  The President did not speak with Prime Minister Modi
about this yesterday, but at senior levels of the U.S. government, we
had communications with the Indians yesterday.  Before it goes to
leader-to-leader level, we need to work through the details with their
team at basically the Cabinet level, which is where it is right now. 
And then, if necessary, it can be elevated.

Q    On the trilat that you’re doing tomorrow or — tomorrow, right? —
Janet Yellen — Secretary Yellen is going to be going to Korea as well,
as part of her Asia trip, including the G20.  Are you — do you see any
scope to be moving toward additional sanctions on North Korea?  And
would that even be effective in terms of their nuclear testing program?

MR. SULLIVAN:  We actually have kept up a tempo of sanctions over the
course of the 18 months.  And we are constantly looking for new targets,
especially because North Korea adjusts its methods of acquiring revenue
constantly.  And so we need to constantly be looking for ways to cut off
those new sources of revenue.  And that is something that will be a
matter of real consultation between Secretary Yellen and the financial
watchdogs in North Korea — in South Korea.  

And the President will have the opportunity with President Yoon and
Prime Minister Kishida to discuss what we can do on the economic
pressure side, particularly when it comes to depriving the North of hard
currency that they use to fund their nuclear and missile programs. 

Q    Jake, on China and the Strategic Concept, can you talk a little bit
more about the language, what it will say vis-à-vis Taiwan? 

And then, the G7 leaders have just also had, you know, a large portion
of their statement about China, saying they’re calling on Beijing to
press Russia to stop their aggression.  What exactly do the G7 leaders
want?  Do they want more public pressure?  Do they want anything
public?  What have you guys agreed on to have Xi Jinping weigh in there?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, first, the — for us, the number-one priority with
respect to China, when it comes to the war in Ukraine, is that China not
become militarily supportive of Russia through the provision of
equipment. 

Number two is that they not engage in wholesale or systematic
undermining or evasion of U.S. sanctions. 

And on both of those, thus far, we have not seen China act in a way
inconsistent with those two principles and certainly not at scale with
respect to the economic relationship.  So we want to see that continue.

In addition, as you noted, in the G7 statement, the leaders want to
communicate to the PRC that the PRC, if it seeks to act as a responsible
global player, should be using its relationship with and influence with
Moscow.  Whether that takes place publicly or privately is less relevant
to us than that Xi Jinping communicate to Putin that what Russia is
doing through this invasion and through this brutal war is having ripple
effects through the world that is causing harm in the global south and
elsewhere, and that the responsibility for that lies at the feet of the
Russian government.  And the fastest way to stop those negative ripple
effects would be for Russia to stop the war.

So, yes, we believe that China cannot evade responsibility, given its
relationship with Russia, for speaking more clearly to them.  You know,
from my perspective, that happening privately as opposed to publicly, it
would be just fine if it produced a positive result. 

Q    Jake, there was a video that came out yesterday from the G7 where
President Macron is talking to both President Biden and yourself about
Saudi Arabia — the fact that they’re almost at maximum capacity and
can’t produce that much more oil.  Does that change the President’s
thinking at all going into his trip next month?  And did any other
leaders approach him about his trip to Saudi Arabia?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I’m not going to characterize President Macron’s comments
yesterday. 

And with respect to the question of his discussions with other leaders,
he spoke with President Macron about the trip.  I — he spoke with a
couple of other leaders about the trip as well, not focused on or
confined to the energy piece, but the broader strategic dynamic at play
and the need, particularly in light of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, for
the United States, the G7, and the West to continue robust and effective
engagement with our partners across the Middle East to include the GCC,
as well as Iraq, Jordan, and Egypt, all of whom the President will see
when he goes — when he goes to Saudi Arabia.

And then, of course, he talked about Israel and the Israeli-Palestinian
conflict as well with some of the leaders.  But I’m not going to
characterize President Macron’s comments or, you know, either the
content of them or the — this particular notion about Saudi Arabia and
its spare capacity.

Q    On Caracas, there’s a report that, you know, we — or you’ve
confirmed that senior administration officials went to Caracas.  You
mentioned freeing Americans there.  What else can happen in terms of oil
prices, particularly with an eye to the really bad financial inflation
issues facing the United States?  Are you asking for any kind of
specific efforts or measures by Venezuela on the oil front?

MR. SULLIVAN:  What we have said consistently is that we will only
provide sanctions relief in return for concrete progress at the
negotiating table.  A few weeks ago, we gave a very specific license,
and removed a few days ago a sanction, as part of an effort to get the
talks in Mexico City back up and running effectively and with the
support of the opposition.

A next step, in terms of further licenses, would have to be connected to
progress — tangible progress at the negotiating table.  We regard that
as possible, but we want to see it actually happen.

Q    Jake, there’s a report of a meeting in Sharm el-Sheikh a couple of
weeks ago that the U.S. helped organize with leaders from Israel, Saudi
Arabia, other regional partners in trying to counter the air threat or —
from — missile threat from Iran.  Can you confirm that?  And is that a
deliverable you’re eyeing for the next trip in a couple weeks?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I’d refer you to CENTCOM on that particular report.  And
we’re not looking for a specific missile defense deliverable on the
trip, although deeper integration and deeper cooperation among all the
countries of the region against the Iranian threat, including the
Iranian missile threat, is a real priority of this administration, and
we expect to continue to move the ball down the field on that, including
during the President’s trip.

Q    Can I go back to China again?  The G7 also commented on China’s
coercive non-market practices.  The Biden administration — you know,
this is not really anything new, but you guys have essentially been
ready to go on your own investigation.  What is the holdup here?  And is
the holdup at all related to your efforts in trying to get Xi Jinping to
pressure Moscow on the war?

MR. SULLIVAN:  No.  The short answer and the unequivocal answer is
“no.”  There’s no connection between our conversations with China on the
Ukraine war — Russia’s war in Ukraine and the issue of tariffs and a
potential set of steps the United States would take on — vis-à-vis China
trade.

You know, I’ve said to you guys before and the President has said this
is something he’s looking at, he’s analyzing; there’s a lot of different
elements to it.  And the President wants to be sure that he’s put
together the right approach before he moves out with it.  I don’t think
he feels that there is a particular deadline for it.  Getting it right
is more important than just doing it fast, despite the fact that I know
it is leaving all of you guys to have to ask the question week after
week.

From our perspective, it’s something we’re looking at, the President
continues to look at.  When he has a decision to make, he’ll make the
decision and we’ll move forward from there.

Q    Just one more on Is- — on the Belarus.  The Russians have said
they’re going to supply the Iskander missiles to Belarus, which are
nuclear capable.  I’m wondering if that is a particular concern to you
and whether that changes the dynamic to know that there are these
nuclear — will be these nuclear-capable missiles in both Kaliningrad and
Belarus.

MR. SULLIVAN:  The most important thing to us is what actually happens
on the ground, not the theater between Putin and Lukashenko.  And this
was another one of those instances where they have this made-for-TV
conversation that involve not just the Iskanders, but also whether there
would be the provision of strategic bombers.  And Putin said, “I will
withhold those.”

So, will there be Iskander missiles for the long term?  Putin says
“yes,” but let’s see.  Will there be strategic bombers in Belarus for
the long term?  Putin says “no,” but we’ll see.

So, we’re going to watch and see what actually happens.  And, of course,
if Russian military deployments, including nuclear deployments in
Belarus, occur and are sustained, that is a matter of concern for the
entire NATO Alliance, it is a matter of concern for the United States,
and it is something that we will take into account as we think about our
own force posture.

Q    Just one last one.  Russia today released a bunch of new sanctions
on U.S. officials, including the First Lady.  I was wondering if you had
any immediate reaction to that, just given that it seems to be a
targeted effort to punish the President’s spouse. 

MR. SULLIVAN:  I have no reaction to that other than it just goes to
show you that the Russian capacity for these kinds of cynical moves is
basically bottomless, so it probably shouldn’t come as a surprise to any
of us that they would do something like this.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Thanks, everybody.  Thanks, Jake. 
Appreciate it.

Q    Thanks.

Q    Karine, are you going to stick around?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.  I don’t have — I don’t have a topper, but
whatever — what do you guys want to talk about?

Q    Can you tell us about what the White House’s reaction is to this
incident in San Antonio with the migrants found in the truck and if this
points to a larger problem on the border?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s devastating.  So, we’re closely monitoring the
absolutely horrific and heartbreaking reports out of San Antonio,
Texas.  And I can tell you the President has been briefed and is going
to continue to be regularly updated.

Our prayers are with those who tragically lost their lives, their loved
ones, as well as those still fighting for their lives.

We’re also grateful for the swift work of federal, state, and local
first responders. 

As Secretary Mayorkas said, “Far too many lives have been lost…\[to\]
this dangerous journey.”  We will continue to take action to disrupt
human smuggling networks, which have no regard for lives.  They explo- —
exploit and endanger in order to make a profit.

As you know, the Department of Homeland Security is closely handling
this and watching this as well.  So, any specifics, I would refer you to
them.

Q    Karine —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — Republican lawmakers blame the President and his policies for the
— for that loss of life.  I was wondering if you have any response to
that.  And does the President believe that the continued sort of — you
know, his inability to lift border protections by those two federal
court orders may have contributed to this tragedy?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, 46 people died — right? — in the state of Texas,
and so — and others, as I just mentioned, are still fighting for their
lives.

So we’re still learning their names.  Their families are still learning
they lost loved ones, as when a tragic situation normally happens. 
We’re focused on them, on the facts, and holding the human
<s>strugglers</s> \[smugglers\] who endangered vulnerable individual —
individuals for profits accountable.

And we’re — and we’re focused on continuing our historic actions to
disrupt dangerous smuggling networks, including through a new
anti-smuggling campaign that just in the first two months resulted in
over 1,800 arrests.  But the fact of the matter is the border is closed,
which is in part why you see people trying to make this dangerous
journey using smuggling networks. 

Again, our hearts go out to the families at this time.  We are going to
stay focused on the facts and making sure that we hold these smugglers
accountable.  That’s going to be our focus.

Yeah.

Q    So on the Roe v. Wade situation, there’s — you know, have been
calls for — I think we talked about this the other day about, you know,
building some kind of facilities on federal lands.  Are you any further
along in terms of exploring those options?  And would it be a
possibility to come to some agreement with Tribes to use Tribal lands?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So with this proposal — we understand the proposal is
well intentioned, but here’s the thing: It could actually put women and
providers at risk.  And importantly, in states where abortion is now
illegal, women and providers who are not federal employees — as you look
at the federal lands — could be — potentially be prosecuted.  And so,
this is — as we understand why they would put forward this proposal,
there’s actually dangerous ramifications to doing this.

Q    So you can’t offer sanct- —

Q    So that’s a no?

Q    You can’t offer sanctuary on federal property?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I don’t have any more to share on that.  I — you
know, this is — as we have mentioned, we’re looking at some — we’re
looking at an array of other options.

We mentioned — the President on Friday, as you know, spoke to two first
steps — concrete first steps that we believe will help women get the
help that they need to make their decisions for themselves, the he- —
for their healthcare. 

I just don’t have anything else to share — anything specific on that,
but wanted to lay out what that proposal actually meant and so that you
have the full breadth of the — of the meaning of what it would be to do
that.

Q    So the President is on this trip right now.  Vice President Harris
is doing interviews about the decision and about administrative action. 
You have Cabinet members making public statements.  When is the public
going to hear from the President again on this?  Does he think that the
Vice President is a better message on this — messenger on this than he
is?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, it has nothing to do with the — with who’s the
best messenger.  He’s the President of the United States, right?  When
the President speaks, people listen and it — and it goes far and wide
and it carries weight, obviously. 

As he spoke on Friday — the reason why he went out and spoke two hours
after the decision was made is because he wanted to make sure he spoke
directly to the American people, and he spoke in a very forceful way. 
He understands the devastation and how stunning this decision was, and
he wanted to show that he was using his executive authority to act. 

And so, you’re going to hear from the President, because this is — this
is def- — to show how important this is, you’re going to hear from the
President — not just from the President, but also the Vice President,
his Cabinet secretaries.  They have made an announcement in the last
couple of days on how they’re moving forward with the two concrete steps
that he’s taken.  And you’re going to hear from the Vice President,
which all makes sense in this moment. 

Like, this is a — you know, as I said, this is stunning, this is
devastating, this is going to cause really terrible consequences for so
many people — women across the country.

And the President on Friday was very clear.  He said you — he said
Congress has to act.  We’re going to do these two — first two initial
steps; Congress needs to act. 

And the way that we’re going to codify Roe is to make sure that it’s the
law of the land, and there’s no executive action that’s going to make it
law of the land.  And if we can’t do that — if Congress won’t do that,
then, you know, Americans have to make their voices very clear at the
ballot box.

Q    Is he going to get out on the road and make that case in — like,
next week?  Or when can people expect to hear him making that argument?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I just mentioned this is incredibly important to
the President.  He’s going to continue to talk about this, continue to
look at what other options are available to make sure that women are
able to have the healthcare that they need.  I just don’t have anything
to preview at this time.

Q    Karine — last one, I guess — on the January 6th Committee
scheduling a surprise hearing today: Is the President going to be
watching that?  Or is he interested in seeing what the committee has to
present on such — on such short notice?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you know, we’re headed to NATO.  We’re
hopefully going to land very shortly in Spain — Madrid, Spain — where
the President is going to do, as we’ve talked about, leader-to-leader
conversation on some important agenda, important issues for the — for
the NATO members as we go into this for the next couple of days.

Look, we’ve been very, very clear.  You know, January 6th, was a — was a
dark, dark day in our democracy.  It was not just an attack on our
democracy, an attack on our law enforcement.  And he believes, we
believe that it is important for the American public to watch and to see
and to learn exactly what happened on that day. 

And so, we support the January 6th Select Committee.  We have full
confidence in them.  And we just need to make sure that we get to the
bottom of exactly the details of what happened on that day.

All right?  Thanks, everybody.

2:45 P.M. CEST
