---
date: '2022-06-16'
modified_time: 2022-06-17 12:38:42-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-16 12:27:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/06/16/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-previewing-the-presidents-major-economies-forum-on-energy-and-climate/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials Previewing the President\u2019\
  s Major Economies Forum on Energy and\_Climate"
---
 
MODERATOR:  Thank you.  And good evening, everyone.  Apologies that
we’re running a little behind, but we just want to welcome you to our
call that will preview the Major Economies Forum on Energy and Climate
leaders’ meeting that the President will host tomorrow, Friday, June
17th, at 8:30 <s>p.m.</s> \[a.m.\] D.C. time.    
  
As a reminder, this call is on background, attributable to a “senior
administration official” and is embargoed until tomorrow, June 17th, at
6:00 a.m. Eastern.   
  
For your awareness, not for your reporting, the senior administration
officials on this call are \[senior administration official\], \[senior
administration official\], and \[senior administration official\].    
  
With that, I will pass it off to \[senior administration official\].  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hey, thanks.  Thanks, everybody, for
joining.  
  
As you know, you know, the President has been really laser-focused on
driving forward an agenda and actions that help strengthen our energy
security, that helps strengthen our response to the climate crisis.  And
we’re eager to be able to leverage a lot of what he’s been able to do
here stateside into momentum all around the world.  And you will hear
from \[senior administration official\] and from \[senior administration
official\] about that important diplomacy and how it’s really helped
broaden — bring together a broad coalition around taking action that
meets the urgency of this moment.  
  
You know, what you’ll see from the President tomorrow is a set of
announcements and action in a few key sectors that help us respond to
the challenges that we face in this moment — whether they are energy
security challenges or food security challenges and, certainly, the
challenge of climate change.   
  
You know, in the energy sector, we’ve been really aggressive as an
administration pushing forward on driving down methane emissions.  You
saw it in legislation that the President was able to secure last
summer.  You saw it in the domestic methane emissions reduction plan: 40
actions, including both regulatory and investment initiatives, led by
the President.  And you’ve seen it in his push to build out new
technologies like carbon capture and advanced nuclear and clean
hydrogen.  
  
Just as an example, last week, you know, the administration rolled out
the first step in implementing $8 billion of Clean Hydrogen Hub funding
across the country, seeding these new regional ecosystems to hasten the
deployment of this technology.  
  
We issued the first loan guarantee from the Department of Energy to
build the largest clean hydrogen storage facility in the United States
in Utah.  And the President invoked his authority under the Defense
Production Act to spur the development of manufacturing capability here
in the United States of electrolyzers that will help produce that clean
hydrogen.   
  
So we’re seeing that momentum in the power sector.  We’re seeing that
momentum in the transportation sector where, you know, the President set
this ambitious goal of achieving 50 percent zero-emission vehicle sales
of all new cars in 2030.  You know, when he did that, it was
pathbreaking to be able to bring together the U.S. automakers and U.S.
autoworkers.  
  
And we’ve seen private capital rapidly come off the sidelines in the
service of that objective here stateside.  Over $100 billion of capital
now committed and moving in the direction of advancing zero-emission
vehicles and a lower carbon transportation sector here in the United
States.   
  
And he’s been inventive and aggressive in pushing forward progress in
the agricultural sector, as well, in the way we approach lands.  You’ll
remember him talking about cover crops — probably the first mention in a
joint address before Congress — about the potential that the
agricultural sector has to play a critical role in advancing climate
solutions, but also in advancing food security around the world.   
  
And we’re grateful to see that domestic momentum, that action be
catalytic and be a spur for action around the world, a playbook that can
get leveraged and re-leveraged by our allies and partners.    
  
And, of course, none of that happens passively.  Folks, don’t just, you
know, pick up the newspaper, read about the stuff happening in the
United States and then go decide to do it.  It comes through just
incredible focus on meeting folks where they are on advancing that
diplomacy and on that presidential leadership and the leadership by
Secretary Kerry in those international fora.  And tomorrow is a great
example of that sustained leadership.   
  
And with that, will hand over to \[senior administration official\].  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks so much, \[senior administration
official\].  And thank you all for joining us this evening.  Excited to
give you a preview of what’s going to come tomorrow.  
  
President Biden will be reconvening the leaders of the Major Economies
Forum on Energy and Climate for the third time during his presidency. 
This convening demonstrates the President’s ongoing commitment to
further accelerating climate action across a variety of key sectors.   
  
At the meeting — the virtual meeting — the President will launch several
collective efforts across energy, transportation, and agriculture
sectors, which will advance not just climate, but also our energy and
food security goals, and underscore how addressing climate and long-term
energy security is mutually reinforcing objectives and priorities for
us.   
  
These actions are all the more urgent following Russia’s further
invasion of Ukraine, which has disrupted energy markets, it strained
economies with rising prices, and threatened vulnerable communities with
severe food shortages.   
  
Tomorrow’s gathering will be the largest gathering of leaders devoted to
climate action before COP27, taking place in Sharm el-Sheikh later this
year.  This further demonstrates how in the face of global crises,
President Biden has continued to advance critical global priorities and
strengthen our critical multilateral partnerships.  
  
We expect the President to be joined by the major economies as well as
countries key to the initiatives that we’re launching tomorrow.  We will
share more about that, and I’ll give you a quick preview of what that
is.   
  
We expect a number of countries to be announcing their intention to
strengthen or announce their Paris-aligned Nationally Determined
Contributions, the so-called NDCs.  And I’ll take a brief moment to
share with you a few of the initiatives that will be launched tomorrow
and then turn it back over to \[moderator\].  
  
As I noted, these efforts span the sectors of energy, transportation,
and agriculture, in line with our sectoral whole-of-government approach
to tackling the climate crisis that \[senior administration official\]
did a great job of giving you a preview of.  
  
On the energy space, we’re going to be building on the success of the
Global Methane Pledge that the United States and the European launched
at COP26.  And we’ll be launching the Global Methane Pledge Energy
Pathway to further advance global climate progress.   
  
This GMP Energy Pathway focuses on cost-effective methane mitigation in
the oil and gas sector, as well as eliminate — as well as on eliminating
routine gas flaring.   
  
Countries who join us will provide new technical and financial resources
to support this effort or enhance domestic action in line with these
goals, or both.  This initiative will bring together some of the most
significant global gas producers and consumers in the world.   
  
The second initiative focuses on developing and scaling innovative clean
technologies that aren’t yet commercially available but which we know
will be required to achieve net-zero emissions by 2050.    
  
The International Energy Agency has identified at least $90 billion in
public investments will be needed for large-scale demonstration projects
to support these technologies.  And tomorrow, the President will
challenge fellow leaders to join him in a collective goal to reach that
$90 billion.   
  
For our part, the United States is going to be devoting $21.5
\[billion\] under the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to just those types
of high-priority projects.   
  
Moving to the transportation sector, we will again be building on the
President’s leadership at home and looking at the importance of
zero-emission vehicles — so-called “ZEVs” — to meeting our climate
goals.    
  
Last year, the President signed an executive order setting an ambitious
target to make half of all new light-duty vehicles sold in 2030
zero-emission vehicles, including battery electric, fuel cell electric,
and plug-in hybrid vehicles.    
  
So, tomorrow, he will invite leaders to join him in a collective goal of
50 percent ZEVs by 2030.  This will not only reduce emissions in the
transport sector, but also expand markets for a wide variety of ZEVs and
help speed a global transformation in the automotive sector.  
  
We’re also focusing on the shipping sector, which is a significant
source of emissions.  If shipping were a country, it would be the eighth
— the world’s eighth-largest emitter.   
  
Building on significant announcements at COP26 last year, as well as the
President’s leadership on green shipping corridors and other such —
other forums such as the Quad, the United States and Norway are
announcing the launch of a Green Shipping Challenge for COP27.  This
will encourage actors across the shipping value chain, from government
to ports and cargo owners, to come forward with concrete steps that will
move the sector forward towards full decarbonization.   
  
Finally, we will directly address the devastating effects that Russia’s
further invasion of Ukraine has had on the global food system.  Our new
Global Fertilizer Challenge will increase the adoption of innovative,
alternative, and efficient fertilizer, reducing agricultural emissions
while bolstering food security.  
  
Through these initiatives, President Biden is continuing his consistent
engagement with leaders while driving decisive global action to tackle
the climate crisis and advancing global energy, food, and economic
security.   
  
So with that, I’ll turn it back to \[moderator\].  
  
MODERATOR:  Thank you both for that.  We really appreciate it.  Nick,
would you mind reminding folks how to cue up a question, please?  
  
Q    Hi, guys.  Thanks so much for doing this tonight.  So, two things. 
Can we get a list of the countries invited?  I’m wondering if President
Xi of China is going to be there or if it’s just going to be his climate
envoy or minister.   
  
Secondly, can you clarify — I mean, are there — are other countries
planning to announce that they too will pick up this 50 percent ZEVs by
2030 target as well?  Or is this just something on the U.S. end that the
President will ask other countries to join?   
  
I guess, finally, if I can get — I’m just going to add a third one in
here.  You know, the bond discussions just wrapped up.  Developing
countries are bitterly disappointed that they couldn’t even get on an
agenda to discuss funding for loss and damage.  Is that just going to be
ignored at this meeting of leaders?  Is that going — is what is owed to
developing and vulnerable countries going to come up at all?  
  
Thanks.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you, Lisa.  So, I guess you are
recording this, so we will — I will read off the list of which countries
we expect to be attending tomorrow.  We have 23 participants that will
be attending that represent the major economies, as well as a select
group of countries who are announcing new climate ambition or joining
one of the five international initiatives that I had previewed here.    
  
So here are the participants/countries: Argentina, Australia, Chile,
China, Canada, the European Union as represented by the European Council
and the European Commission, Germany, Indonesia, Japan, the Kingdom of
Saudi Arabia, Mexico, Norway, Nigeria, Republic of Korea, Turkey, United
Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, Vietnam, Egypt, and France.  
  
And to your question about China, Secretary Kerry’s counterpart will be
representing China at tomorrow’s meeting.  
  
And then regarding if countries are joining any of these five
initiatives: Given the embargo for this call lifts prior to the Major
Economies Forum, we’re not in a position to specify which countries and
what these leader — what their leaders will announce tomorrow.  Again,
this is a conversation we’ll be having with those leaders.  We’ve, you
know, asked them to come join and step up to this challenge with us.   
  
But to ensure the information gets to you as quickly as possible, we
will be releasing a short readout — or it’s a factsheet.  I could share
a summary of the meeting afterwards that will actually list which
countries have joined these initial calls to action and pledges which we
continue to harvest throughout this year on the road to Sharm el-Sheikh
and then to deliver at COP27 or at the Department-of-Energy-hosted
meeting in Pittsburgh.    
  
On the issue of assisting countries to cope with the climate impact,
this is really a meeting, again, among the major economies focused
around the mitigation actions that they need to be taking.  And it will
(inaudible).  
  
But it is really — but we will be, actually, announcing an initiative
and a partnership between President Biden and President Al Sisi, the
Egyptian president.  We’ll be announcing their collaboration on an
Adaptation in Africa event.  So that’ll be one thing that — one thing we
want to be highlighting because we’ve invited Egypt.  As you know, it’s
not a major economy, but they are the COP27 presidency.   
  
I should also note we’ve also invited the U.N. Secretary General as
another participant in tomorrow’s meeting.  
  
We’ve always known that keeping pressure on, ensuring mitigation is done
by the major economies is a key pathway to working with other countries
around adaptation issues.   
  
Q    Thanks for doing the call and taking my questions.  Given \[senior
administration official\]’s commitment — comment, rather, about the
embargo and the timing of the MEF, you may not be able to address all
this, but I’m wondering how many countries are joining the GMP Energy
Pathway?  Maybe this is something \[senior administration official\] can
address as well.   
  
And then can you specify some of the commitments they’re making?  For
example, by what date must they end routine flaring?  What kind of
technical and financial resources must they commit?   
  
And on the shipping challenge, can you speak to some of the benchmarks
in that shipping challenge that’s being announced?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  You’re absolutely right that I cannot
say which countries.  We’re going to let our leaders be able to share
that news tomorrow.   
  
But I will turn it over to \[senior administration official\] to share a
bit more color to the Global Methane Pledge Energy Pathway.   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, \[senior administration
official\], and thanks for the question.   
  
First, just as context, the IEA put out a report for this MEF entitled
“The Energy Security Case for Tackling Gas Flaring and Methane Leaks”
that they just put out.  And it really summarizes how important it is
for this work to happen, including with action on oil and gas methane
alone, we can eliminate 0.1 degrees centigrade of warming by
mid-century.   
  
And so this Global Methane Pledge Energy Pathway puts to work nearly $60
million in dedicated funding to get the technical assessments done to
mobilize the billions in investment that are needed to cut oil and gas
flaring, venting, and leakage.   
  
And the IEA report also makes clear that the amount of gas that the
world flares or leaks or vents every year is equal to the annual output
of the world’s third-largest natural gas producer.  So, there’s a big
energy security benefit from addressing this climate opportunity as
well.   
  
And in terms of the membership in the Global Methane Pledge, the
inaugural members are 10 countries; that includes some of the world’s
biggest producers.  You’re going to see that they represent about half
of — sorry, about two fifths of global gas production.  And they also
are major importers that represent about half of global natural gas
imports.   
  
And you’re also going to see as part of the announcement that there’s
important steps being taken by countries like Mexico in order to address
these opportunities — both the climate and the energy security
opportunity — from cutting this waste of natural gas in oil and gas
systems.   
  
And on the shipping challenge, I don’t know — I’m sorry, what was the
question on the shipping challenge?  Or do you want to handle that,
\[senior administration official\]?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I think, Jen, that the question was:
What are the types of examples of things that are part of the shipping
challenge?  Is that accurate?  
  
Q    Yeah.  The benchmarks, the milestones, the commitments.   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So this is the shipping challenge we’re
launching tomorrow with the Norwegians.  
  
\[Senior administration official\], do you want to go into that?  I
could also list out some of the examples.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Go ahead, \[senior administration
official\].   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, we are really focusing on
encouraging the governments, ports, maritime carriers, cargo owners, and
others to put forward concrete steps to help the shipping sector on a
credible step towards full decarbonization no later than 2050.  And we
want to work together on things such as zero-emission fuel,
zero-emission bunkering and recharging capabilities, deploying low- or
zero-emissions vessels, and providing and creating the technical support
and financial support for green shipping corridors.   
  
As you saw, the President, when he was in the Indo-Pacific during the
Quad, we had the Green Shipping Task Force that’s launched by our Quad
ministers.  And that’s another area for further progress to help build
into — to help develop what exactly the specific — which ports will be
green corridors.   
  
It’s really about bringing together key shipping states to start to
build out what the corridor will look like, who’s signing up to a
corridor, and what actually will transit that corridor.    
  
I’d also refer you to Secretary Kerry.  We’ve launched a Green Shipping
Corridors principle, which is a really important first step of laying
out what are key elements to actually get down the path of a corridor. 
And we thought that was a really necessary first step.   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  And if I may, just to take us back to
methane just really quickly, I — you know, I think this is a great
example where the President has been able to sort of leverage and
reinforce progress both in the international forum and domestically,
and, sort of, toggle between the two in a way that has accelerated
progress.  
  
You know, the issue around venting and flaring really, you know, from
day one — you look at the day-one executive order that the President
issued.  The methane rulemaking effort was kicked off in that executive
order.  And from day one, including at the Leaders’ Summit in April,
within the first 100 days, this was a topic that was on the table, and
the President was making progress diplomatically.  It was a topic even
in that sort of first bilateral engagement with the Canadians just weeks
within the formation of the administration.   
  
So I think that’s a great example of it.  And I think it’s also a great
example where the President has been able to build this really broad
coalition politically, with investments being unleashed by the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to cut leaks from midstream operations,
help support some of the critical innovation in this space.   
  
And so I think, just — I think — really demonstrative of his ability to,
from day one, be pushing on something, to \[senior administration
official\]’s point, that unlocks important energy security benefits and
is really, really meaningful when we think about bending the curve on
the climate math that we face in this decisive decade.

Q    Thank you so much for doing this call.  I wanted to go back to
China and also to the previous question about the Bonn Conference.

Can you just speak directly to the relationship — you know, how you see
this relationship unfolding with China at this moment where there’s so
much tension around other issues?  Do you see Beijing as being a
productive player in this process?   
  
And could you reflect on the impact that the Ukraine war has had on all
of these efforts?  Is it accelerating these efforts?  Is it complicating
these efforts?  Just to, you know, sort of step back a little bit. 
Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you so much.  This horrible war
in Ukraine and Russia’s furthering aggression has presented a moment of
a doubling down, if you will, towards accelerating our actions on
decarbonizing transportation and other sectors, looking at efficiency of
fertilizer, and on many of our objectives that provide greater energy
security.

This moment in time has really been a moment for — for at least us with
the United States, and as you’ll see from this meeting tomorrow — it’s
an important moment for us to, frankly, double down on all of these
areas that provide greater efficiency, that underscore the importance of
clean and renewable and the climate-aligned energy transition, rather
than a global energy system that’s reliant on volatile fossil fuel
markets.

And so that’s really been one of the — I would never say a “bright
lining,” because it is a terrible tragedy that is unfolding.  But I will
say it’s been one that is definitely highlighted and shone a very bright
light on where the solutions are and what it takes to get there.

It’s going to take ambition.  It’s going to take collective action among
countries to rise to the challenge, to lean further into the energy
transition and accelerate it.  

As \[senior administration official\] mentioned, it’s these investments
in R&D, it’s this investment in technologies that are deployable today —
it was part of why the President created the — his U.S.-EU Energy
Security Task Force that he launched with President von der Leyen in
March.

It was a task force really focused about: How do you reduce gas demand
in Europe ahead of this winter, ahead of next winter? How do you
diversify Europe away from Russian fuels and to a more diversified set
of actors?

So that’s part of what has been going into this meeting with leaders
coming together.  It’s talking through what are the steps and concrete
steps and actions we’re going to take to lean into electric vehicles and
zero-emission vehicles; to move us away from a single-source fossil
fuel; ways to, obviously, work on methane.

And then in agriculture, this global call to action on looking at
alternatives to certain types of fertilizer to ensure that we are able
to grow food — grow more food with less inputs to make it more efficient
and more productive.

So, I’ll pause there.

On the issue of China, climate is still an area where we continue to
cooperate with China.  And Secretary — Special Envoy Kerry, I’ll let
\[senior administration official\] speak further to their engagements
with their Chinese counterparts.

But again, in a moment like this global — where there’s global crises,
it’s a time to come together on cooperation.  And we’re really using
tomorrow’s meeting — as you watch, it is world leaders coming together,
convened by President Biden, to discuss how important their actions are
on climate ambition in this pivotal time as we get on the road to Sharm
el-Sheikh.

So, with that, let me turn it over to \[senior administration
official\].

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, \[senior administration
official\].  Special Envoy Kerry — Special Presidential Envoy for
Climate Kerry has met with his counterpart, Xie Zhenhua, multiple times
in the last month.  And work is intensifying on the U.S.-China Glasgow
Declaration.  And we are committed to working with them on topics like
their plan to address methane emissions in China for the first time.

Of course, as with all things, China is the biggest emitter of methane
in the world.  And so, it is crucial that, for the first time, they
committed to address methane pollution through this action plan focused
on reductions in the 2020s of methane in the Chinese economy and
throughout the different sectors of the Chinese economy.  And so, we’re
working with him on that.  

And we’re also, of course, engaging on other topics, including the
energy transition and illegal deforestation with China.  So, more to
come on that front.  And it is a top priority, given that China is 30
percent of global greenhouse gas emissions and that their
nationally-determined contribution under the Paris Agreement doesn’t yet
actually address all greenhouse gases.

So, important that we continue to engage with the world on what is now
going to be 120 countries that have joined the Global Methane Pledge,
collectively committed to cut emissions at least 30 percent by 2030,
which is the minimum we need to do to keep a safer 1.5 degrees
centigrade future within reach.

The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has been very clear on
that point.  We have to not only address global energy transition, but
also tackle methane and other gases, like HFCs, in order to succeed, and
we need China to deliver on its methane plan and address all greenhouse
gases as part of our engagement with them.

MODERATOR:  Great.  Thank you again to our speakers and for all of you
for joining us tonight.   
  
As a reminder, this call is embargoed until tomorrow, Friday, June 17th
at 6:00 a.m. Eastern.   
  
Thank you.
