---
date: '2022-06-15'
published_time: 2022-06-15 18:38:42-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/06/15/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-nsc-coordinator-for-strategic-communications-john-kirby/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and NSC Coordinator for\
  \ Strategic Communications John\_Kirby"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

 3:13 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hello.  Good afternoon.  Okay.  As I’m sure you all
have seen, there has been a few important foreign policy announcements
over the last couple of days.  And so, we were unable to have a full
briefing yesterday, and I wanted to make sure you all had an opportunity
to ask some questions on all of our foreign policy news. 

So, today, we’re happy to have here, join me at the podium, Mr. John
Kirby — Admiral Kirby.  he likes to call me “Ma’am,” so I call him
“Kirby.”  I’m sure he’ll call you guys “sir” and “ma’ams” as well.  

He is the — as you all know, the National Security Council Coordinator
for Strategic Communications.  Not only does he have an extensive
military background, but he also has experience at the State Department.

And he is happy to take a few questions.  Kirby, I’m going to leave you
to it. 

MR. KIRBY:  Thank you.  Hey, everybody. 

Q    Good to see you.

MR. KIRBY:  Pardon me?

Q    Good to see you.

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, you too.  (Laughs.)

Listen, just a — just a note off the top.  I think you saw the
statement, but I think it’s worth reiterating: The President had a very
good call today with President Zelenskyy of Ukraine. 

It was an opportunity for President Zelenskyy to update President Biden
on what’s going on on the battlefield and on the ground, and to talk to
the President about Ukraine’s security requirements and capabilities
going forward.  

The President also, obviously, took this opportunity to inform President
Zelenskyy that we’re announcing today, I think you saw, a billion
dollars in additional security assistance to support Ukraine’s armed
forces in their brave defense of their country.  

Now, that includes a drawdown of security assistance valued up to $350
million — that’s where the Department of Defense pulls from their
stocks; as well as $650 million in equipment that’s provided through the
Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative funds — that’s where the Pentagon
will go out and procure material according — in that amount to then just
provide directly to Ukraine.  So, there are two different buckets of
that billion dollars. 

Now, this is the 12th time that President Biden has authorized
presidential drawdowns to help Ukraine defend its democracy.  And that
brings the total amount of security assistance that we’ve provided to
Ukraine to approximately $5.6 billion just since Russia launched its
assault in late February, and then approximately $6.3 billion since the
beginning of the Biden-Harris administration. 

The President also informed President Zelenskyy that the United States
is going to send an additional $225 million in lifesaving humanitarian
assistance to help people inside Ukraine obtain safe drinking water,
critical medical supplies, healthcare, food, shelter, and all kinds of
other essential items. 

I think you all realize the scope of the numbers of internally displaced
people just inside Ukraine, let alone the millions that have had to
leave Ukraine. 

So, since February 24th, the United States has now, then, provided more
than $914 million in humanitarian assistance to address the needs of
people in Ukraine and for those who have had to flee.  So, that’s almost
a billion dollars just in humanitarian assistance.  

And with that —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Ready?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m ready. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Who had a question?

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, sir. 

MR. KIRBY:  You bet.

Q    My question is more about the temperature in Europe surrounding as
you guys are continuing to crank up aid.  But today, President Macron
said that, at some point, Ukraine’s President will have to negotiate
with Russia.  And that seems quite different from what President Biden
and many administration officials — including, I think, you — have said
about the need of stressing not telling the Ukrainians what to do. 
Would the administration prefer the French and also other Europeans to
sort of dial down the nudging?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, I think we’ll let other foreign leaders speak for
themselves and — and for their countries and for their national
interests.  I think that’s appropriate. 

But nothing has changed about President Biden’s view here — is that
“nothing about Ukraine without Ukraine” and that Ukraine is a sovereign
country.  President Zelenskyy is the democratically elected leader of
that country, and he gets to determine how this war ends.  He gets to
determine how he defines victory and how he gets at that outcome. 

Q    Okay, just real quick, another small associated Russia question. 
Navalny confirmed today on Telegram that he was moved to a
maximum-security prison in Vladimir, I believe.  Have you guys been able
to confirm that?

And second, is there any sort of response to the Russians moving him
into even stricter confines?

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, well, we’re not — I don’t think we’re in a position to
absolutely confirm the reports.  Certainly, we’re also in no position to
refute them at this time.  Obviously, Mr. Navalny is speaking for
himself.

But I will tell you, we continue to reiterate our demand for his
immediate and unconditional release from — from being imprisoned over
spurious charges after a sham trial.  And the Russian — Russian
authorities ought to immediately end their harassment and intimidation
against him and his supporters and, again, continue to call for his
immediate and unconditional release. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Peter.

Q    I had a question about U.S. national security.  How is it that you
guys have determined that it’s in the U.S. national security interest to
ask Saudi Arabia to drill more oil instead of just letting oil companies
drill more here in the U.S.?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, I think you know, Peter, there’s some 9,000 unused
drilling permits here in the United States as well. 

Look, the oil production issue is a global issue.  And OPEC+<s>3</s> has
already increased preset increases by more than 50 percent just for July
and August.  And we’re grateful to Saudi Arabia’s leadership on that. 
But we’ve never said that — we’ve never said it’s a national security
interest that somebody has to pump more oil.  

And again, there’s — there’s unused permits here in the United States. 

Q    And — but as a national strategic issue then, how is it in the —
how much lower can we let the Strategic Petroleum Reserves get before
that becomes a problem?

MR. KIRBY:  I think I would refer to the President’s energy advisors on
something like that, Peter.  I don’t — I don’t know what the inventory
is.  But I do, you know, remind — and I think you know this — the
President did tap into the Strategic Oil Reserves to try to relieve some
of the pressure at the pump, and he’ll use a range of tools available to
him going forward. 

I think that’s about the best I can do on that. 

Q    Thanks, Karine.  I have a Saudi question.  But first, can you
comment, or what does the White House have to say, about these two
Americans that have been captured that were fighting alongside Ukrainian
forces?  They’re missing.  They are feared captured by the Russians.  

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, I can’t confirm the reports, Kaitlan.  Just was made
aware of them before I came out here.  We’ll do the best we can to
monitor this and see what we can learn about it.  And — well, without
getting into a hypothetical, obviously, if it’s true, we’ll do
everything we can to get them safely back home. 

I do think, however, that this is an important point in time to remind
that we discourage Americans from going to Ukraine and fighting in
Ukraine.  It is a war zone.  It is — it’s combat.  And if you feel
passionate about supporting Ukraine, there’s any number of other ways to
do that that are safer and just as effective.

I — we just — Ukraine is not the place for Americans to be traveling. 

Q    And has the President been made aware of these reports?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not aware that the President has been made aware of it. 
I mean, it just — it just broke — broke.  So, I don’t know.

Q    And my question on Saudi Arabia: Why not have the President go
there and just not meet with the Crown Prince?

MR. KIRBY:  The President is going to Saudi for the GCC — the GCC+3, to
be honest.  It’s nine states in the region.  There’s a big agenda there,
Kaitlan, on the Gulf Cooperation Council.  It’s counterterrorism.  It’s
climate change.  Certainly, it’s — oil production, obviously, is going
to be on the agenda.

And — and a big item on the agenda is the war in Yemen.  We got a
ceasefire now that’s been in place for two months, got extended another
two.  That’s a big deal.  That’s thousands of lives now in Yemen.  So —

Q    I understand there’s a lot to talk about.  But why — if the
President won’t even speak to the Crown Prince on the phone, why would
he go and meet with him in person?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, I was kind of getting there.  So, in addition to the
GCC meeting, there’ll be a series of bilateral discussions, as there are
on the sidelines of all cooperation councils and summits. 

He will have a bilateral meeting with King Salman and King Salman’s
leadership team.  And the Crown Prince is on that leadership team, so
you can expect that he will see the Crown Prince while he’s there.

Q    But he could ask for the Crown Prince not to be in the room, given
the CIA has concluded he authorized the murder of a reporter that lived
in Virginia.

MR. KIRBY:  He’s going to have a series of bilateral discussions with
the kings — the King and his leadership team.  The Crown Prince is the
Defense Minister of Saudi Arabia, and one would expect that he would
need to be in the room for those meetings.  

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Trevor Hunnicutt, from Reuters.  Just wanted to close the loop
first on the meeting that President Biden had with Bolsonaro of Brazil
last week. 

There has been some reporting that suggested that Biden told Bolsonaro
that he would reexamine steel tariffs — Brazilian steel tariffs — and
that Bolsonaro asked him for support in the October election against
Lula.  Are either of those things true?

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, I think we gave a pretty fulsome readout of that
meeting when — the trip that Karine — Karine was on.  I don’t have
anything more to add than what was in the readout. 

Q    (Inaudible) about those two issues, but not —

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, I’m not going to go beyond the readout.

Q    And then, on China tariffs, we know that that’s something that the
President is looking at.  Could you talk a little bit about, one, the
scope of the tariffs that he is looking at and if you expect that that
will be finalized by, say, the end of July? 

MR. KIRBY:  I would just go so far as to say is the — the President
wants to make sure that if we have tariffs in place, that they’re
serving our interests and the interests of the American people.  And —
and he wants to make sure that as he reviews the — a tariff regime, that
it’s — that it’s meeting those needs.  And I think he’s going to keep
his mind open, but I don’t have any more detail than that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ll take some in the back.  Go ahead.

Q    Thanks very much.  Two quick questions, please.  One on — following
the latest Xi-Putin call, where apparently Xi was talking about
expanding cooperation with the Russians, has — has there been any sign
so far and do you see any sign coming that China is actually helping
Russia militarily in any shape or form?

MR. KIRBY:  No.  We haven’t seen any indication that there’s been
specific military assistance provided by China to Russia.

Q    Thank you.  

And the other question: Could you give a little bit more on the
President’s comments yesterday about these grain silos being — the plans
to build grain silos on the borders of Ukraine?  What’s the timescale of
that?  And what’s the scale of that?  And how much difference would it
make?

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.  Look, I think we’re working real hard –not just with
the leadership in Ukraine, but in the region — to try to relieve the
pressure that has resulted from Mr. Putin literally weaponizing food.  

And so, the President is looking at a range of options here to — to try
to see if we can get grain out and into the market.  And that’s a —
that’s tricky business.  That’s not going to be easy.  I mean, he’s
essentially got a blockade in the Black Sea where it’s not going out by
— by sea.  So that doesn’t leave you a whole lot of other options.  And
we’re working through — with the international community to do that. 

I don’t have any additional information on options about temporary
silos, but I can tell you that, again, the President is keeping an open
mind here.  He wants to do everything he can to try to get that grain to
market.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Nadia.  Nadia.

Q    Thank you.  Hi, John.  Despite your — going back to Ukraine —
despite your announcement today of the military aid to Ukraine, it seems
that Europe is divided between two camps.  They call it the “peace
camp,” led by France and Germany, Italy; and the “justice camp,” led by
Poland and others, which is — basically, some wants Ukraine to negotiate
and others want them to continue fighting. 

Where does the United States stands?  And the fact that you keep
supplying them with weapons, does that mean that you are with Poland and
the Baltic States and others?

MR. KIRBY:  Look, the President is on the side of the people of Ukraine,
and he wants to make sure that — that we’re doing everything we can to
help Ukraine’s armed forces succeed on the battlefield and to give them
— if and when this gets to a negotiation — that they have the leverage
and the position they need in that.

But ultimately, Nadia, that’s going to be up to Mr. Zelenskyy to
determine.  He is the democratically elected leader of a sovereign
state, and their sovereignty is what’s at risk right now.  And he wants
to make sure that that sovereignty is preserved, that they — that they
get to decide what that looks like here.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    I wanted to ask you about this, sort of, ongoing question of an
investigation around the death of Shireen Abu Akleh, the Al Jazeera
journalist and U.S. citizen. 

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.  

Q    I know that Secretary of State Antony Blinken said last week that
he would look for an independent investigation.  And I was wondering if
you all could explain what type of investigation this administration
wants.  I know a number of news outlets — Washington Post, CNN, AP —
have come out for new investigations.  And then also, we’ve seen Mitt
Romney and I believe it was Jon Ossoff write a letter to the
administration calling for an investigation.  So what type of
investigation would you want?  What does an independent investigation
look like?

MR. KIRBY:  What — what we want is, obviously, for this to be fully
investigated and if there needs to be accountability had, accountability
had at the end of that investigation. 

We’ve called for thorough, complete, transparent investigations into her
death.  And we’re going to be watching this very, very closely.  I don’t
have any additional details on what an independent investigation would
look like.  

Q    (Inaudible.)

MR. KIRBY:  I just don’t have that for you today.  But I don’t want you
to walk away thinking that we don’t want this fully investigated and for
that investigation to be thorough and transparent.

Q    Is this something the President intends to discuss on his trip?  I
mean, he is going to two countries, as Kaitlan mentioned, where
journalists have recently been killed and there has been a lot of public
outcry.  And I know you all talk a lot here about press freedoms — and
I’m sure we all appreciate it — but I’m just curious how that’s going to
come up both in Israel and Saudi Arabia.

MR. KIRBY:  It means a lot to President Biden — press freedom.  And I
won’t get ahead of the President’s specific discussions on this trip.  I
can just tell you that — that his foreign policy is really rooted in
values — values like freedom of the press; values like human rights,
civil rights.  And he’s not going to be bashful about raising those
issues with any foreign leader anywhere in the world.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Last two.  <s>Justin</s>\[Jordan\] and then
Ed.  

Q    Thanks.  I want to ask you about — Turkish President Erdoğan today
said that his concerns about Sweden and Finland joining NATO have not
been assuaged.  So how much less optimistic are you now that accession
talks might begin before this month’s summit in Madrid?  And does the
U.S. plan to get more directly involved to try and resolve that dispute?

MR. KIRBY:  We’re still optimistic that — that these issues will be able
to be worked out, and that Finland and Sweden will be able to join
NATO.  Now, I couldn’t give you a date certain here and a time, but I
think we’re still optimistic that they’ll be able to work this out.  

And we know that both countries are working directly with Turkey to try
to address those concerns.  And I think — we think, at this point, it’s
better left to them as sovereign nations to do that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Ed, the last question.

Q    Two — two on Ukraine.  And welcome to the room.  Going back first
to — you talked about food and how it’s being weaponized by Putin in
Ukraine, and that there are U.S. officials starting to discuss how to
get grain and whatnot out of — 

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.

Q    — Ukraine and to the areas of the world that need it.  A big area
of that world that needs it also happens to be countries that will be at
that conference in Saudi Arabia and OPEC-producing countries.

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.

Q    Can you say any more about what’s being considered or what’s being
done, potentially, to get that out and whether — or to what extent that
agreement stretches regionally, beyond Ukraine and the United States
being concerned about it?

MR. KIRBY:  What I can say is that we’re working very hard inside the
international community here to try to find solutions.  And, you know,
you’ve heard us talk about this quite some time, and I talked about it
even from my previous perch at the — at the Pentagon.  It’s difficult to
do when you’re talking about a country that’s at war.  I mean — and
we’ve already seen the ability of the Russians to strike long-range
targets all the way to the west of — in the country.  

So this has to be — everybody has — everybody understands the sense of
urgency here and the importance of it, but there also has to be some
very careful thought put into how you’re going to do this.  And you’re
going to have to have international cooperation and support to do it,
particularly if you’re looking at ground routes. 

So, while I don’t have a specific plan to brief you today, or a set of,
you know, options here, I can assure you that, again, the President is
keeping an open mind.  He’s working directly with his interlocutors
around the world to try to find ways to get this grain to market.  

We all understand how important it is.  We’re all mindful of the sense
of urgency here, not just from an economic perspective, but from — from
a humanitarian perspective.  I mean, this — this is food.  This is —
this is sustenance for people and their livelihoods.  

So we’re working it really, really hard.

Q    Potentially (inaudible) especially in North Africa and the Middle
East politically (inaudible).

MR. KIRBY:  I mean, well, around the world, certainly, but in the region
and in North Africa. 

Q    One other.  You mentioned all the money that’s being distributed
and the — a billion more today.  Does the White House currently foresee
the need for Congress at some point to pass another major
multi-billion-dollar aid package (inaudible)?

MR. KIRBY:  You know, I don’t think we’re there yet.  I mean, we’re just
now beginning to spend on the $40 billion supplemental that Congress
approved, and we’re grateful for that, of course.

You will see additional packages coming on — on a fairly routine basis
here.  And we want to meter it out so that we’re in lockstep with the
Ukrainians and where they are on the battlefield and what they need in
real time.  

That’s why conversations like today with President Zelenskyy are so
important; the contact group that Secretary Austin is hosting right now
in Brussels — 50-some odd nations;  also putting forward other materials
for security assistance.  

But you need to do it — because it’s a war and it’s active combat, and
it changes from day to day, you kind of need to do it in almost real
time. 

So we’re going to meter these out over time to — so that we’re
appropriately meeting what Ukraine needs.  And right now, I just don’t
think we’re at a stage where we think we need to go back for more at
this time.  

Q    But in terms of that $40 billion, none of it has been spent yet? 
Or —

MR. KIRBY:  Well, we just announced — we just announced that —

Q    So that is part of it?

MR. KIRBY:  This billion is coming right out of that.

Q    That’s (inaudible) also part of (inaudible).

MR. KIRBY:  Yes, sir.  Yes, sir.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.

Q    Mr. Kirby, is the President tracking negotiation in Ethiopia?  We
know that more people have died there than in Ukraine.

MR. KIRBY:  You know, I’m going to have to take that question, and we’ll
see if we can get you a better answer.  I don’t know.

Q   Thanks. 

Q   Thanks for coming.

MR. KIRBY:  Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  All right, guys.  Okay, I have a couple of
things for you at the top.

So, I wanted to provide you an update on our work to lower gas prices
for American people.  As you know, the President has taken historic
actions to address Putin’s price hike at the pump.  He is releasing — he
is releasing a record 1 billion barrels of oil a day from the Strategic
Petroleum Reserve.  He has rallied our partners to join releasing an
additional 240 million barrels of oil.  He expanded access to E-15,
which will lower prices at thousands of gas stations.  

But oil companies need to step up too.  And the President made that
clear in a letter to major U.S. oil refiners today.  And I have a chart
behind me. 

In a time of global crisis, oil companies should be doing everything
they can to expand capacity and lower costs at the pump.  Instead, they
are charging record profits at the expense of American families.  The
last time the price of crude oil was $120 a barrel, the price of gas
was425 cents a gallon.  Today, it’s about 75 cents higher.  
  
As you can see through the chart behind me here, that difference is a
result of company’s record-high profit margins for refining oil.  Profit
margins have tripled — you can see it right there at the end over here —
since the beginning of — of the year.  So right here, as you see, diesel
and gas.  
  
They should be putting those record profits into expanding refining
capacity from — back to pre-pandemic levels. 

President Biden is putting a spotlight on this and calling on oil
refiners to invest those records — those record profits to increase
capacity so cost at the pump could come down.  
  
He is signaling that he is prepared to use any emergency tools he has,
but these companies have a responsibility to step up too.  We are
focused on getting to solutions.  
  
We are also closely monitoring the extreme heat conditions impacting
many Americans across the country, and the President has been briefed
regularly, including today.  
  
Federal agencies are working with state and local partners to provide
clear, accessible, and timely information on extreme heat and how people
can protect themselves.  
  
We are also protecting workers, including through a new administration
initiative to proactively inspect over 70 high-risk industries in areas
under a heat warning or advisory.  
  
Our team is also in contact with the Department of Interior on the
horrific and catastrophic floods at Yellowstone National Park, and the
President was briefed about this as well today.    
  
We are grateful for the brave and swift work of federal and state first
responders to help get people in Yellowstone National Park and in
surrounding communities to safety.  
  
We know the impacts of extreme weather are intensifying and no one is
immune from climate change, as you hear us talk about for this past year
and a half.  That is why President Biden has made tackling climate
crisis one of his top priorities.  
  
Today as well, we are also commemorating the 10-year anniversary of
DACA, which President Biden considers one of his proudest moments,
accomplishments with President Obama when he was then Vice President.  
  
President Biden shared a video messaging — message marking the
anniversary.  And Vice President Harris, the First Lady, and Ambassador
Susan Rice are also hosting meetings with DREAMers and DACA recipients
here at the White House.  
  
In 10 years, DACA has transformed the lives of hundreds of thousands of
young people who were brought here as children who only know America as
their home.  
  
DREAMers contribute to their community in ways big and small.  They are
on the frontlines of the pandemic.  Others are job creators and
entrepreneurs.  Many serve in our military.  
  
The President is committed to preserving and fortifying DACA.  But as he
said in his State of the Union Address, we need to “provide a pathway to
citizenship for DREAMers,” and he continues to call on Congress to pass
a bill that does just that.  And he would be ready to sign it right
away.  
  
Finally — this is the last thing here — following today’s briefing — we
know we have to gather at — for — you all have to gather at 3:45, so
I’ll try and take as many questions as possible.  The President will
sign an executive order advancing equality for LGBTQI+ individuals,
which includes historic steps to support LGBTQI+ families and
children.  
  
The E- — the EO directs federal agencies to address extreme legislative
attacks, help put an end to conversion therapy, improve mental health
care and prevent youth suicide, launch a new initiative to protect
foster youth and prevent homelessness, and more.  
  
These are historic actions that build on the progress we have made
advancing equality of LGBTQI+ Americans and people around the world, but
the federal government can and most — it can and must do more —
critically by Congress passing the Equality Act.  
  
The President will renew his call for Congress to send a bill to his
desk.  
  
And with that, Aamer, you want to take this?  
  
Q    Yes.  Fed officials expect the unemployment rate will rise to 3.9
percent next year as they move to lower inflation.  Does the White House
think slightly higher unemployment is an acceptable trade-off to fix
inflation?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I mean, here’s the reality that we’re in, and the
facts are: We brought unemployment down below 4 per- — 4 percent. 
You’ve heard, most recently, at 3.6.  Four years faster than forecasters
thought was possible before we passed the American Rescue Plan, which
was over a year ago, back in last April of 2021.  
  
Part of that means a transition over the course of the next year.  We
have added an average of more than 400,000 jobs per month in recent
months to something closer — like a cooldown, if you will — to the range
of 150,000 jobs per month.  
  
That would be consistent with the unemployment rate as low as it is now,
with the 3.6.  That will be a good thing and a sign of a healthy
economy, and also a transition as we are going — as we are headed
towards.  
  
Let me just call people I haven’t called on yet.  Go ahead.    
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  In the letter from the President to the oil
refinery — the refiners, he said they need to work with the
administration to bring about a near-term solution.  Is there an “or
else” in there from the President?  Is there some way that the
administration plans to try to hold these companies accountable?  You
used the word “responsibility” in your message at the top here.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Right.  We see it as a patriotic duty, as we’re — as
we are — as we’ve talked about.  There’s war happening right now in
Ukraine that was caused by — caused by Russia, which is why we’re seeing
these hikes in gas prices.  Especially since — since Russia has amassed
— started amassing troops on the border, we saw a — we’ve seen a $2
increase of gas prices.  
  
So, we know where to put the blame: on the war.  But oil companies, they
have — oil refineries, they have a responsibility too.  What they have
been doing is taking advantage of the war.  
  
And as — as I showed earlier, they have tripled — tripled their — their
income.  And so, this is a problem.  But what we’re trying to do — by
putting out the letter, we’re saying, “Hey, we need you to act.  It is
time to act.”  We want to have a conversation.  We want to come to a
solution.  There is going to be a conversation later this — this week, I
believe, with the Energy Department.  And so that’s going to happen.  
  
So this is basically a bit of a “Hey, we want — we want you to act. 
It’s time to act.”  We have done our part with the Strategic Petroleum
Reserve — the one — the 1 million a day for the next six months, and so
we need them to act.  
  
So that’s where we are.  We want to come to solutions, which is why we
say we want to have that conversation.  And we will see where it goes
from there.

Q    And is there something the President is considering to compel them
or a consequence if that does not happen?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I don’t have anything right now to preview as to
what would come — what would come next.  But what I will say is that we
are — we are calling on them to do the right thing, to be patriots here,
and not to use the war as an excuse or as a — as a reason to not put —
to not put out a production, not — to not do the capacity that is needed
out there so that the prices can — so that the prices can come down.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    On the economy —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, I probably should have called on somebody who I
haven’t called on, but go ahead.  
  
Q    Just very quickly —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Really quickly.  
  
Q    — Atlanta Fed economic forecast puts real GDP growth for the second
quarter at 0.0 percent now.  With the United States potentially on the
knife’s edge of a ‘70s-style stagflation kind of period, I’m curious
about, kind of, your policy preferences.  
  
Do you expect that the administration will prioritize stimulus to get
growth higher and curtail unemployment?  Or do you think that you will —
you will continue to favor deficit reduction to get inflation down?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, the President laid out in his — in his
Wall Street Journal op-ed very recently what he’s doing, the points that
he’s taking to make sure that we are fighting inflation, attacking
inflation.    
  
One of them is giving the Fed its independence and — and allowing them
to deal with inflation under their purview.  They have the best monetary
policies to do that.  And so we want to give that independence there.  
  
And, of course, he has taken actions, as I said early on in in the
beginning of the briefing, on things that will help ease that — ease the
cost for families.  We understand gas prices are high.  We understand —
the President understands what it means to have food prices.  
  
Again, that’s connected to Putin’s war against Ukraine and them
attacking another country’s sovereignty.  That’s what we’re seeing
happening there.  
  
And so we’re going to continue to do everything that we can.  We feel
that we are in a transition right now from a economic — historic
economic growth — recovery.  And so, going into that transition with
stability and steady — steady growth, we feel that’s going to help with
inflation.  
  
So, we’re going to just focus on the points that the President laid out
in his — in his op-ed.  
  
I’m going to — I’m going to move on so I can get other people.  
  
Q    It’s okay.  Go back.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You sure?  
  
Q    I’m fine.  Yeah.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, my gosh.  Okay, I’m going to — let me get — I’m
going to get you, and then I’ll start moving around so I can be done
with the first row.  (Laughs.)  
  
Q    Are there other industries that you think need to step up in a
patriotic fashion to try to help reduce inflation or costs for
Americans?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t — I — there’s not a list that I have right
now for you.  Right now, we want to focus on the oil refinery, which is
why we put out the letter today, or yesterday.  I’m losing my — my track
of time.  
  
And so, we see that as an important first step in making sure that the
oil refineries are doing their — their part — again, patriotic duty — in
making sure that they’re putting out capacity and they’re not taking
advantage of a — of a war that is hurting the American public.

And so we’re going to have — hopefully, we’re going to have — we’re
going to have a conversation, we’re going to get to a solution and move
this forward.

Q    The President often talks about being a capitalist, and, obviously,
market forces drive a lot of that.  So how would he find the balance
between trying to encourage them to do more without looking like he is
trying to move a sector of the private industry?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, the facts are the facts, Kelly O. 

We — what we have seen is they are not — their capacity is not there. 
And they — from the chart — they are using this moment — using this
moment of war where the American — where American families are feeling —
are feeling the high costs with food and gas.  I mean, that is not a
patriotic thing to do.

And the person — the President has the right to call them out.  And so,
he’s using his perch.  He’s using this opportunity that he has to make
sure that — he always said he’s going to use every lever that he can to
make sure he’s delivering for the American people.  And that’s what he’s
— he’s going to try and do at this point.  Thank you.

Go ahead.

Q    Progressives in Congress are calling for the passage of a windfall
profits tax targeting the oil and gas sector.  What’s the President’s
position on that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I don’t have a position for you to share — to
share at this time on that.

Q    When we talk to oil analysts, they say that one thing we all ought
to be concerned about is the prospect of a hurricane hitting refineries
on the Gulf Coast.  Are you aware of any steps the administration is
taking now to gird against that possibility?  

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything on a hurricane at this moment —
like what we’re going to do to take steps on hurricane and oil
refinery.  I’m happy to check in with the team and get back to you to
see if there’s a pla- — a plan in place.  But I don’t have anything for
you at this time.

Q    One more quick thing because I know you got to go. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.  Sure, sure.

Q    The country’s refineries are aging.  A major refinery really hasn’t
been built in this country since the late 1970s.  If one were to be
proposed, would the President support the construction of a new refinery
or oppose it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That would — I have not seen any of that reporting. 
And that is not something that I can confirm from the podium at this
time.  Okay?

Do you want to go, Andrew?

Q    Thanks.  Let’s just try one more time on the refinery issue. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    In the letter, the President said that he’s “prepared to use all
reasonable and appropriate federal government tools and emergency
authorities to increase refinery capacity.”  What are those tools
exactly that he has? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, he is open to all reasonable uses of the
federal government’s tools to increase output and lower costs at the
pump, including emergency authorities like the Defense Production Act. 

Already, the President has demonstrated his willingness to use that
emergency powers to lower costs for families.  As I’ve mentioned, the
petroleum — the Strategic Petroleum Reserve — as we’re using right now
to get — to get oil every day to make sure we’re — we’re doing
everything we can to lower costs; the ethanol 15 — the homegrown
biofuels that is going to help many, many families across the country,
including in the Midwest.  So, that’s a way that the President has
acted.  

And so, he is going to auth- — he authorized the use of DPA to
accelerate domestic production of key energy technologies, as well. 

And so, the letter — just to put — put in context for a second — the
letter is intended to solicit companies’ best ideas on how to increase
capacity and how the government can help them do it in the spirit of the
earnest and pragmatic dialogue.  

But we feel like this is a good step for us to move forward, and
hopefully we’ll come and get some solutions.

Q    So are you saying he could use the Defense Production Act to expand
capacity?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, we’re — we — I don’t have anything to share
specifically how we would use the DPA, but we’re saying that the
President has used it before and he’s willing to do that again. 

But the first — the first step that he wants to do is make sure to have
the conversation and hear ideas — right? — from the oil refineries how
we can be — how we can be helpful to them to actually get more capacity
out.  

Q    If you want to take one more.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ll take — I’ll take like two more.  I’ll take two
more.

Go ahead. 

Q    Thanks very — thanks very much.  We’re just about to go into a
Pride event, obviously.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah. 

Q    We know that Saudi officials have been seizing rainbow-colored toys
and clothing as part of an apparent crackdown on homosexuality in the
country there.  That’s according to state-run media. 

I wonder what the White House response is to that, given that the
President is about to set up his Pride credentials in the next event.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I have not seen that reporting.  But what I can
say: Globally, we work around the globe to protect LGBTQI+ persons from
violence and abuse, criminalization, discrimination, and stigma and —
and empower local LGBTQI+ movements and persons.  

We do this through bilateral and multilateral channels, raising official
concerns with governor — governments, both <s>principal</s> \[publicly\]
and privately; coordinating our efforts with likeminded countries; and
offering emergency assistance to LGBTQI+ persons at risk. 

Through our foreign assistance program — programming, we support civil
society in providing LGBTQI+ individuals and communities with tools and
resources to prevent, mitigate, and recover from violence,
discrimination, and stigma.  

We see human rights as being universal. 

I’m going to take one last more.

(Cross-talk by reporters.)

Well, I’m going to take one last one.  I’m going to take one last one. 

Go — go ahead.  Go ahead.

Q    Jamal Khashoggi’s fiancé said today she was, quote, “very
disappointed” President Biden plans to meet with Saudi Crown Prince
Mohammed bin Salman.  She said in a message to the President, quote, “If
you have to put oil over principles and expediency over values, can you
at least ask, ‘Where is Jamal’s body?’” and, quote, “‘What happened to
his killers?’”

So will President Biden ask the Crown Prince these questions?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You know, first, I want to say — you know, just
hearing that — it’s devastating, right?  It is — it is Jamal Khashoggi’s
widow.  And so, clearly, our hearts go out to her and the pain that
she’s currently going through.  

You know, when it comes to human rights, this is not something — the
President is a straight shooter.  This is not something that he’s afraid
to talk about.  He has those conversations — leader-to-leader
conversations on a regular basis.  

I cannot read out right now or lay — or lay out what the agenda is going
to be or what the conversations are going to be.  But I can assure you —
I can assure you that when it comes to human rights, this is something
that is a priority for this President.

I just laid out how — at the end of talking about the LGBTQI+ community
— how human rights is universal, and that is very, very true in — in
many ways. 

And so, I — once we have more to share, we’ll share more about what the
trip will look like. 

Okay, I have to go.  

Q    Karine, can I just follow on that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I got to go, guys. 

(Cross-talk by reporters.)

I got to go, guys.  

3:50 P.M. EDT
