---
date: '2022-06-06'
modified_time: 2022-06-07 13:25:02-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-06 20:24:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/06/06/background-press-call-previewing-the-presidents-agenda-for-the-9th-summit-of-the-americas/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call Previewing the President\u2019s Agenda for the 9th Summit\
  \ of the\_Americas"
---
 
Via Teleconference

6:11 P.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  Hello, everyone.  Thank you so much for joining us this
evening.  I appreciate you joining us for the call.

You’ll be hearing from \[senior administration official\].  He will be
background.  So when you refer to him, please use “senior administration
official.”  But of course, when you’re talking to him, you can call him
\[senior administration official\] right now.

I will let you know when the embargo breaks, which will be after this
call.  So please hold until then.

And without further ado, I will turn it over to \[senior administration
official\].

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  Thanks very much.  And thanks,
everybody, for joining on the call.  The goal with this call for us is
to help outline the President’s agenda during the summit this week and
give some perspective on why we believe the summit is an important forum
for engagement and discussion with leaders of the various countries
involved, with civil society, and then obviously with the private sector
as well.

We know there’s been a significant focus on participation, and we
provided a lot more information about that earlier today, but I think we
believe that it is well warranted that there should be a significant
focus on the substance of the summit as well.  And so we wanted to start
laying out how all this is likely to proceed during the course of the
week.

So, the President is looking forward to hosting the Ninth Summit of the
Americas.  The summit is an opportunity for us to come together as a
hemisphere to tackle some of the top concerns of the people in the
region, including obtaining and sustaining economic prosperity, climate
change, the migration crisis, and the COVID-19 pandemic.

President Biden has a long track record, as I know everyone knows, of
personal engagement in the Western Hemisphere, starting from his time in
the U.S. Senate.  During the Obama-Biden administration, he was the
administration’s point person for diplomacy within the Western
Hemisphere.

He worked to realize his vision of a hemisphere that is, and I’ll quote,
“middle class, secure, and democratic, from Canada to Chile and
everywhere in between,” end quote.  And he made more than 16 trips to
the hemisphere as Vice President.

So what will be achieved at the summit?

So the theme, as I think many of you know, is “Building a Sustainable,
Resilient, and Equitable Future,” as the United States and regional
governments worked hard over the last several months to negotiate
hemispheric consensus on political commitments in five key areas:
democratic governance, health and resilience, climate change and
environmental sustainability, the clean energy transition, and digital
transformation.

There will be five documents that will be released, reflecting an
ambitious hemispheric consensus on everything from support for civil
society to promoting digital connectivity.

But I want to focus on what you can expect during the week from the
President and other members of the administration.

Starting tomorrow, Tuesday, the focus will be on building strong and
inclusive democracies, where you can expect the following:

The Vice President will make progress on her Call to Action in Central
America, which has already raised more than a billion dollars in private
sector commitments.  She will also announce the Women’s Empowerment
Initiative, among other announcements.

The Department of State will announce the Digital Agenda for
Transformation in the Americas, DATA, to expand access to technology, as
well as an initiative promoting independent media and information
integrity.

We will also announce a Cities Forward Initiative, designed to expand
economic opportunities by providing technical support and resources to
mayors who are on the frontlines of many of the core challenges facing
the hemisphere.

On Wednesday, the theme will be investments in the region’s health and
prosperity.  That is also when the President will arrive in Los Angeles
and deliver a policy speech at the inaugural ceremony.

I’ll make a few points on what you should expect from the President.

So, the President will announce the Americas Partnership for Economic
Prosperity — or the “Americas Partnership,” as we call it — as part of
our efforts to promote an equitable recovery in a hemisphere that is
still reeling from the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic.

The Americas Partnership will focus on the following five areas:

First, reinvigorating regional economic institutions and mobilizing
investment.  Second, investments to update the social contract between
governments and their people.  Third, resilient supply chains.  Fourth,
decarbonization, biodiversity, and clean energy jobs.  And fifth,
sustainable and inclusive trade.

The overall objective is to build our economies from the bottom up and
the middle out by building on the foundation established by our free
trade agreements with the region to better address inequality and lack
of economic opportunity and equity.

As a part of the Americas Partnership, the President will put forward an
ambitious reform of the Inter-American Development Bank, IDB, to better
address the region’s development challenges.

Because the private sector has a central role to play, the United States
will also seek an equity stake in IDB Invest — the bank’s private sector
lending arm — to support the deployment of private capital and to help
direct it where it will have the most impact.

The President will also announce well over $300 million in assistance
for the region in food insecurity.  And with some of the biggest food
producers in the hemisphere, he will commit to working together to
address food insecurity in the Americas.

The President will announce ambitious initiatives in health.  In
addition to the nearly 70 million vaccines donated by the United States
within the hemisphere — without any strings attached — it’s going to be
important that we also work with the countries of the region to prepare
for future pandemics by supporting health workers and increasing their
number, and bringing governments and the private sector together to
support the manufacturing and production of vaccines right here in the
hemisphere.

In advance of the Vice President’s meeting on Thursday with the
Caribbean community, the President will announce a partnership on
climate, resilience, and adaptation with a region that looks to address
the challenges of a region of the Americas that being, you know, mostly
middle- or high-income is often left out by many of the development
tools used by the G7, the G20, and the multilateral development banks to
address many of these challenges.

Finally, on migration, the President will also preview a meeting he will
hold on Friday with regional governments to sign the Los Angeles
Declaration on Migration, which is an unprecedented and ambitious step
by the United States and regional partners to work together to address
the migration crisis in a comprehensive manner.

This is an idea that is closely tied to the economic agenda — an
initiative that is closely tied to the economic agenda.  And the
President will also be explaining that, over the last several months, he
has mobilized leaders around a whole new plan that is centered on
responsibility-sharing and economic support for countries that have been
most impacted by refugee and migration flows.  

To close out Thursday, the focus will be on energy security and climate
smart recovery, which as I’d mentioned will include the Vice President’s
meeting with the Caribbean as well as the participation of Special Envoy
John Kerry at the CEO Summit.

Finally, Friday will focus on food security and collaborative migration
management with the LA Declaration that I just mentioned. 

As you’ll see starting tomorrow, the President is going to use the
summit of the Americas to align regional leaders, the private sector,
and civil society behind this new and ambitious agenda, starting with
the economic agenda for the region.

And the summit is bringing thousands of people together to focus on some
of the most important shared challenges and opportunities facing the
hemisphere.  There is no other part of the world and it is really why we
are doing this — there is no other part of the world that impacts the
security and prosperity of the United States more directly than the
Western Hemisphere.  We are joined not just by geography but also by
economic ties, by democratic principles, by cultural connections, and by
familial bonds. 

And the summit is an opportunity for all of us to work towards
addressing the core challenges that people in the region are facing,
including here in the United States.

And with that, I’ll turn it back over. 

Q    Hello.  Thank you for doing this.  My question would be: How
confident are you that these goals that have been set, especially the
migration goal, will be met without a dialogue with the leaders of the
countries that are most affected, especially after, like, President
López Obrador from Mexico said today that he wasn’t coming? 

We don’t have, like, leaders from Central American countries coming, so
it seems that there won’t be, like, a bilateral negotiation with these
leaders and it won’t be possible to have, like, a presidential dialogue
there.  So, I wanted to know how confident you are that you can make
advances regarding these absences.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks for the question.  So, we are
very confident that the countries that will sign on to the Declaration
on Migration will be committed to its goals.  And that includes — just
to clarify, that includes Mexico.  The Mexican government will be
represented at the ministerial level by the Mexican Foreign Minister in
Los Angeles.  The Mexican government has been a full participant in the
development of the migration initiatives that will be rolled out later
this week.  And we believe in every way that they are fully committed to
it.

And so, you know, I think you’re aware of what the rough numbers are at
this point in terms of participation, including a significant number of
participants at the head of state level.  And many of the countries that
are not participating at the head of state level will be sending
significant delegations to engage on all of these deliverables that I’ve
described, including the migration deliverable.

And we expect most, if not all, of the countries that are significantly
impacted by the migration crisis to be engaged on that topic with us at
the summit, whether they’re represented by a head of state or not.

Q    Yes, thank you for doing this.  Can you clarify: As Interim
President, Juan Guaidó was personally invited to attend the summit, and
there have been reports that he is likely to have a video call with
President Biden.  Can you provide some more details about that?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So I don’t have a call to confirm to
you, but I do think there is a good chance that there will be
engagements with Mr. Guaidó during the course of this week. 
Representatives from the interim government of Venezuela and broader
Venezuelan civil society will participate.  They were invited to the
stakeholder forums and other events, but they will not participate in
the formal summit program.

The United States continues to recognize Mr. Guaidó, as you said, as the
Interim President of Venezuela.  And when we have more to say about a
possible engagement, we will let you know.

Q    Thank you.  So, here’s my question about the — you said the
security of the — no region was more important to the security of the
United States than this hemisphere.  So I guess that follows two
questions.  One is, you know, the United States and this administration
rallied the Congress to spend $40 billion in support of Ukraine.  How
come the United States isn’t, you know, providing the same kind of
financial support to rebuilding the parts of the hemisphere that are in
such dire need?

And second, if you could address the inconsistency between the President
saying that he doesn’t want to invite non-democratic dictators to a
summit like this while at the same time saying that, in terms of
visiting Saudi Arabia and having engagements with MBS, he’s willing to
do that because the interests of the United States are, sort of, more
important than — you know, and you have to deal with people you don’t
necessarily like to deal with.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, Mike.  So on your assistance
question, I guess what I would say is the United States has committed
significant resources to this hemisphere, and more of those resources
will be announced during the course of the week ahead.  I flagged some
of them, but there will be others that we will roll out during the
course of the coming days.

You know, in terms of the comparison to Ukraine, some of this comes down
to congressional appropriations.  There were congressional
appropriations, including for this hemisphere, that were sought that we
are still seeking and working with Congress to obtain.

You know, I think the commitment — bipartisan commitment in the Congress
and in the administration to Ukraine, in providing the sorts of
security, humanitarian, economic assistance that Congress has
appropriated, is well understood.  And I don’t think I need to retread
that ground.  You know, Ukraine is obviously facing a very different
situation from that in our own hemisphere, thankfully, for those
countries in our region, and, you know, require significant support and
we’re providing it.

On this question of participation and how that relates to potential
future travel of the Middle East or elsewhere: So I think, you know,
we’ve said, including in the press briefing earlier today, that we don’t
have a trip to describe or announce yet, but I would point to a few
things.

One is: We have at no time said, including in discussions of
participation related to this summit, that we are severing all relations
or refusing to engage with countries about whom we have significant
concerns related to democratic governance.  We engage with countries
like that in all parts of the world, and we will engage with countries
like that in our own hemisphere when we think it’s in our interest to do
so.  That’s a different question from whether and when we’ll invite
those countries to participate in a regional gathering that we believe
is intended to and is best served by celebrating the democratic
principles that unite the vast majority of the hemisphere.

So we think it’s a bit of an apples and oranges comparison and in no way
suggests an approach that is different based on region by region.

Q    Hi there.  Thanks for doing this.  You all said today that the
President took a principled stance in choosing not to invite dictators
to the summit.  And I know Mike was just asking about this.  But you
also debated whether to invite representatives from Cuba and Nicaragua
up until the very last minute, through this weekend, is my
understanding, up until the start of the summit.  So if this was such a
principled stance that you all were taking, why was it such a tough call
for you?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So I guess this is what I would say,
which is: There are a wide range of views on this question of
participation in our own hemisphere and then even in the United States,
in our own — you know, in our own relations with our Congress and in the
public debate here in this country.

And so what we have done in recent weeks, going back almost a month now,
is consulted — consulted with our partners and friends in the region so
that we understood the contours of their views; consulted with members
of Congress who had strong views on sort of both sides of this
participation question. 

And in the end, the President decided and very much made this point in
all of the engagements that we had — we made this point in all the
engagements we had — which is that we believe the best use of this
summit is to bring together countries that share a set of democratic
principles.

And we heard from countries that had a different view of this.  You
heard earlier today from the President of Mexico who has a different
view of this.  We believe very much that Mexico’s participation in this
summit, regardless, is going to be highly consequential and constructive
and meaningful when it comes to the deliverables that are seeking.  And,
you know, we believe that the right way to go about this was to
consult. 

We’ve said from the beginning of this administration that we would take
into account the views of our partners and allies on all of the key
questions in our foreign policy.  This is no different from that.  And
we believe fundamentally in engagement with Congress on the key
questions of policy and politics as well. 

In the end, that’s where we came down, and we feel very comfortable with
the approach that we’re taking informed, again, by the consultations we
had with our — with our region and in our own political system.

Q    Hi.  Thank you for doing this.  I have two questions.  First one
is: How do you reconcile this question on democracy and the concerns on
democracy with inviting Bolsonaro for a bilateral meeting, and
remembering that we are five months from the election and Bolsonaro
keeps saying that he might not recognize the results of elections that
are considered fair for the United States?

And the second question would be: What — when is Biden meeting
Bolsonaro, and what are the talking points?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, I’m not going to preview the
contents of the meeting on this call.  I think you’ll understand why
that would be the case.  We’ll have more to say about that during the
course of the week. 

But, look, I guess what I would say about the decision to do a meeting
is that President Bolsonaro is the democratically elected leader of
Brazil, a country with whom the United States shares a significant set
of common interests and concerns. 

We obviously also have some disagreements with the president and the
government of Brazil that will also be the subject of what I’m sure will
be a candid conversation between the two leaders.  This is, frankly,
what international relations is all about.  And I don’t think anybody
should be shocked by the fact of the meeting.  In our view, it’s very
much in our interest to do that, and we’re looking forward to the
conversation.

Q    Hi.  Thank you very much for doing this.  It was just mentioned
that President Biden will be having a bilateral meeting with Bolsonaro. 
Can you preview other bilateral meetings that the President will be
having during the summit?

And my second question is about something you mentioned before — that
the President will be announcing over $300 million for assistance for
food security in the region.  Could you please elaborate a little bit on
that?  Thank you. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, there will be factsheets and other
significant details provided on the deliverables during the course of
the week.  And I’m not going to get beyond where I’ve gone in terms of
detail at this point. 

In terms of bilateral meetings, we will have more to say about those. 
The President will do a set of bilateral meetings, but we are not yet
confirming them at this point.  And so, again, I’m sorry, but on that,
you also have to wait until a bit later in the week when we can lay
those out.

Q    Hi.  Thank you so much for doing this.  I just want to see how you
would say — is the White House disappointed that Mexico decided not to
go?  Is it considered disrespectful for López Obrador to try to tell the
White House or the U.S. who to invite and who not to invite to a
summit?  And talking immigration without Mexico, there is — it’s a big
challenge.  So I just wanted to see how the President sees it and how
the bilateral relationships are going to continue despite what happened.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Look, I guess all I’ll say about this
is: Mexico is a sovereign country; the President has been clear that he
will treat Mexico and Mexico’s President with respect, as an equal
partner in a very consequential and important relationship. 

We had a disagreement about this particular question of participation in
the Summit of the Americas.  But broadly, we are committed, as we
believe the Mexican government is, to working constructively on a
significant set of issues that we share an interest, that we can advance
together, including the economic relationship, including migration.  We
think that is why the government of Mexico will participate in the
summit at a high level — at the level of Mexico’s Foreign Minister; why
we expect the two presidents to engage directly, to see each other later
in the summer. 

And, you know, the fact that they disagree about this issue is now very
clear.  But beyond that, you know, we see this as a Mexican sovereign
decision that we just disagree with.

Q    Hi.  Thank you for doing this.  Building on my colleagues: How do
you project confidence in the commitments that will be agreed to at the
summit if key heads of state are not in attendance? 

And then, just to provide some context in terms of how do you see these
commitments in the short term, medium term, and long term: Are you
thinking about these declarations and documents as something that’ll
happen over the course of years?  Do you have more short-term objectives
— or medium-term, for that matter?  Thanks. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks.  So, look, again, we think
there will be a significant number of heads of government.  I think we
gave the number earlier today.  I think as of now, 23 is what we
expect.  You know, some of this may still fluctuate, but that’s the
number that we’re expecting at this point, and that’s just heads of
government from this hemisphere.  And that is very much in line with, if
not above, some of the historical precedents for this summit. 

So we think there will be the opportunity to do significant business
with a highly consequential group of leaders of the countries in the
region.  And those that are not represented by their heads of
government, many of them will be represented at high levels by other
government officials. 

And so we really do expect that the participation will not be in any way
a barrier to getting significant business done at the summit.  In fact,
quite the opposite: We are very pleased with how the deliverables are
shaping up and with other countries’ commitments to them.

In terms of the short-term, medium- and long-term dimension of your
question: I think the answer to that is “all of the above.”  We very
much have a set of near-term objectives that we are trying to advance
through the summit.  I went through them during the course of my remarks
at the very beginning. 

But many of these issues are issues that are going to be with us for
some time, including for years to come.  And so, part of this summit is
about building and strengthening, sort of, our foundation with our key
partners on these issues that are most consequential for the countries
and for the people of the region.  And we expect to use that platform to
continue to make progress during the course of the rest of this term and
beyond.

MODERATOR:  All right, everyone.  That concludes our question-and-answer
period.  I just want to say thank you again for attending. 

Remember that attribute — you can attribute what you’ve heard today to a
“senior administration official.”  And once we hang up the call, the
embargo is broken. 

  
6:37 P.M. EDT
