---
date: '2022-06-08'
modified_time: 2022-06-09 14:36:13-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-08 19:35:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/06/08/background-press-call-previewing-the-summit-of-the-americas-climate-deliverables/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call Previewing the Summit of the Americas Climate\_Deliverables"
---
 
Via Teleconference

7:40 P.M. PDT

MODERATOR:  Thank you so much.  And good evening, everyone.  Thank you
so much for joining us today.  For those on the East Coast, appreciate
joining so late.  And apologies for that scheduling, but really
appreciate you tuning in.

Before I turn it over to my colleagues, I just wanted to remind everyone
of the ground rules.  As noted, this call is on background, attributable
to a “senior administration official.”  And we will lift the embargo
tomorrow morning at 8:00 a.m. Eastern, 5:00 a.m. Pacific.

I will kick it over to my colleagues who will provide brief remarks, and
then we will take your questions at the end of the call.

And with that, I’ll kick it over to \[senior administration official\].

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  Thank you so much.  And thank
you all for joining us this evening.  Pretty excited to be here, so
let’s get to it.

Tomorrow, President Biden will affirm the U.S. commitment to building an
enduring hemispheric partnership to address climate change, create jobs,
and advance energy security.  So I’d like to take a quick moment to
share a few of the initiatives that will be shared tomorrow.

First, we will take steps to strengthen the clean energy economy in the
Americas by committing to promoting trade and investment in clean energy
and encouraging regional collaboration through the Renewable Energy for
Latin America and the Caribbean, or so-called RELAC.

Tomorrow, we look forward to welcoming five new countries that announced
they will work together, joining 15 countries that were already members
of RELAC, to achieve the collective target of 70 percent installed
capacity for renewable energy generation in the region’s electricity
sector by 2030.

And in recognition of the critical role that regulatory and policy
frameworks play in achieving these goals, we are also announcing our
intent to provide funding support for technical cooperation through the
National Renewable Energy Laboratory and to work with regional
development banks, private financial institutions, and other partners to
mobilize additional resources.  We will also look to mobilize financial
support to countries to achieve our climate objectives.

In response to a collective commitment from four regional development
banks to make as much as $50 billion available over the next five years
to support ambitious climate action, the U.S. is enhancing coordination
with these institutions to mobilize additional financing from the
private sector and other sources.

And in recognition that forests and other critical ecosystems can
provide as much as one-third of global climate mitigation by 2030, by
reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation, and by
enhancing the carbon sequestered from the atmosphere through forest
restoration, the U.S. will announce its intent to provide support to
Brazil, Colombia, and Peru through an initiative called Amazonia
Connect.

Amazonia Connect is an initiative that will contribute to the
President’s plan to conserve global forests, critical carbon sinks that
he launched at COP26 last year.  And this plan is focused around
reducing carbon emissions from these critical carbon sinks.  And in
particular, the Amazonia Connect will be focused around reducing
commodity-driven deforestation and associated greenhouse gases from the
agricultural supply chains, while conserving biodiversity, improving
livelihoods, and enhancing climate resilience.

Our hemisphere is facing devastating impacts and costs of climate
change.  And these actions, and those that my colleagues will speak
about next, will help us and our partners tackle the climate crisis
while harnessing the opportunity for countries in the region to create
good-paying jobs, grow clean energy economies, and build resilient
communities.

So, now I’ll pass it off to \[senior administration official\].

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, \[senior administration
official.  Thanks, everybody, for joining.  So, \[senior administration
official\] just gave you a good laydown of the overall administration
approach on climate and energy, and I’d like to zero in more
specifically on something we’re going to launch for the Caribbean, that
the Vice President will launch in her meeting tomorrow on climate and
energy.

The Vice President, tomorrow, will meet with Caribbean leaders here in
Los Angeles.  She’ll be meeting with all of the heads of delegation of
the countries from CARICOM, plus the Dominican Republic, as well as the
CARICOM Secretary General, Dr. Barnett.  This is a group that the Vice
President met with already.  She convened them virtually on April 29th
to discuss a range of topics, and one of which — one of the focuses of
the meeting was the climate crisis.

As part of that meeting, the Vice President began discussions among this
group on specific areas where we can partner when it comes to clean
energy transition and climate resilience.  These were issues raised by
the CARICOM leaders and Dominican Republic as of particular importance
to them.  She heard directly from them on their concerns and
priorities.  And what she told them is that we intended to respond by
launching new initiatives to be responsive to those concerns and
priorities.

And since that time — you know, the past six weeks or so — our teams
have been in close touch with the countries of the region and our
experts within the U.S. government developing the specifics of a plan. 
And as the President said in his remarks at the Inaugural Ceremony
earlier today, the Vice President will officially launch the U.S.
Caribbean Partnership to Address the Climate Crisis, or PACC 2030.

There are two core points of emphasis in this initiative.  One is to
strengthen energy security.  Most of the members of the Caribbean are
particularly dependent on energy imports.  We all know that energy
prices have been high, and this is a strain on their economies in the
wake of the COVID crisis, which was already a strain.  And so, one of
the core pillars of this initiative is to strengthen their energy
security.

And the second is to promote climate adaptation and resilience.  Again,
these are countries particularly vulnerable to the climate crisis,
whether it’s rising sea levels or mega storms that affect them even more
than many others.

And this initiative includes fresh commitments and, importantly, an
integration of all of our programs in the region.  It’s a new framework
by which we will elevate our cooperation with the Caribbean nations on
these issues.

Let me just summarize the core elements of the initiative. And you’ll
get, I think tomorrow, a factsheet that goes into much more detail on
this.  But there are really three key components to keep in mind, and
it’s important to think about how they interrelate with each other.  And
those are supporting development finance, supporting project
development, and supporting capacity building in the countries of the
region.

The first on development finance we know is a top priority for Caribbean
countries.  Even when there are projects, they need financing for these
projects.  And we’re going to work in a number of ways to facilitate
financing, to unlock finance that’s been blocked.  These will include
our development finance corporation’s financing, or increased financing
for climate and clean energy projects in underserved Caribbean
countries, and increased collaboration between various parts of our
government, including DFC, with other multilateral development banks,
including the Caribbean Development Bank, to unblock infrastructure
financing.

And those are just some examples of how we’re going to work to
facilitate access to the financing they need.

Second is identifying and supporting clean energy and climate projects. 
We will assist with project development and facilitate investments in
those projects, helping identify projects through a series of roadshows,
reverse trade missions to the Caribbean; in other words, connecting CEOs
and companies and American technologies — because, by the way, this
provides opportunities for American businesses — with Caribbean
government officials to build a pipeline of projects.  And the
initiative even includes a sort of taskforce set up at the State
Department that will bring into one place our efforts to identify and
support projects.

I’d underscore here that this — you’ve seen this type of approach led by
the Vice President in her work here at the summit, in the run-up to the
summit, and over the past year, in terms of public-private partnerships
and the efforts she’s been leading in northern Central America in the
Call to Action, which is another example of just how the Vice President
believes we can be most effective when the government works with the
private sector and civil society.  And that is — that approach is a part
of this initiative as well, where we bring the assets of the government
to bear with the private sector.

And then finally, the initiative provides support for capacity
building.  To help build the pipeline of projects, we know that we also
have to help the countries on the ground with everything from conducting
feasibility studies, to addressing regulatory issues, to execution and
implementation of the projects once they are underway.  And we will put
resources behind training people and governments on how to adapt and
strengthen their overall resilience.

Throughout all of this work, we will deepen our cooperation more broadly
with Caribbean governments.  You’ve seen the Vice President focus on
this through, as I mentioned, the multilateral meeting she had in April,
but also some bilateral meetings, and then obviously, this in-person
meeting that she’s doing here at the summit. 

We’re committed to the region, committed to strengthening our
partnership with the Caribbean. And the Vice President has committed to
host an annual meeting with these leaders so that we can stay engaged
and follow up on the commitments that we’re making here, including the
launch of PACC 2030 tomorrow.

Thanks very much.

MODERATOR:  Thank you so much, \[senior administration official\]. 
Moderator, we’ll now open it up for Q&A.

Q    Hi.  I have a question about the clean energy goal and adding more
countries to that.  Can you say what countries are going to be
contributing more towards the clean energy goals and what new steps are
going to be taken to help countries reach that goal?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  Thank you so much for that
question.  So, the countries are Barbados, Jamaica, and Guyana are
announcing their intent to join RELAC, and Argentina and Brazil are
announcing that they’re going to support the collaboration through the
RELAC platform.  So, those are the five countries that are collectively
coming together to work through the RELAC platform towards the 70
percent renewable energy goal of the initiative and the partnership
around RELAC.

In terms of the question of what are we doing in the region to help
support the deployment of clean energy as part of a key element of
energy security for the region while also meeting our global climate
objectives and goals, especially those enshrined within the Paris
Agreement, there are several different tracks that are underway.

\[Senior administration official\] mentioned the Partnership for the
Caribbean, the PACC initiative — PACC 2030 — Partnership to Address the
Climate Crisis for the U.S and Caribbean.  That’s just one element of
what we can be doing for the region, because that includes project
development, technical assistance, access to financing.

Then you also have the technical cooperation around regulatory and
policy frameworks with the National Renewable Energy Laboratory.  These
are areas we work with countries on the technical assistance to help
them achieve these targets through transmission and solar deployment and
renewables, as well.

And then there’s the areas around investing in the human capital.  And
this is through the higher education institutions and ways to provide
the workforce support for the skills that are needed for the clean
energy economy to support this.  And that is what we sought — what we
announced — we’re going to be announcing through the 100,000 Strong in
the Americas Climate Initiative, and that the other key piece to this is
really making sure the workforce is matching where the finance and the
projects are going.

Q    Hi, thank you.  One, how much money are we talking about will be
available for Caribbean countries?  And, two, Caribbean countries have
long complained that they’ve been locked out of concessional financing
because they’re considered middle income.  So, when you talk about
underserved countries, does this apply to countries currently considered
middle income in the Caribbean region that you will help with
development and financing access?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, thanks for those questions. 
We’re not putting a dollar figure on what this initiative is doing.  I
described some of the ways in which we are going to work to provide
additional finance, both from the U.S. government itself and through
working with multilateral development banks.  But that’s going to be a
process, and we couldn’t, at this point, put a dollar figure on it.

The other thing I want to really stress there is: To make this work,
it’s not just financing.  Obviously, financing is necessary, but what’s
unique and important about this initiative is the way that it pulls
together these necessary pillars, not just financing, but helping them
identify projects — and I described some of the ways in which we’re
going to do that — and then have the capacity to implement them once
discovered.

So, that will be a product of this initiative rather than some dollar
figure that we’re announcing from the start.

It does also include, and thank you for raising, the important issue of
middle- and high-income countries, which has been one of the obstacles
to financing of projects in the region.  And we are going to work to
promote concessional financing, even to countries that, by some
standards, are considered high or middle income. 

And we’re going to be particularly focused on providing assistance when
they are affected by hurricanes or other natural disasters, which
doesn’t change the way they’re categorized by these multilateral
institutions.  They can still sometimes be considered high income, but
they don’t have access to the financing they need, even though their
economies have been significantly set back.

So, both in terms of responding to economic setbacks like that, but
also, more generally, working to ensure the flow of financing, even when
they’re considered high- and middle-income countries.

Q    Thank you.

Q    Yes, thank you.  Thank you for that.  Is there any prediction that
the United States will promote conversation about the (inaudible) to
combat illegal loggers and miners in the Amazon forest, especially in
Brazil?

We remember that the British journalist, Dom Phillips, and (inaudible),
Bruno Araújo, are still missing after they received threats from illegal
loggers and also miners in the Amazon forest in Brazil.  And that forest
is essential for the climate instability in the continent.

So, the question is if the United States is going to demand actions and
also answers about what is happening there.  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you for that question.  Combating
illegal deforestation and focusing on promoting deforestation-free
supply chains are a key part of our climate action agenda.  Obviously,
we are keen to invest in tropical forests as a drive towards a net zero
world.  And part of that is not only halting deforestation globally,
particularly illegal logging and illegal deforestation, but also
restoring forests and other ecosystems that are critical to reaching the
net zero emissions world by 2050.

What the President is doing on this space is that he’s recognizing the
necessity to mobilize funding from global governments, as well as the
private sector, and to invest significant scale of resources to protect
these forests, to invest in new ways of economic opportunities for those
that are operating in and around these forests, so that we don’t promote
illegal logging and that we don’t create incentives to go after illegal
logging.

We’re trying to look at some positive, proactive agendas in the region
as well, as part of our hemispheric agenda.  So, these are areas where
we want to support efforts like the LEAF Coalition that the President
announced last year.  It’s a public-private partnership aimed at
mobilizing finance to reduce emissions from deforestation. 

And in particular to Brazil, as you’ve asked, one of the things that
we’ve done through the LEAF Coalition is entered into a memorandum of
understanding with nine Brazilian states to — that make up — (inaudible)
make up a legal payment system for verified emission reductions in
deforestation and associated emissions.

And this effort is aiming to mobilize at least a billion dollars to
incentivize tropical and subtropical countries to reduce their emissions
by being able to pay for these verified emission reductions that need
high-integrity, high-environmental, and social standards.

So, being able to leverage our investment in combatting deforestation to
raise up the environmental and social and governance safeguards, that
really can help stem illegal and destructive behavior that comes with a
whole variety of even more destructive behavior.

And so, one of the things that I noted in my comments, as an example of
some of this effort, is this Amazonia Connect initiative, which is
really targeting around some of these supply chains, again, through
training, incentivizing farmers to profit from protecting the
environment, and to really combat the illegality that’s in the area, but
also to promote a legal mechanism, as well as to promote ways to
mitigate greenhouse gas emissions while conserving important
biodiversity and livelihoods, while also enhancing climate resilience.

MODERATOR:  Thank you so much, \[senior administration official\].  And
with that, we will wrap tonight’s call.

Just as a friendly reminder that this is currently under embargo for
8:00 a.m. Eastern, 5:00 a.m. Pacific, and we should be sending an
embargo factsheet shortly.

Thanks, everyone.

8:00 P.M. PDT
