---
date: '2022-06-29'
published_time: 2022-06-29 10:06:20-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/06/29/remarks-by-president-biden-and-nato-secretary-general-jens-stoltenberg-madrid-spain/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg |\
  \ Madrid,\_Spain"
---
 
Institución Ferial de Madrid  
Madrid, Spain

10:17 A.M. CEST

PRESIDENT BIDEN: Well, Jens, thank you very much for having me this
morning. And, you know, we — we got a big agenda. And it’s great to be
here with you to kick off the — I think is a history-making summit. And
we talked about this for a year, and now we’re here.

Our meetings today — we’re going to approve a new NATO Strategic Concept
and reaffirm the unity and determination of our Alliance to defend every
inch of NATO territory. And Article 5 is sacrosanct, and we mean it when
we say, “An attack against one is an attack against all — every inch.”

And so, at this summit, the full Alliance is going to welcome Finland
and Sweden — their historic application for membership — and their
decision to move away from neutrality and the tradition of neutrality to
join NATO Alliance is going to make us stronger and more secure, and
NATO stronger.

We’re sending an unmistakable message, in my view — and I think yours as
well — that NATO is strong, united, and the steps we’re taking during
this summit are going to further augment our collective strength.

To that end, today I’m announcing the United States will enhance our
force posture in Europe and respond to the changed security environment,
as well as strengthening our collective security.

Earlier this year, we surged 20,000 additional U.S. forces to Europe to
bolster our Alliance in response to Russia’s aggressive move, bringing
our force total in Europe to 100,000.

We’re going to continue to adjust our posture based on the threat, in
close consultation with our Allies.

Here in Spain, we’re going to work with our Ally to increase U.S. Navy
destroyers stationed in Spain’s Rota Naval Base from three to — from
four to six — four to six destroyers.

In Poland, we’re going to establish a permanent headquarters for the
U.S. Army Fifth Corps and — strengthening our U.S.-NATO interoperability
across the entire eastern flank.

We’re going to maintain additional rotational Brigade — which is 3,000
fighters and another 2,000 personnel — Combat Team here in Europe,
headquartered in Romania.

And we’re going to enhance our rotational deployments in — deployments
in the Baltic states.

And we’re going to send two additional F-35 squadrons to the UK, and
station additional air defense and other capabilities in Germany and in
Italy.

And together, our Allies — we’re going to make sure that NATO is ready
to meet threats from all directions, across every domain: land, air, and
the sea.

In a moment when Putin has shattered peace in Europe and attacked the
very, very tenets of the rules-based order, the United States and our
Allies — we’re going to step up. We’re stepping up.

We’re proving that NATO is more needed now than it ever has been and
it’s as important as it has ever been.

So I want to thank you, Jens, for leading the Alliance through this
crisis and for your work to strengthen NATO for all the challenges that
lie ahead. And I — I genuinely look forward to our discussion today.

And, again, thank you for your leadership. It’s important.

SECRETARY GENERAL STOLTENBERG: Thank you so much, President Biden, dear
Joe. It’s really good to see you here in Madrid so soon after we met in
the White House in Washington. And thank you for your personal
leadership and the U.S. commitment to NATO, to European security
demonstrated by the announcement — the announcements you just made to
further increase U.S. presence in Europe.

And this really demonstrates your decisive leadership in strengthening
the transatlantic bond, and also see that in the unwavering support from
you and from the United States to Ukraine. That will be a main issue at
the summit today.

We’ll meet with President Zelenskyy. He will address the summit. And as
you said, this will be an historic summit. It will be a transformative
summit where we will make decisions that will actually change this
Alliance for many years to come.

We will agree a new Strategic Concept, the blueprint for NATO into the
future — a more dangerous world, a more competitive world. We will agree
the biggest overhaul of our collective defense deterrence since the end
of the Cold War — and the U.S. is, of course, very much part of that.

And then we will invite Finland and Sweden to join NATO. And that
demonstrates that NATO’s door is open. It demonstrates that President
Putin has not succeeded in closing NATO’s door.

He is getting the opposite of what he wants. He wants less NATO;
President Putin is getting more NATO by Finland and Sweden joining our
Alliance.

We will agree a comprehensive assistance package for Ukraine. And then I
also welcome the fact that we are able now to state that actually — that
European Allies and Canada are stepping up with more troops, higher
readiness, and also increased defense spending.

New figures shows that they have added 350 billion extra U.S. dollars
for defense since we made the pledge back in 2014.

So, all in all, this demonstrates unity and the strength of our
Alliance. So, thank you, Joe.

PRESIDENT BIDEN: Well, you know, I was asked about this one — about
Finland and — and Sweden — when each of their leaders came to the White
House. And I said Putin was looking for the “Finlandization” of Europe.
He’s going to get the “NATO-ization” of Europe. And that’s exactly what
he didn’t want, but exactly what needs to be done to guarantee security
for Europe.

And I think it’s — I think it’s necessary, and I’m looking forward to it
happening formally.

SECRETARY GENERAL STOLTENBERG: Thank you so much.

PRESIDENT BIDEN: Thank you.

10:23 A.M. CEST
