---
date: '2022-06-02'
modified_time: 2022-06-06 13:52:44-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-02 23:42:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/06/02/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-covid-19-response-coordinator-dr-ashish-jha/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and COVID-\u206019 Response\
  \ Coordinator Dr. Ashish Jha, June 2,\_2022"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:57 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hello, good afternoon.  Good afternoon. Good
afternoon.

Okay.  So, today we have Dr. Jha, the White House COVID Coordinator. 
He’s going to talk about kids COVID vaccines.  And so, he is only going
to be here for — he has about 10, 15 minutes with us — I think 15
minutes, looking at the clock. 

So, he’s going to open up, and then he’ll take a few questions, and then
we’ll start the briefing. 

We want to — we have a hard time out at 4:00 today, so we’re going to
try and get out of here at 4:00.  Thanks, everybody. 

Go ahead.

DR. JHA:  All right.  Good afternoon, everybody.  Thank you for having
me.  It’s great to be back.  Sorry, it’s me and not BTS.  (Laughter.)

I want to take some time today to explain the timeline of what’s
happening with vaccines for our youngest kids — for kids under five —
and what parents and pediatricians and Americans should be expecting in
the coming weeks. 

So, as you all know, the FDA is currently working through a rigorous and
independent scientific process.  As part of that, the FDA’s advisory
committee — VRBPAC — will be meeting on June 14th and 15th.  They will
review the data submitted by Pfizer and Moderna for their vaccines, and
we expect an FDA decision shortly after the advisory committee meeting. 
And we look forward to this process playing out. 

Now, as you all know, because we’ve been through this many times, the
FDA authorization is not the final step in the process.  Before
vaccinations can begin, CDC must also issue its recommendations. 

If the FDA authorizes the vaccines, the CDC will have its advisory
committee meetings and, ultimately, the CDC Director will make her
recommendations.  And we expect the CDC to make its dates for its
advisory committee meetings public very, very soon. 

So, let’s talk about what we know at this moment.  We know that many,
many parents are eager to vaccinate their youngest kids.  And it’s
important to do this right.  And that’s what this process has been all
about. 

So, as I talk through the process today, I want to be very clear that I
am not here to prejudge the outcome of the process.  But the
administration is hard at work planning all sorts of scenarios based on
whatever the outcome is from the process that’s playing out. 

We’ve been working very closely with states, with local health
departments, with pediatricians, family physicians, other healthcare
providers, and pharmacies to get ready. 

We started with the playbook we’ve used for a rollout of vaccines for
other age groups.  At the same time, we’re building this program to meet
the specific needs of this specific age group. 

We expect that the vast majority of these kids will be vaccinated by
their primary care providers.  Now, if and when FDA authorizes a
vaccine, we’ll move from planning to execution.  So let me highlight a
few things of what that will look like. 

Now, the good news is we have plenty of supply of both Pfizer and
Moderna vaccines to start our vaccination program.  And we are going to
make 10 million doses available to states, pharmacies, and community
health centers, and federal entities to order initially.

Starting tomorrow, states can begin to place their orders.  We have
asked states to distribute the initial tranche of doses to their
highest-priority sites, including those serving the highest-risk
children and hardest-to-reach areas.  And we’ve also asked them to
prioritize sites that can handle large volumes, such as children’s
hospitals. 

We’ve encouraged states and providers to find ways to ensure that
parents have access to these vaccines for their kids outside of normal
work hours, because we want to make this as easy as possible for working
parents and their families. 

Now, FDA authorization will allow us to start shipping doses.  These
doses are specifically formulated for these young kids.  These doses
will be shipped to thousands of sites across the country. 

So, let me go back and think through the timeline with all of you. 
VRBPAC meets on June 14th and 15th.  We expect FDA to make its decision
soon thereafter.  Once FDA has authorized — if they have authorized
vaccines — we can begin shipping.  We expect some of the shipments to
start arriving to — in their destination over that long weekend. 

Remember, Monday is an important federal holiday, and many doctor’s
offices may be closed.  And we can’t ship vaccines until FDA has
authorized these vaccines.  And vaccinations can’t start until CDC has
issued its recommendations. 

So, we expect that vaccinations will begin in earnest as early as
Tuesday, June 21st, and really roll on throughout that week. 

Now, it will take some time to ramp up the program and for vaccines to
be more widely available.  And as doses arrive in places throughout the
country, more sites will have vaccines, more appointments will become
available.  And our expectation is that within weeks, every parent who
wants their child to get vaccinated will be able to get an appointment.

We will of course do our part.  We’re going to continue monitoring. 
We’re going to ship doses out as fast as possible.  We’re going to make
sure that supply is always meeting demand.  And we’re going to do
everything we can to make it easy for providers and parents alike to get
their kids vaccinated. 

So, let me just close with a few words about the bigger picture about
the moment we’re in. 

It’s been a long two years.  This is the last group of Americans who
have not yet been eligible to get vaccinated. 

But as we think about getting ready to vaccinate our youngest kids, it’s
worth noting how much progress we’ve made: Two thirds of all Americans
are now fully vaccinated, close to a third of all Americans are boosted,
and highly effective treatment — effective treatments are widely
available. 

As a result, when we look across the country, we see cases rising —
nearly 100,000 cases a day.  And yet we’re still seeing death numbers
that are substantially — about 90 percent — lower than where they were
when the President first took office. 

Now, we know that COVID isn’t over.  We still have work to do.  But we
have made tremendous progress.  And what we know is that we’ve got to
keep vaccinating, keep reaching people who have not gotten vaccinated,
keep making treatments widely available. 

Because what we believe is that with science, with hard work, and with
resources, we can continue to protect the American people, from our
oldest to our youngest. 

So, thank you.  And I’m looking forward to questions. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Okay.  Who has a question?

Q    What’s your expectation on when most kids will be vaccinated?  Is
it a matter of months?  When — what’s your estimate?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we don’t have an estimate of timelines of when
most kids will be vaccinated.  What we know is that, obviously, there
are a lot of parents who are eager to get their kids vaccinated right
away, and they will get vaccinated right away, within weeks, as I — as I
laid out.

There are other parents who are waiting to see how things go.  And I
think what we have seen in the past is that they will come on board as
they see their friends and family getting their kids vaccinated. 

So, I think this is a process that is going to take some time, but we
want to make sure that we always have adequate supply and access for
parents when they want their kids vaccinated. 

Q    So, I think you are well aware about how much frustration and anger
there’s been from — from parents of young children — the fact we were
talking about second boosters for much of the population before even
this first one was available.  I’m a parent of a four-year-old who got
COVID while we sat around waiting for this. 

And I think one point, in all of that, that really is frustrating and
raised a lot of questions for parents is why the FDA didn’t move to hold
a hearing right away after Moderna applied, why it waited for Pfizer and
Moderna.  Can you just explain the thinking behind that delay?

DR. JHA:  So, first of all, I have — I have a 10-year-old, so he has
been able to get vaccinated, but I have a lot of friends who have kids
under 5.  So, let me just say, I feel the frustration and I certainly
hear the frustration. 

Two things.  First of all, the FDA makes its decisions on timelines
really based on its ability to review the data, to do a careful
analysis.  And that’s what they’ve been doing.  I think they’ve done
that throughout the entire pandemic. 

If you look at from the early days of the early adult vaccines through
this one, they have moved expeditiously and — and they have made the
determinations of when they can be ready to evaluate and when they can
make a decision. 

The specifics of it, you’re going to have to, I think, ultimately talk
to the FDA, but I feel like they have moved very quickly to try to — to
consume and analyze a very large tranche of data from — from Moderna. 

And, look, at the end of the day, we all want to move fast, but we want
to get it right.  And that has got to be priority number one, and that’s
what I think the FDA has been focused on. 

Q    On Paxlovid, do you have any information you can share with us on
how much Paxlovid has been used so far and how much is left, and whether
Congress — or whether the U.S. is committed to completing its purchase
of the 20 million courses?

DR. JHA:  I don’t have the numbers off the top of my head.  What I will
tell you is we’re getting out about 30,000 prescriptions a day right
now.  And that’s at the end of last — as of end of last week.  I don’t
have this week’s data yet.  So about 30,000 doses a day.

We obviously want to continue to expand access to Paxlovid for any
high-risk person who is — who gets infected.  We want to make sure they
have access to it if they’re clinically eligible. 

You know, the President made a commitment to get 20 million doses, and
we remain committed to making that happen.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  I wanted to ask about your COVID testing program,
specifically the one that was launched to order COVID tests at home. 
Can you talk about what the demand has looked like lately — now that
we’re seeing the up-and-down with cases is different than what we saw
around Christmas; and what you’re doing and to preserve supply — I know
that these tests eventually expire — what you’re doing to preserve
supply should there be a big demand again? 

DR. JHA:  Good — great question.  So, we launched that about two weeks
ago, three weeks ago — I can’t remember the exact time — the third round
of making tests available.

We actually saw quite a robust demand for that.  I think we’ve had maybe
17, 18 million households order just in the last couple of weeks, so
that —

Q    On the third round?

DR. JHA:  On the — on round three.

That’s a lot.  And it’s great.  And it means that there are — people are
still using these tests.  If you’ve followed me the last two years, you
know I’m a huge believer in making widespread testing widely available. 

I think getting people tests at home is a really important part of
that.  We feel that when you have cases rising, Americans want tests, we
want to make those tests available.  We also obviously want to make sure
that as we have future — if and or when we have future surges of
infections, we will have other tests available for Americans. 

Q    Can you also talk about — the President was very big at the
beginning of that program on equity and that these tests were going to
be distributed to populations that were underserved, in addition to
populations that might be more well-connected. 

DR. JHA:  Yeah.  So we’ve thought a lot about equity in this case — in
other areas, too, but certainly on tests.

Q    (Inaudible.)

DR. JHA:  Yeah.  And so, the way we’ve done this is — I mean, obviously
the website, but we can — you can make phone calls, which for some
people is easier.  We’ve distributed tests to food banks.  We’ve
distributed tests to Federally Qualified Health Centers.  We have a
whole series of efforts that we have had to make sure that the testing
is getting out through a variety of different channels so that people
who may not normally be able to access it in other contexts can get
access to tests. 

Q    I didn’t hear you — sorry, one last thing — I didn’t hear you say
about tests that are expiring.

DR. JHA:  Oh.

Q    I know they must have shelf life. 

DR. JHA:  Yeah, so, with all these tests we’re — again, this is a
standard issue.  Anytime you have new products, they have a — initially
they have a specific shelf life, and then as you do more testing, you
can extend that shelf life. 

So, these companies are working with FDA to look at long shelf life. 
But obviously, we’re always thinking about that, and making sure that
they have — there’s plenty of shelf life for these products, as they
said, in our stockpiles.

Q    Thank you. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Karen.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Are there —

Q    Dr. Jha, what was the impact of the —

Q    — any conversations about —

Q    — Department of Defense —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Karen.

Q    Can you talk about second booster shots for under age 50?  Are
discussions right now about allowing those second booster shots?  Are
those conversations taking place?

DR. JHA:  You know, so that’s a decision of the FDA and CDC.  They’re
always guided by evidence and data on that.  All the data that I have
seen — or most of the data I have seen is in people over 50 — really, in
people over 60.  That’s where the strongest data are. 

So I think those conversations are always ongoing.  But I think the
issue of looking at evidence and making a decision, that’s really
something that the FDA is going to have to think about it.

Q    Do you think where cases are right now, that second booster shot
should be authorized for people under age 50?

DR. JHA:  You know, that — I really do leave that up to FDA to decide
based on, kind of, looking at the evidence.  So, I — and I think they
should be making that decision. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right, last question, Tyler.

Q    Thank you.  Do you feel confident that the U.S. has enough supplies
for a potential summer surge?  And at this point, what are your current
predictions about what might happen in the South in the coming weeks and
months? 

DR. JHA:  Supply of?

Q    Vaccines, antiviral treatments, all — all the various things that
are needed to treat COVID.

DR. JHA:  Yeah, so, because — because of prior funding, we purchased a
decent amount of both vaccines and therapeutics.  And so, I am very
confident that whatever happens this summer, we will have enough tools,
tests, treatments, vaccines to get us through the summer. 

The challenge is — and, again, we are in the — I’m less in the
prediction business, more in the planning business.  As we plan the fall
and winter, and look at a variety of different scenarios, that’s where I
started getting very, very concerned.

And if you want to ask what keeps me awake at night, it is that we are
going to run out of vaccines.  We’re not going to be able to have enough
of the next generation of vaccines.  We’re going to run out of
treatments.  And we’re going to run out of diagnostic tests, probably in
the late fall into winter, if we end up having a significant surge of
infections. 

We don’t have the resources to buy those things.  And those purchases
need to be made now.  They cannot be made in the fall. 

So if you’re wondering what is it that that really worries me — I think
we have the tools for the summer.  We will not have the tools for the
fall and winter, unless Congress steps up and funds us.

Q    And based on your modeling that you do in the government and with
partners outside of it, what is your sense of what this potential surge
might look like, both this summer and then when you warn that supplies
might now — in the fall and into the winter? 

DR. JHA:  Yeah, so, there are — as you know, there are a lot of
different models; they all come up with a variety of different answers. 
And we really look across all of them.  And we try to plan across all
the ones that we think are reasonable. 

There certainly are models out there that suggest that we could have a
sizable wave of infections in the fall and winter, especially if we
don’t have a vaccination campaign in the fall and winter.  If we run out
of treatments, if we don’t have enough diagnostic tests, we could be
looking at a more complicated situation. 

So we — those are — those are models that we look at.  We plan for
them.  Again, as I said, I generally try not to worry too much about
predicting what’s going to happen, and really focusing on planning for a
variety of scenarios. 

And given what we have in terms of treatments and vaccines and
diagnostics, we do not have enough to get us through the fall and
winter.

Q    And just one last one on the vaccination campaign you mentioned. 
Are you preparing that most Americans who are not yet eligible for that
third vaccine, you will — they will be encouraged to get a fourth one in
the fall?  And with that, will there be a new vaccine or a formula to
adapt toward the newer variants that have emerged in recent months?

DR. JHA:  So there were about three or four questions in there —
embedded in there, all of which are FDA questions.  Right? 

So let’s just — FDA is going to have to make decisions about: Do we
formulate a new vaccine?  There’s a VRBPAC meeting that’s going to
happen in late June, I think, to look at exactly that question. 

Based on the data, they’re going to make determinations.  CDC is going
to decide who should get it, who should not.  I mean, you guys know the
process of how that’s going to play out.

Q    Sure.  I’m just wondering, from your vantage point at the White
House as the coordinator of all these different agencies, what your
expectation would be.

DR. JHA:  My — I am planning for all of those scenarios.  I am pla- — we
need to — because, again, we don’t get into the — we don’t decide what
FDA will decide.  We don’t decide what CDC will decide.  They make those
decisions.  We need to plan for a variety of different scenarios,
including planning for a next generation of vaccines for the fall and
winter, which we want to make sure we have plenty of for every
American. 

We will not have enough for every American without additional funding
from Congress, but we are planning for those scenarios. 

Q    Doctor, do you believe all schools will and must be open this
coming fall?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We got to go. 

DR. JHA:  Yeah, I unfor- —

Q    Parents want to know that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He has to go. 

DR. JHA:  I’m sorry.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re over time.  We’re over time. 

DR. JHA:  Thank you. 

Sorry. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you.   

Q    Doctor Jha, why are more boosted Americans having breakthrough
cases than non-boosted?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right, guys.  I have a few things for you at the
top. 

Okay.  So, today, President Biden and Vice President Harris announced
the launch of the White House Internship Program and that, for the first
time in recent history, we’ll pay our interns.

Since the beginning of his administration, President Biden has committed
to advancing equity and opening doors by waiting to launch the White
House Internship Program until receiving the statutory authority from
Congress to pay interns.  President Biden was proud to sign bipartisan
legislation earlier this year that provides this authority and funding.

President Biden and Vice President Harris know that for too long and too
often, unpaid federal internships have been a barrier to hardworking and
talented students and professionals, preventing many of them from
contributing their talents and skills to the country.  Paying White
House interns will help ensure that those who receive internships at the
White House reflect the diversity of America.

Starting today, prosp- — prospective candidates, as well as college and
university administrators and faculty interested in the program can
visit WhiteHouse.gov/intern to learn more about the program and apply
for the fall 2022 session starting on Monday.

 

As the President conveyed earlier, we welcome the announcement today of
a continuation of the truce in the Yemen conflict.  The last two months
in Yemen, thanks to the truce brokered in April, have been among the
most peaceful periods since this terrible war began seven years ago. 
Thousands of lives have been saved as fighting receded.

For the first time in seven years, Yemenis are able to fly from Sana’a
to destinations outside of Yemen.  We have also seen additional fuel
ships moving through the Port of Hudaydah, helping ease Yemen’s fuel
crisis.  The parties to the conflict have now extended this truce for
another two months, and it’s important that work — that we work from
here to make it permanent.

This truce would not happen — has — if it was not — it would not be
possible without cooperation — the cooperative diplomacy from across the
region.  We specifically recognize the leadership of King Salman and the
Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia in helping to consolidate the truce.  The
Omani Sultan also played a central role in hosting and facilitating
dialogue.  Egypt and Jordan opened their airports to flights from Yemen
over the past month, thereby enabling a key component of the truce
process.

The United States will remain engaged in this process over the coming
weeks and months.  Ending the war in Yemen has been a priority of this
administration, and we urge all parties to move expeditiously towards a
comprehensive and inclusive peace process.  Our diplomacy will not rest
until a permanent settlement is in place, and we will continue to
support regional diplomacy to de-escalation tensions — to de-escalate
tensions and deter threats to our friends and partners in the Middle
East region.

 

As the President continues to prioritize reducing costs for families,
making historic investments in our infrastructure is a critical
component to strengthening our supply chains, moving people and goods
more effectively, and ultimately lowering costs of everyday items.  This
is part of transitioning to stable and steady economic growth for the
years ahead.

Today, the Biden administration announced over $368 million in grants to
modernize and improve rail infrastructure across the country, and
Secretary Buttigieg is in Michigan and Mitch Landrieu is in North
Carolina to highlight the impact these investments will have on local
economies and regional supply chains.

Thanks to the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, we will see funding triple
for the critical rail infrastructure program to $1 billion a year for
the next five years, which will help strengthen critical links in the —
in our supply chains that were weakened by the pandemic.  This
investment will allow — will allow trains to get goods to market faster
and cheaper and make it easier for Americans to travel where they need
to go.

 

Two final important announcements that I wanted to make here. 

As you may know, our dear Amanda Finney is leaving us.  Though her
official title is “Chief of Staff,” Jen long ago gave her the honor —
the title of “Mayor of the West Wing.”  (Laughter.)

If you know her, and I know many of you do and adore her as we do, you
know that Amanda shines thanks to her charisma, her humor, and ability
to simply get things done.

Whether it’s leading our team of wranglers or hiring the best of the
best to join our team, I don’t know where we would be without Mayor
Finney.

She is leaving us to serve as Deputy Director of Public Affairs at the
Energy Department, and they’re so, so lucky to have her.

Amanda has been the heart and soul of this team, and she will be truly
missed.  We love you, Finney.  And we wish you the absolute best.  And,
“what a time,” as you would say. 

MS. FINNEY:  What a time. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What a time. 

MS. FINNEY:  What a time. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What a time.  Amazing.  (Laughter.) 

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We get that a lot.  Amanda-isms. 

Okay.  One last announcement I want to make.  Brittany came into our
team very recently — actually, six months.  It feels recently, but it’s
been six months.  We will be bidding her farewell.  Our dear Brittany
Caplin, who is returning back to the Department of Commerce after
completing her rotation as Assistant Press Secretary here in our office.

Brittany’s kindness, professionalism, and know- — know-how have been
apparent from day one.  She is one of the nicest people that I know, and
she has become an integral — integral part of the — of this team since
then.

Stepping into the White House — White — the West Wing Press Office and
taking on tough topics like the 5G — you guys remember that — and
corporate mergers is no small challenge, as she knows.  But Brittany has
done so, so much, earning praise and respect from across the White
House.

Brittany will be returning to Commerce, as I just mentioned, at the — at
the repeated insistence of Secretary Gina Raimondo.  I have a story I’ll
tell you maybe at drinks.  I’ve told Brittany this story about how I was
told by Gina to make sure to return Brittany to her many times. 

Anyway.  And why — and it’s abundantly clear to anyone who has worked
with you, Brittany, how amazing and how much of a star you are.  And
it’s — it’s been exciting to see your accomplishments.  And thank you so
much for spending six months with us. 

I know.  Every day — every day, I’m going to be give — doing these
little goodbyes, but I promise we will have a press shop.  (Laughter.) 
Not everyone is leaving.  
  
Let me make sure I went through everything.  And that is it.  You want
to take — you want to kick us off?  
  
Q    Terrific.  I have — I have two questions.  On the speech tonight,
I’m wondering why there’s reason to believe that things will be
different in Congress, given that we haven’t seen action repeatedly?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me just say, as you guys know, the President
is going to give a speech this evening at 7:30.  He’s going to renew his
call for action to stop the epidemic of gun violence that we’ve seen in
Uvalde and in Tulsa and in Bu- — and Buffalo in just a few short weeks. 
And in too many communities across the country, we see gun violence
tearing up our communities, tearing up families.   
  
And so, reducing gun violence has been a top priority of this president
since his first day of office and throughout his career as a senator, as
a vice president and, clearly, as a president.  
  
He has been crystal clear that Congress needs to act.  The President has
done more through executive action, as you’ve heard us say, than any
other president in th- — in his first year — in their first year in
history.  And the President has directed his staff to continue to
explore additional actions we can take.  But we can’t do this alone, and
it’s time for Congress to act.  
  
Your second question?

Q    Okay.  On vaccines for — for those under five, can you tell us: Is
the President satisfied with the — the pace of the FDA review process? 
You know, we’ve already had questions about the frustration among
parents.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I mean, Dr. Jha talked about this and the
frustration of parents.  And we know parents are incredibly eager to get
this done.  And, you know, FDA is working rigorously through this
process.  And it’s an independent scie- — scientific process, so we do
leave it to them.  And it is the FDA authorization to get this done.  
  
But we know many parents are eager to vaccinate their youngest kids. 
It’s important to do this right, to do this in a safe way, as Dr. Jha
was talking about.  And so — but the most important thing that we want
to make sure we come across, which is why we had Dr. Jha here, is that
the administration is preparing, we are prepared.  
  
We’re working with states, local health departments, pediatricians,
family doctors, other health providers, and pharmacies to get ready, as
we did with kids that — between 5 — 5 and 11.  
  
So we want to make sure that we get this done swiftly, but also safely
and, you know, so — you know, follow CDC recommendation.

Go ahead, Mary.  
  
Q    Yesterday, you noted that the President, given his history in the
Senate, knows well how negotiations over gun reform work.  And that —
you know, that giving talks a little bit of space, you think, is
sometimes, you know, a good strategy, that that can help members come to
common ground and work through some of these issues.

But that hasn’t worked in the past, not on this issue — right? — given
what we’ve seen in the past.  So why pursue that same strategy now if it
hasn’t worked?  Why not have the President play a more direct role in
these negotiations now?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I mean, look, the President has been very involved
and very direct.  And he has done it multiple times throughout the —
this past year and a half, year and six months now.  And he’s done it at
his first joint address; he made sure that he talked about gun violence
and made that a priority in that speech.  He did it in the Rose Garden,
when he announced some executive actions on a comprehensive plan from
here, from the federal government, from the White House on how to deal
with gun violence and do what we can.  He did that in the State of the
Union and made sure that was — gun violence was a priority.  
  
So he’s been involved.  He’s been engaged.  As you just stated, he’s
been doing this all — for a good — you know, a good part of his
career.  
  
And I stated this yesterday, but our legislative team has been in close
contact with the Hill since the tragedies in Uvalde and Buffalo,
including through dozens of phone calls with leadership committees, with
jurisdiction, and with the members who are involved directly in
negotiations.  
  
Look, he’s encouraged.  He’s encouraged by what we’re seeing on the
Hill.  You know, this is the first time in a very long time that we have
seen this type of bipartisanship.  And — and he’s done this before, as I
mentioned.  You know, he has beat the gun lobby before.  
  
And so, tonight, you’ll hear from him.  It’ll be basically making sure
that he’s still — his voice is out there and calling to action and
making sure that, you know, the American people know that he is — he is
still continuing to speak on their behalf and making sure that, you
know, we get some action taken.  
  
Q    You note the legislative team is making the calls, is, you know,
obviously playing a central role in these negotiations.  But why isn’t
the President picking up the phone and making those calls?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Like I said, he wants to give it some space.  And he’s
had conversations in the past with groups.  He’s had conversations with
congressional members in the past — in this past a year and a half on —
on making — on — being very clear on Congress acting.  
  
He’s going to take this opportunity today at 7:30 this evening, as I
just said, so that the American public could hear him directly.  
  
But we have to remember: The things that we are calling for — when you
think about — you know, when you think about background checks,
expanding that; when you think about, you know, banning assault weapons
— these are items that are incredibly popular with the very
constituencies that these congressional members represent.  
  
When you look at — when you look at even NRA members, when you look at
Republican voters out there, Americans out there, these are — these are
issues and items that we’re talking about that should be easy.  It
should not be difficult to do.  
  
We’re trying to save our kids.  We’re trying to save families.  We’re
trying to make it safe for people to go to grocery stores, so our kids
could go to elementary school or to school.  And so this is what the
President is calling for.  
  
Q    And just one more on this.  You’ve said you’re looking into
possible additional executive actions that the President might take.  Do
you have a sense of how long that process may take, when we might learn
what options are on the table?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, the President said this — and not just myself, but
he said this — that we can take — we’re going to take executive action
where we can, and we’re continuing to explore new — new steps, we can
build on what we’ve already done.  
  
I just want to make sure people also know what we’ve done, which is
stemming the flow of ghost guns, which are the weapon of choice of many
terrorists and criminals, and which are increasingly being found at
crime scenes; cracking down on gun trafficking, including through a
zero-tolerance policy for gun dealers willfully selling firearms
illegally; as well as DOJ’s gun trafficking strike forces around the
country; and giving cities and states historic funding to keep cops on
the beat and fund — and fund gun violence prevention programs.  We
announced $10 billion so far with more money on the way.  
  
Look, we have a team of 13 policy staff working on gun violence at the
White House.  In addition, numerous staff across agencies.  And we’re
constantly — constantly looking for — for what else we can do.  
  
But again, tonight’s speech is going to focus on what Congress needs to
do and Congress action because the President cannot do this alone.  
  
Q    Is he going to outline specific actions that he’d like to see,
Karine, like you mentioned the background checks?  What’s he going to
say in terms of specifics?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t want to get ahead of the President.  But he’s
going to make sure that he continues his call to action when it comes to
Congress.  And I don’t want to get ahead of the President.  But he’ll be
very clear, and you’ll hear from him directly.  
  
Q    What role did the U.S. play in persuading both OPEC-Plus to
increase capacity?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That is a decision that O- — OPEC-Plus makes on their
own.  That is not something that we decide on or that we are involved
in.  As you know, you’ve heard us say this before, but we welcome — we
do welcome the announcement today.  
  
And, you know, we welcome the important decision that OPEC-Plus made to
increase supply by more than 200,000 barrels per day in July and August,
based on — on new market conditions. That’s the analysis that they make.
Right?  That’s not — that’s for them, again, to decide.  
  
This announcement brings forward the monthly production increase that
was previously planned to take place in September.  You know, the United
States will continue to use all tools at our disposal to address energy
— energy prices measures.  
  
Q    Secondly, does this development, coupled with the extension of the
Yemen ceasefire, increase the chances that the President will visit
Saudi Arabia?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything for you.  We don’t have anything
for you on any — any trip or plan for the President, or any trip to
announce today.  But I can assure you that what the President is focused
on, first and foremost, is how his engagements with foreign leaders
advance American interests.  That is — that’s as true with Saudi Arabia
as anywhere else.  
  
Just as he has engaged recently with leaders of ASEAN in Asia and this
week with the Summit of the Americas as it’s coming up next week in Los
Angeles, the President will look for opportunities to engage with
leaders from the Middle East region.  And I just have nothing to
announce for you today.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine, I have a question on formula, but just to follow up
— so, can you say whether or not the President will call for anything
new tonight when it comes to guns and what he wants to see Congress
do?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, his focus is going to be on — on making sure
and calling — calling to — asking Congress to take action because he
cannot do this alone.  I do not want to get ahead of the President’s
speech.  Everyone will hear from him at 7:30.  
  
Q    But he won’t talk about any specific action that he wants to see
Congress take besides —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going —  
  
Q    — generally passing something?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, we’ve talked about that.  We’ve talked about the
actions that he wants to see taken.  I’ve just spoke about them, which
is a expand — expanding background checks.  He’s talked about that.  We
talked about red flags laws as well.  We have talked about banning
assault weapons.  These are items that the President has been very clear
on; has talked about; and also — also, when you think about this — the
banning assault weapons — has led on, especially when he was a
senator.  
  
So that’s — that is not new.  We have made that very clear in all of the
remarks and speeches that he has done on gun violence in the past year
and a half.  
  
Q    Just this time around, I meant, specifically. 

But on the executive actions, you said, you were exploring what he can
still do, what still is left.  Have you identified anything specific
that he can still do?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to announce.  And — but the
President has said himself, we’re going to explore where we can to see
what else we can do on executive actions.  
  
Q    But nothing imminent?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I don’t have anything imminent to announce.  
  
Q    And on formula: Did the President have any conversations with any
Cabinet Secretaries or the FDA commissioner once he was confirmed in
February about the formula shortage before April?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any meetings to read out specifically on
that for you.  Look, you know, as — as more — as you all know, the
President spoke to — to this yesterday: As more abnormalities were seen
in supply and sales started to decrease in April — you know, because
people have asked about this — senior White House staff made — made the
President aware of the problem, and this was in April.  I don’t have any
calls to read out for you.

Q    Which senior White House staff made the President aware?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — so, as you know, the President deals with issues
on a regular basis and that — that boils up to him.   And it’s just an —
there’s no specific person that I can call out to you.  But it’s the
regular way that we — we move forward through the regular channels.  I
don’t have a specific person.  But that’s — that’s kind of how it goes
on any issue, not just this one.  It goes through regular channels, and
senior — senior White House staff usually brief him on different
issues.  
  
Q    Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Yeah, thanks.  The speech tonight wasn’t on the schedule originally
when the day began.  Was there something specific that prompted the
President to want to speak tonight?  Was it the shooting yesterday in
Tulsa, or was he trying to say remarks before he went out of town for a
couple of days?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, the President has been wanting to have an
opportunity to speak to the American people about this epidemic that
we’re seeing with gun violence.  He wanted to make sure that, again,
there was space — there was space for negotiations, giving space in
Congress to the folks who are leading that conversation.  And he just
felt tonight was the right time to do that.  But he has — he had been
wanting to — to make these co- — to have this — this speech.  
  
Q    Just to clarify, I know you haven’t disclosed exactly what he’s
going to say tonight that he wants out of legislation from Congress. 
But is he going to specify exactly what he wants?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, but he has.  I mean —  
  
Q    Well, okay.  So that’s what he wants, though?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I mean —  
  
Q    So that will be what he talks about tonight?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I’m just saying that he has laid out what he
wants from Congress.  He’s been very clear.  He did that at the State of
the Union, most recently.  He did that during the — the — his comments
when we talked about the executive actions for gun violence to — to
reform — to comprehensive gun violence recently during the Rose Garden;
his first joint Congress — address to Congress.  So he’s done it many
times, calling for Congress to act.  And he’s listed it out. 

Q    So why would he give another speech?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Because he wants to make sure that the American — that
his voice is still out there, and that the American people know that
he’s fighting for them and speaking for them. 

So this isn’t — this is, as we have said many times, this is a priority
for the President.  And so, this is what we’re going to see this
evening.  That’s why we’re doing it at this time.

Go ahead.

Q    Karine, so on — continuing on that topic.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    I’m still a little confused.  So, on the one hand, you’ve said that
he is — he supports and wants an assault weapons ban, universal
background checks, and red-flag laws. 

That’s not the conversation that’s largely going on up on the Hill.  The
Hill — to the extent that there are discussions, you know, members on
both sides have said they are not engaged in active negotiations over an
assault weapons ban or universal background checks.  They’re — it is
much more modest than that. 

So, I guess the question that — that we’re all asking is: Is he going to
— and I think you’ve used the word “renew” at the beginning — is he
going to repeat his demand that Congress pass an ab- — a, you know,
universal background check bill, a ban on assault weapons, and red-flag
laws?  Or is he going to lend his voice to the more modest gun control
efforts that are actually underway on Capitol Hill? 

Those are two different things, and I don’t know that you can — you can
do both at the same time.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I —

Q    Or maybe — or maybe you can just do one and say, “But if that
doesn’t happen, I’m happy with the other one,” maybe?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I guess — I — we think we can do both at the same
time.  Right?  The President has been very clear in laying out his key
priorities.  He has done that for a year and a half: expand background
checks to keep guns out of the hands of criminals; renew our ban on
assault weapons and high-capacity magazine; pass a red-flag law, which,
by the way, is being talked about — right? — in Congress; confirm Steve
Dettel- — Dettelbach to lead ATF — that is something that we have talked
about, and Congress is dealing with that.  And we are very optimistic
that he will be confirmed. 

So those are — just listed out a couple of things that are very much a
reality. 

Look, the President has been very clear: Congress needs to act.  They
should pass legislation so the President can sign it into law.  We are
seeing something right now that is encouraging.  The process is still
happening.  Negotiation is still happening. 

We do not know what it’s ultimately going to look like, but that doesn’t
mean that the President can’t call out his key priorities.  That doesn’t
mean that the President can’t list out what he thinks is needed to —
that needs to happen so that we can actually deal with this epidemic.

Q    But so we should expect him to repeat that demand for those —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — he’s repeated it many times.  I think — I think —

Q    I — I know he’s repeated it in the past. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, what I’m saying is I don’t want to —

Q    I’m asking about tonight for the —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — I don’t want to get ahead of what the President —

Q    But you just have gotten ahead of him.  You —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, but — no.  I — I haven’t.  I said he’s going to
call Congress into action.  He has talked about these things over and
over and over again.  The President is going to speak for himself.  That
is all. 

We’ve said this before.  When you guys have asked us, “Can you please
give us a preview on the speech?”  Many times, we say, “Let — we want
the President to speak for himself.”  That is not new.  That is not new
here.  That is exactly what I’m saying. 

But you know his key priorities; he’s been talking about them.

Go ahead.

Q    I just had a question we are — more here on strategy.  You said the
past couple of days that the President wanted to give space for Congress
to work through the negotiations on their own and that he would only get
involved when he felt he would be helpful.  Tonight, he’s giving a
speech in primetime.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Does he think it’s now time for him to be helpful in these
negotiations?  Or is there a risk that his insertion into this moment
could be potentially counterproductive and hurt the ongoing negotiation
that doesn’t —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean —

Q    — seem to be finalized yet?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, it’s a good question.  We have — our Office of
Leg Affairs has been in close consultation with the negotiators on the
Hill.  So they are — they were aware that we are — that the President is
going to give these remarks.  We — they — we talked to them.  We had
consultation with them.  We consulted with them about giving these
remarks.  So that is not an issue.  That is not a problem. 

The President wanted to make sure that the American people heard from
him directly.  This is a speech that he has been wanting to make, and
that’s what he’s going to do this evening.

Q    And so, there is careful consideration here about what he might say
to not interfere with an ongoing negotiation?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I’m not saying that.  I’m not — that’s not what
I’m saying.  I’m saying that the President is going to use this
opportunity to speak directly to the American people.  That’s what he’s
going to do tonight.

Q    And just one more on baby formula.  I know you got a lot of
questions about this yesterday.  I’m wondering if you had an opportunity
to speak with the President since his comments yesterday, when he said
he was not informed about the situation until May. 

Is there — is he — has he expressed any disappointment in his staff for
not bringing the issue to him earlier?  Are there any concerns about the
information flow in the White House that — given the manufacturers told
him very directly they knew this would be a problem in February and he
didn’t know about it until months later, has he expressed concern about
that gap and how that squares with the whole-of-government approach you
outlined yesterday? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, just so that we take a little bit of a step back —
you know, Abbott is a major manufacturer and has been clear to the
American people that they had shortcomings.  They — they made that clear
very, very recently.

The FDA administrator has spoken to this as well.  He said the FDA moved
too slow, and it has asked Steve Solomon to lead a review into what
happened.

The White House took urgent actions as it became clear a shortage
emerged and existing actions were not so sufficing.

It’s hard to understand the scales of actions: DPA, at a historical
pace; Operation Fly Formula, expe- — expediting timelines for millions
of bottles from three to four weeks, to 72 hours — these are incredibly
important of what we were able to do; and 80 million safe bottles being
imported and counting.

We understand that there’s more work to be done.  We understand what
families are feeling.  But this is — we have to remember how this
started.  We have to also remember what the FDA Administrator said as
well.  He has spoken to this. 

And so, this is — you know, this is something that we’re going to
continue to work on.

Q    Right.  But that doesn’t answer the question about when the
President was informed and whether or not he is satisfied with his staff
not telling him about what has become a major problem —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, he spoke —

Q    — for two months.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He spoke to when he was informed — that’s his — he
spoke to that yesterday — which was in April. 

And you’re asking me about the process and is he disappointed?  Look,
again, I’m telling you, the Administrator of FDA spoke to this.  They
moved too slowly.  He — and said that Steve Solomon is going to lead an
after-action review on what happened. 

And when the shortages emerged and actions by the FDA and USDA did not
suffice to prevent any consumer impact, the White House led urgent — an
urgent, emergency, administrative-wide action with FDA — Fly Formula, as
I just mentioned.

Q    But that’s the FDA Administrator; that’s not the President.  Those
are two different individuals.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, but I’m telling you the process.  I’m telling you
what happened.  I’m telling you that the FDA moved too slowly.  I’m
telling you that this happened on the side of Abbott.  And this — what
FDA tried to do at first was they — they — they called out Abbott for
safety concerns.  Right?

The most important thing here is that we have — we have — we have to
make sure that babies have fa- — safe formula.  We have to make sure
that American families feel comfortable. 

So, FDA did their part here.  But he also admitted that they moved too
slowly. 

And once we saw that the supplies were not meeting the demand, we
acted.  We took urgent action. 

So that is the — that is the way that it happened.  That is the way the
timeline was laid out. 

And so that is — I’m — you may not like my answer, but that is the way
that we see it — in answering your question there.

Go ahead.

Q    Is the President expecting his audience tonight should include
those negotiators who are working on — members of Congress who are
working on this?  Is he directly trying to speak to them?  Or are you
saying his audience is the broader public?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think — look, I — I think the — the speech that he’s
making — yes, it’s to the American public; why we’re — we’re having —
making sure that we’re having it this evening so they can hear directly
to the — to the American people.  But it’s also a call to action for
Con- — to Congress as well. 

You know, but, again, we have been in constant communication — dozens of
calls have been made — with members in Congress, including negotiators
from the Office of Leg Affairs, and that has been happening for the past
couple of weeks.  So we have been communicating with them and making
sure that we — you know, we get a sense of what’s happening and how we
can be helpful.

Q    And have you read the remarks yet?  Have you seen the President’s
text?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ve seen — I’ve seen a draft of the remarks.  But,
again, this is for the President to speak to.  He is — I do not want to
get ahead of what he is going to share with the American public and what
message he wants to send.

Q    I think part — following up on what Michael said is, I’m trying to
get a sense of if the President is trying to help close a deal and get
something accomplished with Congress or if he is going to restate what
he could say on any day — a position he’s held for decades — or if he is
trying to get this moment to produce a legislative result? 

Because, really, nobody is talking about banning assault weapons on
Capitol Hill at the moment.  So, is he going to speak more to the
specific elements that they are currently negotiating?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, when it comes to right now, as you all are asking
me, look, the President has defeated the gun lobby before.  He is the
one who was able to pass an assault weapons ban and who was able to help
shepherd the legislation that put in place the federal system of
background checks.  So, he understands how this process works. 

The President is continuing to press Congress to act and he’s giving
them the room they need to find common ground, but he can still speak to
this and speak to the American people.

But as — as we have said, the President is going to continue to stay
closely engaged on this to speak out.  And he’s going to use his bully
pulpit, which is what he’s doing this evening, to press for action, just
as he’s done throughout his presidency — just as we’ve done at the State
of the Union earlier this year, just as he’s done when he did his first
joint address to Congress, and he’s done this many times.

And so, this is just another opportunity to use the bully pulpit to talk
about the actions that he wants to see and also just talk directly to
the American people.  He thinks this is an important moment to do that.

Q    And can we ask you to go back on the issue of who briefed the
President on baby formula?  To say there was no specific person is not a
satisfactory answer.  When you have senior assistants to the President,
there’s a paper trail, I’m sure, about briefings to the President. 
There’s a Domestic Policy Council.  There’s a Chief of Staff. 

At some point, we need to know who would have been the most likely
person to talk to him about that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think what I’m trying to say is there’s so many
issues that come up that is presented to the President —

Q    Certainly. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — as you know.

Q    We do know that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You’ve covered — you’ve covered many administrations. 
And there are just regular channels that that happen that go to the
President.

Q    It looks like it’s evasive to not have the most senior people in
the White House willing to say, “I had a conversation with the President
about it” or “I had…” or “We talked about it in this context or that
context.”

And we’re also all reporting on the consumer side of it — of what you’re
doing, putting out and trying to get information.  But we’re also trying
to understand the information flow in this White House, and it’s
important for us to get that answer, which is why we’re going to keep
asking it until we get that answer.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, you have every right to keep asking.  That’s why
I’m here.

Look, really, Kelly O., he’s briefed on countless priorities.  He is the
President of the United States.  There are regular channels.  He is
briefed by his senior White House staff.  And that is just the process
that we have.

Q    So, should we assume it’s the Chief of Staff then?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m — I’m not going to confirm who it was; I’m just
letting you know that there are regular channels that we use, and, you
know, it’s senior — again, senior White House staff that elevate issues
to him when the time comes.  And they’re just regular channels.

And that’s — that’s what I have for you to share there.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  If the President thinks that Congress must act
immediately to end this epidemic of gun violence, is he going to bring
any of the key players from Capitol Hill to the beach with him tonight?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, okay.  So, I don’t have any —

Q    But wasn’t a big part of candidate Biden’s whole thing that he
“knows how to get things done with Congress”?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He does.  He does.  I mean, he’s beaten the gun lobby
before.  He has.  But — 

Q    Then why not invite these lawmakers who maybe haven’t beat the gun
law —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But — but it’s not —

Q    — and say, “This is how it’s done”?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But it’s not “his thing”; it’s actually fact.  We saw
he did that in the Senate during his Congress days — that he beat the
gun lobby. Look, I —

Q    I’m agreeing with you that he has a lot of legislative experience. 
I’m asking why it is that you can say he wants to give these
negotiations some space —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Do you want to go to the beach with the President
tonight?  Is that what you’re trying to tell me?  (Laughs.)

Q    I would love to.  The weather is not great.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I will — touché on that one.  (Laughter.)  The weather
— it is pouring outside like cats and dogs.  It is not great.

Look — no —

Q    But if people are dying every day —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Absolutely. 

Q    — why would this President then say he wants to “give it some
space” and let somebody else up the street —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But you’re also going to hear — you’re going to hear
from the President tonight.  And it’s not that he — it’s not that he
hasn’t been involved, he has been involved. 

I just listed out all of the conversations — not conversations but
speeches that he’s made.  I just listed out the executive actions that
he’s taken. 

But I want to make sure that, you know, that it is very clear that the
President has indeed taken action.  He cannot do it alone, so he’s
asking for Congress to act.  The American public is going to hear from
him tonight.

I don’t have any — I don’t have any meetings to preview or to lay out
for — I’m not telling you it’s not going to happen; I’m just saying I
don’t have anything to preview for you today.

Q    And I get not — you don’t want to preview anything that’s in the
text tonight.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    But what law could anybody — the President or anybody else —
propose that would guarantee that somebody who really wants to get their
hands on a gun can’t?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, they’re having negotiations right now to talk
through what the options are.

Look, I mentioned the red flags, right?  Red-flag laws.  If enacted — if
enacted, that actually we have seen, across the country in different
states, where it has been helpful.

But look, we are — we are — we’re going give them some space to see what
they come up with.

The President — the most important thing here is the President wants
Congress to take action and to act.

Q    But — okay, you got Chicago, for example.  They already have plenty
of very strict gun laws — some of the strictest in the country. 
Forty-seven people shot there over the Memorial Day weekend.  Nine of
them died.  So, which law would have prevented any of that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Well —

Q    Do we think that all these people in Chicago who are shooting each
other are legally buying their guns?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, here’s — here’s a couple of examples for you.  I
was just talking about the red-flags law.  There are some examples here
of how they’ve prevented tragedies.

In California, a study showed that a California red-flag law has
assisted in the prevention of 21 mass shootings between 2016 and 2018.

Florida, since passing a red-flag law in 2018, there have been notable
cases of few — of the law intervening in multiple cases of potential
violence — of potential violence.

In Connecticut and Indiana, for every 10 to 20 preventions under the
red-flag laws, there was one fewer death than would otherwise have been
expected.

So, when enacted, it does help.  There are things that we can do.  And
one of the things that the President talks about with expanding —
expanding the background checks, if we’re able to do that, we are going
to take more guns out of the hands of criminals.  And that is incredibly
important.

So, there are things here that can be worked out, that can be done that
is not going to prevent every tragedy but will take us to a better place
where we can protect our families.

Q    Okay.  And my last one will be: You guys at the White House had
some very hard headlines this week about inflation and about baby
formula.  If there’s nothing new that you can point to in the speech
tonight, did you just schedule it to get people talking about something
else?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  People have died.  People have died in the past couple
of weeks, in particular.  We had 19 kids die in Uvalde just recently of
— a mass shooter came into their classroom and killed them, plus their
two teachers.

We had — we had people doing everyday things on a Saturday, like some of
us do, go to the grocery store, and 10 of them were murdered.

Just last night, in Tulsa, we’re learning of people who were, again,
killed.

So, this is not about politics.  This is not about partisan politics
here.  This is something that he has worked on since he was a senator. 
This is very important and real for the President and for the grieving
families that he has met with, sadly, in the last two weeks.

So, this is an opportunity, again, to call for action, to get Congress
to move.

And, you know, it is — it is disheartening to hear that this could
potentially or — if I’m hearing this right, could be used as a political
tool.  And that’s not what this is.  This is not about partisan.  This
is about people’s lives.

Q    Hey, Karine.  What’s the President’s message to people living in
violent neighborhoods who can’t escape —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Ed.

Q    — and can’t wait for laws to —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Ed. 

Q    To follow up on what Kelly was asking about regarding the baby
formula shortage: You were asked earlier by a few people — I want to
just ask this again, with all due respect.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Were you able to speak with the President about when he was
informed in April?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — here — he talked about it himself.  He said he was
informed in April.  So I don’t — I don’t think I need to — the President
mentioned that.  He said that.  So I don’t need to clear that up.  You
heard directly from the President on that.

Q    Part of the reason we — I ask it, at least, is you talked yesterday
about February 17th and February 18th.  And what we were trying to
figure out is when exactly in April was he told.  Was it April 1?  Was
it April 30th?  Was in April 15?  Somewhere else in there?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I don’t have a date to share with you.  What I can
tell you is he spoke to this yesterday.  And he said it was in April, so
that — that matters too.  
  
Q    Take it down — take it down a level from him —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Yeah, yeah.  
  
Q    — into the staff of the White House.  And part of the reason
there’s so much curiosity about this across town is because, as you
know, there have been stories written over the last several days and
weeks about how things are going here in the West Wing, how things are
operating. 

And so, when we ask, “Who was told, either by the FDA or the Department
of Health and Human Services or the USDA, here in the West Wing — who
was told first?  How did that get from that person, eventually, to the
President?” —

It’s completely understandable.  There are thousands of things going on
across the federal government today —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  There are thousands of things —  
  
Q    But here’s the issue —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — we were just talking about gun violence.  
  
Q    — something else could crop up suddenly as an unforeseen crisis,
like this one.  And so we’re trying to get a sense of how do things
operate here inside the West Wing and how they eventually rise to the
level of presidential involvement that then lead to things like invoking
the Defense Production Act five — four or five months after the initial
flags were raised.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, Ed, the President was briefed through his regular
channels, as he is briefed on countless priorities that the President of
the United States has to deal with.  There are countless issues,
countless priorities that I talk about here all the time, every day,
about different priorities that we have to deal with, whether it’s the
economy, whether it’s COVID, whether it’s climate change, whether it’s
foreign policy issues that we have to deal with and assess.  
  
That is how we run the White House; it’s how any White House is run.  
  
Q    Right —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So there are regular channels of White House senior
staff, and that’s how it gets elevated.  You’re asking me for a specific
name.  I’m telling you how the process works, and I’m telling you how it
goes from White House staff to regular channels to the President.  
  
Q    Part of why this is intriguing is because we know, from what you’ve
said, from what your colleagues have told us and what we’ve learned in
our reporting over the last year and a half, is that he’s a voracious
consumer of information from across the federal government.  And
whenever he gets briefed on something like this, he asks a lot of
questions.  And he usually puts it to the staff to come back with him
with some solutions or some answers to these questions.  
  
So the idea that he was told about this in April and then it didn’t get
elevated until mid-May when Congress and when the press started raising
bigger questions about this begs the question of, “Well, then what
happened in April, when this very curious, very detail-oriented
President, in briefings, would have been told about it and when steps
were taken that are now underway?” 

That’s part of what is so intriguing and curious about this situation,
and why we’re so desperate for information.  Because normally in these
situations, we’re told, “Oh, well, here’s what he wanted to know.  And
here’s who he tasked with doing it.”  But we’re not getting it this
time.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I — look, we’ve laid out timelines over and over
again.

Q    No, you gave us two dates and then tell us, “Generally, in April he
was told about this.”  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, so, by late — let me try again.  Let’s try this
again.  By late — by late in April, sales — sales were going down and
shortages were appearing.  So that is what we — we learned in late
April. 

And since then, through May, across the administration, we’ve
aggressively invoked the DPA and used it three times, as you just
mentioned, and that’s because of the President’s leadership; launched
Operation Fly Formula, again, because of the President’s leadership;
secured 80 million safe infant formula bottles from other countries; and
cut red tape and issued WIC waivers in all 50 states, because that’s
what happened in April that triggered our involvement in the way that we
did throughout May in doing these four very specific things.  
  
Look, USDA — you know, they took immediate action.  But USDA and FDA cut
red tape and increased supply.  A reminder: There was more supply on the
market after the recall than prior.  That did not happen by — that
didn’t happen by accident.  So these actions were designed to bridge
demand while Abbott worked through its safe- — safely opening to —
safely open and manufacture a product that met FDA’s gold standard.  
  
So they were acting at USDA, FDA were acting from the moment that the
recall happened.  But again, the sales were going down and shortages
were appearing in late April.  And that’s when —  
  
Q    So that’s when he was told?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, he said — in late April — right? — and this —  
  
Q    You said in early April.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  In — in April.  I’m sorry.  In April.  Okay.  He said
in April — in early April.  
  
The point that I’m making is: What we started to see in April were sales
were going down and shortages were appearing.   And when that happened,
we triggered — we — the President made sure that the DPA happened, the
Operation Fly Formula happened.  And that was what — that was our focus
there.  And we wanted to make sure we got as much supply out as possible
because, again, we saw the sales were going down.  
  
Q    Real quick on Summit of the Americas: I know you said the invite
list is coming.  There’s still some time left. 

Countries that have been invited — whoever they are; we’ll find out
about that later — have they been told what’s on the agenda for that
summit next week?  Do they know why they should come to Los Angeles?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So we’re still giving our partners time to decide, so
— to answer that question.  But, you know, as you see from press
reports, there have been quite a few heads of states who have confirmed
via their own announcement.  
  
But again, you know, I always bring this back, because what’s really
important is — about next week is that the people from around the region
are gathering together to address the core challenges facing the people
of the hemisphere — right? — including economic prosperity, climate
change, migration crisis, and the COVID-19 pandemic.  
  
So there is an array of issues for the region that we — that we are
going to discuss.  These are priorities.  These are incredibly
important.  And that’s what you’re going to see for next week.  And
others will confirm if they’re attending.  We’re not going to do that
until we have a final list and give our — our partners opportunities to
decide.  
  
Q    You’re at your time that you said you were going to wrap.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, my gosh.  Okay, go ahead.  Go ahead.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Karine, the jobs report is going to come out tomorrow morning.  The
ADP report that came out was — it came in much lower than what
economists had projected.  Are you guys expecting a less than optimal
jobs report tomorrow?  And usually the President speaks on the economy
on jobs day.  Is he going to do that, even though he’s going to be in
Delaware?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I don’t have anything — we don’t have anything to
preview for you for tomorrow.  Our day ahead, our daily guidance is
going to be coming out in a couple of hours.   
  
I don’t have — also don’t have an estimate for you and haven’t seen the
numbers, clearly.  But what we can say is that as we transition to this
new period of stable, steady growth, we aren’t looking to see
blockbuster job reports month after month, like we have over the last
year. 

But that’s a good thing.  That’s the sign of a healthy economy with
steady job growth, rising wages for working Americans, everyday costs
easing up, and a shrinking deficit.  
  
That stability will put us in a strong position to tackle inflation. 
And in the short time since President Biden came into office, we have
had record job numbers, record job creation, I should — I should say;
the unemployment rate is near historic lows; and the number of Americans
on unemployment benefits is down from record highs to this historic
lows.   
  
And that’s — that’s something that’s really important that we want to
make sure that the American people know what we’ve been doing.  
  
Okay, we’re going to go.  It’s four o’clock.  Thanks, guys. 

   4:00 P.M. EDT
