---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-11-02'
modified_time: 2021-11-02 11:00:29-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/02/u-s-president-biden-european-commission-president-von-der-leyen-and-uk-prime-minister-johnson-announce-commitment-to-addressing-climate-crisis-through-infrastructure-development/
published_time: 2021-11-02 11:00:07-04:00
title: "U.S. President\_Biden, European Commission President Von Der Leyen, And UK\
  \ Prime Minister Johnson Announce Commitment To Addressing Climate Crisis Through\
  \ Infrastructure\_Development"
---
 
Building on the June 2021 commitment of G7 Leaders to launch a
values-driven, high-standard, and transparent infrastructure partnership
to meet global infrastructure development needs, U.S. President Biden
and European Commission President von der Leyen hosted a discussion on
the margins of COP26 with UK Prime Minister Johnson, Barbadian Prime
Minister Mottley, Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau, Colombian President
Duque, Ecuadorian President Lasso, Democratic Republic of the Congo
President Tshisekedi, Indian Prime Minister Modi, Japanese Prime
Minister Kishida, and Nigerian President Buhari on how infrastructure
initiatives must simultaneously advance prosperity and combat the
climate crisis, in line with the Sustainable Development Goals and the
Paris Agreement.  Global leaders discussed how the Build Back Better
World, Global Gateway and Clean Green Initiatives will jumpstart
investment, sharpen focus, and mobilize resources to meet critical
infrastructure needs to support economic growth, while ensuring that
this infrastructure is clean, resilient, and consistent with a net-zero
future.  President Lasso, Prime Minister Modi, President Buhari, and
President Duque shared their perspectives on the challenges their
countries have previously faced with infrastructure development and
principles they would like to see from future infrastructure
initiatives.  UN Special Envoy for Climate Action and Finance Mark
Carney and World Bank Group President David Malpass spoke on the
imperative of mobilizing investment from the private sector,
international financial institutions and multilateral development banks,
including through country platforms, to achieve these goals. 

\*\*\*

President Biden, President von der Leyen, and Prime Minister Johnson
endorsed five key principles for infrastructure development:

1.Infrastructure should be climate resilient and developed through a
climate lens.

We commit to build resilient, low- and zero-carbon infrastructure
systems that are aligned with the pathways towards net-zero emissions by
2050, which are needed to keep the goal of limiting global average
temperature change to 1.5 degrees Celsius within reach. Further, we
commit to viewing all projects carried out through infrastructure
development partnerships through the lens of climate change.

2.Strong and inclusive partnerships between host countries, developed
country support, and the private sector are critical to developing
sustainable infrastructure.

Infrastructure designed, financed, and constructed in partnership with
those whom it benefits will last longer, be more inclusive, and generate
greater and more sustainable development impacts. We will consult with
stakeholders—including representatives of civil society, governments,
NGOs, and the private sector to better understand their priorities and
development needs.

3.Infrastructure should be financed, constructed, developed, operated,
and maintained in accordance with high standards.

We resolve to uphold high standards for infrastructure investments,
promoting the implementation of the G20 Principles for Quality
Infrastructure Investments as the baseline. Environmental, Social and
Governance standards help safeguard against graft and other forms of
corruption; mitigate against climate risks and risks of ecosystem
degradation; promote skills transfer and preserve labor protections;
avoid unsustainable costs for taxpayers; and, crucially, promote
long-term economic and social benefits for partner countries.

4.A new paradigm of climate finance—spanning both public and private
sources—is required to mobilize the trillions needed to meet net-zero by
2050 and keep 1.5 degrees within reach.

The world must mobilize and align the trillions of dollars in capital
over the next three decades to meet net-zero by 2050, the majority of
which will be needed in developing and emerging economies. Mobilizing
capital at this scale requires a collaborative effort from all of us,
including governments, the private sector, and development finance
institutions, as well as better mechanisms to match finance and
technical assistance with country projects, including through country
partnerships.

5.Climate-smart infrastructure development should play an important role
in boosting economic recovery and sustainable job creation.

Infrastructure investment should also drive job creation and support
inclusive economic recovery. We believe our collective efforts to combat
the climate crisis can present the greatest economic opportunity of our
time: the opportunity to build the industries of the future through
equitable, inclusive, and sustainable economic development worldwide.

\*\*\*

President Biden, European Commission President von der Leyen, and Prime
Minister Johnson called on countries around the world to make similar
commitments and take action to spur a global transformation towards
reliable, climate-smart infrastructure.
