---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-11-19'
modified_time: 2021-11-19 09:14:59-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/19/readout-of-president-bidens-meeting-with-prime-minister-justin-trudeau-of-canada/
published_time: 2021-11-19 09:09:46-05:00
title: "Readout of President\_Biden\u2019s Meeting with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau\
  \ of\_Canada"
---
 
President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. met yesterday with Prime Minister Justin
Trudeau of Canada to review implementation of the Roadmap for a Renewed
U.S.-Canada Partnership launched in February 2021 to revitalize their
strategic partnership. Their wide-ranging discussion included joint
efforts to combat COVID-19; build back better; accelerate climate
action; advance diversity and inclusion; bolster security and defense;
and build global alliances.  They also agreed to work jointly to address
the unprecedented migration challenges facing the Western Hemisphere in
2021, and underscored the importance of continued robust cooperation
under the U.S.-Canada Action Plan on Opioids as the United States
surpasses 100,000 drug overdose deaths.  
  
Following the UN Climate Conference (COP26), they reiterated their
pledge to reach net-zero emissions by 2050, to enhance 2030 greenhouse
gas reduction targets, and they affirmed the Global Methane Pledge.  The
United States and Canada plan to expand clean electricity, grow
zero-emissions vehicles and charging infrastructure, and accelerate
carbon sequestration. They will work to reduce oil and gas sector
emissions and end new direct public support for unabated fossil fuels
internationally by the end of 2022.  They affirmed their commitment to
nature conservation, recognizing the importance of Indigenous-led
conservation efforts, and committed to unlock financing for Small Island
Developing States, especially in the Caribbean. They also pledged to
support the High-Level Panel for a Sustainable Ocean Economy.  
  
Both underscored their commitment to supply chain security and
resilience by announcing the creation of a U.S.-Canada Supply Chain
Working Group, which builds on the Joint Action Plan on Critical
Minerals.  Recognizing the extraordinary movement of migrants within the
Western Hemisphere, they committed to working with other partners in the
Americas on this hemispheric challenge in pursuit of a bold new regional
compact on migration and protection. They committed to promoting
innovation on sensitive and emerging technologies (including artificial
intelligence and quantum computing), and shaping global digital policies
and governance. They announced their intent to negotiate a bilateral
Science, Technology, and Innovation Agreement in 2022.  
  
Looking forward to the Summit for Democracy, the President and Prime
Minister affirmed their commitment to promote democracy, human rights,
and media freedom around the world. They also underscored the importance
of an inclusive approach to promoting gender equality because empowering
women and girls is a direct path to eradicating poverty and building a
more peaceful, more inclusive, and more prosperous world.  
  
The President and Prime Minister discussed our extensive cooperation on
security, and committed to strengthen cooperation between the Five Eyes
countries. They committed to establishing a Strategic Dialogue on the
Indo-Pacific to promote regional security, the rule of law, good
governance; to align our approaches on China and the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea (DPRK); as well as affirming their strategic dialogue
on Arctic cooperation. Both leaders also committed to continue close
collaboration on Haiti, including to strengthen the Haitian National
Police’s capacity and support inclusive political dialogue.  They also
pledged safe passage for foreign nationals and Afghans, resettlement and
humanitarian assistance, and counter-terrorism cooperation.  
  
Recalling the shared values and history that bind us together, the Prime
Minister and President confirmed a shared commitment to strengthen the
Canada-U.S. partnership for our collective security and prosperity.  The
President expressed that he looked forward to visiting Canada in the
near future.

\###
