---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-11-19'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/19/readout-of-president-bidens-meeting-with-president-andres-manuel-lopez-obrador-of-mexico/
published_time: 2021-11-19 09:16:19-05:00
title: "Readout of President Biden\u2019s Meeting with President Andr\xE9s Manuel\
  \ L\xF3pez Obrador of Mexico"
---
 
President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. met yesterday with President Andrés
Manuel López Obrador of Mexico to reaffirm our strong ties with Mexico
across a wide range of priorities, including economic cooperation,
global challenges such as the COVID-19 pandemic and climate crisis,
migration and development, and security. The Presidents discussed
progress since the September relaunch of the U.S.-Mexico High-Level
Economic Dialogue (HLED), affirming that the forum will allow both
countries to accelerate priorities. Both Presidents also noted that
agencies in both the United States and Mexico have begun concrete
projects together that will improve international communications
networks, strengthen bilateral supply chains, and promote economic
development in southern Mexico and Central America. They discussed
urgent actions needed to end the COVID-19 pandemic and meet multilateral
targets, and to strengthen regional and global health security efforts.
They also recognized the importance of educational and cultural
understanding between the people of both nations and pledged to
strengthen these ties.

They discussed their visions to tackle the climate crisis and the energy
future of North America. Both noted their commitment to work closely
together to accelerate North American deployment of renewable energy,
including catalyzing finance and technology in service of renewable
energy. Both Presidents also discussed how to partner on global health
security and position their countries to manufacture vaccines and
medical supplies here in North America.

In view of the complex and unprecedented regional challenges of
migration, President Biden and President López Obrador announced a joint
investment that that will allow Mexico and the United States to address
together the root causes of migration in Central America and sustainably
increase incomes for small farmers and reduce deforestation in southern
Mexico. The programs will benefit 540,000 people. Both leaders also
noted the importance of investigating and prosecuting human traffickers.
The leaders also committed to work jointly to engage with other partners
in the Americas on this regional challenge through pursuit of a bold new
regional compact on migration and protection.

Building on the October announcement of the U.S.-Mexico Bicentennial
Framework for Security, Public Health, and Safe Communities, both
countries pledged to create working groups on arms trafficking and
related transborder crime and border security, and to enter into a
Memorandum of Understanding for joint cooperation on mental health,
substance use disorder, and addictions. This Bicentennial Framework will
help address issues like the opioid crisis as the United States
surpasses 100,000 drug overdose deaths, underscoring the sense of
urgency to continue collaboration with Mexico to reduce the supply of
illicit drugs. The Presidents discussed global priorities, particularly
in view of Mexico’s presidency of the UN Security Council this month.

As a symbol of our mutual respect, the United States also returned to
Mexico two vases originating from the Tarahumara people of northern
Mexico, which were recovered by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
President Biden and President López Obrador reiterated their commitment
to a strong U.S.-Mexico partnership.

\###
