---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-11-10'
modified_time: 2021-11-10 11:02:59-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/10/statement-by-president-biden-on-todays-economic-news/
published_time: 2021-11-10 09:36:58-05:00
title: "Statement by President Biden on Today\u2019s Economic News"
---
 
Today, we received two pieces of economic news which underscore that our
recovery is continuing to progress, but that we also have more work to
do before our economy is back to normal.

First, on employment, we learned that we have had six consecutive weeks
of decline in new unemployment claims. The number of workers losing
their jobs is at the lowest level since the pandemic began. Unemployment
claims are down 70% since I took office. Unemployment has fallen so far
this year at the fastest rate since the 1950s. It’s a jobs recovery that
has happened years faster than after the Great Recession of 2008.
America is getting back to work.

And, on inflation, today’s report shows an increase over last month.
Inflation hurts Americans pocketbooks, and reversing this trend is a top
priority for me. The largest share of the increase in prices in this
report is due to rising energy costs—and in the few days since the data
for this report were collected, the price of natural gas has fallen. I
have directed my National Economic Council to pursue means to try to
further reduce these costs, and have asked the Federal Trade Commission
to strike back at any market manipulation or price gouging in this
sector. Other price increases reflect the ongoing struggle to restore
smooth operations in the economy in the restart: I am travelling to
Baltimore today to highlight how my Infrastructure Bill will bring down
these costs, reduce these bottlenecks, and make goods more available and
less costly. And I want to reemphasize my commitment to the independence
of the Federal Reserve to monitor inflation, and take steps necessary to
combat it.

Going forward, it is important that Congress pass my Build Back Better
plan, which is fully paid for and does not add to the debt, and will get
more Americans working by reducing the cost of child care and elder
care, and help directly lower costs for American families by providing
more affordable health coverage and prescription drugs—alongside cutting
taxes for 50 million Americans including for most families with
children. 17 Nobel Prize winners in economics have said that my plan
will “ease inflationary pressures.” And my plan does this without
raising taxes on those making less than $400,000 or adding to the
federal debt, by requiring the wealthiest and big corporations to start
to pay their fair share in taxes.

We are making progress on our recovery. Jobs are up, wages are up, home
values are up, personal debt is down, and unemployment is down. We have
more work to do, but there is no question that the economy continues to
recover and is in much better shape today than it was a year ago.

\###
