---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-11-04'
modified_time: 2021-11-04 09:35:28-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/04/fact-sheet-biden-administration-announces-details-of-two-major-vaccination-policies/
published_time: 2021-11-04 08:45:00-04:00
title: "Fact Sheet: Biden Administration Announces Details of Two Major Vaccination\_\
  Policies"
---
 
*New OSHA and CMS Rules Mean Two-Thirds of All Workers Now Covered by
Vaccination Rules*

Thanks to President Biden’s focus on getting Americans vaccinated, 70
percent of adult Americans are now fully vaccinated—up from less than
one percent when the President took office. This is significant
progress, made possible by a vaccinations program that made shots free
and convenient for months. But more vaccinations are needed to save
lives, protect the economy, and accelerate the path out of the pandemic.
To that end, in July, President Biden began rolling out vaccination
requirements for federal employees and contractors and calling on
employers to do the same. Thousands of organizations across the country
have answered the President’s call, and vaccination requirements have
already helped reduce the number of unvaccinated Americans by
approximately 40 percent since July.  
  
Today, the Biden Administration is announcing the details of two
policies to fight COVID-19 that will drive even more progress and result
in millions of Americans getting vaccinated, protecting workers,
preventing hospitalization, saving lives, and strengthening the
economy.  
  
First, the Department of Labor’s Occupational Safety and Health
Administration (OSHA) is announcing the details of a requirement for
employers with 100 or more employees to ensure each of their workers is
fully vaccinated or tests for COVID-19 on at least a weekly basis. The
OSHA rule will also require that these employers provide paid-time for
employees to get vaccinated, and ensure all unvaccinated workers wear a
face mask in the workplace. OSHA has a strong 50-year record of
requiring employers to take common sense actions to prevent workers from
getting sick or injured on the job. This rule will cover 84 million
employees.  
  
Second, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) at the
Department of Health and Human Services is announcing the details of its
requirement that health care workers at facilities participating in
Medicare and Medicaid are fully vaccinated. The rule applies to more
than 17 million workers at approximately 76,000 health care facilities,
including hospitals and long-term care facilities.  
  
The Administration has previously implemented policies requiring
millions of federal employees and federal contractors to be fully
vaccinated. To make it easy for businesses and workers to comply, the
Administration is announcing today that the deadline for workers to
receive their shots will be the same for the OSHA rule, the CMS rule,
and the previously-announced federal contractor vaccination requirement.
Employees falling under the ETS, CMS, or federal contractor rules will
need to have their final vaccination dose – either their second dose of
Pfizer or Moderna, or single dose of Johnson & Johnson – by January 4,
2022. OSHA is also clarifying that it will not apply its new rule to
workplaces covered by either the CMS rule or the federal contractor
vaccination requirement. And, both OSHA and CMS are making clear that
their new rules preempt any inconsistent state or local laws, including
laws that ban or limit an employer’s authority to require vaccination,
masks, or testing.  
  
The Administration is calling on all employers to ensure that as many of
their workers are vaccinated as quickly as possible. As detailed in a
recent [White House
report](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/Vaccination-Requirements-Report.pdf),
vaccination requirements work and are good for the economy. Vaccination
requirements have increased vaccination rates by more than 20 percentage
points – to over 90 percent – across a wide range of businesses and
organizations. According to Wall Street analysts, vaccination
requirements could result in as many as 5 million American workers going
back to work, and a survey of prominent, independent economists found
unanimous agreement that vaccination requirements will “promote a faster
and stronger economic recovery.”  
  
Today’s announcements include:  
  
**New Vaccination Requirement for Employers With 100 or More
Employees:** OSHA is issuing a COVID-19 Vaccination and Testing
Emergency Temporary Standard (ETS) to require employers with 100 or more
employees (i.e., “covered employers”) to:

-   **Get Their Employees Vaccinated by January 4th and Require
    Unvaccinated Employees to Produce a Negative Test on at Least a
    Weekly Basis: **All covered employers must ensure that their
    employees have received the necessary shots to be fully vaccinated –
    either two doses of Pfizer or Moderna, or one dose of Johnson &
    Johnson – by January 4th. After that, all covered employers must
    ensure that any employees who have not received the necessary shots
    begin producing a verified negative test to their employer on at
    least a weekly basis, and they must remove from the workplace any
    employee who receives a positive COVID-19 test or is diagnosed with
    COVID-19 by a licensed health care provider. The ETS lays out the
    wide variety of tests that comply with the standard. Given that
    vaccines are safe, free, and the most effective way for workers to
    be protected from COVID-19 transmission at work, the ETS does not
    require employers to provide or pay for tests. Employers may be
    required to pay for testing because of other laws or collective
    bargaining agreements.  
-   **Pay Employees for the Time it Takes to Get Vaccinated:** All
    covered employers are required to provide paid-time for their
    employees to get vaccinated and, if needed, sick leave to recover
    from side effects experienced that keep them from working.  
-   **Ensure All Unvaccinated Employees are Masked:** All covered
    employers must ensure that unvaccinated employees wear a face mask
    while in the workplace.  
-   **Other Requirements and Compliance Date:** Employers are subject to
    requirements for reporting and recordkeeping that are spelled out in
    the detailed OSHA materials [available
    here](https://www.osha.gov/sites/default/files/publications/OSHA4162.pdf).
    While the testing requirement for unvaccinated workers will begin
    after January 4th, employers must be in compliance with all other
    requirements – such as providing paid-time for employees to get
    vaccinated and masking for unvaccinated workers – on December 5th.
    The Administration is calling on all employers to step up and make
    these changes as quickly as possible.

**New Vaccination Requirements for Health Care Workers:** CMS is
requiring workers at health care facilities participating in Medicare or
Medicaid to have received the necessary shots to be fully vaccinated –
either two doses of Pfizer or Moderna, or one dose of Johnson & Johnson
– by January 4th. The rule covers approximately 76,000 health care
facilities and more than 17 million health care workers – the majority
of health care workers in America – and will enhance patient safety in
health care settings. The rule applies to employees regardless of
whether their positions are clinical or non-clinical and includes
employees, students, trainees, and volunteers who work at a covered
facility that receives federal funding from Medicare or Medicaid. It
also includes individuals who provide treatment or other services for
the facility under contract or other arrangements. Among the facility
types covered by the rule are hospitals, ambulatory surgery centers,
dialysis facilities, home health agencies, and long-term care
facilities. Today’s action will help provide patients assurance about
the vaccination status of those delivering care, create a level playing
field across health care facilities, and help to address challenges
facilities have faced with staff sickness and quarantines impacting
delivery of care.  
  
**Streamlining Implementation and Setting One Deadline Across Different
Vaccination Requirements:** The rules released today ensure employers
know which requirements apply to which workplaces. Federal contractors
may have some workplaces subject to requirements for federal contractors
and other workplaces subject to the newly-released COVID-19 Vaccination
and Testing ETS. To make it easy for all employers to comply with the
requirements, the deadline for the federal contractor vaccination
requirement will be aligned with those for the CMS rule and the ETS.
Employees falling under the ETS, CMS, or federal contractor rules will
need to have their final vaccination dose – either their second dose of
Pfizer or Moderna, or single dose of Johnson & Johnson – by January 4,
2022. This will make it easier for employers to ensure their workforce
is vaccinated, safe, and healthy, and ensure that federal contractors
implement their requirements on the same timeline as other employers in
their industries. And, the newly-released ETS will not be applied to
workplaces subject to the federal contractor requirement or CMS rule, so
employers will not have to track multiple vaccination requirements for
the same employees.
