---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-11-15'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/15/statement-by-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-on-cubas-november-15-protests/
published_time: 2021-11-15 20:23:15-05:00
title: "Statement by National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan on Cuba\u2019s November\
  \ 15\_Protests"
---
 
This July, the world watched as Cubans bravely took to the streets in
historic protests, asserting their rights to freedom of expression and
freedom of peaceful assembly.  In advance of peaceful demonstrations
planned for today, the Cuban regime predictably deployed a set piece of
harsh prison sentences, sporadic arrests, intimidation tactics, and acts
of repudiation all in an attempt to silence the voice of Cuban people as
they clamor for change, demand an end to political violence, and implore
the regime to liberate the hundreds of peaceful protestors detained
after July 11 just for wanting a greater say in the future of their
country.  

By its actions, the Cuban regime failed to respect the civil and
political rights enumerated in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
and international human rights treaties ratified by Cuba, including the
right to peaceful assembly and association, the right to freedom of
opinion and expression, and freedom from arbitrary arrest, detention, or
exile. There is no denying the regime’s brutal crackdown in response to
July 11, which were broadcast in real time for the world to see.

The United States is committed to supporting the agency of the Cuban
people as they seek to promote democratic change as an inclusive and
broad-based social movement. We urge the Cuban regime to refrain from
violence against peaceful protestors and to immediately release all
those unjustly detained, and we call on the international community to
voice their support for the Cuban people. 

The Cuban regime should take this opportunity to listen to their people:
to hear their frustrations and look for ways to work together to better
serve the needs and ambitions of all Cubans.  The United States will not
waver in its support of Cubans’ pursuit of fundamental freedoms and a
democratic and prosperous society.

\###
