---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-11-09'
modified_time: 2021-11-09 12:09:55-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/09/letter-to-the-speaker-of-the-house-and-the-president-of-the-senate-on-the-continuation-of-the-national-emergency-with-respect-to-the-threat-from-securities-investments-that-finance-certain-companies-o/
published_time: 2021-11-09 12:09:54-05:00
title: "Letter to the Speaker of the House and the President of the Senate on the\
  \ Continuation of the National Emergency with Respect to the Threat from Securities\
  \ Investments that Finance Certain Companies of the People\u2019s Republic of\_\
  China"
---
 
Dear Madam Speaker: (Dear Madam President:)

Section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d))
provides for the automatic termination of a national emergency unless,
within 90 days prior to the anniversary date of its declaration, the
President publishes in the *Federal Register* and transmits to the
Congress a notice stating that the emergency is to continue in effect
beyond the anniversary date.  In accordance with this provision, I have
sent to the *Federal Register* for publication the enclosed notice
stating that the national emergency with respect to the threat from
securities investments that finance certain companies of the People’s
Republic of China (PRC) declared in Executive Order 13959 of November
12, 2020, and expanded in Executive Order 14032 of June 3, 2021, is to
continue in effect beyond November 12, 2021.  
  
The PRC is increasingly exploiting United States capital to resource and
to enable the development and modernization of its military,
intelligence, and other security apparatuses, which continues to allow
the PRC to directly threaten the United States homeland and United
States forces overseas.  Through the national strategy of Military-Civil
Fusion, the PRC increases the size of the country’s military-industrial
complex by compelling civilian Chinese companies to support its military
and intelligence activities.  Those companies, though remaining
ostensibly private and civilian, directly support the PRC’s military,
intelligence, and security apparatuses.  At the same time, those
companies raise capital by selling securities to United States investors
that trade on public exchanges both here and abroad, lobbying United
States index providers and funds to include these securities in market
offerings, and engaging in other acts to ensure access to United States
capital.  
  
The PRC military-industrial complex, by directly supporting the efforts
of the PRC’s military, intelligence, and other security apparatuses,
continues to constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat, which has
its source in whole or substantial part outside the United States, to
the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States.
 In addition, the use of Chinese surveillance technology outside the PRC
and the development or use of Chinese surveillance technology to
facilitate repression or serious human rights abuse continue to
constitute unusual and extraordinary threats, which have their source in
whole or substantial part outside the United States, to the national
security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States.  Therefore,
I have determined that it is necessary to continue the national
emergency declared in Executive Order 13959, expanded in scope by
Executive Order 14032, with respect to the threat from securities
investments that finance certain companies of the People’s Republic of
China.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
