---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-11-24'
modified_time: 2021-11-24 08:20:25-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/24/president-biden-announces-nominations-for-the-office-of-management-and-budget/
published_time: 2021-11-24 09:30:00-05:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Nominations for the Office of Management and\_\
  Budget"
---
 
*Shalanda Young Nominated to Serve as Director, Nani Coloretti as Deputy
Director*

Today, President Biden announced his intent to nominate Shalanda Young
as Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and Nani
Coloretti as Deputy Director. President Biden made the announcement in a
[video here](https://youtu.be/vEDyu-6vVvI).  
  
Both Young and Coloretti have been confirmed by the Senate in the past.
If they are confirmed again, OMB would be led by two history-making
women of color who are experienced and highly qualified. Young, who has
served as Acting Director since being confirmed as Deputy Director by
the Senate in a bipartisan 63-37 vote on March 23, 2021, would be the
first Black woman to lead OMB. Coloretti would be one of the
highest-ranking Asian American, Native Hawaiians, or Pacific Islanders
serving in government.  
  
**<u>Shalanda Young, Director, Office of Management and Budget</u>**  
Shalanda Young is the Acting Director of the Office of Management and
Budget, having been confirmed by the Senate in a bipartisan vote as the
agency’s Deputy Director in March. As Acting Director, she serves as a
senior advisor to President Biden and plays a critical role in
implementing the President’s vision across the Executive Branch.   
  
Previously, Young served as Clerk and Staff Director for the House
Appropriations Committee, where she oversaw the $1.3 trillion annual
appropriations bills, necessary disaster aid, and major aspects of
COVID-19 related spending. She also served as the Deputy Staff Director,
Professional Staff Member, and other roles on the Committee. Young
started her career as a Presidential Management Fellow at the National
Institute of Health.  
  
A native of southern Louisiana, Young holds a Master’s Degree from
Tulane University and a Bachelor of Arts Degree from Loyola University
New Orleans. She lives in Washington, DC with her family, including her
newborn daughter Charlie.  
  
**<u>Nani A. Coloretti, Deputy Director, Office of Management and
Budget</u>**  
Nani A. Coloretti has led public, private and non-profit organizations
to achieve outstanding results, with a focus on increasing opportunity
for all. She is currently a Senior Vice President at the Urban
Institute, an independent policy research organization and think tank
dedicated to using evidence, insight, and analysis to advance upward
mobility, equity, and shared prosperity all Americans.  
  
Coloretti’s federal government service includes deputy secretary of the
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), Assistant
Secretary for Management and Acting CFO of U.S. Department of the
Treasury, and Acting COO of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
Before joining the Obama Administration in 2009, she served as Policy
and Budget Director for San Francisco Mayor Gavin Newsom. Her prior
experience includes work in San Francisco to improve the lives of
children, youth, and families; program examiner and Presidential
Management Fellow in the Office of Management and Budget and work on the
State of Hawaii budget. Ms. Coloretti currently serves as an independent
director on the board of the Bank of the West. She is a fellow of the
National Academy of Public Administration, Strategic Advisor to
Government Executives with the Partnership for Public Services, and has
been independently recognized for innovation and leadership, receiving
the UC Berkeley Goldman School of Public Policy Special Award for Policy
Innovation, the Public Policy and International Affairs (PPIA) Alumni
Achievement Award and the National Public Service award.  
  
She holds a BA in economics and communications from the University of
Pennsylvania and an MPP from the University of California, Berkeley. She
was raised in Hawaii and currently lives in Bethesda, Maryland with her
husband and together they have a son in college.

\###
