---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-11-14'
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/14/president-biden-announces-former-new-orleans-mayor-mitch-landrieu-as-senior-advisor-and-infrastructure-coordinator/
published_time: 2021-11-14 18:48:35-05:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Former New Orleans Mayor Mitch Landrieu as Senior\
  \ Advisor and Infrastructure\_Coordinator"
---
 
Ahead of signing the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act tomorrow,
President Biden is naming Mitch Landrieu as senior advisor responsible
for coordinating for implementation of this historic bipartisan
infrastructure law.

In this role, Landrieu will oversee the most significant and
comprehensive investments in American infrastructure in generations—work
that independent experts verify will create millions of high-paying,
union jobs while boosting our economic competitiveness in the world,
strengthening our supply chains, and acting against inflation for the
long term.

Landrieu will be a critical team member when it comes to delivering on
the biggest investments in roads, bridges, and rail in generations;
investments in ports and airports, the biggest investment in mass
transit in American history, investments that stop our children from
drinking poisoned water, unprecedented clean energy and climate
resilience investments, and investments that connect every American to
high speed internet.

As Mayor of New Orleans, Landrieu took office at a time when the city’s
recovery from the devastation of Hurricane Katrina had stalled. He hit
the ground running, fast-tracking over 100 projects and securing
billions in federal funding for roads, schools, hospitals, parks and
critical infrastructure, turning New Orleans into one of America’s great
comeback stories. He also went on to chair the U.S. Conference of
Mayors, leading the main bipartisan organization representing mayors
across the country, and was recognized by Governing Magazine as the
Public Official of the Year in 2015. He also became nationally known for
bringing communities together and making racial equity a chief priority.

As the former Lt. Governor of Louisiana, he also knows what it’s like to
lead at the state level and will be able to work with and relate to
governors and other state officials. And he has strong relationships in
the business and labor communities, which will be essential in carrying
out this job.

“I am thankful to the President and honored to be tasked with
coordinating the largest infrastructure investment in generations,” said
Mitch Landrieu. “Our work will require strong partnerships across the
government and with state and local leaders, business and labor to
create good-paying jobs and rebuild America for the middle class. We
will also ensure these major investments achieve the President’s goals
of combating climate change and advancing equity.”

**<u>Biography</u>**

Mitch Landrieu served as the 61st Mayor of New Orleans (2010–2018) When
he took office, the city was still recovering from Hurricane Katrina and
in the midst of the BP Oil Spill.

Under Landrieu’s leadership, New Orleans is widely recognized as one of
the nation’s great comeback stories. In 2015, Landrieu was named “Public
Official of the Year” by Governing, and in 2016 was voted “America’s top
turnaround mayor” in a Politico survey of mayors. He also served as
President of the U.S. Conference of Mayors.

Landrieu gained national prominence for his powerful decision to take
down four Confederate monuments in New Orleans, which also earned him
the prestigious John F. Kennedy Profile in Courage Award. In his book,
In the Shadow of Statues: A White Southerner Confronts History, Landrieu
recounts his personal journey confronting the issue of race and
institutional racism that still plagues America.

In 2018, he launched E Pluribus Unum, an initiative in the South created
to fulfill America’s promise of justice and opportunity for all by
breaking down the barriers that divide us by race and class. Prior to
serving as Mayor, Landrieu served two terms as lieutenant governor and
16 years in the state legislature. He and his wife Cheryl live in New
Orleans, where they raised their five children.

\###
