---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-11-18'
modified_time: 2021-11-18 16:05:21-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/18/president-biden-announces-key-regional-appointments-for-usda-sba-epa-and-hhs/
published_time: 2021-11-18 16:00:00-05:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Regional Appointments for USDA, SBA, EPA, and\_\
  HHS"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to appoint
the following individuals to serve in key regional roles at the United
States Department of Agriculture, Small Business Administration,
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Health and Human
Services:

-   Theresa Greenfield, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Iowa
-   Armando Valdez, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Colorado
-   Matt Russell, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
    Iowa
-   Kent Peppler, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
    Colorado
-   Clifton Warren, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
    Alabama
-   Robin Talley, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
    Delaware
-   Mike Vlacich, SBA Regional Administrator, Region 1
-   Allen Morris Thomas, SBA Regional Administrator, Region 4
-   Elmy Bermejo, SBA Regional Administrator, Region 9
-   Daniel Blackman, EPA Regional Administrator, Region 4
-   Kathleen “KC” Becker, EPA Regional Administrator, Region 8
-   Lisa Garcia, EPA Regional Administrator, Region 2
-   Dara Kass, HHS Regional Director, Region 2
-   Ingrid Ulrey, HHS Regional Director, Region 10

These regional appointees will be critical to the President’s efforts to
rebuild communities most impacted by the pandemic, the economic
recovery, and climate change. They bring deep expertise in their issue
areas as well as critical relationships with federal, state, tribal, and
local leaders. And, consistent with the President’s commitment to
building an administration that looks like America, these regional
appointees represent the diversity of American and the communities they
serve.****

**<u>UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (USDA)</u>**

The USDA’s Farm Service Agency implements agricultural policy,
administers credit and loan programs, and manages conservation,
commodity, disaster, and farm marketing programs in each U.S. State. Its
mission is to equitably serve all farmers, ranchers, and agricultural
partners through the delivery of effective, efficient agricultural
programs for all Americans. State Executive Directors oversee this work,
ensuring the needs of local constituents are met and that USDA resources
are distributed equitably and fairly.

USDA’s Rural Development mission area is committed to helping improve
the economy and quality of life in rural America. State Directors lead
offices that offer grants, loans, and loan guarantees to help create
jobs and support economic development and essential services.

**<u>Theresa Greenfield, State Director, Rural Development, Iowa</u>**

Theresa Greenfield grew up on a small family farm outside a town of 500
during the 1980’s Farm Crisis. A committed public servant, Greenfield
has focused her career on community development, housing, and real
estate. She has worked with elected officials and community leaders at
all levels of government to create strong, vibrant neighborhoods and
hometowns. She is focused on bringing her professional and life
experiences to the mission of strengthening the economy of rural Iowa.

**<u>Armando Valdez, State Director, Rural Development, Colorado</u>**

A native of the San Luis Valley, Armando was raised near Capulin,
Colorado, on a farm and ranch consisting of cattle, sheep, small grains,
and hay. Armando continues to operate this family farm and ranch along
with his wife and children.  In addition to his passions for
agriculture, Armando is an Assistant Professor of Management and the
Director of the Health Care Administration Program in the School of
Business at Adams State University.  Armando is currently a member of
the Colorado State University System Board of Governors.  During the
Obama-Biden Administration, Armando was appointed to the USDA-Farm
Service Agency Executive Committee for Colorado. In 2012, Armando was
appointed as executive chair of this committee and served in that role
until his term ended in 2018.  Finally, empowering people and
cultivating successful pathways for others are two of Armando’s key
priorities. Armando believes we must facilitate opportunities for all
within Colorado, which enhance agricultural, economic, educational, and
social interests while protecting rural and agricultural lifestyles.  

**<u>Matt Russell, State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
Iowa</u>**

Matt Russell, a 5th generation Iowa farmer, grew up on a 1,000-acre
commodity and livestock farm. He now farms with his husband Patrick
Standley near Lacona featuring retail agriculture and environmental
stewardship. Russell’s off-farm career is built on advocating for social
justice—the first decade training for and working in ministry and 16
years doing secular work in economic and environmental sustainability.
Since April 2018 he’s been drawing on both backgrounds to lead Iowa
Interfaith Power & Light, a statewide climate action organization. Under
his leadership, Iowa IPL began empowering farmers to join other Iowans
of faith and conscience to help solve the climate crisis. He earned an
M.S. in Rural Sociology from Iowa State University; advanced food,
agriculture, and rural development policy at the Drake University
Agricultural Law Center; and served eight years on the Iowa FSA State
Committee. Coyote Run Farm features grass-finished beef, specialty
crops, and emerging carbon farming projects.

**<u>Kent Peppler, State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
Colorado</u>**

Kent Peppler is a fourth-generation farmer from Mead, Colorado. A native
of Colorado, Kent is a graduate of Longmont High School and holds an
Associate of Arts degree from Northeastern Junior College as well as a
Bachelor of Arts in Agriculture Education from Colorado State
University. Kent was a member of the Colorado State Farm Service Agency
State Committee during the Clinton-Gore Administration from 1995-2000
and served briefly as the Assistant State Executive Director and Acting
State Executive Director for the agency. He also served as a trade
advisor on the United States Department of Agriculture Sweeteners
Agriculture Trade Advisory Committee (ATAC). Additionally, he acted as
Colorado Young Farmers Educational Association State President and was
State President of Rocky Mountain Farmers Union for nine years. Kent and
his wife Colleen currently farm in Mead and have two grown children,
Ashley Charnetski and Tyson Peppler.

**<u>Clifton Warren, State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
Alabama</u>**

Clifton L. Warren Jr. is a native of Greene County, Alabama where he
grew up on a small family farm where he raised hogs and grew corn and
other vegetables. Warren brings a combined total of over 25 years of
experience and dedicated service to the Government, the majority with
the FSA. Warren began his career with FSA in 1999 as a Temporary Program
Technician in the Greene/Sumter FSA Office. He became a County
Operations Trainee with FSA in 2000 and went on to serve in this
capacity in conjunction with being a Program Technician from 2001-2004. 
He later served as County Operations Reviewer where he was responsible
for the reviews of over 46 USDA Service Centers in Alabama and other
states on an annual basis on all aspects of farm programs. Warren has
also served as County Executive Director for Hale, Perry, and Bibb
counties and as District Director for 13 FSA county offices providing
oversight, program advice, training and guidance to County committees
and service center staffs on commodity programs and farm loan programs.

After high school, Warren enlisted in the U.S. Army and served honorably
for 3 years from 1990-1993. Warren served in the Persian Gulf War during
this enlistment. Warren attended DeVry University in Atlanta, Georgia,
earning a Bachelor of Science degree in Management with a concentration
in Human Resource Management and Project Management. Warren and his wife
Bernice reside in Tuscaloosa County, Alabama.

**<u>Robin Talley, State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
Delaware</u>**

Robin L. Talley has served in various capacities within the USDA-Farm
Service Agency since 1984.  Most recently, in her capacity as District
Director, she was responsible for administration of federal farm and
loan programs delivered by three field offices in Delaware.  Born and
raised on a dairy farm in Delaware, Talley has a Bachelor of Science in
Agricultural Economics and a Master of Business Administration from the
University of Delaware. 

Talley’s service to agriculture has been recognized numerous times by
USDA and farm organizations.  She is a recipient of the George M.
Worrilow Award, presented by the University of Delaware Ag Alumni
Association for outstanding service to agriculture.  Talley was a
trustee and volunteer for the Delaware Agricultural Museum and Village.
Talley resides in Dover.

**<u>SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (SBA)</u>**

The 10 SBA Regional Offices, led by Regional Administrators, oversee the
SBA’s 68 district offices and ensure the goals and objectives of the
Agency are met by each district office and field operations staff. The
district offices are the point of delivery for most SBA programs and
services, providing quality service to the local small business
community. They work with SBA resource partners and intermediaries to
accomplish the SBA mission of assisting America’s small businesses.

**<u>Mike Vlacich, SBA Regional Administrator, Region 1</u>**

Mike Vlacich is a respected New Hampshire public servant with extensive
economic development, policy, and constituent service experience at the
nonprofit, state and federal government level currently serving as
Senior Advisor to United States Senator Jeanne Shaheen, where he also
served in leadership roles in her US Senate and Governor’s Offices. He
previously served as President and CEO of the New Hampshire College and
University Council, State Director for United States Senator Maggie
Hassan, Director of the New Hampshire Division of Economic Development,
and Deputy Chief of Staff to NH Governor John Lynch. Vlacich is a first
generation American and the first in his family to attend college,
graduating from the University of New Hampshire in 1995.  He lives in
Concord, NH with his wife and 2 daughters.

Region 1 serves Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode
Island, and Vermont.

**<u>Allen Thomas, SBA Regional Administrator, Region 4</u>**

Allen Thomas is a three-term mayor, businessman, entrepreneur and leader
in public and private enterprise. As mayor of Greenville, one of North
Carolina’s largest cities, Allen led the post-recession recovery, rapid
expansion and robust economic growth, better connecting the city and
region. He was recognized in the White House during the Obama-Biden
Administration for community engagement in law enforcement and public
safety. A serial entrepreneur, Allen co-founded healthcare technology
startup IQMax, which grew to service 160 medical facilities in 36
States, processing 18 million patient records per day. Mr. Thomas was
appointed Executive Director of the North Carolina Global Transpark by
Governor Roy Cooper, to revitalize the state’s global multimodal
transportation and logistics hub, spearheading growth in advanced
manufacturing jobs, innovation and investment.

Region 4 serves Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Mississippi, North
Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee.

**<u>Elmy Bermejo, SBA Regional Administrator, Region 9</u>**

Elmy Bermejo has a passion for building and strengthening relationships
while assisting people and organizations attain their goals. She has
been a senior government official with more than 25 years of experience
at the executive level and has established a successful record of
collaboration with public and private stakeholders on a range of issues
including workforce development, disaster relief, and small business
support. Elmy recently served as the Northern California Director for
External Affairs for Governor Gavin Newsom; prior to that, she served as
a Senior Adviser and Outreach Director for Lt. Governor Eleni Kounalakis
of California, the first woman ever selected for this
position. Elmy also served in the Obama-Biden administration at the US
Department of Labor as the Regional Representative to the Secretary and
as Director of Intergovernmental Affairs.  She serves on the San
Francisco Commission on the Environment, The Women’s Foundation of CA
and is an Advisory member of Hispanas Organized for Political Equality
(HOPE) and the Leo T. McCarthy Center for Public Service and the Public
Good.

Region 9 serves Arizona, California, Guam, Hawaii and Nevada.

**<u>ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)</u>**

Regional Administrators lead the EPA’s 10 regional offices around the
country, each of which is responsible for the execution of EPA programs
within a set of several states and territories. EPA regional offices
also ensure the views and needs of each region are incorporated into the
formulation of agency and national policy.

**<u>Daniel Blackman, EPA Regional Administrator, Region 4</u>**

Daniel Blackman has spent over a decade advising policymakers at the
Georgia state capitol and advocating on behalf of Georgia ratepayers and
small businesses in energy-related matters before the state’s Public
Service Commission. He served as chairman of the Georgia Chapter of the
Sierra Club and board member for the ACLU. Blackman has worked
throughout EPA Region 4 to secure environmental, health and economic
justice and to convene stakeholders with federal agencies. His work in
addressing groundwater contamination at nuclear plants and its impact on
public health and safety has given him the opportunity to testify
numerous times before the Nuclear Regulatory Commission; and his
commitment to working throughout the Southeastern United States to push
for legislation that addresses toxic ash left behind from burning coal
has given him the opportunity to play a key role in the transitioning
from coal to clean energy in the United States.

Region 4 serves Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Mississippi, North
Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, and 6 Tribal Nations.

**<u>Kathleen “KC” Becker, EPA Regional Administrator, Region 8</u>**

KC Becker recently completed four terms in the Colorado legislature,
culminating as Speaker of the House. Becker led the Colorado Democrats
to its biggest majority in the legislature in over 50 years, and the
first majority female legislative chamber in the country. Prior to
serving in the Colorado legislature, she served four years on Boulder,
Colorado’s city council. She worked for nearly seven years as an
attorney-advisor in the Solicitor’s Office at the US Department of the
Interior, practicing administrative and natural resources law. While in
the Colorado legislature, Becker led landmark legislation to reform
Colorado’s oil and gas sector, created a first in the nation Office of
Just Transition, and passed nationally-leading legislation requiring the
state of Colorado to put forward a plan to meet carbon reduction goals.
Becker lives in Boulder with her husband and two sons.

Region 8 serves Colorado, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah,
Wyoming, and 28 Tribal Nations.

**<u>Lisa Garcia, EPA Regional Administrator, Region 2</u>**

Lisa Flavia Garcia is an environmental lawyer that has been using the
power of law and policy over the past 20 years to advocate for
environmental and climate justice (“EJ”).  Garcia was appointed to EPA
in 2009, serving as associate administrator and senior advisor to EPA
Administrators Lisa P. Jackson and Gina McCarthy. She led the creation
and implementation of Plan EJ 2014, the first strategic plan for weaving
EJ into all of the EPA’s work, and led the design of EJSCREEN. Garcia
then worked as a Vice President for Litigation, Healthy Communities at
Earthjustice, and in 2019 joined GRIST magazine to design and run a new
program called Fix, a climate solutions lab focused on amplifying the
voices of climate justice leaders. Earlier in her career, Garcia served
as the Director of Environmental Justice and Indian Affairs at the New
York State Department of Environmental Conservation and as an Assistant
Attorney General in the Environmental Protection Bureau of the NYS
Attorney General’s Office.  She was also an Associate Professor at
Rutgers Law School in Newark, staff attorney at NY Public Interest
Group, and a legislative fellow for Senator Robert Torricelli and NJ
State Senator Byron Baer.

Region 2 serves New Jersey, New York, Puerto Rico, U.S. Virgin Islands,
and 8 Tribal Nations.

**<u>DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)</u>**

Regional Directors lead HHS’s 10 Regional Offices that directly serve
state and local organizations. Regional Directors ensure the Department
maintains close contact with state, local, and tribal partners and
addresses the needs of communities and individuals served through HHS
programs and policies.

**<u>Dara Kass, HHS Regional Director, Region 2</u>**

Dr. Kass is a graduate of SUNY Downstate College of Medicine and the
Kings County Hospital Emergency Medicine Residency. She began her
career in resident education at Staten Island University Hospital,
followed by medical student education at New York University School of
Medicine, and most recently was an Associate Professor of Emergency
Medicine at the Columbia University School of Medicine. A champion for
gender equity and the advancement of women in medicine, Dr. Kass’s
academic work has focused on creating a more equitable workplace for
women in medicine. Most recently, she has shifted focus to policy and
public communication in regards to the COVID pandemic. She has focused
her communication on the impact of COVID on communities and families,
empowering Americans to make informed decisions for themselves and their
families. 

Region 2 is based in New York City and serves New York, New Jersey, U.S.
territories in the Caribbean, and several federally recognized Tribal
Nations.

**<u>Ingrid Ulrey, HHS Regional Director, Region 10</u>**

Ulrey joins HHS following more than five years as Policy Director for
Public Health—Seattle and King County, where she was a lead strategist
for the region’s COVID-19 response, guiding vaccine delivery for a
population of more than 2.2 million. She has expertise in healthy aging
and long-term care from previous leadership positions with AARP and
before that the Service Employees International Union (SEIU); and a
global perspective on health from more than five years living and
working in Asia. Ulrey has a master’s degree in Public Policy from
Georgetown University.

Region 10 encompasses Alaska, Idaho, Oregon, and Washington. Region 10
Indian Health Service offices also serve several federally recognized
tribes in this region.

\###
