---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-11-12'
modified_time: 2021-11-12 09:16:30-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/12/readout-of-president-joe-bidens-participation-in-the-apec-virtual-leaders-meeting/
published_time: 2021-11-12 09:16:29-05:00
title: "Readout of President Joe Biden\u2019s Participation in the APEC Virtual Leaders\u2019\
  \ Meeting"
---
 
Today President Joseph R. Biden Jr. participated in the Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation (APEC) Virtual Leaders’ Meeting hosted by Prime
Minister Jacinda Ardern of New Zealand. Leaders endorsed the Aotearoa
Plan of Action for an economic agenda that delivers for our workers,
families, and businesses. During the meeting, President Biden
underscored his commitment to strengthening our relationship with APEC
economies in order to advance fair and open trade and investment,
bolster American competitiveness, and ensure a free and open
Indo-Pacific. The Leaders discussed ongoing efforts to address the
COVID-19 pandemic and support the global economic recovery. The
President noted that the United States has donated and shipped more than
220 million vaccine doses so far, including 64 million to APEC
economies, and pledged that we will continue to share doses, invest in
manufacturing abroad, and work with APEC economies to build global
health security.

President Biden reaffirmed our interest in serving as a strong, reliable
partner to APEC economies as we pursue sustained and inclusive growth.
The President discussed ways to unleash the economic power of the region
and to deepen U.S. economic engagement throughout the Indo-Pacific. He
articulated how we can work together to establish a common way forward
for digital technologies in order to promote an open, interoperable,
reliable, and secure Internet, invest in robust cybersecurity, and
develop digital economy standards that will position all of our
economies for the future. He spoke about how the climate crisis is also
an enormous opportunity to create good jobs and that we must work
together to move towards a sustainable future.

The meeting builds on President Biden’s ongoing engagements in the
Indo-Pacific region, including the [July APEC
meeting](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/16/readout-of-president-joe-bidens-participation-in-the-apec-virtual-leaders-retreat/),
the October
[US-ASEAN](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/26/readout-of-president-bidens-participation-in-the-u-s-asean-summit/)
and [East Asia
Summits](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/27/readout-of-president-bidens-participation-in-the-east-asia-summit/),
and other Leader-level engagements. At the East Asia Summit, President
Biden announced that the United States will explore with partners the
development of an Indo-Pacific economic framework that will define our
shared objectives around trade facilitation, standards for the digital
economy and technology, supply chain resiliency, decarbonization and
clean energy, infrastructure, worker standards, and other areas of
shared interest.

\###
