---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-11-11'
modified_time: 2021-11-10 16:53:26-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/11/fact-sheet-biden-administration-announces-actions-to-address-the-health-effects-of-military-exposures/
published_time: 2021-11-11 07:15:00-05:00
title: 'FACT SHEET: Biden Administration Announces Actions to Address the Health Effects
  of Military Exposures'
---
 
Exposure to contaminants and environmental hazards poses a major health
concern for veterans of all generations. There are also gaps and delays
in the scientific evidence demonstrating conclusive links between known
exposures and health impacts, leaving many veterans without access to
Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) benefits and high-quality treatment
to address significant health conditions. For example, it took decades
to provide access to compensatory benefits and health care to many
Vietnam era veterans for conditions presumed to be related to Agent
Orange exposure. For the newest generation of veterans, concerns about
burn pits and other exposures continue to mount. While the federal
government has taken some steps to address these issues, including
implementing registries to track veterans exposed to potentially
hazardous substances, the Biden-Harris Administration is committed to
doing more to enable timely access to services and benefits for those
potentially exposed to hazardous materials.  
  
As we mark Veterans Day and honor those who have worn the uniform of the
United States, the Administration is moving forward to support our
service members and veterans who may have encountered environmental
hazards by:  
  
**Developing and testing a model for establishing service connection**.
It can be difficult for veterans to prove connection for disabilities
resulting from environmental hazards. To mitigate this difficulty, VA
may create presumptions of exposure in order to establish service
connection for various chronic conditions when the evidence of an
environmental exposure and the associated health risks are strong in the
aggregate but hard to prove on an individual basis. In order to deliver
benefits more quickly to veterans who developed disabilities due to
exposure to environmental hazards and to lower the evidentiary burden on
such veterans, VA developed a new model to accelerate the
decision-making process to consider adding new presumptive
conditions. This new model takes into consideration not only consensus
reports from the National Academy of Sciences, Engineering, and
Medicine, but also includes analyses of data from other sources as well,
including data from the Veterans Benefits Administration and the
Veterans Health Administration. The new model relies upon a
multi-faceted scale to evaluate the strength of scientific and other
evidence and allow VA to make faster policy decisions on key exposures.
VA successfully applied this model to examine the association between
exposures to particulate matter and three respiratory conditions, as
announced last May.  
  
**Adding new presumptive conditions.** In August, VA began processing
disability claims for asthma, rhinitis, and sinusitis based on presumed
exposure to particulate matter. Veterans who served in the Southwest
Asia theater of operations and other areas and who developed these
conditions within 10 years of military service are now eligible to apply
for disability benefits and access to VA health care. This rulemaking
was based upon application of the new presumptive model and involved
careful review of a study conducted by the National Academies of
Science, Engineering, and Medicine, as well as other evidence assessed
by VA subject matter experts.  
  
**Applying new model to review evidence of service connection for rare
respiratory cancers and constrictive bronchiolitis**. VA will further
test the new presumptive model to assess potential associations between
military environmental exposures and constrictive bronchiolitis, lung
cancers, and rare respiratory cancers such as squamous cell carcinoma of
the larynx or trachea and salivary gland-type tumors of the trachea. The
President has directed VA to complete the review of rare cancers and
provide recommendations about new presumptions of service connection
within 90 days. Based on the results of this review, the Administration
will consider initiating additional rulemaking. Once the process is
complete, the Administration will continue to test this model on
additional health conditions and exposures to ensure more timely review
and consideration of potential service connection.  
  
**Improving data on individual exposures.** The Individual Longitudinal
Exposure Record (ILER) is the primary Department of Defense and VA
application to track, record, and assess environmental and occupational
exposure to potentially hazardous substances. Currently, ILER is not
scheduled to reach full operating capability until September 2023. To
ensure full capability of the ILER, DoD plans to expand and accelerate
the development schedule—and add additional data—enabling more
comprehensive information on health risks of potential exposures to be
more rapidly incorporated into service member and veterans medical care
and benefit decisions.  
  
**Raising awareness of VA benefits related to military exposures.** Many
veterans are unaware of their eligibility for benefits and services
related to potential military exposures. In addition, some claims
adjudicators may not have up-to-date awareness of recent policies
related to conditions newly presumed to be service-connected. In October
2021, VA launched an outreach campaign to inform service members and
veterans about eligibility and benefits related to chronic disabilities
that may be due to military exposures while in service. This includes
efforts to embed educational and outreach materials into the Transition
Assistance Programs (TAP) and as part of the Solid Start program, which
reaches out to transitioning service members at regular intervals during
the first year following their military separation. VA will also
initiate new public service announcements and live events to encourage
early and regular engagement with VA and other federal agencies for
benefits, health care, and other services. VA also plans to provide
refresher trainings for all claims processors, share information related
to military exposures, and host a series of Q&A sessions related to
implementation of the new presumptive disabilities that were implemented
this summer. VA will also revise Frequently Asked Question materials and
call scripts to ensure that front line employees are able to better
assist veterans through the claims process.   
  
**Expanding training for VA and non-VA providers.** Veterans often find
that their providers and compensation and pension examiners are not
well-trained to understand or treat veterans’ exposure concerns. To
address this issue, VA has completed a contract with the American
College of Preventive Medicine (ACPM) to provide a five-module
certificate training program in military environmental exposures. This
will provide a basic level of competence for all VA- and non-VA
providers across the nation that will help better treat veterans with
concerns about toxic exposures. VA will require all providers to
complete the first module of this training for an entry-level
understanding of the health outcomes of military exposures and encourage
the remaining four modules for certification.  
  
**Establishing network of specialized providers and call center.**
Veterans with concerns about the health outcomes of military exposures
experience inconsistent care to address these specific issues,
especially outside of VA. Beginning in 2022, VA will launch VET-HOME,
The Veterans Exposure Team-Health Outcomes of Military Exposures.
VET-HOME will consist of two interconnected parts: a call center for
veterans and providers, and a nationwide network of specialists.
Veterans with questions about environmental exposures will call into a
central location and be guided through the registry exam or
environmental exposure process. They would then be referred to one of 40
environmental health providers across the United States who would use a
telemedicine platform to assess and if necessary refer the veteran to a
VA facility to complete any specialty testing, like a pulmonary function
test or other lab work. Providers with questions on military exposures
would be referred to one the 40 military environmental heath subject
matter experts. The results of the consultation would be shared with the
veteran’s primary care doctor, helping to deliver better care to the
veteran.  
  
**Extending Eligibility Period for VA Health Care.** Some Veterans do
not have concerns about their health until several years after
deployment or leaving service. At present, VA allows veterans to receive
free VA health care for up to 5 years after discharge or release for any
condition related to service in Operation Enduring Freedom (OEF) in
Afghanistan or Operation Iraqi Freedom (OIF) or Operation New Dawn (OND)
in Iraq. This is called an “enhanced eligibility period.” To ensure that
veterans who served in these conflicts have access to health care from
VA, the Administration will call upon Congress to implement a change to
the statute to enable a longer enhanced enrollment period for the 3
million veterans who deployed to support recent combat operations.  
  
Taken together, these actions will improve our understanding of the
health effects of military-related exposures, educate providers and
veterans about these exposures, and provide timelier access to health
services and benefits for individuals who were exposed. The
Administration will continue to prioritize efforts to support veterans
who were exposed to environmental hazards during their military service.
At the same time, the Administration will work with Congress on its
encouraging ongoing efforts to ensure we are able to quickly and fairly
recognize additional presumptions of service-connected disabilities, in
order to live up to our sacred obligation to provide veterans the care
they have earned.

\###
