---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-11-10'
modified_time: 2021-11-09 22:55:37-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/10/fact-sheet-the-bipartisan-infrastructure-deal-improves-the-supply-chain-from-ship-to-store/
published_time: 2021-11-10 06:00:00-05:00
title: "FACT SHEET: The Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal Improves the Supply Chain from\
  \ Ship to\_Store"
---
 
Decades of neglect and underinvestment in our infrastructure have left
the links in our goods movement supply chains struggling to keep up with
the rapid and persistent increase in goods movement that the pandemic
has generated. Further, extreme heat waves, catastrophic wildfires, and
severe drought are taking American lives and livelihoods. In the last
year alone, extreme weather has cost America more than $100
billion—often hitting historically underserved groups the hardest,
particularly low-income communities, communities of color, and people
with disabilities.

Despite global disruptions due to the pandemic, [America is moving
record numbers of
goods](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/blog/2021/11/03/improving-and-tracking-supply-chains-link-by-link/)
from our ports to shelves and homes. The Ports of Long Beach and Los
Angeles, for example, which import 40% of all containerized imports into
the country—are handling the most in their history, 17% more than their
previous record year.

The Administration has already taken unprecedented steps to get goods
flowing from ships to shelves faster right now. That includes
partnerships with the ports of LA and Long Beach to move to 24/7
operations—in addition to partnerships with labor as well as private
sector leaders like Wal-Mart, UPS, Target and FedEx who are taking
similar action—and the port action plan to accelerate investment in our
ports, waterways, and freight networks.

The Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal will make the fundamental changes
that are long overdue for our ports, airports, rail and roads to ensure
that our supply chains are more resilient and efficient from future
shocks. Modern, resilient, and sustainable port, airport, and freight
infrastructure will help improve efficiency, reduce costs, and support
U.S. competitiveness by removing bottlenecks and expediting commerce,
while reducing greenhouse gas emissions and the environmental impact on
neighboring communities. The plan will strengthen supply chains by
investing almost $50 billion in our ports and airports on top of
expanding existing programs that support freight investment across
modes.

This historic legislation will:

**Upgrade our nation’s airports and ports to strengthen our supply
chains and reduce costs, improve U.S. competitiveness, reduce
emissions.** Our ports and waterways need repair and reimagination to
address long-term disinvestment that has weakened the resilience of our
supply chains. The United States built modern aviation, but our airports
lag far behind our competitors. According to some rankings, no U.S.
airports rank in the top 25 of airports worldwide and no U.S. port ranks
in the top 50 ports for efficiency. The legislation invests $17 billion
in port infrastructure and waterways and $25 billion in airports to
address repair and maintenance backlogs, reduce congestion and emissions
near ports and airports, and drive electrification and other low-carbon
technologies. Port infrastructure and waterway investments will double
as an investment in environmental justice in and around port facilities
by deploying zero-emission technologies and reducing idling and
emissions, which impair air quality in adjacent neighborhoods and
communities, often which are historically disadvantaged.

**Repair and rebuild roads and bridges critical to trucking goods
movement and lower costs for American families.** Almost 70% of the
goods movement volume in the United States is transported by trucks,
while 1 in 5 miles of highways and major roads, and 45,000 bridges, are
in poor condition. The legislation will reauthorize surface
transportation programs for five years and invest $110 billion in
additional funding to repair our roads and bridges and support major,
transformational projects along the goods movement supply chain. The
legislation makes the single largest investment in repairing and
reconstructing our nation’s bridges since the construction of the
interstate highway system. The legislation provides States greater
flexibility to address surface transportation workforce development,
training, and education needs, including activities that address current
workforce gaps, including training opportunities for truck drivers to
support a renewed national goods movement system. Additional trained
truck drivers and expanded trucking routes, will help reduce costs of
everyday goods and services, saving money for American families.

**Increase investments in freight rail and intermodal infrastructure to
improve safety, efficiency, and job growth for long-distance inland
goods movement.** Freight and intermodal rail are core to the inland
movement of goods through our supply chain, delivering goods over
long-distances in an efficient and environmentally friendly manner. The
legislation invests $5 billion in the Infrastructure for Rebuilding
America grant program, which supports highway and rail projects critical
to efficient goods movement and provides $5 billion to the Consolidated
Rail Infrastructure and Safety Improvements grant program, which funds
projects that improve the safety, efficiency, and reliability of
intercity passenger and freight rail. The DOT’s Railroad Rehabilitation
and Improvement Financing (RRIF) program will add landside port
infrastructure as an eligible project category and make permanent the
transit-oriented development project eligibility, supporting States in
utilizing freight rail and intermodal investments at catalysts for
economic development and job growth from their shores to their stores.
This additional infrastructure will allow more goods to be transported
by rail, increasing competition and reducing costs for consumers. A new
$500 million railroad crossing elimination grant program will invest in
safety across the goods movement chain and protect the health and
well-being of the traveling public.

**Make our supply chain infrastructure resilient against the impacts of
climate change, cyber-attacks, and extreme weather events.** Millions of
Americans feel the effects of climate change each year when their roads
wash out, power goes down, or schools get flooded. These effects are
exacerbated when our supply chains for making and moving goods are
disrupted, and those same Americans can’t access the goods and services
they need on a regular basis. Last year alone, the United States faced
22 extreme weather and climate-related disaster events with losses
exceeding $1 billion each—a cumulative price tag of nearly $100 billion.
Now that disruptions have shown how vulnerable these lines of global
commerce can be due to COVID-19, the Biden Administration will not go
back to business as usual. Passing this legislation increases our
resilience in the face of climate change, cyber-attacks, and natural
disasters. The legislation makes our communities safer and our
infrastructure more resilient to the impacts of climate change and
cyber-attacks, with an investment of over $50 billion to protect against
droughts, floods and wildfires, in addition to a major investment in
weatherization. The legislation is the largest investment in the
resilience of physical and natural systems in American history.

\###
