---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-11-17'
modified_time: 2021-11-17 14:49:57-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/17/president-biden-announces-additional-nominees-3/
published_time: 2021-11-17 16:00:00-05:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Additional\_Nominees"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve in key roles:

-   M. Tia Johnson, Nominee for the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Armed
    Forces
-   Dimitri Kusnezov, Nominee for Under Secretary for Science and
    Technology, Department of Homeland Security
-   Steven Fagin, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Yemen
-   Jodi Herman, Nominee for Assistant Administrator for Legislative and
    Public Affairs, U.S. Agency for International Development
-   Lester Martinez-Lopez, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of Defense
    for Health Affairs, Department of Defense
-   Rebecca Jones Gaston, Nominee for Commissioner for the
    Administration for Children, Youth and Families, Department of
    Health and Human Services

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">M. Tia Johnson, Nominee for
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces</span>**

M. Tia Johnson is a full-time professor of law and the former Director
of the National Security Law LL.M Program at Georgetown Law, where she
has taught since 2017. She is also a Visiting Fellow at Georgetown’s
Center on National Security and the Law and a Distinguished Fellow at
the Center for National Security Law at the University of Virginia
School of Law. Ms. Johnson previously served in the Obama-Biden
Administration as the Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs at the
U.S. Department of Homeland Security and as the Senior Advisor to the
Director of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. Prior to that, Ms.
Johnson retired from the U.S. Army Judge Advocate General’s Corps, where
she specialized in international and national security law. In 2002, she
became the first African-American woman to be selected to the rank of
Colonel in the U.S. Army’s JAG Corps’ 227-year history. In her final
assignment, Ms. Johnson served as the Senior Military Assistant to the
Department of Defense General Counsel.

Ms. Johnson received her J.D. from Temple University, and two LL.Ms: one
from the Judge Advocate Generals’ School and the other from the
University of Virginia School of Law. She also received a M.S. in
Strategic Studies from the U.S. Army War College.

**<u>Dimitri Kusnezov, Nominee for Under Secretary for Science and
Technology, Department of Homeland Security</u>**

Dr. Dimitri Kusnezov is a theoretical physicist working at the U.S.
Department of Energy (DOE), currently focusing on emerging technologies.
He has served in numerous positions at DOE, most recently as the Deputy
Under Secretary for Artificial Intelligence & Technology where he led
the efforts to drive AI innovation and bring it into DOE missions,
business, and operations, including through the creation of a new AI
Office. Prior to that, he has served as Senior Advisor to the U.S.
Secretary of Energy, Chief Scientist for the National Nuclear Security
Administration, CIO, Director of Advanced Simulation and Computing, and
the Director of the multi-billion-dollar National Security Science,
Technology and Engineering programs. He created numerous programs,
including for Minority Serving Institutions, International partnerships,
with the private sector and philanthropy, across agencies, and has
delivered major milestones such as the DOE’s 10-year grand challenge for
a 100 Teraflop supercomputer, and first of their kind and world’s
fastest supercomputers. 

Dr. Kusnezov received A.B. degrees in Physics and in Pure Mathematics
with highest honors from UC Berkeley. Following a year of research at
the Institut fur Kernphysik, KFA-Julich, in Germany, he attended
Princeton University, completing his M.S. in Physics and Ph.D. in
Theoretical Nuclear Physics. After time as a postdoc and Instructor at
Michigan State University, he joined the Yale University faculty as a
professor in theoretical physics and has served as a visiting professor
at numerous universities around the world. Dr. Kusnezov has published
over 100 articles and edited 2 books. After more than a decade on the
Yale faculty, he left academia to pursue public service at the
Department of Energy and became a member of the Senior Executive
Service.

**<u>Steven Fagin, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Yemen</u>**

Steven H. Fagin, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of
Minister-Counselor, most recently served as the Deputy Chief of Mission
of the U.S. Embassy, Baghdad, Iraq. Prior to that, Fagin was the
Principal Officer at the U.S. Consulate General in Erbil, Iraq. He has
also served as the Director, Office of Iranian Affairs, in the Near
Eastern Affairs Bureau of the State Department and as the Director of
the Office of Regional Affairs in the Bureau of South and Central Asian
Affairs. Earlier in his career, Fagin was the Director of the
International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Office at the U.S. Embassy
in Baghdad, Iraq, the Political-Economic Counselor of the U.S. Embassy
in Brussels, Belgium and the Deputy Political Counselor of the U.S.
Embassy in Islamabad, Pakistan. He also held assignments in Kazakhstan,
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Belarus, Georgia and Egypt in addition to
serving as Special Assistant to the Under Secretary for Political
Affairs, and as the Desk Officer for Pakistan. Fagin earned a B.A. from
Williams College and an M.A. from the University of Michigan.

**<u>Jodi Herman, Nominee for Assistant Administrator for Legislative
and Public Affairs, U.S. Agency for International Development</u>**

Jodi Herman is the Vice President for Government Relations and Public
Affairs at the National Endowment for Democracy (NED), a grant-making
organization that supports freedom and democracy initiatives around the
globe. Prior to joining NED, she served as the Staff Director and Chief
Counsel of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee for Senator Benjamin
Cardin (MD) and Senator Robert Menendez (NJ). Herman has also worked in
private legal practice, as Special Advisor to the U.S. Ambassador at the
Organization of American States, and as a Legislative Assistant in the
U.S. House of Representatives and Senate. She is member of the Board of
Directors of the Partnership for a Secure America, a member of the
Women’s Advisory Board for Girl Scouts of the Nation’s Capital, and
volunteers as a Girl Scout troop leader.

Herman was born and raised in St. Louis Park, Minnesota and resides in
Bethesda, Maryland with her husband and three children. She received her
B.A. in International Studies from American University and her J.D. from
George Washington University Law School. 

**<u>Lester Martinez-Lopez, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of Defense
for Health Affairs, Department of Defense</u>**

Dr. Lester Martinez-Lopez was most recently the Chief Medical Officer at
the Brandon Regional Hospital in Florida and Senior Vice President and
Administrator of the Lyndon B. Johnson General Hospital in Harris County
Texas. He retired from the U.S. Army with the permanent rank of Major
General as the first Latino to head the Army Medical Research and
Materiel Command at Fort Detrick, Maryland. Dr. Martinez-Lopez’s
responsibilities included directing the Army’s worldwide medical
research, acquisition, and logistics program. He oversaw a vast research
portfolio that included cancer, trauma, infectious diseases, biodefense,
chemical defense, nutrition, environmental health, aviation medicine,
and telemedicine research. He also directed the premier national
biological and chemical defense laboratories and research program and
led the development of the National Biodefense Campus at Fort Detrick,
MD. Prior to these duties he was the Commanding General of the Center
for Health Promotion and Preventive Medicine at Edgewood, Maryland. In
this assignment he directed a worldwide public health organization,
responsible for preventive medicine, health promotion and wellness,
global medical surveillance, occupational and environmental health, and
health risk communication. Earlier in his career, he was the commander
of three distinct hospitals, oversaw the military health support during
Hurricane Mitch in Central America, and served as the Chief Medical
Officer of the United Nation’s Mission in Haiti.

**<u>Rebecca Jones Gaston, Nominee for Commissioner for the
Administration for Children, Youth and Families, Department of Health
and Human Services</u>**

Rebecca Jones Gaston is currently the Child Welfare Director for the
State of Oregon’s Department of Human Services that oversees child
protection, foster care, and adoption services, a position she held
since 2019. During her time as Director, Oregon has launched a major
transformation built on trauma-informed, family, and community-centered
and culturally responsive programs and services. Prior to joining the
Oregon senior management team, she served as the Executive Director of
the Maryland Department of Human Services’ Social Services
Administration with oversight of child welfare and adult services. She
has worked in the field of human services and child welfare for nearly
25 years as a social worker, advocate, therapist, consultant, and
administrator. Previously, she was a Director with Casey Family Programs
providing technical assistance to child welfare agencies throughout the
United States and served as the National Campaign Director for
AdoptUsKids, a collaboration with the U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services Children’s Bureau and the National Ad Council. This major
campaign continues to help increase the numbers of foster and adoptive
families across the country.

With a specialized knowledge and experience on responsible change
management approaches, Jones Gaston is committed to working on the
implementation of successful evidence-based programs, including around
recent federal legislation that is providing older youth with additional
COVID support services and implementing the Family First Prevention
Services Act. Over the years, she has formed strategic national and
state partnerships with organizations that share the same goals of
safety, permanency, and well-being for those served by public agencies.
A proud mother of two young adults, she holds a degree in psychology
from Georgetown University and a master’s degree in social work from the
University of Pennsylvania.

**\###**
