---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-11-12'
modified_time: 2021-11-12 12:39:20-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/12/a-proclamation-on-america-recycles-day-2021/
published_time: 2021-11-12 12:39:19-05:00
title: "A Proclamation on America Recycles Day,\_2021"
---
 
In recent months, I have traveled across the country to see firsthand
the devastating toll of climate change.  I have walked down streets in
Louisiana, New Jersey, and New York where deadly storms and floods have
destroyed the lives of working families, wiping homes and businesses off
the map.  I have sat with firefighters in Boise, Idaho, and surveyed
damage from the Caldor Fire in northern California — just one large
wildfire among dozens that together have burned more acres of American
land this year than make up the State of New Jersey.  Communities
encompassing the homes of more than 100 million people — about 1 in 3
Americans — have been struck by extreme weather events in the last few
months alone.  Climate change is a blinking code red for our Nation.

This crisis poses an existential threat, but we also know that it is
within our power to defeat it.  Today, half of all global greenhouse gas
emissions are created when natural resources are taken from the Earth
and made into usable products.  By reducing, reusing, and recycling, we
can decrease waste and the greenhouse gases that fuel the climate crisis
while protecting our communities and our environment.  On America
Recycles Day, we celebrate efforts across the country to manage our
resources responsibly and creatively, and we recommit ourselves to
building a brighter and more sustainable future for all people. 

Although we have made significant progress since the first America
Recycles Day over 2 decades ago, we still have work to do.  Black,
Brown, Indigenous, and low-income communities continue to be
disproportionately impacted by higher pollution levels as well as
detrimental health and environmental impacts from mismanaged waste.  Our
Nation’s infrastructure has not kept pace with today’s changing waste
stream, and markets for recycled materials are decreasing.  To improve
our national recycling system and manage our precious resources
equitably and sustainably, it is going to take all of us — including
Federal, State, Tribal, and local governments, our partners in the
private sector, and individual Americans making a difference in their
communities.  We must continue to work together to properly recycle and
manage materials throughout their lifecycles and ensure that every
American’s right to a healthy environment is fulfilled and protected.

To help our Nation achieve our environmental and recycling goals, my
Administration is releasing a National Recycling Strategy, which
identifies objectives and actions necessary to help fight climate change
and create a sustainable national recycling system.  The actions this
strategy recommends will help us reach our national recycling goal, and
the Federal Government will lead by example across our Federal
buildings, lands, and national parks.  The strategy also aims to
increase access to recycling so that all Americans can meaningfully
participate while ensuring that our solid waste management system does
not disproportionately affect communities that are already overburdened
with environmental impacts.  Our workplaces, communities, and Federal,
State, Tribal, and local governments can all take part in reshaping our
recycling system into one that puts the United States at the forefront
of environmental stewardship.  You can visit
[www.epa.gov/recycle](http://www.epa.gov/recycle) for more information
on reducing, reusing, and recycling.  

As we continue to pursue bold action to tackle climate change, we can
all do our part to create a more sustainable future by making simple
changes in our own lives.  Today and every day, we reaffirm our
commitment to preserving our precious resources and creating a
healthier, cleaner, more just world for our children and future
generations.  

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim November 15, 2021,
as America Recycles Day.  I call upon the people of the United States of
America to observe this day with appropriate programs and activities,
and I encourage all Americans to continue their reducing, reusing, and
recycling efforts throughout the year.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twelfth day of
November, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
