---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-11-12'
modified_time: 2021-11-12 13:23:02-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/12/president-biden-announces-additional-nominees/
published_time: 2021-11-12 16:00:00-05:00
title: President Biden Announces Additional Nominees
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Amanda Bennett, Nominee for Chief Executive Officer at the United
    States Agency for Global Media
-   Jose Emilio Esteban, Nominee for Under Secretary for Food Safety at
    the Department of Agriculture
-   Geeta Rao Gupta, Nominee for Ambassador at Large for Global Women’s
    Issues at the Department of State
-   Glenna Gallo, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Special Education
    and Rehabilitative Services at the Department of Education
-   Christopher Lowman, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of Defense for
    Sustainment at the Department of Defense
-   Erin McKee, Nominee for Assistant Administrator for Europe and
    Eurasia at the United States Agency for International Development
-   Christopher J. Williamson, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Mine
    Safety and Health at the Department of Labor

**<u>  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Amanda Bennett, Nominee for
Chief Executive Officer at the United States Agency for Global
Media</span></u>**

Amanda Bennett is a Pulitzer Prize-winning author, investigative
journalist and editor.  She was named Director of Voice of America in
March, 2016, serving until June, 2020. Previously she was Executive
Editor of Bloomberg News, where she created and ran a global team of
investigative reporters and editors; Editor of The Philadelphia
Inquirer; Editor of the Herald-Leader in Lexington, Kentucky; and a
managing editor at The Oregonian in Portland, Oregon.  Bennett served as
a Wall Street Journal reporter for 23 years, including stints in Toronto
and Beijing. She has also been a contributing columnist for The
Washington Post.

Bennett shared the 1997 Pulitzer Prize for national reporting with her
Journal colleagues, and in 2001 led a team from The Oregonian to a
Pulitzer for public service. Projects she led or edited won awards
including Loeb, Polk, Barlett & Steele, Headliners, Society of American
Business Editors and Writers and Overseas Press Club Awards. A 1975
graduate of Harvard College, Bennett was a member of the board of the
Pulitzer Prizes and served as co-Chair of the Pulitzer Board in 2010.
She has also served on the boards of the Lenfest Institute, the German
Marshall Fund, and the Committee to Protect Journalists. She is the
author of six nonfiction books. 

**<u>Jose Emilio Esteban, Nominee for Under Secretary for Food Safety at
the United States Department of Agriculture</u>**

Dr. Jose Emilio Esteban is currently the Chief Scientist for the USDA’s
Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS), a position he has held since
2018. As Chief Scientist, Dr. Esteban provides scientific advice to
support agency policies including the disciplines of microbiology,
chemistry, and pathology. This is his fourth position within FSIS, all
within the Office of Public Health Science. Prior to his current
assignment, he was Executive Associate for Laboratory Services, the
Scientific Advisor for Laboratory Services and Research Coordination,
and the Laboratory Director for the Western Laboratory, where he started
his tenure at USDA FSIS in 2006. Prior to joining USDA, he worked at the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention as an Epidemic Intelligence
Service Officer, Staff Epidemiologist, and Assistant Director of the
Food Safety Office.

Outside the US Federal Government, Dr. Esteban is also the Chair for the
Codex Alimentarius Commission Committee on Food Hygiene. This committee
is where international food hygiene standards are defined for
international trade. He is also currently vice president of the
International Association for Food Protection (IAFP). Dr. Esteban was
trained as a veterinarian in Mexico and supplemented his training with
an MBA, a Master’s Degree in Preventive Veterinary Medicine, and a PhD
in Epidemiology from UC Davis.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">**<u>Geeta Rao Gupta, Nominee
for</u>** **Ambassador at Large for Global Women’s Issues at the U.S.
Department of State**</span>

Dr. Geeta Rao Gupta is currently a Senior Fellow at the United Nations
Foundation and Senior Advisor to Co-impact, a global collaborative
philanthropy for systems change. While at the U.N. Foundation, Dr. Gupta
founded and served as Executive Director of the 3D Program for Girls and
Women. She currently serves as co-chair of the WHO Independent Oversight
and Advisory Committee for health emergencies, chairs the Global
Advisory Board of WomenLift Health, a new initiative to promote women’s
leadership in global health, and serves as a member of the Board of UBS
Optimus Foundation and of the Advisory Board of Merck for Mothers. She
also serves as a Commissioner for the Lancet-SIGHT Commission on Health,
Gender Equality and Peace. 

Previously, Dr. Gupta was a Visiting Scholar at Stanford University and
also served as co-Chair of the Gender-Based Violence Task Force of the
World Bank. Before that, Dr. Gupta served as Deputy Executive Director,
Programs at UNICEF. Earlier, she was a senior fellow at the Bill and
Melinda Gates Foundation and served as president of the International
Center for Research on Women (ICRW). Dr. Gupta has served on several
boards, including the Global Partnership for Education; Gavi, the
Vaccine Alliance; the Partnership for Maternal, Newborn and Child
Health; and the MAC AIDS Fund. She is the recipient of numerous awards,
including InterAction’s Julia Taft Award for Outstanding Leadership,
Harvard University’s Anne Roe Award and Washington Business Journal’s
“Women Who Mean Business” Award. Dr. Gupta was awarded a PhD in
Psychology from Bangalore University and a Master of Philosophy and
Master of Arts from the University of Delhi in India.

**<u>Glenna Gallo, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Special Education
and Rehabilitative Services at the Department of Education</u>**

Glenna Gallo has served as the Assistant Superintendent of Special
Education in the Office of Superintendent of Public Instruction (OSPI)
in Washington state since 2017. During her time as Assistant
Superintendent, Washington state has increased funding for special
education programs while implementing statewide inclusionary practices
to ensure all students with disabilities have access to a high-quality
education. Prior to that, she spent seven years as the State Director of
Special Education for the Utah State Board of Education (USBE),
following work as a classroom teacher and administrator. She has over 25
years of public education experience supporting students with
disabilities and adults entering and within the teaching profession, and
16 years of experience in state-level educational leadership with
expertise in the improvement planning, data analysis, and monitoring of
public pre-K-12+ special education programs. Gallo has a Bachelor of
Science and a Master of Science in Special Education, a special
education teacher and administrative licenses, endorsements as a Program
Administrator, Principal, and Superintendent, and an MBA.

**<u>Christopher Lowman, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of Defense for
Sustainment at the Department of Defense</u>**

Christopher Lowman has served for over 30 years as a United States
Marine and member of the Army Civil Service. Most recently, he served as
the Assistant Deputy Chief of Staff to the G-3/5/7 Directorate, which
provides planning and staff management for agencies under the authority
of the Combined Arms Support Command. In that capacity, he provided
oversight and guidance to the Strategy, Plans and Policy, Administration
and Resources, Resource Management, and Command and Control Support
Agency Directorates. Previously, Mr. Lowman served as the Deputy
Assistant Secretary of the Army for Acquisition Policy and Logistics
where he was responsible for policy and oversight for Army and Joint
systems acquisition and sustainment to ensure effective, efficient, and
secure acquisition, life cycle logistics operations and defense
industrial base oversight.

He deployed as the Director of Essential Function 5 (Sustainment), of
the Combined Security Transition Command – Afghanistan, Oct 2017 to Oct
2018. Prior to deploying, he served as the Director for Maintenance
Policy, Programs and Processes for the United States Army, Office of the
Deputy Chief of Staff, G-4. Additionally, from 2003 to 2006, Mr. Lowman
was the Chief, Supply and Maintenance, HQ, U.S. Army Europe. Mr. Lowman
started his military career as a United States Marine in 1984 and
entered the Army Civil Service as an Army Maintenance Management Intern
in 1989.

**<u>Erin McKee, Nominee for Assistant Administrator for Europe and
Eurasia at the United States Agency for International Development</u>** 

Erin Elizabeth McKee is currently the United States Ambassador to the
Independent State of Papua New Guinea, to the Solomon Islands, and to
the Republic of Vanuatu. Prior to her appointment, she served as Deputy
Chief of Mission at U.S. Embassy Jakarta, and Mission Director for
USAID/Indonesia and USAID/ASEAN also in Jakarta. Ambassador McKee is a
career member of the Senior Foreign Service, with the rank of Career
Minister, and brings a wealth of foreign policy and development
experience to her position. Prior to her tour in Indonesia, Ambassador
McKee served as Senior Deputy Assistant to the Administrator for the
Human Capital and Talent Management Office (HCTM). She also served as
the Senior Deputy Assistant Administrator for the Bureau of Policy,
Planning and Learning (PPL). Preceding her assignments in Washington,
D.C., Ambassador McKee was the USAID Regional Mission Director for
Central Asia. There, she was responsible for direct management of
USAID’s programs in Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan,
and Uzbekistan. Before her assignment in Central Asia, Ambassador McKee
was the supervisory contracting officer at USAID’s missions in Iraq,
South America (covering Peru, Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Paraguay and
Brazil), and West Bank-Gaza. From 1995 to 1999 she served as a private
enterprise officer, then as the chief of the economic growth office in
USAID/Russia. Ambassador McKee was recruited as a Foreign Service
Officer in 1995 from the private sector.

Before her U.S. government career, Ambassador McKee served as the
general manager and then executive director for Capital Investment
Group’s (CIG) Russia operations, and earlier for Morrison Knudsen,
Inc.’s international mining division throughout the former Soviet Union.
She holds a Bachelor’s degree from the University of California, and a
Master’s degree from the University of Washington. She speaks Russian,
Spanish, and Bahasa Indonesia.

**<u>Christopher J. Williamson, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Mine
Safety and Health at the Department of Labor</u>**

A proud Appalachian and native of the coalfields of southern West
Virginia, Christopher J. Williamson currently serves as Senior Counsel
to Chairman Lauren McFerran of the National Labor Relations Board
(NLRB). Prior to joining the NLRB, he served in the Obama-Biden
Administration at the U.S. Department of Labor as a member of the senior
leadership team at the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA). In
that role, he advised the Assistant Secretary for MSHA on all aspects of
agency policy, operations, and communications. Before his service at
MSHA, Williamson worked in the United States Senate as Labor Counsel to
Chairman Tom Harkin on the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions
Committee and as a Legislative Assistant to Senator Joe Manchin III. As
Labor Counsel, he advised Chairman Harkin and Committee Members on
labor, occupational and mine safety and health, and black lung benefits
and other workers’ compensation issues. Serving on Senator Manchin’s
Legislative Team, Williamson was the Senator’s primary policy advisor on
labor, mine safety and health, pensions, and agriculture issues and also
advised him on energy and environmental policy, including Senator
Manchin’s work on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee.

Williamson began his career in public service as an attorney-advisor to
Administrative Law Judge Jacqueline R. Bulluck at the Federal Mine
Safety and Health Review Commission. He earned a Juris Doctor from the
West Virginia University College of Law, a Master of Public Policy from
American University, and a Bachelor of Arts in Political Science and
Economics from West Virginia University. Williamson is originally from
Dingess in Mingo County, West Virginia, and currently resides with his
wife and children in Crofton, Maryland.

\###
