---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-11-16'
modified_time: 2021-11-15 18:37:55-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/16/the-bipartisan-infrastructure-law-advances-environmental-justice/
published_time: 2021-11-16 07:00:00-05:00
title: "The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law Advances Environmental\_Justice"
---
 
For far too long, too many communities across America have faced
environmental injustices – from bearing the brunt of toxic pollution,
underinvestment in infrastructure and critical services, and
disproportionate exposure to the impacts of climate change. Since day
one, President Biden has committed to using every lever at his disposal
to address these inequities, advance environmental justice, and spur
economic opportunity. **The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law helps deliver
on these commitments by helping to secure a healthy, prosperous,
equitable future for all.**  
  
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will strengthen our nation’s
resilience to extreme weather and climate change, clean up toxic
pollution, expand access to clean drinking water, remediate legacy
pollution, deliver electric school buses to support clean air, and more.
When coupled with the Build Back Better Framework, these historic
investments will help reduce our emissions by well over one gigaton this
decade – positioning the U.S. to meet President Biden’s commitment to
reduce our emissions by 50-52% from 2005 levels in 2030, create a 100%
carbon pollution-free power sector by 2035, and achieve a net-zero
economy by 2050. Together, these once-in-a-generation investments
represent the largest investment in environmental justice in American
history and will unlock the full potential of a clean energy economy
that combats climate change, advances environmental justice, and creates
good-paying, union jobs.  
  
These long overdue investments will take much-needed steps to improve
public health, reduce pollution, and deliver economic revitalization to
communities that have been overburdened, underserved, and left behind.  
  
**<u>BIPARTISIAN INFRASTRUCTURE LAW</u>**  
  
***Clean Drinking Water***  
There are still 6 to 10 million lead services lines in cities and towns
across the country, many of which are in communities of color and
low-income neighborhoods. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law **will
expand access to clean drinking water to all American families,
eliminate the nation’s lead service lines, and help to clean up
dangerous PFAS chemicals (per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances)**.  
  
Currently, millions of American households lack access to safe drinking
water. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will invest $55 billion to
expand access to clean drinking water for households and businesses all
across the country. From rural towns to struggling cities, the law will
invest in water infrastructure and eliminate lead service pipes,
including in Tribal Nations and disadvantaged communities that need it
most.  
  
***Legacy Pollution***  
More than one in four Black and Hispanic Americans live within 3 miles
of a Superfund site– a higher percentage than for Americans overall. No
community deserves to have contamination near where they live, work,
play, pray, and go to school. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law delivers
the **largest investment in tackling legacy pollution in American
history by cleaning up Superfund and brownfield sites, reclaiming
abandoned mine land, and capping orphaned oil and gas wells**.  
  
In thousands of rural and urban communities around the country, former
industrial and energy sites are now idle – sources of blight and
pollution. Proximity to a Superfund site can lead to elevated levels of
lead in children’s blood. Millions of Americans also live within a mile
of the tens of thousands of abandoned mines and oil and gas wells – a
large, continuing course of methane, a powerful greenhouse gas that is a
major cause of climate change.  
  
The law will invest $21 billion to clean up Superfund and brownfield
sites, reclaim abandoned mine land, and cap orphaned oil and gas wells.
These projects will remediate environmental harms, address the legacy
pollution that harms the public health of communities, create
good-paying, union jobs, and advance long overdue environmental
justice.  
  
***Public Transit***  
Communities of color are twice as likely to take public transportation,
and many of these communities lack sufficient public transit options. In
addition, transit workers are disproportionally workers of color. Bus
and transit workers are 31% Black and 19% Hispanic, compared to 12% and
18% respectively of the workforce overall. The Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law expands access to public transit and makes the **largest investment
in passenger rail since the creation of Amtrak** – helping reduce
greenhouse gas emissions by repairing, upgrading, and modernizing the
nation’s transit infrastructure.  
  
The law will invest $66 billion to provide healthy, sustainable
transportation options for millions of Americans by modernizing and
expanding transit and rail networks across the country. It will replace
thousands of transit vehicles, including buses, with clean, zero
emission vehicles. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law also includes
investments for a new program that will reconnect neighborhoods cut off
by historic transportation investments and ensure new projects increase
opportunity, advance racial equity and environmental justice, and
promote affordable access.  
  
***Clean School Buses***  
More than 25 million children and thousands of bus drivers breathe
polluted air on their rides to and from school. Diesel air pollution is
linked to asthma and other health problems that cause students to miss
school, particularly in communities of color and Tribal communities. The
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will **deliver thousands of electric
school buses nationwide**, including in rural communities, to help
school districts across the country buy clean, American-made, zero
emission buses and replace the outdated, yellow school bus fleet for
America’s children. The law invests in zero- emission and clean school
buses, in addition to more than $5 billion in funding for public transit
agencies to adopt low- and no-emissions buses. The investments will not
only help create cleaner air for students and schools across the
country, but they will drive demand for American-made batteries and
vehicles while creating jobs and supporting domestic manufacturing.  
  
***Modern and Clean Infrastructure***  
Communities on the fenceline of industry and transportation corridors
have been exposed to toxic air pollution for too long, which can cause
respiratory and cardiovascular harm – especially for children.  The
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will help protect public health with
modernized and clean infrastructure, investing $17 billion in port
infrastructure and $25 billion in airports to **address repair and
maintenance backlogs, reduce congestion and emissions near ports and
airports, and drive electrification and other low-carbon technologies.**
Modern, resilient, and sustainable port, airport, and freight
infrastructure will reduce unhealthy environmental impacts on
neighboring communities while also supporting U.S. competitiveness by
removing bottlenecks and expediting commerce. **Deploying a nationwide
network of EV chargers** with a focus on the communities that need them
most will make clean electric vehicles affordable and convenient options
and improve local air quality.  
  
***Resilience***  
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is the **largest investment in the
resilience of physical and natural infrastructure in American history**.
Millions of Americans feel the effects of climate change each year when
their roads wash out, airport power goes down, or schools get flooded.
People of color are more likely to live in areas most vulnerable to
flooding and other climate change-related weather events. The law makes
our communities safer and our infrastructure more resilient to the
impacts of climate change and cyber-attacks, with an investment of over
$50 billion to protect against droughts, heat waves, wildfires, and
floods – in addition to a major investment in the weatherization of
American homes.

\###
