---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-11-15'
modified_time: 2021-11-14 22:16:34-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/15/fact-sheet-building-a-new-era-of-nation-to-nation-engagement/
published_time: 2021-11-15 08:00:00-05:00
title: "Fact Sheet: Building A New Era of Nation-to-Nation\_Engagement"
---
 
Since taking office in January 2021, the Biden-Harris Administration has
taken historic steps to support Tribal communities in their recovery
from the COVID-19 pandemic, advance equity and opportunity for all
American Indians and Alaska Natives, and help Tribal Nations overcome
new and long-standing challenges. The Administration’s work is rooted in
the President’s respect for the unique Nation-to-Nation relationship,
commitment to the country’s trust and treaty responsibilities, and
desire to strengthen Tribal sovereignty and advance Tribal
self-determination. The White House Tribal Nations Summit is an
opportunity to celebrate the progress we have made in this new
Nation-to-Nation era and map out plans to improve outcomes for this
generation of Native Americans and for the seven generations to come.

**Working Together to Defeat COVID-19.** When President Biden took
office, the COVID-19 pandemic exacerbated pre-existing health care
inequities facing Tribal Nations and disproportionately affected Native
American populations across the country. American Indians and Alaska
Natives experienced infection rates over [three times
higher](https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/volumes/69/wr/mm6934e1.htm) than
non-Hispanic whites, were [four times more
likely](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/covid-data/covidview/index.html)
to be hospitalized as a result of COVID-19, and had [higher rates of
mortality](https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/volumes/69/wr/mm6949a3.htm) at
younger ages. Yet Tribes demonstrated resilience, determination, and
patriotism—embracing testing and vaccination to save lives and protect
communities. In collaboration with Tribal health programs and Urban
Indian Organization health facilities, the Indian Health Service (IHS)
has administered more than 1.7 million vaccination doses to patients,
health care employees, essential workers, and others in Native
communities. Working together, Tribal Nations, Urban Indian
Organizations, Alaska Native health corporations, and the Administration
have succeeded in making vaccinations rates amongst Native Americans the
highest in the United States.

**Supporting Financial Recovery for Tribal Nations.** The Biden-Harris
Administration has made unprecedented financial investments in Tribal
Nations so that Indian Country can thrive. By prioritizing Tribes in all
of our economic recovery and development efforts, the Administration is
laying the foundation for robust Tribal economies, making health care
more accessible, expanding early childhood education, modernizing
infrastructure, and advancing climate resilience. In March 2021, the
President signed [the American Rescue Plan (ARP)
Act](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/16/fact-sheet-biden-administration-invests-4-billion-in-american-rescue-plan-funding-to-combat-covid-19-in-indian-country/),
which made the largest single federal financial investment in Native
communities in the history of the United States. The ARP is helping the
country recover from a world-altering pandemic with $1.9 trillion in
investments, including $32 billion devoted specifically to Tribal
communities and Native people. This funding included $20 billion in
emergency funding to help Tribal governments rebuild economies
devastated by the pandemic.

**Building Physical and Human Infrastructure in Indian Country.** In
November, President Biden signed [the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs
Act](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/04/white-house-releases-state-fact-sheets-highlighting-the-impact-of-the-infrastructure-investment-and-jobs-act-nationwide/)
and is working to pass [the Build Back Better
Plan](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/29/white-house-highlights-nationwide-impact-of-build-back-better-framework/).
Together, these two economic packages contain billions of dollars to
support Indian families with programs that will cut the costs of raising
a family, make it easier to afford health care and care for older
Americans, and take unprecedented action against the climate crisis. The
Administration recognizes that chronic underfunding of infrastructure in
Indian Country has harmed Tribal communities, which is why the
Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act will make game-changing
infrastructure investments spanning transportation, water, sanitation,
energy, environmental restoration, telecommunications, and climate
resiliency—totaling more than $13 billion in direct investments, with
the ability to access hundreds of billions more in grants and other
funding opportunities. Investments in the Build Back Better Plan would
bring record funding for Tribes in the areas of child care and preschool
programs. These transformative cradleboard to college funds will make it
easier for Native women and other family providers to remain in the
workforce and increase educational opportunities and outcomes for
children.

**Investing in Tribal Nations in the Long-Term.** In May, President
Biden presented his Fiscal-Year 2022 discretionary budget request to
Congress, which included $28.8 billion for Indian programs, one of the
largest budget requests ever for these programs.  As part of our
commitment to promoting health equity for Native Americans, the
Administration requested $8.5 billion in discretionary funding for the
IHS in FY 2022, an increase of $2.2 billion from the FY 2021 enacted
budget. In addition, to ensure a stable and equitable funding stream for
IHS, for the first time ever, the budget includes a request for an
advance appropriation of $9 billion for IHS in FY 2023, to support
Administration and Tribal priorities. Advance funding is important to
keeping healthcare available for Native Americans in the event of
uncertainties and delays in future appropriations process. Additionally,
the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and the Department of Health
and Human Services (HHS) have begun an administrative process along with
Tribal consultation on mandatory funding approaches for the IHS.

**Combatting Climate Change and Protecting Tribal Lands.** President
Biden has used his office to protect Tribal lands and help mitigate the
devastating effect of climate change on Native communities. He has taken
executive action revoking the Keystone XL pipeline permit; restoring
protections to the Bears Ears and Grand Staircase-Escalante National
Monuments, Arctic waters and the Bering Sea, and the Arctic National
Wildlife Refuge; and prioritizing environmental justice. He has set a
goal of conserving 30 percent of America’s lands and waters by 2030, and
is working in collaboration with Tribal Nations to focus on the most
ecologically important lands and waters.

**Advancing Educational Equity for Native Children.** To help broaden
opportunities for Native children, President Biden issued an executive
order advancing education equity, excellence and economic opportunity
for Native Americans, pledging to expand opportunities for  students to
learn their Native languages, histories, and cultural practices; promote
indigenous learning through the use of traditional ecological knowledge;
and promote education opportunities that prepare Native American
students for college, careers, and productive and satisfying lives. The
American Rescue Plan included $19 million in supplemental grant funding
to ensure the survival and continued vitality of Native American
languages. In addition, in June 2021, Secretary of the Interior Deb
Haaland announced a Federal Indian Boarding School Initiative, a
comprehensive review of the troubled legacy of federal boarding school
policies. The primary goal of the initiative is to identify boarding
school facilities and sites; the location of known and possible student
burial sites located at or near school facilities; and the identities
and Tribal affiliations of children interred at such locations.

**Honoring Indigenous Peoples’ Day.** In October, President Biden became
the first president in American history to issue a proclamation
declaring October 11 Indigenous Peoples’ Day. 

**Strengthening the Nation-to-Nation Relationship.** President Biden’s
respect and commitment to a stronger Nation-to-Nation relationship is
embedded throughout all of the Administration’s work on Native Affairs. 
On January 26, just six days into office, the President signed a
memorandum committing the Administration to the fulfillment of the
federal trust and treaty responsibilities; to respecting Tribal
self-governance; and to conducting regular, meaningful, and robust
consultations with Tribal Nations on a broad range of policy issues.
Since then, 80 federal agencies and offices have conducted extensive
consultation and created individual Tribal consultation plans of action
including OMB, the Domestic Policy Council (DPC), and the Council on
Environmental Quality (CEQ).  The President also signed an executive
order promoting access to voting, leveraging the resources of the
federal government to expand citizens’ opportunities to register to vote
and to learn about, and participate in, the electoral process. This
executive order created a Native Rights Steering Group, which is
engaging in consultations across the country in preparation for a report
and recommendations on protecting and improving access to voting in
Native communities.

**Elevating Native American Voices.** To elevate the voices of Native
Americans in the Administration, President Biden restored the White
House Council on Native American Affairs (WHCNAA) earlier this year and
has fostered an all-of-government approach to working on Native issues.
Thirteen high-ranking officials from the Administration have already
visited Indian Country in 2021. The President has nominated a historic
number of Native Americans to Senate confirmed positions and there are
already 52 Native Americans serving in political positions, including
Natives in 1 in 5 appointments at the Department of the Interior (DOI).
The President committed to nominating federal judges who understand
Indian law and respect Tribal sovereignty and, in October, a Native
woman was confirmed as a judge on the U.S. District Court for the
Western District of Washington. The President has also nominated
numerous Native Americans to federal boards and commissions.

In its first year in office, the Biden-Harris Administration has begun a
new era of Tribal relations with the federal government, rooted in
honesty and modeled on diplomacy that will support an improved and
strengthened Nation-to-Nation relationship for decades to come. This
Summit demonstrates the Administration’s commitment to listening to
Tribal priorities and being a good partner in supporting Tribal Nations
and serves as an important opportunity to celebrate the progress we have
made, and work together on a plan of action to move forward. To mark
this occasion, the Administration is releasing a [full report on the
progress we have made to date in our effort to support Tribal
communities](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/WH-Tribal-Nations-Summit-Progress-Report.pdf).

To demonstrate the Administration’s commitment to this work, we are also
announcing a number of new commitments during the Tribal Nations Summit.

**Executive Order on Improving Public Safety and Criminal Justice for
Native Americans and Addressing the Crisis of Missing or Murdered
Indigenous People.** On November 15, 2021, President Biden signed an
executive order directing the Departments of Justice, Interior, Homeland
Security, and Health and Human Services to create a strategy to improve
public safety and justice for Native Americans and to address the
epidemic of missing or murdered Indigenous peoples. President Biden
tasked the DOJ, DOI, and DHS with addressing specific law enforcement
issues, as well as providing support for Tribal Nations to implement
Tribally-centered responses. He also directed HHS to develop a plan for
prevention and survivor support initiatives.

**Greater Chaco Landscape Mineral Withdrawal.** Located in Northwestern
New Mexico, the Greater Chaco Landscape is a region of great cultural,
spiritual, and historical significance to many Pueblos and Indian Tribes
and containing thousands of artifacts that date back more than one
thousand years. Chaco cultural sites were listed as a UNESCO World
Heritage Site in 1987 and are one of only 24 such sites in the United
States. For the past decade, Pueblos and Tribes in Arizona and New
Mexico have raised concerns about encroaching oil and gas development
threatening sacred and cultural sites, and Congress has passed a series
of actions to temporarily defer new leasing. In the coming weeks, the
Department of the Interior will initiate consideration of a 20-year
withdrawal of federal lands within a 10-mile radius around Chaco Culture
National Historical Park, protecting the area from new federal oil and
gas leasing and development. The proposed withdrawal will not apply to
Individual Indian Allotments or to minerals within the area owned by
private, state, and Tribal entities. The action will also not impose
restrictions on other developments, such as roads, water lines,
transmission lines, or buildings. To support conservation of the area,
the State of New Mexico Land Office has implemented a moratorium on new
state mineral leases within a 10-mile radius of Chaco Culture National
Historical Park.

**Tribal Treaty Rights Memorandum of Understanding**. The Departments of
Agriculture, Defense, Commerce, Education, Energy, Homeland Security,
Housing and Urban Development, Interior, Justice, Labor, Transportation,
Veterans Affairs, State, and the Environmental Protection Agency, Office
of Personnel Management, the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation,
and the Council Environmental Quality signed a Tribal Treaty Rights MOU.
The MOU provides that the agencies will determine how they can best
protect Tribal treaty rights in their policymaking and regulatory
processes. The MOU sets a timeline of 180 days for signatories to report
back to the WHCNAA on their progress for strengthening the protection of
Tribal treaty rights.

**Tribal Treaty Rights Database**. Tribal treaties are not readily
accessible to federal employees.  Yet, provisions of various treaties
are often referenced and needed for specific work on Tribal issues.  To
remedy this problem and ensure ready access for implementation of the
Tribal Treaty MOU, the Departments of Agriculture and the Interior have
contracted with Oklahoma State University (OSU) to develop a publicly
available, searchable, and indexed database of all the Tribal treaties. 
This new database will allow federal employees and the general public to
search through American Indian treaties. The first phase of the project
will digitize a set of treaties compiled by Charles Kappler, the former
clerk of the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs, which is widely
considered the most comprehensive collection of treaties with Indian
Tribes. Both the digitized treaties and the indexing in the database can
be expanded in future phases. OSU has hired Indian law experts to advise
on this indexing process.  The beta version of the database will launch
at the White House Tribal Nations Summit.

**Indigenous Knowledge Statement and Establishment of Interagency
Working Group on Indigenous Traditional Ecological Knowledge.** The
Biden-Harris Administration issued a memorandum recognizing Indigenous
Traditional Ecological Knowledge as one of the important bodies of
knowledge that contributes to the scientific, technical, social, and
economic advancements of our nation. With Tribal consultation and input
from knowledge holders and practitioners, the Administration will
develop a guidance document for federal agencies on how the collection
and application of such knowledge can be mutually beneficial to Tribes,
Native communities, and federal agencies and can strengthen
evidence-based analysis and informed decision-making across the federal
government. An Interagency Working Group on Indigenous Traditional
Ecological Knowledge will gather input from Tribes and Native
communities and prepare the guidance document for planned release in
2022.

**Tribal Homelands Joint SecretarialOrder**. In recognition of the
importance of Tribal homelands under federal stewardship, the
Departments of Agriculture and the Interior have launched the “Tribal
Homelands Initiative” through a joint Secretarial Order. The Order
commits the two Departments to increase opportunities for Tribal
participation in federal lands management as well as co-stewardship
agreements and other Tribal stewardship opportunities.

**Sacred Sites Memorandum of Understanding.** The Department of the
Interior, the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Energy, the
Department of Transportation, the Environmental Protection Agency, the
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation, the Council on Environmental
Quality, and the Tennessee Valley Authority entered into an MOU that
creates a framework through which the agencies can protect Tribal sacred
sites. The MOU identifies opportunities for considering Tribal sacred
sites early in the federal decision-making processes that may result in
regulatory and policy outcomes; adds a commitment to incorporate
Indigenous knowledge when assessing impacts of federal actions on sacred
sites; and provides clear direction on developing best practices for
collaborative stewardship and co-management when working with Tribal
Nations. The MOU also requires each agency to hold consultations with
Tribal Nations when an action it may take could affect a Tribal sacred
site. The MOU requires the signatories to submit an annual report to the
White House Council on Native American Affairs.

**Native Language Memorandum of Agreement.** In November 2021, the
Departments of Education, Health and Human Service, and the Interior
entered into a MOA that promotes the protection of Native languages
through the establishment of a Native Language Working Group. Other
participating agencies include the Department of Agriculture, the
Department of Transportation, the Council on Environmental Quality, the
Institute of Museum and Library Sciences, the Library of Congress, the
National Endowment for the Arts, and the National Endowment for the
Humanities. The MOA promotes collaboration on programming, resource
development, and policy related to Native languages.

**Department of Agriculture Indigenous Food Sovereignty Initiative**. In
November 2021, USDA announced the Indigenous Food Sovereignty
Initiative, acknowledging the history of how federal Indian policy has
affected Native food and agriculture, and recommitted USDA to
strengthening Indigenous food systems. This initiative includes the
publishing of a public-facing USDA Food Sovereignty Resource Guide, the
purchase of shelf-stable Tribal foods for the USDA’s new Hall of Tribal
Nations, and several Food Sovereignty Cooperative Agreements.

**Established the Department of Agriculture Hall of Tribal Nations**.
The USDA Office of Tribal Relations opened the USDA Hall of Tribal
Nations in November 2021 to better reflect the diplomatic nature of the
Nation-to-Nation relationship with Tribal Nations.

**Creation of the First-Ever Secretary of the Interior’s Tribal Advisory
Committee.** The Department of the Interior has created the first-ever
Secretary’s Tribal Advisory Committee (STAC), a foundational step toward
modernizing DOI’s Tribal consultation plan and making permanent,
long-lasting change to prioritize the Nation-to-Nation relationship. The
STAC will facilitate intergovernmental discussions, serving as a forum
for open dialogue between high-level DOI leadership and bureau officials
with elected Tribal representatives.

**Creation of the First-Ever Department of Homeland Security Tribal
Homeland Security Advisory Council**. DHS will establish the first-ever
DHS Tribal advisory body. It will be made up of Tribal Nation leaders
and subject matter experts (including Tribal organization subject matter
experts), to inform the Department on a broad range of intergovernmental
relations and homeland security interests of Tribal Nations.

**Creation of First-Ever Housing and Urban Development Tribal
Intergovernmental Advisory Committee**. HUD will establish its
first-ever Tribal advisory committee, the HUD Tribal Intergovernmental
Advisory Committee (TIAC).  TIAC will allow Tribes to provide direct
input on HUD priorities and policies.  
**  
Creation of the First-Ever Veterans Affairs Tribal Advisory
Committee.** In October 2021, the VA created a Tribal Advisory Committee
to ensure that the federal government is collaborating on veterans’
issues with Tribal Nations.

**New Veterans Health Administration Native Affairs Office**. In order
to ensure effective delivery of Veterans’ services, the Veterans Health
Administration (VHA) has established a new office to coordinate issues
related to Native veterans’ health. This includes allocating budget
resources for staff, with the goal to commence hiring to have the office
staffed by March 2022.

\###
