---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-11-08'
modified_time: 2021-11-09 09:13:25-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/08/statement-by-nsc-spokesperson-emily-horne-on-deputy-national-security-advisor-daleep-singhs-travel-to-ghana-and-senegal/
published_time: 2021-11-08 18:52:59-05:00
title: "Statement by NSC Spokesperson Emily Horne on Deputy National Security Advisor\
  \ Daleep Singh\u2019s Travel to Ghana and Senegal"
---
 
Deputy National Security Advisor for International Economics Daleep
Singh led a U.S. delegation to Ghana and Senegal to discuss the
infrastructure needs within these countries and around the region. Singh
was joined by Deputy Chief Executive Officer of the Millennium Challenge
Corporation Alexia Latortue and U.S. Agency for International
Development’s (USAID) Deputy Assistant Administrator for the Africa
Bureau Travis L. Adkins, reflecting the Biden Administration’s
whole-of-government effort to implement the Build Back Better World
Initiative (B3W) in a manner that is transparent, sustainable, adheres
to high standards, and catalyzes the private sector where possible. This
was the first B3W listening session in Africa, demonstrating President
Biden’s commitment to strengthening our ties in the region and to
narrowing the global gaps in physical, digital, and human infrastructure
that have been widened by the COVID-19 pandemic.

In Ghana, Singh and the U.S. delegation met with Vice President E.
Mahamudu Bawumia and Ministers of Finance, Defense, and National
Security. In Senegal, Singh and the U.S. delegation met with President
Macky Sall and Minister of Economy Amadou Hott to discuss both how the
United States can mobilize investments to meet Senegal’s infrastructure
and development needs, and ways of improving development impact within
the framework of B3W. Singh and the U.S. delegation also visited the
site of the Institut Pasteur Dakar vaccination manufacturing facility
and a cold chain warehouse, which have received support from USAID and
the United States International Development Finance Corporation (DFC),
respectively. Singh also participated in a roundtable with
representatives of international financial institutions and members of
civil society including women, climate, and agricultural leaders.
Throughout his trip, Singh met with representatives from the private
sector as well as key environmental, labor, and civil society leaders to
solicit their views as to how we can best support local communities in a
way that responds to infrastructure needs and advances the highest
standards for transparency and anticorruption, financial sustainability,
labor protections, and environmental preservation.

As the United States and our partners start to develop and implement the
B3W initiative, we recognize that robust, meaningful partnerships with
donor and host countries alike will be critical. For this reason, on the
margins of COP26 last week, President Biden, European Commission
President Von der Leyen, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson hosted a
meeting with several G7 partners to hear from countries with major
infrastructure needs on how major democracies of the world can meet the
enormous infrastructure need in the developing world – and [committed to
addressing the climate crisis through infrastructure
development](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/02/u-s-president-biden-european-commission-president-von-der-leyen-and-uk-prime-minister-johnson-announce-commitment-to-addressing-climate-crisis-through-infrastructure-development/).
Early in October, Singh [led an interagency delegation to Colombia,
Ecuador, and
Panama](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/01/statement-by-nsc-spokesperson-emily-horne-on-deputy-national-security-advisor-daleep-singhs-travel-to-colombia-ecuador-and-panama/)
to hear directly from a range of Latin American stakeholders.

\###
