---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-11-30'
modified_time: 2021-11-30 10:51:47-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/30/president-biden-announces-defense-acquisition-nominee/
published_time: 2021-11-30 10:51:46-05:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Defense Acquisition\_Nominee"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
William LaPlante for Under Secretary for Acquisition and Sustainment at
the Department of Defense.

-   William LaPlante, Nominee for Under Secretary for Acquisition and
    Sustainment, Department of Defense

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">William LaPlante, Nominee for
Under Secretary for Acquisition and Sustainment, Department of
Defense</span>**

Dr. William A. LaPlante is a seasoned national security leader with
nearly four decades of experience in acquisition, technology,
sustainment and the defense industrial base. Dr. LaPlante has spent much
of those decades delivering material as well as conceptual innovations
to enhance national security capabilities and efficiency. In his current
role as president and chief executive officer of Draper Laboratory, Dr.
LaPlante has focused on aligning Draper’s work with emerging technology
and the global competitive innovation landscape. Prior to joining
Draper, Dr. LaPlante was senior vice president for the MITRE
Corporation’s National Sector, where he oversaw the operation of
federally funded research and development centers for the Department of
Defense and the Department of Commerce. As MITRE National Security lead,
he drove the development of advanced command and control, and system of
system concepts, as well as cyber systems and supply chain resiliency
approaches. Previously, he served in the Obama-Biden Administration as
the Senate-confirmed Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for
Acquisition, Technology and Logistics from 2014–2017. In that capacity,
Dr. LaPlante aligned that Service’s 43-billion-dollar acquisition
enterprise budget with the Air Force vision and strategy. In addition,
he forged a path forward on critical Air Force acquisition programs such
as the B-21 long range strike bomber, while realizing nearly $6 billion
in “should-cost” savings in other Air Force programs.

Dr. LaPlante is a present and past member of several scientific boards
and commissions focused on bettering national security, including
serving as a commissioner on the congressionally mandated Section 809
Panel, which performed a comprehensive review of Department of Defense
acquisition policies, and provided efficiency and improvement
recommendations for the Congress. He also served as a multi-decade
member of the Defense Science Board, chairing or serving on more than 20
important studies and task forces. He additionally served as a member of
the Lightweight Innovations for Tomorrow, the Board of the National
Defense Industrial Association, the U.S. Strategic Command Senior
Advisory Group, and the Naval Research Advisory Committee. Dr. LaPlante
earned a bachelor’s degree in engineering physics from the University of
Illinois, a master’s degree in applied physics from Johns Hopkins
University, and a Ph.D. in mechanical engineering from the Catholic
University of America.

  
\###
