---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-11-23'
modified_time: 2021-11-23 06:30:53-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/23/president-biden-announces-release-from-the-strategic-petroleum-reserve-as-part-of-ongoing-efforts-to-lower-prices-and-address-lack-of-supply-around-the-world/
published_time: 2021-11-23 07:00:00-05:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Release from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve As\
  \ Part of Ongoing Efforts to Lower Prices and Address Lack of Supply Around the\_\
  World"
---
 
*Announcement is in parallel with other major energy consuming nations,
including China, India, Japan, Republic of Korea, and the United
Kingdom*

Over the last 18 months, the COVID-19 pandemic forced an unprecedented
global economic shutdown. As the world is re-opening from a near
economic standstill, countries across the globe are grappling with the
challenges that arise as consumer demand for goods outpaces supply. But
here in the United States, the economic recovery is stronger and faster
than anywhere else in the world – according to the Organization for
Economic Co-operation and Development, the US is the only one of the
major economies to have returned to pre-pandemic gross domestic product
levels – in large part due to President Biden’s American Rescue Plan,
which funded and facilitated a nationwide vaccination program, provided
resources to schools and small businesses to keep them open in the face
of COVID waves and put money in the pockets of those hit hardest by the
pandemic. As a result of the strong recovery in the United States,
Americans have nearly $100 more per month in disposable income in their
pockets this year, even as COVID has continued to complicate the
economic recovery around the world.  
  
Even so, American consumers are feeling the impact of elevated gas
prices at the pump and in their home heating bills, and American
businesses are, too, because oil supply has not kept up with demand as
the global economy emerges from the pandemic. That’s why President Biden
is using every tool available to him to work to lower prices and address
the lack of supply.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Today, the President is
announcing that the Department of Energy will make available releases of
50 million barrels of oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to lower
prices for Americans and address the mismatch between demand exiting the
pandemic and supply.  
</span>  
The President has been working with countries across the world to
address the lack of supply as the world exits the pandemic. And, as a
result of President Biden’s leadership and our diplomatic efforts, this
release will be taken in parallel with other major energy consuming
nations including China, India, Japan, Republic of Korea and the United
Kingdom. This culminates weeks of consultations with countries around
the world, and we are already seeing the effect of this work on oil
prices. Over the last several weeks as reports of this work became
public, oil prices are down nearly 10 percent.  
  
The U.S. Department of Energy will make available releases of 50 million
barrels from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve in two ways:

-   32 million barrels will be an exchange over the next several months,
    releasing oil that will eventually return to the Strategic Petroleum
    Reserve in the years ahead. The exchange is a tool matched to
    today’s specific economic environment, where markets expect future
    oil prices to be lower than they are today, and helps provide relief
    to Americans immediately and bridge to that period of expected lower
    oil prices. The exchange also automatically provides for re-stocking
    of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve over time to meet future needs.  
-   18 million barrels will be an acceleration into the next several
    months of a sale of oil that Congress had previously authorized.

The President stands ready to take additional action, if needed, and is
prepared to use his full authorities working in coordination with the
rest of the world to maintain adequate supply as we exit the pandemic.  
  
Even as the President is helping to lead the world in addressing oil
supply imbalances, he is also focused on how consolidation in the oil
and gas sector may be resulting in anti-competitive practices that keep
American consumers from benefitting when oil prices fall. There is
mounting evidence that declines in oil prices are not translating into
lower prices at the pump. Last week, the President asked the Federal
Trade Commission to examine what is going on in oil and gas markets and
to consider “whether illegal conduct is costing families at the
pump.”   
  
Today’s announcement reflects the President’s commitment to do
everything in his power to bring down costs for the American people and
continue our strong economic recovery. At the same time, the
Administration remains committed to the President’s ambitious clean
energy goals, as reflected in the historic Bipartisan Infrastructure Law
signed last week and the House-passed Build Back Better Act that
together represent the largest investment in combatting climate change
in American history and is a critical step towards reaching a net-zero
emissions economy by 2050 and reducing our dependence on foreign fossil
fuels.

\###
