---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-11-16'
modified_time: 2021-11-16 00:19:15-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/16/readout-of-president-bidens-virtual-meeting-with-president-xi-jinping-of-the-peoples-republic-of-china/
published_time: 2021-11-16 00:19:14-05:00
title: "Readout of President\_Biden\u2019s Virtual Meeting with President Xi Jinping\
  \ of the People\u2019s Republic of\_China"
---
 
President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. met virtually on November 15 with
President Xi Jinping of the People’s Republic of China (PRC). The two
leaders discussed the complex nature of relations between our two
countries and the importance of managing competition responsibly. As in
previous discussions, the two leaders covered areas where our interests
align, and areas where our interests, values, and perspectives
diverge. President Biden welcomed the opportunity to speak candidly and
straightforwardly to President Xi about our intentions and priorities
across a range of issues.

President Biden underscored that the United States will continue to
stand up for its interests and values and, together with our allies and
partners, ensure the rules of the road for the 21<sup>st</sup> century
advance an international system that is free, open, and fair. He
emphasized the priority he places on far-reaching investments at home
while we align with allies and partners abroad to take on the challenges
of our time.

President Biden raised concerns about the PRC’s practices in Xinjiang,
Tibet, and Hong Kong, as well as human rights more broadly. He was clear
about the need to protect American workers and industries from the PRC’s
unfair trade and economic practices. He also discussed the importance of
a free and open Indo-Pacific, and communicated the continued
determination of the United States to uphold our commitments in the
region. President Biden reiterated the importance of freedom of
navigation and safe overflight to the region’s prosperity. On Taiwan,
President Biden underscored that the United States remains committed to
the “one China” policy, guided by the Taiwan Relations Act, the three
Joint Communiques, and the Six Assurances, and that the United States
strongly opposes unilateral efforts to change the status quo or
undermine peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait.

President Biden also underscored the importance of managing strategic
risks. He noted the need for common-sense guardrails to ensure that
competition does not veer into conflict and to keep lines of
communication open. He raised specific transnational challenges where
our interests intersect, such as health security. In particular, the two
leaders discussed the existential nature of the climate crisis to the
world and the important role that the United States and the PRC play.
They also discussed the importance of taking measures to address global
energy supplies. The two leaders also exchanged views on key regional
challenges, including DPRK, Afghanistan, and Iran. Finally, they
discussed ways for the two sides to continue discussions on a number of
areas, with President Biden underscoring the importance of substantive
and concrete conversations.

\###
