---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-11-19'
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/19/president-biden-announces-nominees-for-united-states-postal-service-board-of-governors/
published_time: 2021-11-19 10:36:32-05:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Nominees for United\_States Postal Service Board\
  \ of\_Governors"
---
 
Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate two leaders
to the bipartisan United States Postal Service Board of Governors to
replace outgoing Governors Ron Bloom and John Barger.

-   Daniel Tangherlini, Nominee for Governor, United States Postal
    Service
-   Derek Kan, Nominee for Governor, United States Postal Service

The USPS serves hundreds of millions of Americans across the nation
every day. President Biden is committed to supporting USPS workers so
that they can continue delivering for their fellow Americans,
particularly those in rural communities, veterans, and older Americans
who rely so heavily on the Postal Service. President Biden is also
committed to strengthening and modernizing this critical public
institution and its services to ensure it continues serving the American
people for decades to come.  
  
The Board consists of up to nine governors appointed by the President
with the advice and consent of the Senate, and no more than five
governors may be from the same party.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Daniel Tangherlini, Nominee
for Governor, United States Postal Service</span>**  
Dan Tangherlini has served in leadership roles in the public, non-profit
and private sectors. His interest is in bringing increased equity and
efficiency to business, philanthropy, and government through the
thoughtful application of technology, process and systems reform.  
  
His private sector work experience includes various roles in technology
firms and providing consulting and facilitation support to businesses
and nonprofits with an emphasis on finance and real estate. His
government experience includes serving as the Administrator of the
General Services Administration and Chief Financial Officer at the
Department of the Treasury, as City Administrator and Deputy Mayor of
Washington, D.C. under Mayor Fenty; as Interim General Manager of DC’s
Metro; the first Director of the D.C. Department of Transportation; the
CFO of the DC Metropolitan Police Department; and various roles in the
Federal Government at the U.S. Department of Transportation and the U.S.
Office of Management and Budget.   
  
Tangherlini received a B.A. and M.A. in public policy studies from the
University of Chicago, and an MBA from the Wharton School of Business at
the University of Pennsylvania. Dan and his wife have two daughters.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Derek Kan, Nominee for
Governor, United States Postal Service</span>**  
Derek Kan is currently an executive at Deliverr, an ecommerce
fulfillment startup. Prior to this role, Mr. Kan served as Deputy
Director of the Office of Management and Budget in the Executive Office
of the President and also served as the Under Secretary at the U.S.
Department of Transportation. Prior to his service, Mr. Kan was the
General Manager for Lyft and a Director of the Amtrak Board, for which
he was unanimously confirmed by the United States Senate.    
  
Earlier in his career, Mr. Kan was a policy advisor to the former Senate
Majority Leader. Before his time on Capitol Hill, Mr. Kan served as a
Presidential Management Fellow at the White House Office of Management
and Budget. Mr. Kan received a B.S. from the University of Southern
California, an M.Sc. from the London School of Economics, and an M.B.A.
from the Stanford Graduate School of Business, where he was an Arjay
Miller Scholar.

**\###**
