---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-11-01'
modified_time: 2021-11-01 07:30:26-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/01/statement-by-president-joe-biden-on-the-2022-open-enrollment-period/
published_time: 2021-11-01 07:30:25-04:00
title: "Statement by President Joe\_Biden on the 2022 Open Enrollment\_Period"
---
 
Health care should be a right — not a privilege — for all Americans.
Today, with the beginning of the open enrollment period on
[HealthCare.gov](https://www.healthcare.gov/), we can continue
delivering on that fundamental promise.

Starting today and running through January 15<sup>th</sup>, 2022,
Americans across the country can gain the peace of mind that comes from
having quality, affordable health coverage. Signing up is easy — simply
go to [HealthCare.gov](https://www.healthcare.gov/) and select the plan
that works best for you and your family.

This year, thanks to the American Rescue Plan, coverage is more
affordable and accessible than ever. Americans purchasing coverage
through the Affordable Care Act have seen their premiums decrease to
historic lows — a drop of $67 a month on average, saving families over
$800 annually. In fact, four in five customers can find quality coverage
for less than $10 a month. If you don’t receive insurance through your
employer, there are a range of quality, affordable coverage options
available to you.

I ran for President promising to protect and build on the historic
foundation of the Affordable Care Act, and my Administration has worked
tirelessly to uphold that commitment. During the six months in which we
opened [Healthcare.gov](https://www.healthcare.gov/) for special
enrollment earlier this year, nearly three million more Americans gained
access to health coverage. To maintain that momentum and reach as many
Americans as possible, the Department of Health and Human Services is
quadrupling the number of staff that help families navigate their
coverage options, and reaching people in half a dozen additional
languages. We won’t rest as long as there are still Americans out there
who have to lie awake at night, staring at the ceiling, wondering what
will happen to them if they or a loved one gets sick.

Thanks to the Build Back Better Framework I announced last week, we are
now poised to realize the largest expansion of affordable health care
since the passage of the Affordable Care Act more than a decade ago.
This transformational investment will reduce premiums for more than nine
million Americans, deliver health coverage to four million uninsured
people in states that have failed to expand Medicaid, and expand
Medicare to help older Americans access affordable hearing care.

I urge everyone to visit [HealthCare.gov](https://www.healthcare.gov/)
today to renew their coverage or shop for a plan. And I urge Congress to
send the Build Back Better framework to my desk right away, so that we
can deliver peace of mind and a more secure future to millions of
American families.

\###
