---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-11-15'
modified_time: 2021-11-15 21:47:13-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/15/remarks-by-president-biden-and-president-xi-of-the-peoples-republic-of-china-before-virtual-meeting/
published_time: 2021-11-15 21:41:55-05:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and President Xi of the People\u2019s Republic\
  \ of China Before Virtual\_Meeting"
---
 
Roosevelt Room

7:46 P.M. EST

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Good to see you, Mr. President.  Next time, I hope we
get to do it face to face like we used to when we traveled through
China. 

We’ve spent an awful lot –- a lot of time talking to one another, and I
hope we can have a conver- — candid conversation tonight as well.

Maybe I should start more formally, although you and I have never been
that formal with one another. 

Good evening to everyone here in the United States, and good morning to
you, Mr. President, in Beijing.  I’m happy we had found time to meet,
and I look forward to a candid and forthright discussion like all the
discussions we’ve had thus far.

As I’ve said before, it seems to me our responsibility as leaders of
China and the United States is to ensure that the competition between
our countries does not veer into conflict, whether intended or
unintended.  Just simple, straightforward competition.

It seems to me we need to establish some commonsense guardrails, to be
clear and honest where we disagree, and work together where our
interests intersect, especially on vital global issues like climate
change.

None of this is a favor to either of our countries –- what we do for one
another -– but it’s just responsible world leadership.  And you’re a
major world leader, and so is the United States.

How our bilateral relationship evolves, seems to me, will have a
profound impact not only on our countries but, quite frankly, the rest
of the world. 

We have a responsibility to the world, as well as to our people.  It’s
why we believe –- and you and I have talked about this — all countries
have to play by the same rules of the road, why the United States is
always going to stand up for our interests and values and those of our
allies and partners.

If past is prologue, I am sure that today we’ll be discussing those
areas where we have concerns — from human rights, to economics, to
ensuring a free and open Indo-Pacific.

And I think it’s very important, as I’ve told other world leaders when
they ask about our relationship, is that we have always communicated
with one another — with one another very honestly and candidly.  And
it’s — we never walk away wondering what the other man is thinking. 

And I think that’s an important ingredient for this relationship: to be
open and candid, in terms of our relationship.

And I think it’s important we communicate honestly and directly to one
another about our priorities and our intentions.

I look forward to getting down to business and — on the extensive and
substantive of agenda we have ahead of us.  And I thank you very much.

And thank you for your congratulatory call when I won the election.  It
was very gracious of you.

Thank you.  Thank you, thank you, thank you.

PRESIDENT XI:  (As interpreted.)  Good to see you, Mr. President, and
your colleagues. 

It’s the first time for us to meet virtually.  Although it’s not as good
as a face-to-face meeting, I’m very happy to see my old friend.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Thank you.  
  
PRESIDENT XI:  (As interpreted.)  Right now, both China and the United
States are at critical stages of development, and humanity lives in a
global village, and we face multiple challenges together.

As the world’s two largest economies and permanent members of the U.N.
Security Council, China and the United States need to increase
communication and cooperation. 

We should each run our domestic affairs well and, at the same time,
shoulder our share of international responsibilities and work together
to advance the noble cause of world peace and development. 

This is the shared desire of the people of our two countries and around
the world, and the joint mission of Chinese and American leaders.

A sound and steady China-U.S. relationship is required for advancing our
two countries’ respective development and for safeguarding a peaceful
and stable international environment, including finding effective
responses to global challenges such as climate change, which you
referenced, and the COVID pandemic.

China and the United States should respect each other, coexist in peace,
and pursue win-win cooperation. 

I stand ready to work with you, Mr. President, to build consensus, take
active steps, and move China-U.S. relations forward in a positive
direction.  Doing so would advance the interests of our two peoples and
meet the expectation of the international community.

I now look forward to a wide-ranging and a comprehensive discussion with
you, Mr. President, on overarching issues. 

Thank you.

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.

7:57 P.M. EST
