---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-11-02'
modified_time: 2021-11-02 09:58:22-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/02/fact-sheet-new-strategy-outlines-five-priorities-for-reducing-military-and-veteran-suicide/
published_time: 2021-11-02 10:30:00-04:00
title: "Fact Sheet: New Strategy Outlines Five Priorities for Reducing Military and\
  \ Veteran\_Suicide"
---
 
Suicide among service members, veterans, and their families is a public
health and national security crisis. Far too many of our nation’s
veterans and service members have died at their own hands, an
overwhelming majority of them as the result of a firearm. Since 2010,
more than 65,000 veterans have died by suicide – more than the total
number of deaths from combat during the Vietnam War and the operations
in Iraq and Afghanistan combined. These women and men volunteered to
serve their country, often in dangerous conditions. We owe them, their
families, and their fellow service members and veterans a better, more
coordinated response to address the military and veteran suicide
crisis.   
Suicide is a complex problem, with no single cause and no single
solution. But it is preventable. Given the multiple factors that may
lead to suicide, preventing suicide requires a comprehensive public
health approach that harnesses the full breadth of the federal
government.  
  
Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is announcing a series of
priority goals and executive actions that will drive suicide prevention
efforts moving forward. These goals are outlined in a new national
strategy, [**“Reducing Military and Veteran Suicide: Advancing a
Comprehensive, Cross-Sector, Evidence-Informed Approach.”  
  
**](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/Military-and-Veteran-Suicide-Prevention-Strategy.pdf)The
key components of this comprehensive strategy include:  
  
**Improving Lethal Means Safety**  
Suicide crises are often brief, and evidence suggests they can be
prevented if the individual in crisis lacks immediate access to the
means for self-harm. The strategy identifies ways to ensure time and
space between a person in crisis and their access to lethal means,
including firearms and medications. In implementing this strategy, the
Departments of Defense (DOD), Health and Human Services (HHS), Homeland
Security (DHS), Justice (DOJ), and Veterans Affairs (VA), as well as the
Office of Emergency Medical Services within the Department of
Transportation (DOT), will create and implement a coordinated approach
for improving Lethal Means Safety. In the coming months, agencies will
collaborate to raise awareness among service members, veterans, and
their families; educate and train health care providers and crisis
responders; and evaluate the effectiveness of existing and new programs
that may reduce access to lethal means. This will include designing and
launching a campaign to increase the safe storage of firearms and
medications, and the use of safety planning interventions by providers. 
   
  
**Enhancing Crisis Care and Facilitating Care Transitions**  
Individuals at imminent or high risk of suicide need access to
high-quality crisis care and follow-on support. The strategy elevates
the need for improving care in emergency settings, as well as providing
appropriate care and support as individuals transition from crisis care
into follow-on settings, including other services that can help to
de-escalate the crisis and facilitate access to outpatient care.
Emergency care settings (emergency transport, urgent care, and emergency
departments) play a critical role in stabilizing patients and connecting
them to care, and HHS, VA, DOD, and DOT will collaborate to promote
evidence-based risk-assessment and safety-planning are used by providers
in these settings throughout the country. Agencies will also expand
approaches to help identify service members, veterans and their family
members at risk of suicide, enabling early intervention. 

**Increasing Access to and Delivery of Effective Care  
**Ensuring access to evidence-based care for mental health greatly
reduces suicide risk among those with behavioral health problems,
including depression, post-traumatic stress disorder, and addiction. The
strategy is focused on reducing barriers to high quality mental health
care and to encouraging help-seeking among service members, veterans,
and their families. Strategies include eliminating or lowering
co-payments for mental health treatment, increasing confidentiality,
clarifying fitness for duty standards, and training of providers in
evidence-based suicide risk assessment and care.  Agencies will also
identify and eliminate potentially discriminatory practices related to
mental health care. 

**Addressing Upstream Risk and Protective Factors**  
Reducing the likelihood that an individual will experience a suicidal
crisis requires addressing the factors—such as increased financial
strain, lack of housing, food insecurity, unemployment, and legal
issues—that may contribute to or increase risk for suicide. Conversely,
improving coping and problem-solving skills and supporting connectedness
are protective factors that can decrease risk. In driving this priority,
HHS, DOD, VA, DHS, ED, and DOL will expand federal, state, territory,
Tribal, and local public and private partnerships to address risk and
protective factors for suicide. This will include increased emphasis on
promoting economic well-being, reducing housing and food insecurity, and
supporting service members, veterans, and their families in the
transition to civilian life.

**Increasing Research Coordination, Data Sharing, and Evaluation
Efforts**  
The federal government invests significant resources in suicide
prevention research and the collection of data on suicide risk factors
and outcomes. Unfortunately, the data needed to monitor suicide risk and
outcomes for service members, veterans, and their family members is not
currently shared or integrated among the relevant agencies. The strategy
will advance interagency research coordination, ensure integration of
data, and encourage adoption of rigorous program evaluation across all
prevention programs. These efforts will improve our understanding of the
factors that lead to suicide in the military and veteran community,
promote early identification of risk so that we can better support
individuals and communities, and help ensure the effectiveness of
suicide prevention programs. To achieve these goals, VA, HHS, DOD, and
the Department of Energy (DOE) will coordinate research activities and
program evaluation efforts. Agencies will also continue implementation
of the [National Research
Strategy](https://www.va.gov/PREVENTS/EO-13861.asp), improving access to
and linkages of data to enable real-time surveillance.    
  
These actions build upon an existing foundation of government programs
and public-private partnerships, and will serve to accelerate efforts
across the federal government. Moving forward, these federal priorities
will be implemented in close coordination with states, territories,
Tribes, and local governments, as well as in collaboration with
industry, academia, communities and community-based organizations,
families, and individuals.

\###
