---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-11-19'
modified_time: 2021-11-19 10:13:42-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/19/statement-by-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-on-the-u-s-approach-to-strengthening-the-biological-weapons-convention/
published_time: 2021-11-19 14:00:00-05:00
title: Statement by National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan on the U.S. Approach to
  Strengthening the Biological Weapons Convention
---
 
COVID-19 was a wake-up call for humanity. It revealed the devastating
impact of infectious disease on our health and our societies. It also
uncovered our shared vulnerability to catastrophic biological events and
the lost lives, economic downturn, and global destabilization that they
can cause. As we work to end the COVID-19 pandemic, we must
simultaneously recognize that biological risks are growing. We face an
increased threat of naturally occurring emerging diseases, as well as
the potential for laboratory accidents and intentional misuse of life
sciences and biotechnology. For these reasons, it is vital for us to
work together – across the health, security, and development sectors –
to enhance biopreparedness, biosafety, and biosecurity globally, and to
reinforce the norm against the development and use of biological
weapons.

The United States has made it clear that the weaponization of biological
agents and toxins is unacceptable. Unfortunately, we are concerned that
some nations still possess biological weapons programs, while other
nations as well as nonstate actors seek to acquire them. We are
therefore determined to strengthen and revitalize the Biological Weapons
Convention (BWC). As we look to the Ninth Review Conference, we urge all
countries to take seriously the threat of biological weapons, and for
the Review Conference to overcome differences and take urgent steps to
guard against the development and use of biological weapons. We must
explore novel measures to promote implementation, increase transparency,
and enhance compliance; measures that address the biological weapons
threat of today — and tomorrow. This will be challenging work; success
will require delegations to break out of old all-or-nothing mindsets and
build new habits of constructive cooperation. We must demonstrate, to
the world and to each other, that our shared efforts are about achieving
real-world results. That is why the United States will also be proposing
immediate action at the Review Conference on a number of practical
measures that will build capacity to counter biological threats and
benefit BWC members. The United States is committed to working with all
States Parties to strengthen the BWC, and with all responsible nations
to end the development of biological weapons and the threat they pose.
Through collective action to counter all manner of biological threats –
naturally occurring, accidental, and deliberate – together we can
achieve global health security for everyone, everywhere.

\###
