---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-11-03'
modified_time: 2021-11-03 16:59:10-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/03/president-biden-announces-key-nominations-10/
published_time: 2021-11-03 16:00:00-04:00
title: President Biden Announces Key Nominations
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve in key roles:

-   N. Nick Perry, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to Jamaica
-   Kurt DelBene, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Information and
    Technology and Chief Information Officer at the Department of
    Veterans Affairs
-   Mike Gerber, Nominee for Member of the Federal Retirement Thrift
    Investment Board

**N. Nick Perry, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to Jamaica**  
Nick Perry, an immigrant from Jamaica, has served for three decades as
an Assemblyman in the New York State Legislature. Assemblyman Perry is
currently the Assistant Speaker Pro Tempore of the New York State
Assembly, and a Regional Vice Chairman of the National Black Caucus of
State Legislators. He serves on the New York State Assembly Standing
Committees on Rules, Ways & Means, Codes, Banks, Labor, and
Transportation.  From 2015-2018, Perry was the Chairman of the New York
State Black, Puerto Rican, Hispanic, and Asian Legislative Caucus and he
also served as Chairman of the New York State Association of Black and
Puerto Rican Legislators, Inc. from 2012-2015. Earlier, Perry served
five consecutive terms on the Brooklyn Borough Board before being
elected to the State Assembly in 1992.  Assemblyman Perry earned his
B.A. from Brooklyn College, Brooklyn, New York. He was named the
Legislator of the Year by the National Black Caucus of State Legislators
in 2018 and has been recognized with honors from the New York Civil
Liberties Union and the New York State Association of Black and Puerto
Rican Legislators among others.  
  
**Kurt DelBene, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Information and
Technology and Chief Information Officer at the Department of Veterans
Affairs**  
Kurt DelBene is a technology executive that spent the bulk of his career
as a senior executive at Microsoft.  He retired from Microsoft in
September of 2021 as Executive Vice President of Corporate Strategy,
Core Services Engineering and Operations, leading the company’s
cross-engineering and cross-business strategy, execution, and planning
initiatives. DelBene, previously president of the Microsoft Office
Division, rejoined Microsoft in April 2015 after joining the Obama-Biden
Administration to lead improvement work on Healthcare.gov, the
enrollment website for the Affordable Care Act. From December 2013 to
July 2014, in his work on Healthcare.gov as senior advisor to the
Secretary of Health and Human Services, DelBene helped assess and
implement the path through the first Open Enrollment period, including
troubleshooting issues encountered along the way, and setting the
project up for long-term success. Prior to joining Microsoft, DelBene
was a management consultant with McKinsey and Company, focusing on
business strategy for technology companies. He has also worked as a
software developer and systems engineer for AT&T Bell Laboratories,
working in graphics and imaging software and network switching systems.

DelBene holds a Master of Business Administration degree from the
University of Chicago, a Master of Science degree from Stanford
University, and a Bachelor of Industrial Engineering from the University
of Arizona.

**Mike Gerber, Nominee for Member of the Federal Retirement Thrift
Investment Board**  
Michael F. Gerber is an asset management executive and non-profit board
member.   Gerber is a partner and executive committee member at FS
Investments, a multi-strategy alternative investment firm, and a
co-founder and advisor at Intrinsic Capital Partners, a growth equity
firm.

Earlier in his career, Gerber served eight years in the Pennsylvania
House of Representatives and six years as a trustee of Pennsylvania’s
State Employees’ Retirement System (SERS), where he was a member of the
Audit and Investment Committees. Gerber also practiced law at what is
now Faegre Drinker Biddle & Reath LLP, where he was a member of the
firm’s corporate and securities practice group, and served as a law
clerk for Judge Ronald L. Buckwalter of the United States District Court
of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.  
  
Gerber currently serves on the Board of Trustees of the University of
Pennsylvania and is the Founding Chair of the Board of Philadelphia
Financial Scholars, a high school-focused financial literacy and
entrepreneurship program. Gerber also serves on the boards of the Small
Business Investor Alliance, based in Washington, D.C., the Chamber of
Commerce for Greater Philadelphia, and the Philadelphia Equity Alliance.
Gerber earned his undergraduate degree from the University of
Pennsylvania and graduated with honors from Villanova University School
of Law, where he received a scholarship award for his involvement in
community legal services. Mr. Gerber lives with his wife and three
children in the Philadelphia suburbs.

\###
