---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-11-18'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/18/statement-by-nsc-spokesperson-emily-horne-on-deputy-national-security-advisor-anne-neubergers-travel-to-japan/
published_time: 2021-11-18 19:29:08-05:00
title: "Statement by NSC Spokesperson Emily Horne on Deputy National Security Advisor\
  \ Anne Neuberger\u2019s Travel to\_Japan"
---
 
From November 15-17, Deputy National Security Advisory for Cyber and
Emerging Technologies Anne Neuberger traveled to Japan to continue the
Biden-Harris Administration’s coordination with international partners
to advance cybersecurity, promote responsible state behavior in
cyberspace, and chart a 21st century course for cybersecurity and
emerging technology. The United States and Japan are committed to
deepening our Alliance and to fulfilling its potential, including
by promoting secure connectivity and a vibrant digital economy while
enhancing the cybersecurity capacity needed to address shared threats.  
  
Neuberger met with a range of Government of Japan officials to consult
on bolstering resilience and countering malicious cyber activity
including cybercrime, as well as enhancing ICT vendor diversity, for
which the United States commends Japanese industry’s advancements.
Finally, recognizing the importance of public and private sector
cooperation, Neuberger also met with private sector representatives to
discuss the key role of industry in advancing our shared objectives on
cybersecurity and emerging technology. Across all of her engagements,
Neuberger emphasized the importance of deepening U.S-Japan collaboration
in strengthening network defenses against cyber threats as part of
their long-standing alliance partnership on cybersecurity.  
  
Neuberger’s trip builds on the Biden Administration’s ongoing work to
build international cooperation to address cyber threats. The
Administration’s efforts have included rallying G7 countries to hold
nations who harbor ransomware criminals accountable; working with allies
and partners to impose costs on nation-states for malicious cyber
activity, and disrupt the ransomware ecosystem; hosting an international
counter-ransomware initiative at the White House in October with over 30
countries and the European Union to [accelerate
cooperation](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/14/joint-statement-of-the-ministers-and-representatives-from-the-counter-ransomware-initiative-meeting-october-2021/) to
counter ransomware and launching a [Quad Senior Cyber
Group](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/24/fact-sheet-quad-leaders-summit/) to
deepen cooperation in areas like secure technology, critical
infrastructure and workforce. Last week, Neuberger was
in [Brussels](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/10/statement-by-nsc-spokesperson-emily-horne-on-deputy-national-security-advisor-anne-neubergers-travel-to-brussels/) where
she met with a range of EU officials and members of the European
Parliament to discuss cybersecurity and emerging technology policies and
consulted with the North Atlantic Council at NATO on ways to enhance
national and Alliance resilience in cyberspace, following NATO’s
adoption of a new Cyber Defense Policy, its first in seven years,
strongly supported by the United States.

\###
