---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-11-08'
modified_time: 2021-11-07 20:01:17-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/08/fact-sheet-the-bipartisan-infrastructure-deal-boosts-clean-energy-jobs-strengthens-resilience-and-advances-environmental-justice/
published_time: 2021-11-08 09:30:00-05:00
title: 'FACT SHEET: The Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal Boosts Clean Energy Jobs, Strengthens
  Resilience, and Advances Environmental Justice'
---
 
President Biden has made combatting the climate crisis a central
priority of his Administration, including throughout his legislative
agenda. Climate change is already impacting almost every aspect of life
in the United States. Extreme heat waves, catastrophic wildfires, and
severe drought are taking American lives and livelihoods. In the last
year alone, extreme weather has cost America more than $100 billion –
often hitting historically underserved groups the hardest, particularly
low-income communities, communities of color, and people with
disabilities. In just the last few months, nearly 1 in 3 Americans have
been hit by a severe weather disaster and 2 in 3 Americans have suffered
through dangerous heat waves. Delayed action on climate also sets us
back in the global race on manufacturing and innovation, preventing us
from harnessing the economic opportunity that this moment represents.  
  
As President Biden emphasized at COP26 in Glasgow, climate change poses
an existential threat to people, economies, and countries across the
world – and it requires swift and bold action to reduce emissions and
strengthen resilience. **President Biden has been clear: the climate
crisis is a blinking code red for our nation.** We must take decisive
action to tackle the climate crisis in a way that strengthens our
nation’s resilience, cuts consumer costs, and ensures the U.S. can
compete and win in the race for the 21<sup>st</sup> century. This moment
demands urgent investments the American people want and our nation needs
– investments that will bolster America’s competitiveness, resilience,
and economy all while creating good-paying jobs, saving people money,
and building an equitable clean energy economy of the future.   
  
**President Biden’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal passed by Congress
will strengthen our nation’s resilience to extreme weather and climate
change while reducing greenhouse gas emissions, expanding access to
clean drinking water, building up a clean power grid, and more.** When
coupled with the Build Back Better Framework, these historic investments
will help reduce our emissions by well over one gigaton this decade –
ensuring we meet President Biden’s commitment to reduce U.S. emissions
by 50-52% from 2005 levels in 2030, create a 100% carbon pollution-free
power sector by 2035, and achieve a net-zero economy by 2050. Together,
these once-in-a-generation investments will unlock the full potential of
a clean energy economy that combats climate change, advances
environmental justice, and creates good-paying, union jobs.  
  
President Biden promised to work across the aisle and unify the country
to deliver results for working families. The **Bipartisan Infrastructure
Deal** is a critical step towards reaching President Biden’s goal of a
net-zero emissions economy by 2050, and is paired with the Build Back
Better Framework to realize his full vision to grow our economy, lower
consumer costs, create jobs, reduce climate pollution, and ensure more
Americans can participate fully and equally in our economy.

**BIPARTISIAN INFRASTRUCTURE DEAL**  
  
***Public Transit***  
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal makes the **largest investment in
passenger rail since the creation of Amtrak** – helping reduce
greenhouse gas emissions by repairing, upgrading, and modernizing the
nation’s transit infrastructure. The deal will invest $66 billion to
provide healthy, sustainable transportation options for millions of
Americans by modernizing and expanding transit and rail networks across
the country. It will replace thousands of transit vehicles, including
buses, with clean, zero emission vehicles. And, it will benefit
communities of color who are twice as likely to take public
transportation and often lack sufficient public transit options. In
addition, it will help transit workers who are disproportionally workers
of color.

***Electric Vehicle Infrastructure***  
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal will invest $7.5 billion to **build
out the first-ever national network of EV chargers** in the United
States. The deal is also a critical element in the Biden-Harris
Administration’s plan to accelerate the adoption of EVs to address the
climate crisis and support domestic manufacturing jobs. The deal will
provide funding for deployment of EV chargers along highway corridors to
facilitate long-distance travel and within communities to provide
convenient charging where people live, work, and shop – and funding will
have a particular focus on rural, disadvantaged, and hard-to-reach
communities.

***Clean School Buses***  
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal will **deliver thousands of electric
school buses nationwide**, including in rural communities, to help
school districts across the country buy clean, American-made, zero
emission buses and replace the yellow school bus fleet for America’s
children. The deal invests in zero- and low-emission school buses, in
addition to more than $5 billion in funding for public transit agencies
to adopt low- and no-emissions buses. These investments will drive
demand for American-made batteries and vehicles, creating jobs and
supporting domestic manufacturing, while also removing diesel buses from
some of our most vulnerable communities. In addition, they will help the
more than 25 million children and thousands of bus drivers who breathe
polluted air on their rides to and from school. Diesel air pollution is
linked to asthma and other health problems that hurt our communities and
cause students to miss school, particularly in communities of color and
Tribal communities.

***Modern Infrastructure***  
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal invests $17 billion in port
infrastructure and $25 billion in airports to **address repair and
maintenance backlogs, reduce congestion and emissions near ports and
airports, and drive electrification and other low-carbon
technologies.** Modern, resilient, and sustainable port, airport, and
freight infrastructure will support U.S. competitiveness by removing
bottlenecks and expediting commerce and reduce the environmental impact
on neighboring communities.

***Resilience***  
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal is the **largest investment in the
resilience of physical and natural systems in American history**.
Millions of Americans feel the effects of climate change each year when
their roads wash out, airport power goes down, or schools get flooded.
People of color are more likely to live in areas most vulnerable to
flooding and other climate change-related weather events. The deal makes
our communities safer and our infrastructure more resilient to the
impacts of climate change and cyber-attacks, with an investment of over
$50 billion to protect against droughts, heat, and floods – in addition
to a major investment in the weatherization of American homes.

***Clean Drinking Water***  
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal **will expand access to clean
drinking water to all American families**, eliminate the nation’s lead
service lines and help to clean up the dangerous chemical PFAS (per- and
polyfluoroalkyl). Currently, up to 10 million American households and
400,000 schools and child care centers lack access to safe drinking
water. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal will invest $55 billion to
expand access to clean drinking water for households, businesses,
schools, and child care centers all across the country. From rural towns
to struggling cities, the deal will invest in water infrastructure and
eliminate lead service pipes, including in Tribal Nations and
disadvantaged communities that need it most.

***Legacy Pollution***  
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal delivers the **largest investment in
tackling legacy pollution in American history by cleaning up Superfund
and brownfield sites, reclaiming abandoned mines, and capping orphaned
oil and gas wells**. In thousands of rural and urban communities around
the country, hundreds of thousands of former industrial and energy sites
are now idle – sources of blight and pollution. Proximity to a Superfund
site can lead to elevated levels of lead in children’s blood. Millions
of Americans also live within a mile of the tens of thousands of
abandoned mines and oil and gas wells – a large, continuing course of
methane, a powerful greenhouse gas that is a major cause of climate
change. The bill will invest $21 billion to clean up Superfund and
brownfield sites, reclaim abandoned mine land, and cap orphaned oil and
gas wells. These projects will remediate environmental harms, address
the legacy pollution that harms the public health of communities, create
good-paying, union jobs, and advance long overdue environmental justice
This investment will benefit communities of color like the 26% of Black
Americans and 29% of Hispanic Americans who live within three miles of a
Superfund site – a higher percentage than for Americans overall.  
  
***Clean Energy Transmission***  
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal’s more than $65 billion investment is
the **largestinvestment in clean energy transmission and the electric
grid in American history**. It upgrades our power infrastructure,
including by building thousands of miles of new, resilient transmission
lines to facilitate the expansion of renewable energy. It creates a new
Grid Deployment Authority, invests in research and development for
advanced transmission and electricity distribution technologies, and
promotes smart grid technologies that deliver flexibility and
resilience. It also invests in demonstration projects and research hubs
for next generation technologies like advanced nuclear reactors, carbon
capture, and clean hydrogen.

\###
