---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-11-06'
modified_time: 2021-11-06 00:39:58-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/06/fact-sheet-the-bipartisan-infrastructure-deal/
published_time: 2021-11-06 00:39:57-04:00
title: "Fact Sheet: The Bipartisan Infrastructure\_Deal"
---
 
Today, Congress passed the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal
(Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act), a once-in-a-generation
investment in our nation’s infrastructure and competitiveness. For far
too long, Washington policymakers have celebrated “infrastructure week”
without ever agreeing to build infrastructure. The President promised to
work across the aisle to deliver results and rebuild our crumbling
infrastructure. After the President put forward his plan to do exactly
that and then negotiated a deal with Members of Congress from both
parties, this historic legislation is moving to his desk for signature.

This Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal will rebuild America’s roads,
bridges and rails, expand access to clean drinking water, ensure every
American has access to high-speed internet, tackle the climate crisis,
advance environmental justice, and invest in communities that have too
often been left behind. The legislation will help ease inflationary
pressures and strengthen supply chains by making long overdue
improvements for our nation’s ports, airports, rail, and roads. It will
drive the creation of good-paying union jobs and grow the economy
sustainably and equitably so that everyone gets ahead for decades to
come. Combined with the President’s Build Back Framework, it will add on
average [1.5 million jobs per
year](https://www.moodysanalytics.com/-/media/article/2021/macroeconomic-consequences-of-the-infrastructure-investment-and-jobs-act-and-build-back-better-framework.pdf)
for the next 10 years.  
  
This historic legislation will:                               

**Deliver clean water to all American families and eliminate the
nation’s lead service lines.** Currently, up to 10 million American
households and 400,000 schools and child care centers lack safe drinking
water. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal will invest $55 billion to
expand access to clean drinking water for households, businesses,
schools, and child care centers all across the country. From rural towns
to struggling cities, the legislation will invest in water
infrastructure and eliminate lead service pipes, including in Tribal
Nations and disadvantaged communities that need it most.

**Ensure every American has access to reliable high-speed internet.**
Broadband internet is necessary for Americans to do their jobs, to
participate equally in school learning, health care, and to stay
connected. Yet, by one definition, more than 30 million Americans live
in areas where there is no broadband infrastructure that provides
minimally acceptable speeds – a particular problem in rural communities
throughout the country. And, according to the latest OECD data, among 35
countries studied, the United States has the second highest broadband
costs. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal will deliver $65 billion to
help ensure that every American has access to reliable high-speed
internet through a historic investment in broadband infrastructure
deployment. The legislation will also help lower prices for internet
service and help close the digital divide, so that more Americans can
afford internet access.  
  
**Repair and rebuild our roads and bridges with a focus on climate
change mitigation, resilience, equity, and safety for all users.** In
the United States, 1 in 5 miles of highways and major roads, and 45,000
bridges, are in poor condition. The legislation will reauthorize surface
transportation programs for five years and invest $110 billion in
additional funding to repair our roads and bridges and support major,
transformational projects. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal makes the
single largest investment in repairing and reconstructing our nation’s
bridges since the construction of the interstate highway system. It will
rebuild the most economically significant bridges in the country as well
as thousands of smaller bridges. The legislation also includes the first
ever Safe Streets and Roads for All program to support projects to
reduce traffic fatalities, which claimed more than 20,000 lives in the
first half of 2021.

**Improve transportation options for millions of Americans and reduce
greenhouse emissions through the largest investment in public transit in
U.S. history.** America’s public transit infrastructure is inadequate –
with a multibillion-dollar repair backlog, representing more than 24,000
buses, 5,000 rail cars, 200 stations, and thousands of miles of track,
signals, and power systems in need of replacement. Communities of color
are twice as likely to take public transportation and many of these
communities lack sufficient public transit options. The transportation
sector in the United States is now the largest single source of
greenhouse gas emissions. The legislation includes $39 billion of new
investment to modernize transit, in addition to continuing the existing
transit programs for five years as part of surface transportation
reauthorization.  In total, the new investments and reauthorization in
the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal provide $89.9 billion in guaranteed
funding for public transit over the next five years — the largest
Federal investment in public transit in history. The legislation will
expand public transit options across every state in the country, replace
thousands of deficient transit vehicles, including buses, with clean,
zero emission vehicles, and improve accessibility for the elderly and
people with disabilities.

**Upgrade our nation’s airports and ports to strengthen our supply
chains and prevent disruptions that have caused inflation. This will
improve U.S. competitiveness, create more and better jobs at these hubs,
and reduce emissions.** Decades of neglect and underinvestment in our
infrastructure have left the links in our goods movement supply chains
struggling to keep up with our strong economic recovery from the
pandemic. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal will make the fundamental
changes that are long overdue for our nation’s ports and airports so
this will not happen again. The United States built modern aviation, but
our airports lag far behind our competitors. According to some rankings,
no U.S. airports rank in the top 25 of airports worldwide. Our ports and
waterways need repair and reimagination too. The legislation invests $17
billion in port infrastructure and waterways and $25 billion in airports
to address repair and maintenance backlogs, reduce congestion and
emissions near ports and airports, and drive electrification and other
low-carbon technologies. Modern, resilient, and sustainable port,
airport, and freight infrastructure will strengthen our supply chains
and support U.S. competitiveness by removing bottlenecks and expediting
commerce and reduce the environmental impact on neighboring communities.

**Make the largest investment in passenger rail since the creation of
Amtrak.** U.S. passenger rail lags behind the rest of the world in
reliability, speed, and coverage. China already has 22,000 miles of
high-speed rail, and is planning to double that by 2035. The legislation
positions rail to play a central role in our transportation and economic
future, investing $66 billion in additional rail funding to eliminate
the Amtrak maintenance backlog, modernize the Northeast Corridor, and
bring world-class rail service to areas outside the northeast and
mid-Atlantic. This is the largest investment in passenger rail since
Amtrak’s creation, 50 years ago and will create safe, efficient, and
climate-friendly alternatives for moving people and freight.

**Build a national network of electric vehicle (EV) chargers.** U.S.
market share of plug-in EV sales is only one-third the size of the
Chinese EV market. That needs to change. The legislation will invest
$7.5 billion to build out a national network of EV chargers in the
United States. This is a critical step in the President’s strategy to
fight the climate crisis and it will create good U.S. manufacturing
jobs. The legislation will provide funding for deployment of EV chargers
along highway corridors to facilitate long-distance travel and within
communities to provide convenient charging where people live, work, and
shop. This investment will support the President’s goal of building a
nationwide network of 500,000 EV chargers to accelerate the adoption of
EVs, reduce emissions, improve air quality, and create good-paying jobs
across the country.

**Upgrade our power infrastructure to deliver clean, reliable energy
across the country and deploy cutting-edge energy technology to achieve
a zero-emissions future.** According to the Department of Energy, power
outages cost the U.S. economy up to $70 billion annually. The Bipartisan
Infrastructure Deal’s more than $65 billion investment includes the
largest investment in clean energy transmission and grid in American
history. It will upgrade our power infrastructure, by building thousands
of miles of new, resilient transmission lines to facilitate the
expansion of renewables and clean energy, while lowering costs. And it
will fund new programs to support the development, demonstration, and
deployment of cutting-edge clean energy technologies to accelerate our
transition to a zero-emission economy.   
  
**Make our infrastructure resilient against the impacts of climate
change, cyber-attacks, and extreme weather events.** Millions of
Americans feel the effects of climate change each year when their roads
wash out, power goes down, or schools get flooded. Last year alone, the
United States faced 22 extreme weather and climate-related disaster
events with losses exceeding $1 billion each – a cumulative price tag of
nearly $100 billion. People of color are more likely to live in areas
most vulnerable to flooding and other climate change-related weather
events. The legislation makes our communities safer and our
infrastructure more resilient to the impacts of climate change and
cyber-attacks, with an investment of over $50 billion to protect against
droughts, heat, floods and wildfires, in addition to a major investment
in weatherization. The legislation is the largest investment in the
resilience of physical and natural systems in American history.  
  
**Deliver the largest investment in tackling legacy pollution in
American history by cleaning up Superfund and brownfield sites,
reclaiming abandoned mines, and capping orphaned oil and gas wells.** In
thousands of rural and urban communities around the country, hundreds of
thousands of former industrial and energy sites are now idle – sources
of blight and pollution. Proximity to a Superfund site can lead to
elevated levels of lead in children’s blood. The bill will invest $21
billion clean up Superfund and brownfield sites, reclaim abandoned mine
land and cap orphaned oil and gas wells. These projects will remediate
environmental harms, address the legacy pollution that harms the public
health of communities, create good-paying union jobs, and advance long
overdue environmental justice This investment will benefit communities
of color as, it has been found that 26% of Black Americans and 29% of
Hispanic Americans live within 3 miles of a Superfund site, a higher
percentage than for Americans overall.

\###
