---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-11-22'
modified_time: 2021-11-22 09:48:58-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/22/vice-president-harris-announces-historic-funding-to-bolster-equitable-health-care-during-pandemic-and-beyond/
published_time: 2021-11-22 09:18:00-05:00
title: Vice President Harris Announces Historic Funding to Bolster Equitable Health
  Care During Pandemic, and Beyond
---
 
*$1.5 Billion Investment in National Health Service Corps and Nurse
Corps Will Expand and Diversify the Health Workforce and Improve
Critical Clinical Care in Underserved Communities*

Today, Vice President Kamala Harris will announce a historic $1.5
billion investment to help grow and diversify the nation’s health care
workforce, and bolster equitable health care in the communities that
need it most during the COVID-19 pandemic and in the years to come.   

These awards are supporting the National Health Service Corps, Nurse
Corps, and Substance Use Disorder Treatment and Recovery programs. These
programs address workforce shortages and health disparities by providing
scholarship and loan repayment funding for health care students and
professionals, in exchange for a service commitment in hard-hit and
high-risk communities.   

Thanks to the American Rescue Plan, this funding will support over
22,700 providers—the largest field strength in history for these
programs and a record number of skilled doctors, dentists, nurses, and
behavioral health providers committed to working in underserved
communities during a moment when we need them the most. 

More than 23.6 million patients in the U.S. receive care from National
Health Service Corps and Nurse Corps clinicians. During the pandemic,
thousands of these health providers have served in community health
centers and hospitals across the country, caring for COVID-19 patients,
supporting the mental health of their communities, administering
COVID-19 tests and lifesaving treatments, and putting shots in arms.

Only about 7 percent of physicians in the United States identify as
Black or Hispanic/Latino despite the fact that Black and Hispanic/Latino
Americans account for 31 percent of the nation’s total population. Over
25 percent of physicians serving through the National Health Service
Corps identify as Black or Hispanic/Latino. The mobilization of these
providers is a critical step towards addressing racial and ethnic
disparities in health outcomes and expanding the representation of these
communities in health care professions.

Further, the United States is projected to face a shortage of almost
60,000 primary care doctors, dentists, and psychiatrists over the next
decade, and needs an estimated 158,000 new nurses to graduate every year
for the rest of the decade. A substantial barrier in meeting these
health care needs is the student debt associated with graduate health
education, which can average more than $200,000 per student and prevent
students from underserved communities from even considering a career in
health care professions. To further support the expansion of primary
care, the Administration also plans to begin awarding $330 million in
American Rescue Plan funding for Teaching Health Center Graduate Medical
Education. This additional funding will further support the expansion of
the primary care physician and dental workforce in underserved
communities through community-based primary care residency programs in
family medicine, internal medicine, pediatrics, internal
medicine-pediatrics, psychiatry, obstetrics and gynecology, general
dentistry, pediatric dentistry, or geriatrics. 

Today’s announcements directly respond to the recommendations of
the Presidential COVID-19 Health Equity Task Force, which submitted its
final report to the White House COVID-19 Response Coordinator earlier
this month. During the Vice President’s final year in the Senate, she
introduced a bill that became a blueprint for the President’s formation
of this Task Force—recognizing that the perspective of public health
experts, practitioners, advocates, and activists would be critical to
support any federal effort to center equity in our pandemic response.  
  
Additionally, this funding builds on the billions of dollars in
investments the Biden-Harris Administration has already awarded for
equity focused programs and initiatives over the past 10 months,
including $785 million the Administration
[announced](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=0ae7f75ebacfaef55ba39fcdb&id=b2ab6ae2ab&e=7e426359f0) earlier
this month to continue keeping equity centered in our COVID-19
response. 

\###
