---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-11-18'
modified_time: 2021-11-18 20:55:21-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/18/building-back-better-together-a-secure-prosperous-north-america/
published_time: 2021-11-18 20:48:48-05:00
title: "Building Back Better Together: A Secure, Prosperous North\_America"
---
 
The following is the text of a Joint Statement by North American
Leaders:

We, the leaders of North America, met today in Washington, DC for the
first time since 2016 to reaffirm the strength of our relationship and
to chart a new path for our collaboration at a time when we face
incredibly complex global challenges.  We share a vision of a North
America that remains the most competitive and dynamic region in the
world.  We are determined to make democracy deliver by providing a
better future for all people, creating the conditions for prosperity,
sustainability, security, and equity, as well as and by supporting the
most marginalized and vulnerable among us.  We are closely bound by
history, culture, a shared environment, and economic and family ties,
and strongly believe that by strengthening our partnership we will be
able to respond to a widening range of global challenges.  
  
Together, we are an economic powerhouse.  Home to nearly five hundred
million people, the United States, Mexico, and Canada generate close to
one third of global goods and services.  Since signing our first
trilateral trade agreement in 1994, three-way trade has grown over 250
percent and created the foundation for us to enter into the most modern
and comprehensive trade agreement in the world in 2020, the United
States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA).  We are more than just trading
partners – we make goods together, have integrated service platforms,
and depend on each other to add value to our supply chains.  This
position of strength has allowed us to face the COVID-19 pandemic and
its socioeconomic impact as a region, and has led us to this moment: a
springboard for a new era where we can build back better together as
North America.  
  
Our highest priority today is managing and ending the COVID-19 pandemic
and driving an equitable and inclusive economic recovery.  Our vision is
to support sustainable growth and resilient infrastructure, build upon
the foundation established by our trade agreement to protect workers’
rights, and actively promote gender, racial, ethnic, and social equity
to unlock the region’s tremendous human capital.  As supply chains
constrict globally, we seek to deepen our economic ties, support the
development of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs), and enhance our
collective security, while raising labor and environmental standards. 
We pledge as governments to prioritize across our entire agenda
solidarity, cooperation, racial equity, justice, diversity, and
inclusion as core pillars that reflect our values and the just and free
societies we strive to create in our three nations.  
  
**Managing COVID-19 and Promoting Global Health Security**  
  
Our world has been rocked by the COVID-19 pandemic, and in North America
the impact has steeled our resolve to fight this and future pandemics
together.  We share a vision of a world safe and secure from global
health threats posed by infectious diseases, and will collaborate to
make the world and our own nations safer and more prepared.  To ensure
that we are ready to face the next pandemic and other health threats, we
will look at ways to shore up our medical supply chains, improve global
vaccine distribution, support global health security, invest in our
health workforce, and combat counterfeit medications.  We will also work
together toward the recognition of COVID-19 vaccines deemed safe and
efficacious by the WHO to ensure safe and secure mobility in the
region.  
  
Just as the United States shared vaccines with Canada and Mexico earlier
in the pandemic, and Mexico and Canada have since donated to other
countries, all three countries will now act together to provide vaccine
donations that will help meet the Latin American and Caribbean region’s
unmet vaccine needs.  We will also study making future vaccines for
diseases beyond influenza in North America.  We used our existing
framework on pandemic influenza during this crisis to share information
and best practices and now commit to strengthening this plan beyond
influenza to other global health threats.   
  
During the pandemic, the opioid crisis worsened, with overdose deaths in
North America reaching all-time highs.  In the United States, we have
surpassed the heartrending number of 100,000 drug overdose deaths in a
12-month period. This impact is also seen in Canada, with nearly 7,000
apparent opioid toxicity deaths from April 2020 to March 2021,
representing an 88 percent increase from the same time period prior to
the pandemic. In addition, we are experiencing a public health epidemic
of gun violence, in part due to the diversion of firearms into illegal
markets. For example, hundreds of thousands of firearms cross into
Mexico annually, empowering transnational criminal organizations and
generating irreversible damages to society. To address these issues, and
protect our communities from harms emerging from the global illegal drug
environment and firearms trafficking facing North America, we need a
comprehensive, coordinated approach.  We commit to continue addressing
these issues via venues like the North American Drug Dialogue in 2022
and beyond.  
  
**Fostering Competitiveness and Creating the Conditions for Equitable
and Sustainable Development**  
  
North America needs resilient, sustainable, diverse, and secure supply
chains to ensure our economic prosperity and security.  We recognize
global threats can affect critical manufacturing capacity and the
availability and integrity critical goods, products, and services, and
have a shared goal to make supply chains more reliable as we look to
bring them closer to home.  Together as allies and partners who share
values, we are united in protecting our economic and regional security
and strengthening the capacity to respond to international disasters and
emergencies in accordance with the policies and priorities of each
country.  We are taking concrete steps to support SMEs and align
definitions of essential industries to minimize disruptions and reduce
the vulnerability to counterfeit and pirated goods that threaten our
integrated supply chains.  
  
For our economies to remain competitive and to propel our future growth,
we need to create the right conditions for businesses and workers to
thrive.  Good regulatory practices, strong labor rights protections, a
safe, secure, and reliable cyber ecosystem, predictability in trading
relations, strong critical infrastructure, high environmental standards,
and a continuous dialogue with diverse stakeholders are key priorities. 
We need to work together to combat shared cyber threats from every
source and close the gap in access to information and communication
technologies, and we reaffirm our commitment to promote international
security and stability in cyberspace consistent with the UN framework
for responsible state behavior. SMEs are the backbone of the North
American economy, and we intend to take concrete steps to help our
companies thrive, including investing in and enhancing opportunities for
companies led by members of historically marginalized populations so
they can find new markets across the United States, Canada, and Mexico. 
A modern, resilient North American economy has no place for goods made
through labor exploitation, and we reaffirm our commitment to advance
respect for the human rights of workers and eradicate forced labor,
including forced child labor, from our supply chains. Furthermore, we
will work with private, public, and civil society organizations to
ensure that all businesses are treated equitably and have access to the
same tools, investment opportunities, and technology necessary to
succeed.   
  
To ensure that our industries of today and the future have the human
capital to succeed, we plan to foster collaborative education and
training in North America and explore new partnerships.  We can
undergird sustainable economic growth by building a dynamic workforce
and by bridging our efforts on technology, economic development, supply
chains, and regional competitiveness in priority sectors.  
  
**Addressing the Climate Crisis**  
  
We collectively commit to taking swift and coordinated action to fight
climate change, which increasingly jeopardizes our prosperity.  In North
America, we have seen more frequent and powerful hurricanes destroy
businesses and communities.  Wildfires have ravaged our forests, farms,
and homes, and record heat waves, extreme cold, floods, and droughts
have stressed our infrastructure and led to thousands of deaths each
year and millions lost in damaged crops.  Climate change also drives the
movements of migrants who arrive at our borders.  We recognize the
importance of global efforts to limit warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius and
share the view that the 2020s are a decisive decade for reducing
greenhouse gas emissions.  As we gathered in Glasgow this month and
pledged to do more to combat climate change, we now come together in
North America to take action.   
  
Climate change poses a threat to our economies and our communities,
especially those that are vulnerable and underserved. But it also
presents a tremendous opportunity to build back better, to create
well-paying and reliable jobs in ever-growing markets, and to position
North America as a global leader in clean solutions. Our three nations
have joined the Global Methane Pledge and intend to develop a North
American strategy to reduce methane and black carbon emissions.   
  
We commit to raising the region’s climate ambition, and have pledged to
work toward ending deforestation and to conserve 30 percent of North
American land and waters by 2030.  We pledge to enhance our oceans
strategies, prioritizing climate security, food security, and
biodiversity. We commit to rapidly accelerating renewable energy
deployment across the region, considering opportunities for exchange of
best practices and technology to address the climate crisis.  
  
The three countries intend to advance ambitious policies to reduce
greenhouse gas emissions from transportation this decade, including by
rapidly accelerating the transition to zero emission vehicles, a ​global
market trend that offers a historic opportunity for North America.  In
support of this goal, the three countries commit to launch efforts to
enhance cooperation on the transition with the goal of developing a
strategy that ensures the sector’s competitiveness, prosperity,
environmental sustainability, and social inclusion across the region. 
The three countries will also work together to advance the commitment of
their respective aviation industries to the goal of net-zero greenhouse
gas (GHG) emissions by 2050, and to catalyze the use of cleaner fuels in
their rail, aviation, and marine transportation sectors.  We committed
to work together to accelerate the manufacturing and deployment of
zero-emission vehicles as we work to achieve an all-electric future.    
  
Our cities and states have a unique vision for climate action, and we
will connect them to develop a coordinated North American approach to
climate action at all levels.  In parallel, we plan to establish a North
American Climate Adaptation Workplan under the Commission for
Environmental Cooperation, which will work to improve early warning
systems for extreme events and promote climate adaptation solutions. We
will explore commitments to discuss and implement protection mechanisms
to improve labor conditions of migrants, as part of trilateral actions
to respond to climate change from an inclusive perspective.  We also
reiterated our G20 efforts to phase out and rationalize inefficient
fossil fuel subsidies that encourage wasteful consumption over the
medium term, or by 2023 in the case of Canada, and to put an end to the
provision of international public finance for new unabated coal power
generation abroad by the end of 2021.  
  
**Migration, Development, and a Secure North America**  
  
The complex factors causing an extraordinary increase in irregular
migration throughout the hemisphere underscore the need for bold
regional cooperation.  We recognize the social, health, economic, human
rights, environmental, and security challenges facing countries of
origin, refuge, transit, destination, and return.  This requires a
coordinated regional response as well a global resource response, with
respect for law, rooted in solidarity with migrants and among States,
prioritizing orderly, safe, and regular migration. The United States,
Canada, and Mexico seek to promote access to legal pathways for
protection and opportunity.  We intend to work together to address this
challenge in our hemisphere.  We affirm our commitment, based on shared
responsibility, to adopt an ambitious and comprehensive approach to
safe, orderly, and humane migration management.  We look forward to
working with partners throughout the Americas to support this goal.  
  
The United States, Canada, and Mexico each have a responsibility to
manage, consistent with our international commitments and domestic laws,
the flow of migrants across international borders, prioritizing respect
for and the guarantee of human rights.  Our vision is to strengthen and
expand access to protection for refugees, asylum seekers, and vulnerable
migrants throughout the region. This includes opportunities to access
localized protection pathways, integration programs, and support for the
most at-risk groups, including internally-displaced persons and human
smuggling and trafficking victims. We can help people find safety and
sustainable livelihoods within their own countries, prevent their
exploitation, and combat their stigmatization due to xenophobia and
racism.  We also commit to strengthening opportunities for legal
pathways for migrants to enter our respective countries, whether for
seasonal and temporary work, family reunification, or humanitarian
protection, including through resettlement.  
  
We are committed to addressing the root causes of migration and
investing in the region, prioritizing cooperation for development to
create economic opportunity for all. We are looking to promote regular
migration pathways through labor mobility programs, especially in the
agricultural sector, including the intent to develop a dialogue to share
expansion plans, best practices, and lessons learned temporary worker
visa programs. We support multilateral efforts to develop value chains
and physical infrastructure in the Americas that will generate
employment and equitable growth.  We pledge to help countries better
respond to natural disasters, institutional challenges, and reduce food
insecurity.  We also support multilateral fora that address migration
challenges, such as the Global Compact on Migration, Regional Conference
on Migration (RCM), and the Comprehensive Regional Protection and
Solutions Framework (MIRPS).  We invite the private sector and civil
society to join us in implementing the commitments we make today.  We
encourage more countries to join us to address the challenges of
unprecedented migration through a bold new regional compact on migration
and protection.  
  
**Realizing Our Full Potential**  
  
Inclusion and equal opportunity are essential to democracy.  The
diversity of North America’s population is one of our greatest
strengths, but for too many, full and meaningful participation in our
democracies and economies remains out of reach.  Converging economic,
health, and climate crises have highlighted and worsened existing
inequities and injustices.  COVID-19’s economic impact has greatly
affected women’s participation in the workplace, setting women back to
levels not seen since the 1980s.  It has deepened the disparities facing
Indigenous peoples, people of color, religious minorities, LGBTQI+
persons, and others who have been historically disadvantaged,
underserved, marginalized, and adversely affected by persistent poverty,
inequality, and systemic racism.  We stand firm in our commitment to
achieving racial justice, equity, and inclusion for all. To that end,
our countries will enhance collaboration in this area by working toward
a trilateral plan for racial equity and inclusion.  We reaffirm our work
to prevent and respond to violence against Indigenous women and girls
and Two-Spirit people/gender diverse people.  We remain committed to
advocating globally to eliminate laws and policies that discriminate
against persons based on their sexual orientation, gender identity or
expression, or sex characteristics, and to combat all acts of violence
targeted toward LGBTQI+ persons. Our diversity is our strength and a key
to unlocking our future.  
  
**The Road to the Summit for Democracy and the Summit of the
Americas**  
  
As democratic leaders, we reaffirm our commitment to protect human
rights, especially for members of the most vulnerable and historically
marginalized communities. Our countries are determined to reinforce
democracy at home and inspire democratic development around the world.
 In our aim to fight against impunity and address inequality, we
recognize that fighting corruption is an essential element of the health
of our democracies. Our governments look forward to participating in the
Summit for Democracy and the Summit of the Americas as important
opportunities to come together as a region to affirm our values and
advance our regional priorities of security and prosperity, as well as
commit to address poverty, focusing on the poorest people in the world
who live on less than two dollars per day.  
  
Together as North America we stand strong, and look to better build back
our communities, our infrastructure, and our shared future as integrated
partners.  We will continue our dialogue at the highest level next year
in Mexico for NALS 2022.

\###
