---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-11-11'
modified_time: 2021-11-10 16:55:08-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/11/fact-sheet-how-the-build-back-better-act-will-deliver-critical-investments-in-american-veterans-and-their-families/
published_time: 2021-11-11 07:15:00-05:00
title: 'FACT SHEET: How the Build Back Better Act Will Deliver Critical Investments
  in American Veterans and their Families'
---
 
Joe Biden believes that there’s no greater economic engine in the world
than the hard work and ingenuity of the American people. But for too
long, the economy has worked great for those at the top, while working
families get squeezed. President Biden promised to rebuild the backbone
of the country — the middle class — so that this time everyone comes
along. He also campaigned on a promise to forge consensus and make
government work for working people again. The Build Back Better Act
includes critical investments that will help meet our sacred obligation
to care for veterans and their families — both while they are deployed
and after they return home.

Now, the President is delivering on these promises. After hearing input
from all sides and negotiating in good faith with a broad group of
members of Congress, President Biden is pushing Congress to pass the
Build Back Better Act, which will lower costs of the things middle class
families — including veterans — depend on.President Biden is confident
this legislation can pass both houses of Congress, and he looks forward
to signing it into law. 

The Build Back Better Act will ensure that every community has a fair
shot at participating in the nation’s economic growth, and it will
deliver meaningful outcomes for veterans and their families.

**<u>The biggest expansion of affordable health care in a
decade—including greater access to world-class care for veterans.</u>**

The Build Back Better Act includes a significant $5 billion investment
to improve health care delivery for veterans by modernizing Veterans
Affairs (VA) health care facilities, leasing medical facilities, and
speeding up claims processing. More than 9 million veterans are enrolled
in VA’s health care system, and as a result of their military service,
many face significant health care needs. To help meet these needs, VA
operates the largest integrated health care system in the nation, with
more than 1,700 hospitals, clinics and other health care facilities, but
far too many of these facilities are in desperate need of renovations.
The median age of U.S. private sector hospitals is 11 years; however,
the median age of VA facilities is 58 years, with 69 percent of VA
hospitals over the age of 50. These investments will offset the growing
costs of older facilities while helping to meet the health care needs of
the veterans of yesterday’s wars, today’s wars, and the future.

Not all veterans are enrolled in or receive their health care from VA,
and many veteran family members may lack access to affordable health
care. In fact, about 525,000 veterans are uninsured.  Across the
country, more than 4 million people are locked out of coverage because
their state refused to expand Medicaid. President Biden’s plan closes
the Medicaid coverage gap while also lowering health care costs for
those buying coverage through the Affordable Care Act by extending the
American Rescue Plan’s lower premiums. The plan will also expand
Medicare coverage to include hearing coverage. For veterans and their
family members who are not enrolled in the VA health care system,
President Biden’s plan will lower prescription drug costs by letting
Medicare negotiate drug prices, so veterans relying on Medicare and
their dependents are no longer at the whim of pharmaceutical companies.

**<u>The most transformative investment in children and caregiving in
generations.</u>**

One quarter of our nation’s veterans have children living at home.
President Biden’s plan offers access to free preschool for all 3- and
4-year old children, providing parents access to high-quality programs
in the setting of their choice, from schools to child care providers and
community-based organizations to Head Start. It will enable most
American families to cut their child care spending on young children by
more than half. The vast majority of working American families of four
earning less than $300,000 per year — and all working families earning
up to 2.5 times their state median income — will pay no more than 7
percent of their income on child care for children under 6.  For two
parents with one toddler earning $100,000 per year, the framework will
produce more than $5,000 in child care savings per year. The Build Back
Better framework would also reduce the cost of home-based care and raise
wages for home care workers.

**<u>The most significant effort to bring down costs and strengthen the
middle class in generations.</u>**

***The single largest and most comprehensive investment in affordable
housing in history.*** Driven by the largest shortfall of new housing
units in 50 years, rents and housing prices continue to increase — with
some 10.5 million renters paying more than half their incomes in rent. 
Approximately 40,000 veterans were homeless in January 2020 and as a
result of COVID-19, rates of housing instability among veterans have
increased. The Build Back Better Act will enable the construction,
rehabilitation, and improvement of more than 1 million affordable homes,
boosting housing supply and reducing price pressures for renters and
homeowners.

***Tax cuts for families with children.*** One third of post 9/11
veterans reported trouble paying their bills, particularly in the first
few years after leaving the military.The Build Back Better Act will
provide 39 million households up to $3,600 (or $300 per month) in tax
cuts per child by extending the American Rescue Plan’s expanded Child
Tax Credit. It will provide monthly payments to the parents of nearly 90
percent of American children — $300 per month per child under 6 and $250
per month per child ages 6 to 17. This historic tax cut will help cover
the cost of food, housing, health care, and transportation and will
continue the largest one-year reduction in child poverty in history.

***Tax cuts for workers without children.*** The Build Back Better Act
will extend the expanded Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) for around 17
million low-wage workers. Before this year, the federal tax code taxed
many low-wage childless workers into poverty or deeper into poverty —
the only group of workers it treated this way. The Build Back Better Act
will extend the American Rescue Plan’s tripling of the credit for
childless workers, benefiting roughly 8 million veterans in the labor
force.

***Education beyond high school and workforce training**.*** Education
beyond high school is increasingly important to succeed in the
21<sup>st</sup> century economy, even as it has become unaffordable for
too many families. The Build Back Better Act will increase the maximum
Pell Grant by $550 per year for the more than 5 million students
enrolled in public and private, non-profit institutions and provide
historic investments in Historically Black Colleges and Universities
(HBCUs), Tribal Colleges and Universities (TCUs), and other
minority-serving institutions (MSIs). It will also invest in
high-quality training programs, career and technical education pathways,
and Registered Apprenticeships that will prepare workers for
high-quality jobs in growing sectors, helping to support the more than
200,000 service members who transition from the military each year, as
well as their spouses.   

\###
