---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-11-15'
modified_time: 2021-11-15 13:27:23-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/15/president-biden-announces-additional-nominees-2/
published_time: 2021-11-15 14:00:00-05:00
title: President Biden Announces Additional Nominees
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Elizabeth H. Richard, Nominee for Coordinator for Counterterrorism
    at the Department of State, with the rank and status of Ambassador
    at Large
-   Robert P. Storch, Nominee for Inspector General of the Department of
    Defense
-   Sharon Bradford Franklin, Nominee for Member and Chair of the
    Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
-   Beth Williams, Nominee for Member of the Privacy and Civil Liberties
    Oversight Board
-   Christine Kim, Nominee for Member of the National Council for the
    Humanities
-   Karen Stout, Nominee for Member of the National Council for the
    Humanities

**<u>Elizabeth H. Richard, Nominee for Coordinator for Counterterrorism,
with the rank and status of Ambassador at Large, Department of
State</u>**

Elizabeth Richard, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class
of Career Minister, currently serves as a Senior Fellow of the
Department of State on detail to Georgetown University. Prior to that,
Richard was the U.S. Ambassador to the Lebanese Republic. She has also
served as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State in the Bureau of Near
Eastern Affairs and as Deputy Chief of Mission at the U.S. Embassy in
Sanaa, Yemen. Earlier in her career, she was the Border Coordinator at
the U.S. Embassy in Pakistan and Director for Counter-Narcotics, Law
Enforcement and Rule of Law Programs at the U.S. Embassy in Afghanistan.
Her service has also included tours in Italy, Thailand, Singapore and
Ecuador and as a Special Assistant to the Under Secretary of State for
Political Affairs. Richard earned a B.A. and J.D. from Southern
Methodist University and an M.S. from the National War College. She is
the recipient of a Presidential Meritorious Service Award and speaks
Italian, Spanish, and French.

**<u>Robert P. Storch, Nominee for Inspector General of the Department
of Defense</u>**

Robert P. Storch is currently the Inspector General (IG) for the
National Security Agency/Central Security Service (NSA). He is the first
IG at NSA to be appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate,
and assumed his responsibilities at the NSA in January 2018. He has
worked with the team at the NSA Office of the Inspector General (OIG) to
enhance the impact, the independence, and the transparency of the
office’s work, including the creation of its independent [public
website](https://oig.nsa.gov), and the now-regular public release of
unclassified versions of its Semiannual Reports to Congress with a
number of underlying reports and summaries. Prior to becoming the IG at
NSA, Mr. Storch worked in the front office at the Department of Justice
Office of the Inspector General (DOJ OIG), serving for his last several
years there as Deputy IG. He was also DOJ OIG’s first Whistleblower
Ombudsperson, leading efforts on whistleblower rights and protections
that he has continued to emphasize at NSA OIG. He has been active in the
IG Community, serving as Vice Chair of the Council of the Inspectors
General on Integrity and Efficiency (CIGIE) Technology Committee and
Chair of its Emerging Technology Subcommittee, and in 2020 was appointed
as one of four IGs serving on the CIGIE Integrity Committee.

Prior to joining the IG Community, Mr. Storch served for some two dozen
years as a federal prosecutor at the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the
Middle District of Florida, the Public Integrity Section of the Criminal
Division at Main Justice, and the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the
Northern District of New York. He clerked for U.S. District Judge
William D. Keller in Los Angeles, California, after which he worked for
the law firms of Covington and Burling in Washington and, later, Bond,
Schoeneck, and King in Albany, New York. He received his A.B., magna cum
laude, in History and Government from Harvard, and his J.D., as a Harlan
Fiske Stone Scholar, from Columbia Law School.

**<u>Sharon Bradford Franklin, Nominee for Member and Chair of the
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board</u>**

Sharon Bradford Franklin is an attorney with deep experience in legal
and policy issues involving civil liberties, civil rights, and national
security. She currently serves as Co-Director of the Security and
Surveillance Project at the Center for Democracy & Technology (CDT), and
leads advocacy on a broad range of issues involving surveillance,
cybersecurity, encryption, civil liberties, and civil rights. Before
joining CDT, Franklin was the Policy Director for New America’s Open
Technology Institute (OTI), directing OTI’s policy work on issues
including cybersecurity, encryption, freedom of expression online,
government surveillance, privacy, and platform accountability.

From 2013 through 2017, Franklin served as Executive Director of the
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board, where her work included
reviewing federal counterterrorism activities in support of the Board’s
mission to ensure that such programs include appropriate safeguards for
privacy and civil liberties. Previously, she served as Senior Counsel at
the Constitution Project, a nonprofit legal watchdog group, where her
work included participating as a member of the Cybersecurity
Subcommittee for the Department of Homeland Security’s Data Privacy and
Integrity Advisory Committee. Franklin has also served as a Trial
Attorney in the Housing & Civil Enforcement Section of the Civil Rights
Division of the U.S. Department of Justice, worked on civil rights
policy matters as Special Counsel in the Office of General Counsel at
the Federal Communications Commission, and served as Executive Director
of the Washington Council of Lawyers. She began her legal career as a
judicial law clerk to the Honorable Jane R. Roth. Franklin graduated
from Harvard College and Yale Law School.

**<u>Beth Williams, Nominee for Member of the Privacy and Civil
Liberties Oversight Board</u>**

Beth A. Williams served as Assistant Attorney General for the Office of
Legal Policy at the United States Department of Justice from August 2017
to December 2020, after unanimous confirmation by the United States
Senate. In that role, she advised on policies including national
security. Prior to becoming Assistant Attorney General, Ms. Williams was
a litigation and appellate partner at Kirkland & Ellis LLP, where her
practice focused on complex commercial, securities, and First Amendment
litigation. From 2005 to 2006, Ms. Williams served as Special Counsel to
the United States Senate Committee on the Judiciary. Ms. Williams
graduated from Harvard College magna cum laude, with a degree in History
and Literature, and she earned her law degree from Harvard Law School,
where she served as Executive Editor of the Harvard Journal of Law and
Public Policy.

**<u>Christine Kim, Nominee for Member of the National Council for the
Humanities</u>**

Christine Kim is the founding member of Big Burn Bliss LLC, an
international private equity advisory firm. A veteran attorney, Ms. Kim
has evenly split her 34 years of practice between New York and Hong
Kong. Most recently, Ms. Kim works as a partner at Jones Day Hong Kong .
Ms. Kim has continuously recognized by Chamber Asia-Pacific and the
Legal 500. Her practice covered sovereign and institutional investors’
debt and equity transactions throughout Australia, PRC, Singapore,
Japan, Korea, and India. Ms. Kim regularly speaks on legal lecture
circuits both at home and abroad, including American Chambers Shanghai,
Asian Public Real Estate Association, the KDI School of Public Policy
and Management, and Asian Private Equity & Venture Forum; she also
chairs seminars for Practicing Lawyers Institute, the New York State Bar
Association and the Bar Association of the City of New York. Ms. Kim has
also been an adjunct professor at the KDI School of Public Policy and
Management in Seoul, South Korea, lecturing on real estate securities
and REITs.

Outside of the legal and private equity sphere, she is a founding member
of the Advisory Board of the Center of Hope, Haiti, an orphanage and
school, and the recipient of 2009 Hope Award from the Center.Ms. Kim has
also served as a member of Georgetown University School of Foreign
Service Board of Visitors. She has focused on improving public housing
in New York City, and is a recipient of the 2001 Cornerstone Award from
Lawyers Alliance for her work with low income housing. .

**<u>Karen Stout, Nominee for Member of the National Council for the
Humanities</u>**

Dr. Karen A. Stout serves as president and CEO of Achieving the Dream
(ATD), leading the nation’s largest movement to improve success for all
students, especially low-income students and students of color. Through
ATD, Dr. Stout leads a network of more than 375 institutions in
whole-college transformation. She has received national recognition for
her achievements and accomplishments in higher education innovation and
leadership including Diverse: Issues in Higher Education’s Leading Women
Award, the American Association for Women in Community College’s Woman
of the Year, and Washington Monthly’s 16 most innovative higher
education leaders. Dr. Stout leads and serves on a number of national
and regional boards and also shares her time and experience as an
Achieving the Dream Leadership Coach and Aspen Institute Presidential
Fellowship for Community College Excellence faculty contributor and
mentor.

Prior to serving as President and CEO at ATD, Dr. Stout was president of
Montgomery County Community College (PA) from 2001 to 2015, where she
led the college through a transformation process to improve student
success. In 2015, in recognition of her service to the college and her
accomplishments, the Board of Trustees granted her President Emerita
status and renamed the student success center on the Blue Bell Campus in
her honor. A frequent speaker and writer, Dr. Stout focuses on
strategies for enhancing student success and completion, accelerating
and scaling innovation, and on launching a new era of community college
fundraising. She holds an Ed.D. from the University of Delaware, an MBA
from the University of Baltimore, and a B.A. from the University of
Delaware. She also holds honorary degrees from Montgomery County
Community College and Miami Dade College.

\###
