---
date: '2025-05-08'
modified_time: 2025-05-09 09:05:28-04:00
published_time: 2025-05-08 19:01:24-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/05/first-lady-melania-trump-honors-former-first-lady-barbara-bush-with-stamp-unveiling-ceremony-at-the-white-house/
tags: briefings-statements
title: First Lady Melania Trump Honors Former First Lady Barbara Bush with Stamp Unveiling
  Ceremony at The White House
---
 
Today, First Lady Melania Trump hosted a special ceremony unveiling the
United States Postal Service commemorative stamp honoring the life and
legacy of First Lady Barbara Bush at the White House. Surrounded by
members of the Bush family, friends, former Bush staff, and
distinguished guests, Mrs. Trump delivered remarks highlighting Barbara
Bush’s enduring impact on the Nation and her steadfast devotion to
family, literacy, and service.

“Barbara’s unwavering conviction, dignity, and deep loyalty to her loved
ones have left an indelible mark on our hearts and history,” **said
First Lady Melania Trump.** “The unveiling of this commemorative stamp
honors Barbara Bush’s contributions as First Lady and her enduring
impact on our Nation. May this tribute inspire us to lead with
compassion, act with strength, and uphold the values that direct us
toward a meaningful existence.”

Mrs. Trump was joined by Doro Bush Koch, daughter of Barbara Bush; Alice
Yates, CEO of the George & Barbara Bush Foundation; and Judy de Torok,
Vice President of Corporate Affairs at the U.S. Postal Service, who all
joined in emphasizing Mrs. Bush’s legacy as a trailblazer whose
commitment to literacy and family influenced the role of First Lady and
left a lasting imprint on American society.

The Office of First Lady Melania Trump extended its sincere appreciation
to all participating organizations and individuals who made this tribute
possible, including the White House Historical Association for
contributing the official portrait of First Lady Barbara Bush for the
commemorative stamp.

**Full remarks of First Lady Melania Trump as prepared for delivery:**

Thank you, Doro, for the beautiful introduction and welcome back to the
White House as we honor the life and legacy of your mother, First Lady
Barbara Bush. Barbara’s unwavering conviction, dignity, and deep loyalty
to her loved ones have left an indelible mark on our hearts and history.
Your mother’s values can be seen in her family, friends, and former
staff who also join us here today, and continue her legacy.

Many thanks to Alice Yates, CEO of the George & Barbara Bush Foundation,
for joining us today. Along with the Barbara Bush Foundation for Family
Literacy, you are helping current and future generations to navigate the
world with confidence and dignity.

And, I would like to thank the White House Historical Association and
the United States Postal Service, especially Judy de Torok, who made
today’s event possible.  

Strong American families are the foundation of a healthy society and
serve as a stepping-stone towards building a better world. The dynamics
within American households shape our Nation’s core values, strengths,
and collective wisdom.

It is within the privacy of our homes that the principles of morality,
ambition, and empathy take root. The family unit serves as our first
line of foresight, often more influential than the decisions made in
Washington, D.C.

Barbara Bush’s iconic commencement address at Wellesley College in 1990
remains an important moment in the conversation surrounding women’s
roles in society. Her message, which emphasized the importance of family
and personal integrity, encouraged women to carve their own paths in
life.

Mrs. Bush exclaimed, “Your success as a family—our success as a
society—depends not on what happens in the White House, but on what
happens inside your house.” The First Lady further inspired her audience
by highlighting the importance of pursuing personal dreams, stating,
“The winner of the hoop race will be the first to realize her dream. Not
society’s dreams, her own personal dream. Who knows—somewhere out in
this audience may even be someone who will one day follow in my
footsteps and preside over the White House, and I wish him well.”

Over 35 years have passed since Barbara Bush made the call for a female
American president, a reflection of her forward-thinking vision. As a
devoted mother and one of only two First Ladies whose son also ascended
to the presidency, she embodied the complex interplay of ambition and
identity that defines us all.

Mrs. Bush’s legacy is marked by her respect for tradition while also
breaking with convention. While she is known for championing literacy,
she also supported women’s empowerment, changed the national
conversation on AIDS, and took a stance supporting gay rights.

I applaud Mrs. Bush’s mark defending our society’s vital need for women
across all avenues, whether CEO or homemaker. We have, can, and will
build better families and run innovative businesses at the same time,
ultimately shaping a brighter future.

The unveiling of this commemorative stamp honors Barbara Bush’s
contributions as First Lady and her enduring impact on our Nation. May
this tribute inspire us to lead with compassion, act with strength, and
uphold the values that direct us toward a meaningful existence.
