---
date: '2025-05-21'
modified_time: 2025-05-21 19:08:18-04:00
published_time: 2025-05-21 19:07:09-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/05/first-lady-melania-trump-speaks-at-senate-spouses-luncheon-on-supporting-children-youth/
tags: briefings-statements
title: First Lady Melania Trump Speaks at Senate Spouses Luncheon on Supporting Children
  & Youth
---
 
First Lady Melania Trump delivered keynote remarks today at the Senate
Spouses Luncheon at the National Gallery of Art. In her address, Mrs.
Trump emphasized the importance of empathy, public service, and unity in
advancing the well-being of children and youth.

Speaking to a distinguished audience of wives and husbands of United
States Senators, Mrs. Trump highlighted the recent achievements of her
BE BEST platform and reaffirmed her commitment to its cornerstone
initiative, Fostering the Future. These efforts include the bipartisan
passage of the “Take It Down Act,” signed into law on Monday, May 19,
2025, and a $25 million investment secured in the President’s Fiscal
Year 2026 budget to support youth transitioning out of foster care.

The **full remarks** of First Lady Melania Trump from the 2025 Senate
Spouses Luncheon are provided below.

**Full Remarks by First Lady Melania Trump at the Senate Spouses
Luncheon, National Gallery of Art – May 21, 2025**

Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you, Jonathan, Julie, Sandy, and
Margaret, for your kind introductions and for the warm welcome I’ve
received today. I’m grateful to all of you for your contributions to
Fostering the Future, a cornerstone of the BE BEST initiative.

Many thanks to Kaywin with the National Gallery of Art and to Usha for
her service to our Nation.

As we gather here today, we stand not only as partners of elected
officials but as influential advocates capable of inspiring change and
advancing vital issues. Let us harness our collective power to uplift
others and remain dedicated to shaping a brighter future for the next
generation, who will lead us forward.

At the core of our gathering is the understanding that empathy and
public service are not merely ideals; they are fundamental actions. They
manifest in bipartisan laws that protect children from exploitation.
They are evident in budgetary choices that prioritize the needs of
vulnerable young adults. And they flourish in our communities and homes,
where compassionate leaders leverage their talents and resources to
enhance the well-being of our children.

I am proud to share that, in collaboration with Secretary Turner at the
Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Office of Management
and Budget, I successfully secured a $25 million investment in the
President’s Fiscal Year 2026 budget aimed at supporting youth
transitioning out of foster care. This dedicated funding will provide
rental assistance and vital services, fostering stability, independence,
and hope for thousands of young people across our Nation.

This investment represents a significant milestone in my BE BEST
initiative and underscores my unwavering commitment to Fostering the
Future—because every child deserves a solid foundation upon which to
build their dreams.

However, our efforts must extend beyond this achievement. Just two days
ago, I stood alongside the President in the Rose Garden as he signed the
“Take It Down Act” into law. That moment was not only powerful but
deeply emotional—culminating years of dedication from survivors,
advocates, families, and many of your spouses in the Senate, all working
tirelessly to shield children and youth from harmful online content.

The overwhelming bipartisan support for this legislation serves as a
testament to what we can accomplish when we unite in the interest of our
children. Together, we have equipped families with essential tools to
safeguard their self-image and dignity in a digital landscape that often
neglects these fundamental aspects.

As we move forward, let us continue to lead with empathy, foster
collaboration, and create environments where all children feel safe and
empowered. In our roles as spouses, mothers, and fathers, we embody a
formidable force for good.

I recently shared with military mothers at the White House: through our
unwavering love and nurturing wisdom, we possess the ability to inspire,
uplift, and shape the hearts of our children.

This power, rooted in compassion and strength, is a beacon of hope that
illuminates the path for generations to come.

When a Senator’s vision aligns with truth, the impact can resonate for
generations. Throughout history, American lawmakers have shaped
security, prosperity, and civil liberties. Congress wields significant
influence over the nation’s character, starting with the preservation of
human dignity. It is vital for us, as our spouses’ greatest supporters,
to reaffirm the importance of truth and integrity.

Thank you.
