---
date: '2025-05-19'
modified_time: 2025-05-19 21:03:34-04:00
published_time: 2025-05-19 21:03:33-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/05/first-lady-melania-trump-joins-president-trump-for-signing-of-the-take-it-down-act/
tags: briefings-statements
title: "First Lady Melania Trump Joins President Trump for Signing of the \u201CTAKE\
  \ IT DOWN\u201D Act"
---
 
First Lady Melania Trump joined President Donald J. Trump in the White
House Rose Garden for the signing of S.146, the “TAKE IT DOWN” Act, a
historic and bipartisan new law focused on protecting children and
families from online extortion and exploitation through the
non-consensual distribution of intimate images and deepfake abuse.

The bill, a priority of the First Lady’s BE BEST initiative, passed
Congress in the first 100 days of the second Trump Administration,
marking a significant early legislative achievement for all Americans.

**First Lady Melania Trump said,** “Today, through the ‘TAKE IT DOWN’
Act, we affirm that the well-being of our children is central to the
future of our families and America. I am proud to say that the values of
BE BEST will be reflected in the law of the land.”

In his remarks, **President Trump commended** First Lady Melania Trump
for her work to help pass the “TAKE IT DOWN” Act, saying, “I want to
thank Melania for your leadership on this very important issue. America
is blessed to have such a dedicated and compassionate First Lady.” The
President ended his remarks by saying, “working with our First Lady,
we’ve shown that bipartisanship is still possible.”

In March 2025, Mrs. Trump convened a roundtable discussion on Capitol
Hill, bringing together survivors of non-consensual intimate imagery,
families, advocates for online protection, and Members of Congress to
raise awareness about the issue. The President emphasized the importance
of the bill in his Address to a Joint Session of Congress the next
evening. Mrs. Trump and the Office of the First Lady continued to engage
lawmakers during key stages of the legislative process, including
consideration in the House Energy and Commerce Committee and final
passage on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives.

Today’s signing ceremony brought together survivors and their families,
Members of Congress, Cabinet officials, and advocates who contributed to
the passage of this landmark legislation.

**Full Remarks by First Lady Melania Trump  
**(As Prepared for Delivery)

Good afternoon.

It’s an honor to join you here today for the signing of the “TAKE IT
DOWN” Act—a national victory that will help parents and families protect
children from online exploitation.

This legislation is a powerful step forward in our efforts to ensure
that every American—especially our young people—can feel better
protected from their image or identity being abused through
non-consensual intimate imagery or NCII.

Artificial Intelligence and social media are the digital candy of the
next generation—sweet, addictive, and engineered to have an impact on
the cognitive development of our children. But unlike sugar, these new
technologies can be weaponized, shape beliefs, and sadly, affect
emotions and even be deadly.

Over the past few months, I have met with brave survivors, deeply-loving
families, and caring advocates who know firsthand the emotional and
psychological toll of NCII and deepfake abuse.

Elliston Berry stood boldly for change—despite the risks posed to her
and her family by speaking out and making her voice heard. Elliston,
your voice—and the voices of so many like you—made this bill a national
priority.

Many thanks to Members of Congress from both parties for passing this
legislation, including Speaker Johnson, Senator Cruz, Senator Klobuchar,
Congresswoman Salazar, Congresswoman Dean, and Congressman Guthrie.
Thank you all for coming together to prioritize people over politics.

As First Lady, my BE BEST initiative is focused on improving children’s
well-being, encouraging kindness, and creating a safer online
environment for our youth. Today, I am proud to say that the values of
BE BEST will be reflected in the law of the land.

I want to thank my husband, President Trump, for standing with us in
this effort. His signature on this new law is not where our work ends on
this issue. Now, we look to the Federal Trade Commission and the private
sector to do their part.

Today, through the “TAKE IT DOWN” Act, we affirm that the well-being of
our children is central to the future of our families and America. Now
it is my pleasure to introduce the President. Thank you.
