---
date: '2025-05-01'
modified_time: 2025-05-01 17:34:53-04:00
published_time: 2025-05-01 17:34:52-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/05/president-trump-announces-religious-liberty-commission-members/
tags: briefings-statements
title: President Trump Announces Religious Liberty Commission Members
---
 
Today, the President signed an Executive Order establishing the
Religious Liberty Commission during the National Day of Prayer event in
the Rose Garden. President Trump designated the following individuals to
serve on the Religious Liberty Commission.

**Texas Lieutenant Governor Dan Patrick (Chair)**. Dan Patrick was first
elected Lt. Governor of Texas in 2014 and then re-elected in 2018 and
2022. He previously spent over 40 years in the media as a television
anchor, conservative talk show host, and successful radio station owner.
Lt. Governor Patrick led the Texas Senate in passing legislation to end
the teaching of critical race theory in public schools, abolish DEI
practices in our universities, place “In God We Trust” in the Texas
Senate, and add “Under God” to the state pledge of allegiance. He
produced the awarding winning film, “The Heart of Texas.” That film led
him to start a four-year seminary program in Texas prisons in 2011. The
program is now the largest in the world. In 2002, long before he was in
office, Lt. Gov. Patrick wrote *The Second Most Important Book You Will
Ever Read*, a challenge to read the most important book ever written,
the Bible.  

**Dr. Ben Carson (Vice Chair). **Rising from poverty to become one of
the most renowned pediatric neurosurgeons in the world, Dr. Ben Carson
served as Secretary of Housing and Urban Development during the first
Trump Administration. Dr. Carson is the founder of the American
Cornerstone Institute. His most recent book, *The Perilous Fight*,
outlines what needs to be done to restore the foundations of family in
America.

**Ryan T. Anderson.** Ryan Anderson, Ph.D., is the President of the
Ethics and Public Policy Center. He is the author or co-author of five
books, including several related to religious liberty. Anderson received
his bachelor of arts degree from Princeton University and his doctoral
degree in political philosophy from the University of Notre Dame. In
addition to leading the Ethics and Public Policy Center, Anderson serves
as the John Paul II Teaching Fellow in Social Thought at the University
of Dallas.

**BishopRobert Barron.** Author, speaker, and theologian, Bishop Robert
Barron reaches millions of people around the world through his Word on
Fire ministry, a Catholic media nonprofit that produces podcasts,
videos, books, articles, and Gospel meditations. Since 2023, Bishop
Barron has served as the Bishop of the Diocese of Winona-Rochester in
Minnesota.

**Carrie Prejean Boller. **Former Miss California USA and Miss USA first
runner-up in 2009, Boller is the author of *Still Standing: The Untold
Story of My Fight Against Gossip, Hate, and Political Attacks*.

**Cardinal Timothy Dolan.** Cardinal Timothy Dolan is the Archbishop of
New York. A member of the Board of Trustees of The Catholic University
of America, Cardinal Dolan previously served as president of the United
States Conference of Catholic Bishops and also completed terms as chair
of the Bishops’ Committee on Pro-Life activities and the Bishops’
Committee for Religious Liberty. 

**Pastor Franklin Graham.** Pastor Franklin Graham is the president and
CEO of the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association (BGEA) and of
Samaritan’s Purse, an organization that provides disaster relief and
medical aid around the globe.

**Allyson Ho. **Partner at Gibson, Dunn, & Crutcher, Allyson Ho has
established herself as one of the United States’ premier appellate
lawyers. She has presented over 100 oral arguments in federal and state
courts nationwide, including five cases before the U.S. Supreme Court.

**Dr. Phil McGraw. **The longtime host of *Dr. Phil *and bestselling
author, Dr. McGraw holds a doctorate in psychology. His most recent
book, *We’ve Got Issues: How You Can Stand Strong for America’s Soul and
Sanity*, encourages Americans to reclaim the principles of hard work,
independence, faith, and ingenuity.

**Eric Metaxas.** Writer, speaker, and radio host, Eric Metaxas has
written dozens of books, including the national
bestseller, *Bonhoeffer: Pastor, Martyr, Prophet, Spy*. The story of
Dietrich Bonhoeffer was so beloved by readers that it was made into a
major motion picture. Metaxas has testified before Congress on the
global rise of anti-Semitism and been awarded the Canterbury Medal by
the Becket Fund for Religious Freedom.

**Kelly Shackelford.** President and Chief Executive Officer of First
Liberty Institute, Shackelford is a constitutional scholar who has
argued before the United States Supreme Court, winning numerous landmark
religious liberty cases. Shackelford has testified before Congress on
religious liberty issues and served as an Adjunct Professor at the
University of Texas Law School.

**Rabbi Meir Soloveichik.** Rabbi Meir Soloveichik is Rabbi of
Congregation Shearith Israel—the oldest Jewish congregation in the
United States. He also serves as the Director of the Straus Center for
Torah and Western Thought at Yeshiva University, and as a Senior Scholar
at the Tikvah Fund. Rabbi Soloveichik has lectured internationally on
topics relating to faith in America, the Hebraic roots of the American
founding, Jewish theology, bioethics, wartime ethics, Jewish-Christian
relations, and more. His recent book, *Providence and Power: Ten
Portraits in Jewish Statesmanship*, profiles some of the great Jewish
leaders throughout history. 

**Pastor Paula White**. Pastor Paula White is the founder and president
of Paula White Ministries and the National Faith Advisory Board. She is
the overseer and a teaching pastor at StoryLife Church in greater
Orlando, Florida. Pastor White was an advisor to President Donald Trump
in the Faith and Opportunity Initiative during his first term in office,
and now she serves as the Senior Advisor to the White House Faith
Office.
