---
date: '2025-05-12'
modified_time: 2025-05-12 03:07:42-04:00
published_time: 2025-05-12 03:01:01-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/05/joint-statement-on-u-s-china-economic-and-trade-meeting-in-geneva/
tags: briefings-statements
title: Joint Statement on U.S.-China Economic and Trade Meeting in Geneva
---
 
The Government of the United States of America (the “United States”) and
the Government of the People’s Republic of China (“China”),

Recognizing the importance of their bilateral economic and trade
relationship to both countries and the global economy;

Recognizing the importance of a sustainable, long-term, and mutually
beneficial economic and trade relationship;

Reflecting on their recent discussions and believing that continued
discussions have the potential to address the concerns of each side in
their economic and trade relationship; and

Moving forward in the spirit of mutual opening, continued communication,
cooperation, and mutual respect;

The Parties commit to take the following actions by May 14, 2025:

The United States will (i) modify the application of the additional ad
valorem rate of duty on articles of China (including articles of the
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region and the Macau Special
Administrative Region) set forth in Executive Order 14257 of April 2,
2025, by suspending 24 percentage points of that rate for an initial
period of 90 days, while retaining the  remaining ad valorem rate of 10
percent on those articles pursuant to the terms of said Order; and (ii)
removing the modified additional ad valorem rates of duty on those
articles imposed by Executive Order 14259 of April 8, 2025 and Executive
Order 14266 of April 9, 2025.

China will (i) modify accordingly the application of the additional ad
valorem rate of duty on articles of the United States set forth in
Announcement of the Customs Tariff Commission of the State Council No. 4
of 2025, by suspending 24 percentage points of that rate for an initial
period of 90 days, while retaining the remaining additional ad valorem
rate of 10 percent on those articles, and removing the modified
additional ad valorem rates of duty on those articles imposed by
Announcement of the Customs Tariff Commission of the State Council No. 5
of 2025 and Announcement of the Customs Tariff Commission of the State
Council No. 6 of 2025; and (ii) adopt all necessary administrative
measures to suspend or remove the non-tariff countermeasures taken
against the United States since April 2, 2025.

After taking the aforementioned actions, the Parties will establish a
mechanism to continue discussions about economic and trade relations.
The representative from the Chinese side for these discussions will be
He Lifeng, Vice Premier of the State Council, and the representatives
from the U.S. side will be Scott Bessent, Secretary of the Treasury, and
Jamieson Greer, United States Trade Representative. These discussions
may be conducted alternately in China and the United States, or a third
country upon agreement of the Parties. As required, the two sides may
conduct working-level consultations on relevant economic and trade
issues.
