---
date: '2025-05-19'
modified_time: 2025-05-19 12:25:11-04:00
published_time: 2025-05-19 11:55:27-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/05/remarks-by-director-kratsios-at-the-national-academy-of-sciences/
tags: briefings-statements
title: Remarks by Director Kratsios at the National Academy of Sciences
---
 
**Remarks by Director Kratsios at the National Academy of Sciences**

**REINVIGORATING AMERICA’S SCIENTIFIC ENTERPRISE**

AS PREPARED FOR DELIVERY

Washington, D.C.

May 19, 2025

**THE DIRECTOR:** Thank you, Dr. McNutt, for that kind introduction, and
for hosting me here today, in what can only be called a temple of
science.

I speak to you this morning as the President’s Science and Technology
Advisor, who has been given three interconnected tasks in pursuit of a
Golden Age of Innovation: to maintain American technological leadership;
to ensure all Americans enjoy the fruit of transformative advances in
science and technology; and, a mission I believe we all share, to
revitalize America’s scientific enterprise.

In a speech last month, I explained how America’s dominant position in
technology can only be maintained through a strategy of both promotion
and protection. Today, I’d like to speak a little bit about our shared
mission of furthering scientific advancement.

To empower America’s researchers to achieve groundbreaking discoveries
and to reinvigorate our national science enterprise, we must scrutinize
our existing approach and recommit ourselves to best practices. That is
my commitment to you, but also what I ask of you, to ensure America sets
the Gold Standard for science in this century and the next.

\*\*\*

The American story has been one of exploration and discovery,
inseparable from the pioneering work of America’s scientists. From the
tinkering inventor at his workbench to the great teams of men and women
in white lab coats working across the country in common pursuit, they
have labored to uncover the mysteries of creation and enabled us to
build a free and prosperous republic.

The sweep of relentless U.S.-led scientific progress in the twentieth
century flowed from Vannevar Bush’s 1945 “Science, The Endless Frontier”
report, the blueprint for America’s joint Federal, corporate, and
academic research effort. Bush not only provided a peacetime plan for
furthering the technological developments of WWII, but planted a banner
in the national imagination that in less than 25 years would become an
American flag on the surface of the moon.

But as Dr. McNutt said in her inaugural State of the Science Speech last
year, there is cause for declining confidence in continued American
scientific leadership. While certain fields have seen tremendous
advances in recent years, from the invention of transformers and CRISPR
to the observation of graphene and gravitational waves, recent studies
have found that papers and patents across the sciences have become less
disruptive since 1980.

We are seeing diminishing returns. For example, despite biomedical
research budgets soaring since the 1990s, scientific progress has
stalled—new drug approvals have flatlined or even declined, more
researchers are needed to achieve the same outputs, and workforce
training has stagnated. More money has not meant more scientific
discovery, and total dollars spent has not been a proxy for scientific
impact.

As in scientific inquiry, when we uncover evidence that conflicts with
our existing theories, we revise our theories and conduct further
experiments to better understand the truth. This evidence of a
scientific slowdown should spur us to experiment with new systems, new
models, new ways of funding, conducting, and using science. As Dr.
McNutt pointed out last year, since Dr. Bush’s report in 1945, the
scientific enterprise has changed.

\*\*\*

In particular, there has been a profound shift in the balance of
scientific funding. Today, industry spends more than three times on R&D
than does the federal government, even self-funding more basic research
than the Federal government funds at universities.

Even as it alters the model that defined the last century, private
money’s growing place in America’s scientific enterprise presents
opportunities. In particular, in a period of fiscal constraints and
geopolitical challenges, an increase in private funding can make it
easier for federal grantmaking agencies to refocus public funds on basic
research and the national interest.

What we target is what we measure, and what we measure is what we get
more of. To get more bang for America’s research bucks, we need to
enhance the creativity and precision of our funding. Spending more money
on the wrong things is far worse than spending less money on the right
things.

Prizes, challenges, public-private partnerships, and other novel funding
mechanisms, can multiply the impact of targeted federal dollars. We must
tie grants to clear strategic targets, while still allowing for the
openness of scientific exploration, and so shape a general funding
environment that makes clear what our national priorities are.

The money that goes to basic and blue-sky science must be used for that
purpose, not to feed the red tape that so often goes along with funded
research. We cannot resign our research community and the laboratory and
university staff who support them to die the death of a thousand
ten-minute tasks. To assist the nation’s scientists in their vocation,
we will reduce administrative burdens on federally funded researchers,
not bog them down in bureaucratic box checking.

\*\*\*

But in addition to taking a hard look at how we fund and supervise
science, we should also consider how we, the people who make up the
national discovery enterprise, can recapture that spirit of relentless
focus and passionate pursuit of truth that underlies all our scientific
progress.

Two brief cases will illustrate a need to recommit to what may be named
Gold Standard Science. By this I mean research conforming to the
principles to which we know great scientists aspire, but that are too
often distorted by professional incentives and social pressures.  

A painful episode involving Alzheimer’s research illustrates our
vulnerability to scientific misconduct, especially when we fail to
prioritize reproducibility, communication of error, and skepticism.

In 2009, a celebrated biotech executive published a paper in *Nature*
that promised to revolutionize the treatment of Alzheimer’s disease. In
December of 2023, the journal retracted the research, acknowledging a
number of anomalies and errors, but denying conscious fraud. The
retraction came after almost 15 years of questions about the original
paper being ignored and suppressed, during which the paper racked up
over 800 citations, misdirected huge quantities of money, and helped the
researcher become president of a premier university. The paper’s
irreproducibility had been demonstrated by 2012, but it took a decade to
be fully addressed.

Our scientific enterprise should celebrate and incentivize checking each
other’s work, rather than discourage questioning claims of progress.

Meanwhile, the decision to shut down schools during the COVID-19
pandemic showed a failure to confront uncertainties or to integrate the
knowledge of colleagues across multiple specializations. The best
available scientific evidence indicated children were neither at high
disease risk nor significant infection vectors. There was every reason
to anticipate remote classes and masked communication would hurt
children’s development. But a closed-ranks attitude led to policies that
harmed America’s students.

Biased interpretation of science leads to bad decision making and
undermines the public’s trust.

\*\*\*

The first step to restoring trust in America’s scientific establishment,
and rebuilding a strong foundation for breakthrough discoveries, is a
return to Gold Standard Science. 

Scientific progress advances in community and in the open, as findings
are rigorously tested by others. Gold Standard Science is, therefore,
first of all, reproducible and transparent. We cannot allow mistakes to
persist unaddressed, poisoning the well of apparent knowledge for
everyone else seeking to build on a given finding, as in the Alzheimer’s
research case. To further enable this, researchers must proactively
communicate errors and uncertainties. Only through this openness can
each generation stand firmly on the shoulders of the giants that came
before it.

The best environment for truly groundbreaking basic research, moreover,
is collaborative and interdisciplinary. As the accumulated body of
general science grows decade over decade, basic epistemic humility
requires relying on the expertise of colleagues outside one’s particular
specializations. But even with confidence in the skill and knowledge of
collaborators, the best scientist remains skeptical of a team’s findings
and is conscious of the ever present need to interrogate one’s
assumptions. Better practice of these principles might have saved
America’s children the catastrophic disruption of pandemic school
closures.

To reinforce all of these individual virtues, Gold Standard Science is
structured for falsifiability, subject to unbiased peer review,
accepting of negative results as positive outcomes, and closed to
conflicts of interest. Funders of research, whether in government, the
academy, or industry, need to come alongside our best researchers to
ensure that projects conform to these highest standards.

\*\*\*

At the heart of the practices that make up Gold Standard Science is a
suspicion of blind consensus and a celebration of informed dissent. For
the crisis of confidence in scientists stems from fear that political
biases are displacing the vital search for truth.

DEI initiatives, in particular, degrade our scientific enterprise. DEI
represents an existential threat to the real diversity of thought that
forms the foundation of the scientific community. Diversity of thought
is essential to scientific inquiry, empowering us to challenge
entrenched assumptions and offer novel approaches to solving complex
problems.

As we seek new paradigms in fundamental science, we cannot afford for
America’s scientists to be in the business of scoring points for an
ideological agenda. A closed-minded political fashion preoccupied with
symbolic victories divides colleagues and distorts grant application and
research design.

For example, until recently at NASA—an institution whose mission is to
explore the unknown in air and space, innovate for the benefit of
humanity, and inspire the world through discovery—research proposals
were required to include plans for furthering “inclusion goals.”
Evaluation panels for these proposals were to be 50 percent “DEI
professionals.” Such requirements undermine merit-based assessment of
scientists, add to administrative burdens, and distract from essential,
productive work.

Science cannot be subject to ideology, nor should scientists march
blindly in lockstep.

Blindly trusting in *The Science*, with a capital T and capital S, is
inimical to free inquiry and open debate and is thus the enemy of
scientific progress. The beginning of knowledge is the knowledge of
ignorance. We seek to know, despite human limitations, and to move
upward from mere opinion to the truth. It is convention, dogma, and
intellectual fad that resist revision and correction.

\*\*\*

I believe all of us in this room share the same mission. We want
America’s scientists to be the best in the world. We want to empower
them to make the awe-inspiring breakthroughs that will solve tough
challenges and inspire our young people to follow in their footsteps,
and we want to help repair the relationship between the scientific
establishment and our fellow citizens.

I believe that this is not something that government, or industry, can
do alone; the pioneering scientific enterprise Vannevar Bush built still
depends on a partnership, and America’s national laboratories and
universities are its crown jewels.

We will have to work together to restore this partnership, and
revitalize America’s scientific enterprise.

With a renewed focus on Gold Standard Science, we can take the first
steps to revolutionizing the way America conducts the business of
discovery. And though this is a call to excellence for all of America’s
scientists—in labs, in the field, and in offices across the country—it
begins with me and my colleagues in government. Implementing Gold
Standard Science starts in the policies and programs of Federal
agencies.

If we in government enable scientists to spend less time in the office
completing administrative tasks and more time in the lab exploring
scientific frontiers; if we adjust to new realities and creatively
partner with industry and philanthropy; if we reject political fads and
recommit ourselves to the truth: I believe we will reignite the American
spirit that lit the world with Edison’s bulb, lifted the Wright brothers
into the sky, and landed Armstrong on the moon.

Thank you.
