---
date: '2025-05-09'
modified_time: 2025-05-09 10:09:15-04:00
published_time: 2025-05-09 10:07:58-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/05/first-lady-melania-trump-secures-25-million-investment-in-presidents-fy26-budget-for-foster-youth/
tags: briefings-statements
title: "First Lady Melania Trump Secures $25 Million Investment in President\u2019\
  s FY26 Budget for Foster Youth"
---
 
First Lady Melania Trump secured a $25 million investment in President
Trump’s FY26 budget to provide housing and support for youth
transitioning out of foster care. In recognition of the seventh
anniversary of Mrs. Trump’s BE BEST initiative, the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development (HUD) allocated funds toward the Agency’s
Foster Youth to Independence program (FYI).

“I am proud to have successfully secured $25 million to provide housing
for individuals aging out of foster care.  This is another essential
measure that ensures the safety, welfare, and autonomy of those in the
foster community,” **commented First Lady Melania Trump**.

**The First Lady continued**, “Secretary Scott Turner’s commitment will
provide thousands of youth transitioning out of the foster care system
with dedicated rental assistance and other supportive services to
promote stability and self-sufficiency.”

“This dedicated funding for foster youth is a game changer in providing
young adults with access to short-term housing assistance and supportive
services, which will prevent homelessness. I am so appreciative of the
First Lady’s efforts, for her commitment to helping our Nation’s foster
youth through her BE BEST initiative and for championing public-private
partnerships that are changing lives every day,” **said HUD Secretary
Scott Turner**.

First Lady Melania Trump has been actively supporting the foster care
community through Fostering the Future, a BE BEST initiative, for
several years.  The announcement of this important investment coincides
with National Foster Care Month and reflects the First Lady’s ongoing
commitment to promoting children’s well-being and supporting youth
through Be Best.

**About the Foster Youth to Independence Program (FYI)**

The FYI program, led by HUD and supported by public housing authorities
across the country, offers housing assistance to eligible individuals
under the age of 25 who are transitioning out of foster care. The
program is designed to prevent homelessness and provide a foundation for
young adults to pursue education, employment, and long-term
independence.

According to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, more than
20,000 young people transition out of foster care each year. A
significant percentage of these youth face housing insecurity or
homelessness. This support provides an essential safety net during a
pivotal time in a young person’s life.

For additional information, read a recent press release from the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development
[here](https://whitehouse.us10.list-manage.com/track/click?u=dace49741569f7585670378b3&id=8c0795aa46&e=8b071a776a).

**Background on BE BEST** Launched by Mrs. Trump in 2018, BE BEST is
dedicated to promoting the well-being of children with a renewed
emphasis on supporting foster youth through initiatives like Fostering
the Future. Continuing into President Trump’s second term, Mrs. Trump
remains focused on achieving substantive and lasting outcomes that
directly improve the lives of current and future generations of children
and youth.
