---
date: '2025-05-02'
modified_time: 2025-05-02 15:37:51-04:00
published_time: 2025-05-02 15:37:50-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/05/the-white-house-office-of-management-and-budget-releases-the-presidents-fiscal-year-2026-skinny-budget/
tags: briefings-statements
title: "The White House Office of Management and Budget Releases the President\u2019\
  s Fiscal Year 2026 Skinny Budget"
---
 
**Washington, D.C.–**Today, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB)
sent President Trump’s topline discretionary Budget request for fiscal
year 2026 to the U.S. Congress.

The Budget, which reduces non-defense discretionary **by $163 billion**
or **23 percent from the 2025 enacted level,** guts a weaponized deep
state while **providing historic increases for defense and border
security. ** The Budget also provides support for air and rail safety as
well as key infrastructure and our Nation’s veterans and law
enforcement.

**This is the lowest non-defense spending level since 2017. ** Savings
come from eliminating radical diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) and
critical race theory programs, Green New Scam funding, large swaths of
the Federal Government weaponized against the American people, and
moving programs that are better suited for States and localities to
provide. 

Defense spending would increase by **13 percent**, and appropriations
for the Department of Homeland Security would increase by nearly **65
percent,** to ensure that our military and other agencies repelling the
invasion of our border have the resources they need to complete the
mission.  These increases will be made possible through the passage of
President Trump’s One Big Beautiful Bill, which will be enacted with a
simple majority in the Congress, and not be held hostage by Democrats
for wasteful spending increases that have been the status quo in
Washington.

**“For decades, the biggest complaint about the Federal Budget was
wasteful spending and bloated bureaucracy.  But over the last four
years, Government spending aggressively turned against the American
people and trillions of our dollars were used to fund cultural Marxism,
radical Green New Scams, and even our own invasion.  No agency was
spared in the Left’s taxpayer-funded cultural revolution.  At this
critical moment, we need a historic Budget—one that ends the funding of
our decline, puts Americans first, and delivers unprecedented support to
our military and homeland security.  The President’s Budget does all of
that,”** said Russ Vought, Director of the Office of Management and
Budget.

Highlights of the President’s key priorities include the following:

**End Weaponization and Reduce Violent Crime. ** The Budget ends the
previous Administration’s weaponization of the Government by eliminating
programs like the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency’s
disinformation offices that targeted and censored Americans, eliminating
so-called Fair Housing programs that waged war on America’s suburbs,
ending the Environmental Protection Agency’s unfair harassment of
citizens over “environmental justice” directives, and halting the ATF’s
criminalizing of gun-owning Americans and instead, focusing on stopping
illegal firearms traffickers and violent gang members.

The Budget prioritizes Department of Justice (DOJ) key
functions—restoring law and order to America’s communities, fighting
crime, and supporting America’s men and women in Blue.  To that end, the
Budget proposes to eliminate more than 40 DOJ grant programs that fund
things like a “feminist, culturally specific nonprofit” to address
“structural racism and toxic masculinities” and training Fa’afafine
advocates—an organization of biological men that describes themselves as
a “third-gender” in Samoa.  The Budget also reflects the President’s
priority of reducing violent crime in American cities and protecting
national security by getting Federal Bureau of Investigation agents into
the field. 

**Defund the Harmful Woke, Marxist Agenda. ** Every single agency across
the Federal Government was engaged in funding and advancing DEI and
other radical, harmful ideologies such as:  $315 million for grant
programs to push “intersectionality,” “racial equity,” and LGBTQIA+
programming for preschoolers; housing grants that funded activities such
as an “Equity Audit” to reverse “land use patterns that have roots in
systemically racist policies in L.A. County; and “addressing White
Supremacy in the STEM profession.”  The Budget ends all of that.

**Secure the Border. ** The Budget request empowers the Department of
Homeland Security to implement the President’s mass removal campaign and
secure the border.  This funding is in addition to historic investments
in border security the Administration proposes to provide through
mandatory funding, as part of the congressional Budget reconciliation
process.  The discretionary request includes an additional $500 million
for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement to expedite the removal of
illegal aliens through the support of 50,000 detention beds, $766
million to procure cutting-edge border security technology funding, and
funding to maintain 22,000 Border Patrol Agents and hire additional
Customs and Border Protection officers for a total of 26,383 officers. 
The Budget also cuts off the flow of taxpayer funds that have been
abused to facilitate migrant caravan invasions.  Departments whose task
it was to prevent those invasions allocated billions in funding to
non-governmental organizations running “border aid stations” and legal
services to criminal aliens—all of which will be eliminated under this
new budget.

**Realign Foreign Aid. ** The Budget ensures that foreign aid spending
is efficient and consistent with U.S. foreign policy under the America
First agenda.  The Budget reorganizes the U.S. Agency for International
Development into the Department of State to meet current needs and
eliminates non-essential staff that were hired based on DEI and
preferencing practices.  The Budget also expands the U.S. International
Development Finance Corporation (DFC) to support U.S. national security
and American interests—generating returns to the taxpayer and reducing
reliance on foreign aid.  This includes $3 billion for a new revolving
fund to allow DFC to recycle any realized returns from its initial
investments.

**Rebuild our Nation’s Military. ** The Budget request for the
Department of Defense builds on the President’s promise to achieve peace
through strength by providing the resources to rebuild our military,
re-establish deterrence, and revive the warrior ethos of our Armed
Forces.  In combination with $119 billion in mandatory funding, the
Budget increases Defense spending by 13 percent, and prioritizes
investments to strengthen the safety, security, and sovereignty of the
homeland, deter Chinese aggression in the Indo-Pacific, and revitalize
our defense industrial base. 

**Achieve American Energy Dominance. ** The Budget supports the
President’s commitment to unleash America’s affordable and reliable
energy and natural resources.  The Budget cancels over $15 billion in
Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA) Green New Scam funds
provided to the Department of Energy for unreliable renewable energy,
removing carbon dioxide from the air, and other costly technologies that
burden ratepayers and consumers.  The Budget reorients Department of
Energy funding toward research and development of technologies that
could produce an abundance of domestic fossil energy and critical
minerals, innovative concepts for nuclear reactors and advanced nuclear
fuels, and technologies that promote firm baseload power.  The Budget
also cancels an additional $5.7 billion in IIJA funding provided to the
Department of Transportation for failed electric vehicle charger grant
programs.

**Make America Healthy Again (MAHA).**  The Budget request builds on the
President’s MAHA Commission.  The Budget provides resources to the
Department of Health and Human Services that would allow the Secretary
to tackle issues related to nutrition, physical activity, healthy
lifestyles, over-reliance on medication and treatments, the effects of
new technological habits, environmental impacts, and food and drug
quality and safety.  The Budget also supports the creation of MAHA food
boxes, that would be filled with commodities sourced from domestic
farmers and given directly to American households.  The Budget includes
resources to ensure food safety nationwide, including support for
increased production and demand for services.

**Support Our Veterans. ** The Budget provides increased funding for
healthcare services tailored to U.S. veterans’ needs, both at Department
of Veterans Affairs (VA) medical centers and in the community.  Combined
with $50 billion in mandatory funding from the Toxic Exposures Fund, the
Budget ensures that the Nation’s veterans are provided with the
world-class healthcare that they deserve.  In addition, veterans who
qualify for access to care with local community providers would be
empowered to make the choice to see them, rather than having to drive in
some cases hours to access the nearest VA facility.  The Budget includes
$1.1 billion in new VA funding to make a down payment on President
Trump’s commitment to eradicate veterans’ homelessness, the largest
funding increase in the last decade.

**Preserve Social Security. ** The Budget supports the President’s
promise to not touch Social Security benefits.  It also includes
sufficient resources for the Social Security Administration (SSA) to
improve customer service by expanding and improving online services, and
reducing customer wait times in field offices and on the phone.  The
Budget also includes investments in program integrity, to reduce fraud
and abuse in Social Security programs, and in investments in artificial
intelligence to increase employee productivity and automate routine
workloads.  These efforts would help ensure that SSA delivers timely and
accurate Social Security services to the public.

**Streamline K-12 Education Funding and Promote Parental Choice. ** The
Budget continues the process of shutting down the Department of
Education.  The Budget maintains full funding for Title I, that provides
Federal financial assistance to school districts for children from
low-income families, and special education funding under the Individuals
with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA).  To limit the Federal role in
education, and provide States with more flexibility, the Budget creates
a new K-12 Simplified Funding Program that consolidates 18 competitive
and formula grant programs into a new formula grant, and a Special
Education Simplified Funding Program that consolidates seven IDEA
programs into a single grant.  The Budget also invests $500 million, a
$60 million increase, to expand the number of high-quality charter
schools, that have a proven track record of improving students’ academic
achievement and giving parents more choice in the education of their
children.

**Make America Skilled Again (MASA). ** The Budget proposes to give
States and localities the flexibility to spend Federal workforce dollars
to best support their workers and economies, instead of funneling
taxpayer dollars to progressive non-profits finding work for illegal
immigrants or focusing on DEI.  Under this proposal, States would now
have more control and flexibility to coordinate with employers and would
have to spend at least 10 percent of their MASA grant on apprenticeship,
a proven model that trains workers while they earn a paycheck and offers
a valuable alternative to college. 

**Support Space Flight. ** The Budget refocuses the National Aeronautics
and Space Administration (NASA) funding on beating China back to the
Moon and on putting the first human on Mars.  By allocating over $7
billion for lunar exploration and introducing $1 billion in new
investments for Mars-focused programs, it ensures that America’s human
space exploration efforts remain unparalleled, innovative, and
efficient.  To achieve these objectives, the Budget would streamline the
NASA workforce, IT services, NASA Center operations, facility
maintenance, and construction and environmental compliance activities. 
The Budget also eliminates “green aviation” and other climate scam
programs as well as failing space propulsion projects.

**Maintain Support for Tribal Nations. ** The Budget preserves Federal
funding for the Indian Health Service and supports core programs at the
Bureau of Indian Affairs and Bureau of Indian Education, sustaining the
Federal Government’s support for core programs that benefit tribal
communities.  The Budget also weeds out radical woke grants and programs
and streamlines other programs for tribal communities that were
ineffective.

**Address Drug Abuse. ** The Administration is committed to combatting
the scourge of deadly drugs that have ravaged American communities.  The
Budget prioritizes Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) resources on
traffickers of fentanyl and other dangerous drugs that are driving
America’s overdose crisis.  This includes redirecting DEA’s foreign
spending to regions with criminal organizations that traffic significant
quantities of deadly drugs into the United States—Mexico, Central
America, South America, and China. 

**Support Artificial Intelligence and Quantum Research. ** The Budget
amply funds research in artificial intelligence and quantum information
science at key agencies to ensure the United States remains on the
cutting edge of these critical technologies’ development and responsible
use.

**Improve Wildland Firefighting. ** Federal wildfire responsibilities
currently are split across five agencies in two departments.  The Budget
would consolidate firefighting responsibilities into a new Federal
Wildland Fire Service at the Department of the Interior that would
coordinate with non-Federal partners to combat the wildfire crisis.
