---
date: '2023-07-14'
modified_time: 2023-07-14 14:52:11-04:00
published_time: 2023-07-14 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/14/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-boards-and-commissions-29/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to Boards and\_Commissions"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint the
following individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Johnpaul Jones, Member, Institute of American Indian Arts Board of
    Trustees
-   Madeline Fielding Sayet, Member, Institute of American Indian Arts
    Board of Trustees
-   Jane Semple Umsted, Member, Institute of American Indian Arts Board
    of Trustees
-   Rose Simpson, Member, Institute of American Indian Arts Board of
    Trustees
-   Manuelito Wheeler, Member, Institute of American Indian Arts Board
    of Trustees
-   Keisha Lance Bottoms, Member, President’s Export Council
-   Shamina Singh, Member, President’s Export Council
-   Juliana Stratton, Member, Route 66 Centennial Commission
-   Trait Thompson, Member, Route 66 Centennial Commission
-   Susie Gelman, Commissioner, United States Commission on
    International Religious Freedom

**<u>Institute of American Indian Arts Board of Trustees</u>**

The Institute of American Indian Arts (formally known as the Institute
of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development) was
originally established in 1962 as a high school under the auspices of
the Bureau of Indian Affairs. It was formally established as a separate
college by Congress in 1987. The mission is “to empower creativity and
leadership in Indigenous arts and cultures through higher education,
lifelong learning, and community engagement.” Today, sixty years later,
it continues to fill a vital role as the only fine arts college in the
world dedicated to the study of contemporary Native American and Alaskan
Native arts.

**Johnpaul Jones, Member, Institute of American Indian Arts Board of
Trustees  **

Johnpaul Jones has a distinguished 52-year career as an architect and is
a founding partner of Jones & Jones. Earning his Bachelor of
Architecture from the University of Oregon in 1967, his design
philosophy emerged from his Choctaw-Cherokee ancestors, which connects
his work to the natural world, animal world, spirit world, and human
world.

Jones designs have won widespread acclaim for their reverence for the
earth, for paying deep respect to regional indigenous architectural
traditions and native landscapes, as well as for heightening
understanding of indigenous people and their diverse Native cultural
centers and museums with tribes spanning the North American continent,
culminating in his 12-year engagement as overall lead design consultant
for the Smithsonian’s National Museum of the American Indian on the
National Mall in Washington, D.C. A fellow in the American Institute of
Architects, his designs have won a stream of local awards. His awards
include the 2005 Distinguished Service Award from the University of
Oregon, his alma mater, the AIA Seattle Medal in 2006, the Executive
Excellence Award from the American Indian Science and Engineering
Society in 2006, the Pietro Belluschi Distinguished Professorship from
the University of Oregon in 2011, the Island Treasure Award from the
Bainbridge Island Art and Humanities Council in 2013, and the Washington
State Governor’s Heritage Award in 2014. President Barack Obama awarded
him the National Humanities Medal in 2014.

**Madeline Fielding Sayet, Member, Institute of American Indian Arts
Board of Trustees**

Madeline Sayetis a Mohegan theater maker who believes the stories we
pass down inform our collective possible futures. For her work as a
director, playwright, and performer, she has been honored as a Forbes 30
Under 30 in Hollywood & Entertainment, TED Fellow, National Directing
Fellow, NCAIED Native American 40 Under 40, and a recipient of The White
House Champion of Change Award from President Barack Obama. Her plays
include: *Where We Belong*, *Up and Down the River,* *Antigone Or And
Still She Must Rise Up*, *Daughters of Leda*, *The Neverland,* and *The
Fish*. Her theater directing work has been seen at Long Wharf Theatre,
Denver Center for the Performing Arts, Perseverance Theatre, Connecticut
Repertory Theater, TheatreSquared, Delaware Shakespeare Festival, South
Dakota Shakespeare Festival, The Krannert Center, Glimmerglass Festival,
59e59, and more. Her play *Where We Belong* has been performed at The
Public Theater, Seattle Rep, Hudson Valley Shakespeare, The Goodman
Theatre *(Jeff Award Nomination for Best Solo Performance)*,
Philadelphia Theatre Company, Portland Center Stage, The Oregon
Shakespeare Festival, and Baltimore Center Stage as part of a national
tour produced by Woolly Mammoth Theatre Company in association with The
Folger Shakespeare Library. She currently serves as an Assistant
Professor at Arizona State University, and is the Executive Director of
the Yale Indigenous Performing Arts Program.

**Jane Semple Umsted, Member, Institute of American Indian Arts Board of
Trustees**

Jane Semple Umsted is an artist who has spent a lifetime working in a
variety of media which includes oils, acrylics, watercolor, sculpture,
and the unique media of batik. She is a descendent of two Choctaw Chiefs
and her art exudes the spirit of her Native roots. Since childhood,
Semple Umsted has been inspired by the themes and visual images of the
Choctaw culture, which have become the inspiration of her artwork.
Emphasis on vibrant color and dramatic design is one of the strongest
and most dramatic elements of her work, and these qualities consistently
permeate all aspects of the art she produces. Semple Umsted serves as
the curator of the Semple Family Museum of Native American Art at
Southeastern Oklahoma State University. She received a B.F.A. from the
University of Oklahoma in 1969 and an M.E. from Southeastern Oklahoma
State University in 1989. She retired from the Durant Public Schools
where she was the art teacher for the Durant Middle School in 2007. She
is a proud member of the Choctaw Tribe of Oklahoma and has been a
professional artist for over 50 years. Semple Umsted is the owner of the
Indian Territory Art Gallery in Durant, Oklahoma. 
[](http://theartofdylancavin.com)

**Rose Simpson, Member, Institute of American Indian Arts Board of
Trustees**

Rose Simpson has a Bachelor of Fine Arts from the Institute of American
Indian Art, a Master of Fine Arts from Rhode Island School of Design,
and a Master of Arts in Creative Writing from the Institute of American
Indian Arts. She has enjoyed recent solo exhibitions at ICA Boston; The
Fabric Workshop and Museum, Philadelphia; the Nevada Art Museum, Reno;
SCAD Museum of Art, GA; Pomona College Museum of Art, Claremont, CA; and
the Wheelwright Museum, Santa Fe. Her work has been included in recent
group exhibitions at MASS MoCA, North Adams, MA; Cleveland Museum of
Art, OH; the Berkeley Art Museum, CA; and The Bronx Museum of Arts, NY.
Simpson’s work is held in numerous museum collections, including the
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, Washington, D.C.; Los Angeles
County Museum of Art; Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts, Philadelphia;
Denver Art Museum; ICA Boston; Guggenheim, New York; MCA Chicago; Museum
of Fine Arts Boston; Pomona College Museum of Art; Portland Art Museum,
OR; Princeton University Art Museum; and SFMOMA. 

In 2022, Simpson debuted her first large scale public work, titled
*Counterculture*, at Field Farm, MA (commissioned by The Trustees of the
Reservation). Simpson lives and works on her ancestral homelands of
Santa Clara Pueblo, New Mexico.

**Manuelito Wheeler, Member,** **Institute of American Indian Arts Board
of Trustees**

Born and raised on the Navajo Nation, Manuelito Wheeler is currently the
Director of the Navajo Nation Museum in Window Rock, Arizona. Since
becoming Director in 2008 he has worked with staff to see the completion
of numerous exhibits which are 100% Native built from concept, curation,
and creation. Along with this, he has led his team in creating
innovative projects which influence and preserve Navajo culture. Some of
these projects include a Navajo collaborative project with Ai Weiwei and
Bert Benallie, dubbing the movies *Finding Nemo* and *Star Wars* into
the Navajo language, and most recently facilitating the donation of one
of three copies of the Navajo Treaty of 1868 to the Navajo Nation
Museum. He is married to Jennifer Jackson-Wheeler, Ph.D., and they have
two sons. ****

**<u>President’s Export Council</u>**

The President’s Export Council serves as the principal national advisory
committee on international trade. The Council advises the President of
government policies and programs that affect U.S. trade performance;
promotes export expansion; and provides a forum for discussing and
resolving trade-related problems among the business, industrial,
agricultural, labor, and government sectors.

**Keisha Lance Bottoms, Member, President’s Export Council**

Keisha Lance Bottoms is a visionary leader, having served as Mayor of
Atlanta and Senior Advisor to President Joe Biden, leading the
transformation of the Office of Public Engagement. Through crafting
effective engagement strategies and advising the President on matters
concerning various stakeholders, Bottoms helped ensure that the diverse
voices of the American public were heard and concerns translated into
meaningful action by the Administration. Serving as Mayor of Atlanta in
the midst of a global pandemic and racial justice movement, Bottoms
proved herself to be a highly respected leader and voice. During one of
the worst economic downturns in history, Bottoms led her Administration
in proactively dealing with the impact of the COVID-19, successfully
delivering four years of balanced budgets without resorting to property
tax increases, layoffs, or furloughs of City employees.

Bottoms’ steadfast leadership and equity-focused philosophy have led to
numerous accolades and leadership positions, including serving as the
Chair of the Community Development and Housing Committee and the Census
Task Force for the United States Conference of Mayors, Trustee for the
African American Mayors Association, Chair of the Platform Committee for
the 2020 Democratic National Convention, and the DNC’s Vice Chair of
Civic Engagement and Voter Protection. Recognizing her exceptional
contributions, Bottoms was named the 2020 Georgian of the Year by
*Georgia Trend Magazine,* recognized as one of *Glamour Magazine*‘s 2020
Women of the Year, named to *Ebony Magazine’s* prestigious Power 100
List, was recognized as a BET 100 Entertainer and Innovator of the Year,
and was named the Smart Cities Dive’s 2020 Leader of the Year. In
acknowledgment of her equity-driven leadership and efforts to guide and
protect marginalized communities, Bottoms received the Distinguished
Civil Rights Advocate Award presented by the Lawyers’ Committee for
Civil Rights Under the Law. Bottoms’ deep-rooted family history traces
back to a slave plantation in Georgia, further amplifying her sense of
honor and responsibility. She is married to Derek and they are proud
parents to four children.

**Shamina Singh, Member, President’s Export Council**

Shamina Singh is the Founder and President of the Mastercard Center for
Inclusive Growth. She also serves as the Executive Vice President of
Sustainability at Mastercard and is a member of the company’s Management
Committee. She has drawn on over 20 years of global experience to
develop a unique social impact model that leverages the assets of the
public and private sector. In 2018, Mastercard created the Mastercard
Impact Fund with an initial $500 million investment. Singh was named
President and charged with activating those philanthropic dollars to
advance inclusive growth and financial inclusion around the world. Her
leadership has contributed to Mastercard’s global leadership and
reputation of doing well by doing good. Deeply committed to public
service, Singh has held senior positions in the White House and the U.S.
House of Representatives. Singh was Executive Director of the first
President’s Advisory Commission on Asian Americans and Pacific
Islanders. In 2015, she was appointed by President Obama and confirmed
by the U.S. Senate to a six-year term on the board of AmeriCorps. She
served as chair for two years.  
  
She serves on the boards of the Anti-Defamation League and the Ann
Richards School for Young Women Leaders. Singh co-chairs the Ad Council
of America’s Advisory Committee on Public Issues and serves on the
Advisory Boards of the Aspen Institute Civil Society Fellowship and the
New York Department of Financial Services Innovation. She has been named
to the *Financial Times* Top 100 LGBT+ Executives and *Fast Company*‘s
Queer 50 lists. Singh has studied at Harvard, Yale, Stanford, and the
Indian School of Business. She earned a Bachelor of Science from Old
Dominion University and a Master of Public Affairs from the Lyndon B.
Johnson School of Public Affairs at the University of Texas, Austin. She
received the alumni of distinction award from both institutions.

**<u>Route 66 Centennial Commission</u>**

The Route 66 Centennial Commission was established by Congress to study
and recommend in a report to Congress activities that would be fitting
and proper to celebrate the centennial anniversary of the Mother Road of
the United States, Route 66, in 2026. The Commission shall study
activities that may be carried out by the Federal Government to honor
Route 66, including potential ceremonies and celebrations, the
production and publication of media or other materials, and the issuance
of commemorative items.

**Juliana Stratton, Member, Route 66 Centennial Commission**

Juliana Stratton is serving all of Illinois as the 48th Lieutenant
Governor. She is dedicated and highly qualified, committed to showing
that the way we move forward is together. In this role, she leans on
empathy and expertise to open doors and expand pathways uplifting
communities statewide. She brings her visionary leadership to more than
a dozen councils, commissions, boards, and agencies as Chair or
executive liaison. These span the Illinois Council on Women and Girls;
the Governor’s Rural Affairs Council; the Military Economic Development
Committee; and the Rivers of Illinois Coordinating Council. Among
several responsibilities, Stratton’s portfolio includes overseeing the
administration’s Justice, Equity, and Opportunity Initiative; chairing
the board of the Restore, Reinvest, and Renew Program; and leading
office initiatives that address the needs of Illinoisans—ranging from
efforts to build a strong diverse teacher pipeline, to helping create
pathways to economic empowerment for women, to establishing the Ag
Connects Us All Agricultural Equity and Food Insecurity Initiative.
Stratton serves as Chair of the National Lieutenant Governors
Association (2022-2023) and she is actively engaged with The Chicago
Network; Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Incorporated; and The Links,
Incorporated. In her free time, she enjoys running, cooking, and
spending time with her husband Bryan and four daughters. Stratton loves
the state of Illinois, the people of Illinois, and doing the work that
will uplift the next generation in Illinois and beyond.

**Trait Thompson, Member, Route 66 Centennial Commission**

Trait Thompson has been the Executive Director of the Oklahoma
Historical Society since 2021. Prior to that, he was the Project Manager
for almost seven years on the $280 million comprehensive restoration of
the Oklahoma State Capitol. From 2010 to 2014, he served as Legislative
Director and Policy Advisor to President Pro Tempore Brian Bingman in
the Oklahoma Senate. He also has experience in the telecom and business
consulting fields and was an adjunct professor for nine years, most
recently at the University of Oklahoma. In 2022, Arcadia Publishing
released Trait’s book, *The Oklahoma State Capitol*. He is also the
co-host of a podcast about Oklahoma history entitled, “A Very OK
Podcast.” Thompson lives in Edmond, Oklahoma, with his wife, Sara, and
their two children. 

**<u>United States Commission on International Religious Freedom</u>**

The United States Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF)
is an independent, bipartisan U.S. federal government commission created
by the 1998 International Religious Freedom Act that monitors the
universal right to freedom of religion or belief abroad. USCIRF uses
international standards to monitor religious freedom violations
globally, and makes policy recommendations to the President, the
Secretary of State, and Congress. USCIRF Commissioners are appointed by
the President and Congressional leaders of both political parties.

**Susie Gelman, Commissioner, United States Commission on International
Religious Freedom**

Susie Gelman, a graduate of Harvard University and Georgetown University
Law Center, served as Board Chair of Israel Policy Forum from 2016 to
2023. She previously served for three terms as President of the Jewish
Federation of Greater Washington, one term as Federation’s Campaign
Co-Chair, and is a lifetime member of the Federation’s Board of
Directors. She previously Co-Chaired the Israel Religious Expressions
Platform of the Jewish Federations of North America (JFNA), an
initiative that focused on pluralism through freedom of choice of
marriage in Israel. Gelman was the inaugural chair of the Birthright
Israel Foundation and served for many years as a member of its board as
well as the Taglit-Birthright Israel Planning Committee. She served as
Co-Chair of UJC (now JFNA) Israel and Co-Chaired JFNA’s General Assembly
in Jerusalem in both 2003 and 2013. Gelman is a member of the Board of
Governors of The Hebrew University, an honorary fellow of Brandeis
University, and is past President of the Georgetown Day School Board of
Trustees, where she served on the board for 12 years. She is the past
President of the Goldman Environmental Foundation, where she continues
to serve on the board. Gelman and her husband, Michael, have three adult
children, three sons-in-law, and three precious grandchildren.

\###
