---
date: '2023-07-13'
modified_time: 2023-07-13 07:44:38-04:00
published_time: 2023-07-13 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/13/fact-sheet-biden-harrisadministration-publishes-thenational-cybersecurity-strategyimplementation-plan/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Publishes the National Cybersecurity\
  \ Strategy Implementation\_Plan"
---
 
**[*Read the full Implementation Plan
here*](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/07/National-Cybersecurity-Strategy-Implementation-Plan-WH.gov_.pdf)**

President Biden has made clear that all Americans deserve the full
benefits and potential of our digital future. The Biden-Harris
Administration’s recently released [National Cybersecurity
Strategy](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/03/National-Cybersecurity-Strategy-2023.pdf) calls
for two fundamental shifts in how the United States allocates roles,
responsibilities, and resources in cyberspace:

1.  Ensuring that the biggest, most capable, and best-positioned
    entities – in the public and private sectors – assume a greater
    share of the burden for mitigating cyber risk
2.  Increasing incentives to favor long-term investments into
    cybersecurity

Today, the Administration is announcing a roadmap to realize this bold,
affirmative vision. It is taking the novel step of publishing the
National Cybersecurity Strategy Implementation Plan (NCSIP) to ensure
transparency and a continued path for coordination. This plan details
more than 65 high-impact Federal initiatives, from protecting American
jobs by combatting cybercrimes to building a skilled cyber workforce
equipped to excel in our increasingly digital economy. The NCSIP, along
with the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, CHIPS and Science Act, Inflation
Reduction Act, and other major Administration initiatives, will protect
our investments in rebuilding America’s infrastructure, developing our
clean energy sector, and re-shoring America’s technology and
manufacturing base.

Each NCSIP initiative is assigned to a responsible agency and has a
timeline for completion. Some initiatives, such as the issuance of
the [Administration’s Cybersecurity Priorities for the Fiscal Year 2025
Budget](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/M-23-18-Administration-Cybersecurity-Priorities-for-the-FY-2025-Budget-s.pdf),
have been completed ahead of schedule. Other completed activities, such
as the transmittal of the May 26th [Department of Defense 2023 Cyber
Strategy](https://media.defense.gov/2023/May/26/2003231006/-1/-1/1/2023-DOD-CYBER-STRATEGY-FACT-SHEET.PDF) to
Congress, and the June 20th creation of a new [National Security Cyber
Section by the Justice
Departmen](https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-department-announces-new-national-security-cyber-section-within-national-security)t,
are key milestones in completing initiatives. This is the first
iteration of the plan, which is a living document that will be updated
annually.

Eighteen agencies are leading initiatives in this whole-of-government
plan demonstrating the Administration’s deep commitment to a more
resilient, equitable, and defensible cyberspace. The Office of the
National Cyber Director (ONCD) will coordinate activities under the
plan, including an annual report to the President and Congress on the
status of implementation, and partner with the Office of Management and
Budget (OMB) to ensure funding proposals in the President’s Budget
Request are aligned with NCSIP initiatives. The Administration looks
forward to implementing this plan in continued collaboration with the
private sector, civil society, international partners, Congress, and
state, local, Tribal, and territorial governments. As an example of the
Administration’s commitment to public-private collaboration, ONCD is
also working on a request for information regarding cybersecurity
regulatory harmonization that will be published in the near future.

The NCSIP is not intended to capture all Federal agency activities in
support of the NCS. The following are sample initiatives from the plan,
which is organized by the NCS pillars and strategic objectives.

**<u>Pillar One | Defending Critical Infrastructure</u>**

-   Update the National Cyber Incident Response Plan (1.4.1): During a
    cyber incident, it is critical that the government acts in a
    coordinated manner and that private sector and SLTT partners know
    how to get help. The Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security
    Agency (CISA) will lead a process to update the National Cyber
    Incident Response Plan to more fully realize the policy that “a call
    to one is a call to all.” The update will also include clear
    guidance to external partners on the roles and capabilities of
    Federal agencies in incident response and recovery.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Pillar Two | Disrupting and
Dismantling Threat Actors</span>**

-   Combat Ransomware (2.5.2 and 2.5.4): Through the Joint Ransomware
    Task Force, which is co-chaired by CISA and the FBI, the
    Administration will continue its campaign to combat the scourge of
    ransomware and other cybercrime. The FBI will work with Federal,
    international, and private sector partners to carry out disruption
    operations against the ransomware ecosystem, including virtual asset
    providers that enable laundering of ransomware proceeds and web fora
    offering initial access credentials or other material support for
    ransomware activities. A complementary initiative, led by CISA, will
    include offering resources such as training, cybersecurity services,
    technical assessments, pre-attack planning, and incident response to
    high-risk targets of ransomware, like hospitals and schools, to make
    them less likely to be affected and to reduce the scale and duration
    of impacts if they are attacked.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Pillar Three | Shaping Market
Forces and Driving Security and Resilience</span>**

-   Software Bill of Materials (3.3.2): Increasing software transparency
    allows market actors to better understand their supply chain risk
    and to hold their vendors accountable for secure development
    practices. CISA continues to lead work with key stakeholders to
    identify and reduce gaps in software bill of materials (SBOM) scale
    and implementation. CISA will also explore requirements for a
    globally-accessible database for end of life/end of support software
    and convene an international staff-level working group on SBOM.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Pillar Four | Investing in a
Resilient Future</span>**

-   Drive Key Cybersecurity Standards (4.1.3, 4.3.3): Technical
    standards are foundational to the Internet, and U.S. leadership in
    this area is essential to the vibrancy and security of cyberspace.
    Consistent with the National Standards Strategy, the National
    Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) will convene the
    Interagency International Cybersecurity Standardization Working
    Group to coordinate major issues in international cybersecurity
    standardization and enhance U.S. federal agency participation in the
    process. NIST will also finish standardization of one or more
    quantum-resistant publickey cryptographic algorithms.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Pillar Five | Forging
International Partnerships to Pursue Shared Goals</span>**

-   International Cyberspace and Digital Policy Strategy (5.1.1 and
    5.1.2): Cyberspace is inherently global, and policy solutions must
    reflect close collaboration with our partners and allies. The
    Department of State will publish an International Cyberspace and
    Digital Policy Strategy that incorporates bilateral and multilateral
    activities. State will also work to catalyze the development of
    staff knowledge and skills related to cyberspace and digital policy
    that can be used to establish and strengthen country and regional
    interagency cyber teams to facilitate coordination with partner
    nations.

\###
