---
date: '2023-07-11'
modified_time: 2023-07-10 15:45:12-04:00
published_time: 2023-07-11 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/11/fact-sheet-in-continued-fight-against-overdose-epidemic-the-white-house-releases-national-response-plan-to-address-the-emerging-threat-of-fentanyl-combined-with-xylazine/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: In Continued Fight Against Overdose Epidemic, the White\_House\
  \ Releases National Response Plan to Address the Emerging Threat of Fentanyl Combined\
  \ with\_Xylazine"
---
 
*Earlier this year, Biden-Harris Administration used executive
designation authority for the first time to declare xylazine combined
with fentanyl as an emerging threat to the United States*

 WASHINGTON, DC – Today, in the continued efforts to fight the dangerous
and deadly combination of xylazine mixed with fentanyl, the White House
Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) released a National
Response Plan to coordinate a whole-of-government response against this
threat. Earlier this spring, ONDCP Director Dr. Gupta used an executive
designation authority [to designate fentanyl combined with xylazine as
an emerging threat to the United
States](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/ondcp/briefing-room/2023/04/12/biden-harris-administration-designates-fentanyl-combined-with-xylazine-as-an-emerging-threat-to-the-united-states/) and
proactively address this dangerous threat head-on.

“Since we announced the emerging drug threat earlier this year, we’ve
been working tirelessly to create the best plan of attack to address
this dangerous and deadly substance head-on,” said Dr. Gupta. “Now, with
this National Response Plan, we are launching coordinated efforts across
all of government to ensure we are using every lever we have to protect
public health and public safety, and save lives. As a doctor, I have
seen the devastating consequences of xylazine combined with fentanyl
firsthand. And as President Biden’s drug policy advisor, I am
laser-focused on finding every tool we have and following the best
evidence-based practices to take on this new challenge. This will be an
all-hands-on-deck effort – but I am confident we can take action
together and eradicate this emerging threat.”

Xylazine has been detected in nearly every state in the country. The
Biden-Harris Administration [made this designation for the first time in
U.S.
history](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/Emerging-Threats-Criteria-Directive.pdf) due
to xylazine’s growing role in overdose deaths nationwide, and since the
designation, data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
(CDC) have continued to show an increase in xylazine-related overdose
deaths. [In a new report released last
month](https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/volumes/72/wr/mm7226a4.htm?s_cid=mm7226a4_w),
the monthly percentage of illegally manufactured fentanyl-involved
deaths with xylazine detected increased 276% (from 2.9% to 10.9%)
between January 2019 and June 2022.

A first-of-its-kind National Response Plan outlines action steps the
federal government will pursue to address this threat, protect public
health and public safety, and save lives. This includes both short- and
longer-term action steps to provide immediate relief to communities
across the nation, and to support the large-scale efforts needed to
eradicate this threat.

The plan released today focuses on six pillars of action:

1.       Testing

2.       Data Collection

3.       Evidence-Based Prevention, Harm Reduction, and Treatment

4.       Supply Reduction

5.       Scheduling

6.       Research  
  
The plan outlines action steps and key responsibilities for departments
and agencies across the federal government, and directs them to develop
and submit an Implementation Report to the White House in 60 days. As
required by statute in the SUPPORT Act and the Criteria for Designating
Evolving and Emerging Drug Threats (Dir. No. 2022-002), the goal of the
National Response Plan is the termination of fentanyl combined with
xylazine as an emerging threat. This will require a 15% reduction
(compared to 2022 as the baseline year) of xylazine positive drug
poisoning deaths in at least three of four U.S. census regions by
2025.  
  
The Biden-Harris Administration has ramped up national response efforts
over the last several months, including the following actions taken by
agencies across government. In December, Dr.
Gupta [hosted](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/ondcp/briefing-room/2022/12/27/readout-from-dr-guptas-listening-session-with-public-health-and-safety-leaders-on-xylazine-and-efforts-to-address-trends/) a
listening session with public health and public safety leaders and
subject matter experts from several states and territories about trends
they are seeing related to xylazine and efforts to address these trends.
In January, Dr.
Gupta [convened](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/ondcp/briefing-room/2023/01/18/readout-of-evolving-and-emerging-drug-threats-committee-meeting-regarding-xylazine/) the *Evolving
and Emerging Threats Committee* to discuss the emergence of fentanyl
adulterated with xylazine in the illicit drug supply. In February, the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration [took
action](https://www.fda.gov/news-events/press-announcements/fda-takes-action-restrict-unlawful-import-xylazine#:~:text=Today%2C%20the%20U.S.%20Food%20and,a%20growing%20public%20health%20concern.) to
restrict the unlawful entry of xylazine active pharmaceutical
ingredients and finished dosage form drug products into the country to
address the growing public health concern. In March, the U.S. Drug
Enforcement
Administration [issued](https://www.dea.gov/alert/dea-reports-widespread-threat-fentanyl-mixed-xylazine) a
public safety alert to warn the American public of a sharp increase in
the trafficking of fentanyl mixed with xylazine.  
  
Since the designation on April 12, ONDCP has convened federal government
departments and agencies to develop and implement the National Response
Plan. ONDCP has also been meeting with state and local leaders and
subject matter experts, including Drug Free Community grantees, High
Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA) grantees, Association of State
and Territorial Health Officials, the American Veterinary Medical
Association, States Attorneys General, law enforcement leaders,
frontline health care and emergency services providers, individuals with
lived experience, and more. The National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA)
also convened health care professionals and federal partners to review
currently available best practices in xylazine-related testing,
treatment, and wound care to inform evolving best-practices in the
field.

While this plan outlines action steps the federal government will pursue
to address the emerging threat, it will require a whole-of-society
effort to save lives. The National Response Plan also notes practical
steps states and individuals can take to help address this issue:

-   Healthcare providers are encouraged to be on the alert for signs and
    symptoms of patients’ exposure to fentanyl adulterated with xylazine
    and to provide effective care for overdose and wounds, and initiate
    or transfer care to opioid use disorder treatment services wherever
    these patients are encountered.
-   State, county, and city health authorities are encouraged to
    proactively seek out those believed to be consuming fentanyl
    adulterated with xylazine to offer mobile, low-threshold care before
    their conditions worsen.
-   Addiction treatment and emergency responders should consult with
    experts on xylazine detoxification methods to understand emerging
    practices.
-   Law enforcement and elected officials must coordinate with their
    public health colleagues in order to enhance the efficacy of their
    efforts to reduce and disrupt the illicit supply chain and go after
    traffickers.
-   Community-based programs will be amongst the first to interface with
    individuals vulnerable to fentanyl adulterated with xylazine and
    will be key partners in these efforts.

Read the full National Response Plan to Fentanyl Combined with
Xylazine [HERE](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/07/FENTANYL-ADULTERATED-OR-ASSOCIATED-WITH-XYLAZINE-EMERGING-THREAT-RESPONSE-PLAN-Report-July-2023.pdf).

Read about the Biden-⁠Harris Administration’s efforts to crack down on
illicit fentanyl supply
chains [HERE](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/11/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-strengthened-approach-to-crack-down-on-illicit-fentanyl-supply-chains/).

Read the Biden-Harris Administration’s National Drug Control
Strategy [HERE](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/21/fact-sheet-white-house-releases-2022-national-drug-control-strategy-that-outlines-comprehensive-path-forward-to-address-addiction-and-the-overdose-epidemic/).

  
 ###
