---
date: '2023-07-27'
published_time: 2023-07-27 17:31:59-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/27/joint-statement-from-president-biden-and-prime-minister-meloni/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Joint Statement from President\_Biden and Prime Minister\_Meloni"
---
 
Today, the President of the United States, Joseph R. Biden, and the
President of the Council of Ministers of the Italian Republic, Giorgia
Meloni, met at the White House.  They reaffirmed the unshakable
alliance, strategic partnership, and deep friendship between the United
States and Italy.  The ties between Italy and the United States are
rooted in history, cultural affinity, and economic cooperation.  They
are founded on our shared values and principles – democracy, freedom,
respect for human rights – reinforced by the shared objective to promote
peace and security, enhance prosperity, and advance sustainability all
around the globe.  The connections between our people are at the heart
of this relationship.  Both leaders highlighted the important role of
the Italian-American community, whose contributions make the United
States stronger, more prosperous, and more vibrant.  Prime Minister
Meloni also affirmed the key contributions of Italian communities
abroad.  
  
President Biden and Prime Minister Meloni both affirm that the NATO
Summit in Vilnius demonstrated the unity and the strength of the
transatlantic bond, and the Alliance’s unique capacity to adapt its
deterrence and defense posture to address challenges from all strategic
directions, including NATO’s Southern Flank.  Both leaders also stand
with Ukraine as it defends itself from Russia’s illegal aggression.  The
United States and Italy will continue to provide political, military,
financial, and humanitarian assistance to Ukraine for as long as it
takes, with the aim to reach a just and lasting peace that fully
respects the UN Charter and Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial
integrity.  The United States and Italy also recognize the need to
address the global consequences of the conflict, especially on
vulnerable countries’ stability, energy, and food security.  They
reaffirm the importance of enabling Ukraine to export food via the Black
Sea and condemn Russia’s unilateral withdrawal from the Black Sea Grain
Initiative, which has been instrumental in reducing world food prices,
and its attacks on Ukrainian grain storage and transport
infrastructure.   They welcome the progress on food systems
transformation reported at the Stocktaking Moment of the UN Food Systems
Summit held in Rome on 24-26 July.  Both sides also commit to further
coordination on Ukraine’s reconstruction and recognized the role Italy
will play in this effort, with Italy’s presidency of the G7 in 2024 and
hosting of the Ukraine Reconstruction Conference in 2025.  
  
The United States and Italy note the vital importance of shared efforts
to promote stability and prosperity in the wider Mediterranean region,
including by addressing the root causes of instability, terrorism, and
irregular migration flows.  The United States and Italy affirm their
support for the Tunisian people as Tunisia endures continued economic
and political challenges.  The United States and Italy also affirm their
shared desire for a prosperous, secure, and democratic Tunisia.  The
United States welcomed the Conference on Migration and Development held
on July 23 in Rome, as well as the establishment of the “Rome Process”
to promote partnerships between countries of origin, transit, and
destination of migration in the broader Mediterranean region, the Middle
East and Africa. In this framework, the United States takes note of the
Italian government’s “Mattei Plan” for Africa.  
  
The United States and Italy reaffirm their shared commitment to the
security, stability, and prosperity of the Western Balkans and their
longstanding support for the region’s Euro-Atlantic integration.  They
determined to reinforce coordination to favor de-escalation and
reconciliation and acknowledged the crucial role of the Quint.  The
United States welcomes the Italian government’s commitment in the
Western Balkans, including through the contribution of the Italian armed
forces to KFOR, EULEX, and EUFOR Althea missions.  
  
The United States and Italy are firmly committed to a free, open,
prosperous, inclusive, and secure Indo-Pacific.  The United States
welcomes the increased presence of Italy in the region.  The two sides
reiterate the vital importance of maintaining peace and stability across
the Taiwan Strait, which is instrumental to regional and global security
and prosperity.  The United States and Italy also commit to strengthen
bilateral and multilateral consultations on the opportunities and
challenges posed by the People’s Republic of China.  
  
The United States and Italy pledge to continue coordination, including
within multilateral fora, on issues to advance global prosperity,
inclusive growth, and peace and security.  The United States looks
forward to Italy’s leadership of the G7 in 2024, where the G7 will
increase efforts to accelerate the clean energy transition, and tackle
pressing global challenges, including the climate crisis, poverty, food
insecurity, economic security, critical mineral supplies, and migration,
further engaging in dialogue and cooperation on all these issues with
developing countries, and especially with African countries.  The
leaders are united in their commitment to raise the level of ambition
and commitment to supporting developing counties hard hit by multiple
crises and to accelerating progress towards the Sustainable Development
Goals (SDGs).   
   
President Biden and Prime Minister Meloni committed to advance work to
evolve the multilateral development banks to make them more responsive
to shared global challenges like climate change, pandemics, and conflict
and fragility, including through implementation of critical financial
reforms begun under Italy’s leadership in the G20 and a review of the
climate finance architecture to make it more effective and efficient.  
In parallel, the leaders committed to work together toward a successful
IDA 21 next year. The leaders also discussed ways to explore mobilizing
more headroom and concessional finance to boost the World Bank’s
capacity to support countries addressing global challenges and provide
strong support for the poorest countries.  
   
The United States welcomes the participation of Italy in the Minerals
Security Partnership and its intention to join the steering committee of
the Blue Dot Network.  Both sides also stress their support for the G7
Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment.  Italy also
confirms that the Italian Presidency of the G7 will support the Global
Coalition to address synthetic drug threats.  The United States also
welcomes Italy’s bid to host the World Expo in 2030, acknowledging the
opportunity of using the Expo as an inclusive platform to find shared
solutions to common challenges.  
  
The United States and Italy share a mutual intent to enhance relations
with Africa on the basis of a partnership among equals, and note the
importance of mobilizing the private sector, our UN partners,
multilateral development banks, and international financial institutions
in support of these efforts.  Both countries also renew the commitment
to promote effective policies to fight terrorism in the framework of the
D-ISIS Coalition.  
  
The United States and Italy share a focus on the role of emerging
technologies in shaping the global economy and influencing the future of
the international system in the coming decades.  Both sides recognize
cybersecurity as a key component of resilience that enables societies to
reap the benefits of industrial and technological cooperation and
development.  The United States and Italy commit to deepen bilateral and
multilateral collaboration in these domains, along with intensified
focus on the impact of artificial intelligence, including under Italy’s
Presidency of the G7 next year.  Both sides welcome the Counter
Ransomware Initiative and international coordination efforts, including
the “NATO Cyber Pledge Conference” in Rome.  
  
The United States and Italy recognize that economic resilience requires
de-risking, diversifying, and reducing excessive dependencies to build
resilient and secure supply chains.  Both sides underline the importance
of strengthening transatlantic economic cooperation, including through
the U.S.-EU Trade and Technology Council and the U.S.-EU Energy Council,
to improve security, cooperate to secure energy supplies and avoid
fossil fuel dependencies, continue to secure supplies of critical
minerals, and ensure that technologies work for – not against –
democracies, and create opportunities for growth, jobs, and public
welfare.  The United States and Italy both reaffirm their commitment to
continue the momentum from the G7 Hiroshima Summit related to
strengthening economic resilience and economic security, including
efforts under the G7 Coordination Platform on Economic Coercion to
increase our collective assessment, preparedness, deterrence and
response to economic coercion.  
  
Free and fair trade remains a fundamental tool to foster the balanced
growth of the global economy and to benefit our people.  U.S.-Italy
bilateral trade, amounting to $117 billion in 2022 and steadily growing,
is a pillar of this expanding partnership.  Bilateral investment between
the United States and Italy supports hundreds of thousands of jobs
across both countries.  The United States and Italy commit to strengthen
the economic partnership by increasing cooperation, co-investments,
workforce development, and friend-shoring across different strategic
sectors that will define not only the present, but our common future,
including on emerging technologies, the clean energy transition, and the
defense sector.  The sides also commit to intensify bilateral judicial
cooperation, in line with ongoing joint efforts to promote the rule of
law and counter international organized crime, including human
trafficking.  
  
Both President Biden and Prime Minister Meloni affirm the existential
threat posed by climate change and their commitment to taking decisive
actions this decade to keep within reach their shared goal of limiting
the global average temperature rise to 1.5 degrees Celsius.  Both recall
the valuable contribution of the Net-Zero Government Initiative,
launched by the United States and joined by Italy, inviting governments
to lead by example and achieve net-zero emissions from national
government operations by no later than 2050.  The United States and
Italy share an interest in working together to address emissions in
developing countries, including methane.  The two countries plan to
continue enhanced cooperation and alignment on timely solutions towards
achieving shared climate goals and an ambitious COP28 outcome, with the
aim of ensuring social, economic and environmental sustainability.  
  
The United States and Italy commit to strengthen space cooperation,
including through the creation of a “new space dialogue” to promote
industrial cooperation with government support.  Both reaffirm their
partnership on space exploration and express, as original signatories,
support for the principles of the Artemis Accords.  The United States
and Italy recognize the importance of addressing space threats through
norms, rules, and principles of responsible behaviors, and welcome
innovative new commercial space partnerships, including to advance human
spaceflight.  Both sides look to encourage further space-related
investments, and industrial collaboration, including on commercial space
stations.  
  
The leaders also commit to strengthen bilateral collaboration in science
and technology research and development, anchored in values of
democracy, equity, fair competition, freedom of inquiry, openness,
research integrity and transparency.  Both sides confirm their shared
objective to foster high quality and equitable education, including
through partnerships between respective high schools and universities
and arrangements for joint or double degrees.  Initiatives to promote
the study of languages and cultures and broader people-to-people
exchanges are especially important in this approach, including the
flagship U.S.-Italy Fulbright Program, which celebrates its 75th
anniversary in 2023.  Both countries intend to develop new ways to
enhance high level research and exchanges, including through the Italian
Academy for Advanced Studies in America.  The United States and Italy
also commit to continue working together to protect and preserve
cultural heritage, including within the framework of the U.S.-Italy
bilateral cultural heritage agreement.

\###
