---
date: '2023-07-27'
modified_time: 2023-07-27 11:07:40-04:00
published_time: 2023-07-27 10:41:20-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/27/biden-harris-administration-announces-actions-to-lower-housing-costs-and-boost-supply/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces Actions to Lower Housing Costs\
  \ and Boost\_Supply"
---
 
*Launches first-of-its-kind program to address land use and zoning
barriers that limit housing*

President Biden’s economic vision is about building an economy from the
middle out and bottom up, not the top down— that’s Bidenomics. A
critical foundation of that vision, and the central goal of the
Biden-Harris Administration’s [Housing Supply Action
Plan](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/16/president-biden-announces-new-actions-to-ease-the-burden-of-housing-costs/), is
an economy where everyone has access to a safe and affordable home. That
vision means lowering costs, including by building and preserving more
housing, particularly for lower- and middle-income households. Today’s
announcements will lower housing costs by tackling challenges that have
stifled affordable housing for decades, as well as seizing immediate
opportunities:

-   Reducing barriers to build housing like restrictive and costly land
    use and zoning rules;  
-   Expanding financing for affordable, energy efficient and resilient
    housing; and  
-   Promoting commercial-to-residential conversion opportunities,
    particularly for affordable and zero emissions housing.

Recent data show that inflation in rental markets is
[decelerating](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/CUSR0000SEHA) and
[more](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/UNDCON5MUSA) apartments are on
track to be built this year than any year on record. The
Administration’s actions are directly leading to the creation of tens of
thousands of affordable housing units. For example, jurisdictions
participating in the American Rescue Plan’s (ARP) HOME program will
produce at least 20,000 units of affordable housing and support an
additional 23,000 households with rental assistance, non-congregate
shelter, or supportive services. Treasury recently
[announced](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy1613?utm_source=mc%E2%80%8B&utm_medium=email%E2%80%8B&utm_campaign=tih071723%E2%80%8B&utm_term=20230717-00Q3n00001XMUNQEA5%E2%80%8B&utm_content=tih071723&sfmckey=bWVtYmVyYnJpZWZuZXdzbGV0dGVyQGdtYWlsLmNvbQ==&j=301170&sfmc_sub=32518947&l=2081_HTML&u=15207098&mid=10965565&jb=9)
that communities across the country will use ARP State and Local Fiscal
Recovery Fund funds for 2,500 separate projects and developments to meet
housing needs and combat homelessness. And since the Administration’s
restart of the Federal Financing Bank’s Risk Sharing program, almost
12,000 rental homes have been created or preserved.  
  
Today’s actions further build on the Biden-Harris Administration’s
[Housing Supply Action
Plan](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/16/president-biden-announces-new-actions-to-ease-the-burden-of-housing-costs/)
and [updates announced last
fall](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/07/biden-harris-administration-announces-progress-in-implementing-its-housing-supply-action-plan/),
and are a down payment on the historic housing investments proposed in
the [President’s
Budget](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/omb/briefing-room/2023/03/09/fact-sheet-president-bidens-budget-lowers-housing-costs-and-expands-access-to-affordable-rent-and-home-ownership/)
that would boost supply, lower costs and cut dangerous climate
pollution, promote homeownership, protect renters, and promote fair
housing. They also complement the actions by the Biden-Harris
Administration in just the last week, including a
[crackdown](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/19/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-on-junk-fees-in-rental-housing-to-lower-costs-for-renters/)
on junk fees in the rental housing market, and new steps [announced
today](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/27/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-action-to-protect-renters/)
that build on its [Blueprint for a Renters Bill of
Rights](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/White-House-Blueprint-for-a-Renters-Bill-of-Rights.pdf).  
  
***<u>Reducing Barriers to Build Housing Like Restrictive and Costly
Land Use and Zoning Rules</u>***  
  
Local land use laws and zoning regulations limit where, and how densely,
housing can be built. This constrains housing supply, perpetuates
historical patterns of segregation, prevents workers from accessing
jobs, and increases energy costs and climate risk. Today, the
Biden-Harris Administration is announcing new actions to fund
jurisdictions committed to removing barriers that restrict housing
production and preservation, including by:  
  
**Announcing the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s (HUD)
[Pathways to Removing Obstacles to Housing (PRO
Housing)](https://www.hud.gov/program_offices/comm_planning/pro_housing)
program.** Restrictive local land use rules slow down housing
production, or prohibit housing being developed at all, which increases
the costs to rent or purchase a home. Such restrictive rules are often
also inconsistent with fair housing principles. This first-of-its-kind
$85 million federal program will provide communities with funding to
identify and remove barriers to affordable housing production and
preservation. HUD will award grants of up to $10 million to
jurisdictions that have an acute demand for affordable housing and are
working to identify, address, or remove barriers to housing production
and preservation. Funding can be used for planning and policy activities
to allow for higher-density zoning and rezoning for multifamily and
mixed-use housing, streamlining affordable housing development, and
reducing requirements related to parking and other land use
restrictions. Funding can also be used for infrastructure activities
necessary for the development or preservation of housing.  
  
**Reducing land-use restrictions and improving transportation access to
housing.** Earlier this month, the Department of Transportation
announced its Reconnecting Communities and Neighborhoods (RCN) program,
which will provide up to $3.16 billion for planning and capital
construction projects that prioritize disadvantaged communities and
improve access to daily destinations. This includes improving
connections to affordable housing, fostering equitable development, and
increasing housing supply through zoning reform. RCN includes a $450
million Regional Partnership Challenge that will incentivize stronger
regional partnerships to tackle persistent equitable access and mobility
challenges, with land use reform as a key priority.  
  
**Encouraging the improvement of land use in Economic Development
Administration grant programs.** The Economic Development Administration
(EDA) updated its “Investment Priorities” that guide the agency’s
grantmaking to include an emphasis on efficient land use, where
commercial uses, economic activity, and employment opportunities are
concentrated and accessible to nearby residential density. Moving
forward, EDA will more explicitly incentivize projects that include an
emphasis on density in the vicinity of the project – which can in turn
encourage greater housing supply and allow people to live closer to work
and services they need.  
  
***<u>Expanding Financing to Create and Repair Affordable, Energy
Efficient and Climate Resilient Housing</u>***  
  
Gaps in access to financing, along with the complexity of mixing funding
sources, limit the production or preservation of affordable housing. The
Biden-Harris Administration is taking the following actions to expand
financing for affordable, energy efficient, and climate resilient
housing going forward:  
  
**Providing new financing for affordable, energy efficient, climate
resilient housing and clean energy investments.** This month, the
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced its $27 billion
Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund (GGRF), which will mobilize private
capital and provide financing for thousands of clean energy projects,
including cost-saving retrofits of existing homes and buildings,
construction of zero emissions buildings, and commercial to residential
conversions, among others. Such investments will reduce pollution and
lower utility costs. This announcement follows HUD’s announcement of its
Green and Resilient Retrofit Program with over $830 million available in
grants and loan subsidy, for loan commitments up to $4 billion, to
modernize existing HUD-assisted affordable homes so they remain
available for families into the future. The Department of Energy also
released $90 million to advances efficiency and resilience through
building codes, and HUD, FHA, and the United States Department of
Agriculture proposed modernizing energy codes.  
  
**Making it easier to build and rehabilitate apartments with FHA-insured
mortgages.** HUD [announced new
guidelines](https://www.hud.gov/press/press_releases_media_advisories/HUD_No_23_130)
that increase the dollar amount threshold at which a multifamily loan is
considered a large loan and is subject to additional underwriting
requirements from $75 million to $120 million. This change will simplify
underwriting and reduce development costs for large multifamily
properties financed with FHA-insured mortgages without presenting undue
risk to FHA, significantly expanding commitments for affordable housing
financing. HUD will review this large loan limit annually.  
  
**Streamlining financing for the creation of affordable housing.** HUD
[announced](https://www.hud.gov/sites/dfiles/Housing/documents/Admin_Memo_LIHTC_%2425_M_Cap_Removal_6_8_23.pdf)
that it will allow larger loans to participate in the agency’s Low
Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) Pilot Program, which increases the
number of apartment sites eligible for a program that streamlines
financing. HUD also [updated
guidelines](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2023/03/13/2023-05045/administrative-guidelines-subsidy-layering-review-for-project-based-vouchers)
to allow public housing authorities (PHAs) to more easily use housing
vouchers and mixed-finance transactions to create or preserve housing.  
  
**Repairing and expanding affordable housing.** HUD [published new
guidance](https://www.hud.gov/RAD/library/notices) for public housing
authorities and multifamily housing owners participating in the Rental
Assistance Demonstration, providing them with additional tools to repair
and build deeply affordable housing. The guidance also promotes water-
and energy-efficiency investments, and includes new requirements that
address climate resilience, adopts stronger energy efficiency standards,
and supports repairs to thousands of existing affordable units in the
next three years.  
  
**Empowering homeowners to be part of the solution by increasing
financing for onsite housing units.** In April, FHA proposed updates
that, if implemented, would make it easier to finance accessory dwelling
units (ADUs), which are additional onsite housing units. Among the
changes is the ability to include projected rental income from an ADU as
part of the qualifying income when purchasing or refinancing a home.
This added flexibility would expand opportunities for low- and
moderate-income homeowners to benefit from the wealth-building potential
of ADUs while increasing the stock of affordable housing.  
  
***<u>Promoting Commercial-to-Residential Conversions</u>***  
  
Across the country, commercial vacancies are affecting urban and
regional economies. Commercial-to-residential conversion can counteract
those effects, reenergize local economies, and add to the supply of
housing. The adaptive reuse of these properties also presents an
opportunity to create zero-emissions housing, which will reduce energy
costs for residents and cut dangerous climate pollution. Recognizing
that opportunity, the Biden-Harris Administration is launching a new
commercial-to-residential conversion initiative that is:  
  
**Leveraging federal funding and other tools to support conversions.**
The White House will lead a new interagency working group to develop and
advance federal funding opportunities that support the conversion of
commercial properties to housing, and leverage climate-focused federal
resources to create zero emissions and affordable units. For example,
programs like HUD’s PRO Housing announced today, as well as investments
from President Biden’s Inflation Reduction Act and Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, can be used for such conversions. As part of this
initiative, the General Services Administration (GSA) will launch an
effort to identify and market surplus federal properties that represent
the best opportunities for commercial-to-residential conversions.
Ongoing conversion projects from GSA dispositions are already producing
over 1,000 new housing units. The initiative will continue to convene
developers, municipalities, and other stakeholders to learn about
opportunities and challenges.  
  
**Funding research that supports commercial to residential
conversions.** This week, HUD [announced new
funding](https://www.hud.gov/press/press_releases_media_advisories/HUD_No_23_148)
to support research on office-to-residential conversions, including
producing a new guide for state and local policymakers on how to make
these projects more economically viable. Building on a public convening
held this week on office-to-residential conversions, HUD will release a
policy brief on this topic later this year.

\###
