---
date: '2023-07-10'
published_time: 2023-07-10 19:44:01-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/10/joint-fact-sheet-president-biden-and-his-majesty-king-charles-iii-meet-with-leading-philanthropists-and-financiers-to-catalyze-climate-finance/
tags: statements-releases
title: "JOINT FACT SHEET: President\_Biden and His Majesty King Charles III Meet with\
  \ Leading Philanthropists and Financiers to Catalyze Climate\_Finance"
---
 
Today, President Biden and His Majesty King Charles III met at Windsor
Castle with 23 leading philanthropists and financiers to help catalyze
finance to support emerging markets and developing countries in tackling
the climate crisis.  The gathering followed the Climate Finance
Mobilization Forum, which was convened by the UK Energy Security and Net
Zero Secretary Grant Shapps and U.S. Special Presidential Envoy for
Climate John Kerry, and inspired by the work of His Majesty the King.  
  
Today’s gathering builds on longstanding UK-US efforts to turbocharge
the net zero, resilient transition already underway in developing and
emerging economies on the road to COP28.  The Forum brought together key
players to identify how we can go further faster to mobilize the private
investment needed to expand clean and renewable energy across the globe,
reduce both potent CO2 and non-CO2 emissions, halt deforestation and
restore forests, and build resilience to a changing climate.   
  
Recognizing the scale and urgency of the climate crisis, the gathering
emphasized the importance of partnership across governments,
philanthropies, and investors – given that no single actor can mobilize
finance at the scale required by acting alone.  The scale of this
transition requires trillions in private investment in addition to the
public funds we are spending. It is also one of the biggest investment
opportunities in history.  Private sector financial institutions and
philanthropists announced a range of new investment platforms and
initiatives during the event that demonstrated their commitment to
concrete actions to finance efforts in Africa, Asia and Latin America. 
These efforts will help reduce emissions and boost climate resilience –
while generating jobs in local communities and growing their economy.  
  
Building on today’s important event, the COP28 President Designate
United Arab Emirates will host a High-Level Business & Philanthropy
Delivery Forum during the World Leaders Climate Action Summit. The Forum
will focus on removing barriers to progress, showcasing what is working,
and identifying opportunities for collaboration, and acceleration.   
  
Key announcements from today’s event included: 

-   **Builders Vision, Mitsui & Co. and Renewable Resources Group
    Partnership will identify over $1 billion of Nature-Based Solutions
    Projects in Emerging Markets** through a new venture they are
    pursuing to address impacts of climate change across critical supply
    chains in agriculture, natural resources development, and energy.
    The firms seek to cooperate on activities globally where
    nature-based solutions – such as regenerative farming, agroforestry,
    and sustainable water management – can be used alongside
    best-in-class technology solutions and local community expertise to
    develop products and systems that reduce negative environmental
    impacts and create sustainable and mutually beneficial
    outcomes. These firms will identify at least $1 billion of initial
    project opportunities in emerging markets where investors and
    corporations can deliver on carbon neutrality and sustainability
    pledges via direct investment and supply chain participation.
    Potential initial investment projects span highly biodiverse and
    at-risk climate regions, including areas of Central and South
    America, the Middle East, and North Africa with ambition to expand
    to sub-Saharan Africa and East Asia over time. Cooperation and
    collaboration with multinational corporations, governments, family
    farmers, and others is welcomed to support these opportunities.   
     
-   **Builders Vision is also committing $100 million in oceans-related
    investments and grants in emerging markets **focused on blue carbon
    ecosystem conservation, oceans carbon dioxide removal, shipping
    decarbonization and advancing wind energy.     
     
-   **LeapFrog Investments, an impact investment firm operating in
    emerging markets, has committed to investing $500 million in
    companies that are addressing climate change in Africa and Asia**.
    Their aim is to provide green tools and technologies to 50 million
    low-income people, enabling them to improve their lives and
    livelihoods. This investment will focus on supporting companies in
    the built environment, energy, mobility, and food sectors, which are
    key areas for a green transition. By 2030, overall investments in
    these four sectors alone could help reduce greenhouse gas emissions
    substantially and could create an estimated 90 million new jobs in
    developing countries.   
     
-   **The Tony Elumelu Foundation (TEF) is launching a $500 million
    Coalition for African Entrepreneurs**, to catalyse a further 100,000
    young African entrepreneurs and small businesses, focusing
    particularly on fragile states, women entrepreneurs, and green
    entrepreneurship. The Foundation has, since 2015, connected over 1.5
    million young Africans on its digital hub, TEFConnect, and disbursed
    nearly $100 million in direct funding to 18,000 African women and
    men, who have collectively created over 400,000 direct and indirect
    jobs. The Coalition is open to development agencies, the global
    private sector, philanthropic organisations, and governments to
    create meaningful change and empower Africa’s next generation.
    Creating a green entrepreneurial revolution is fundamental to the
    Coalition, as we embed sustainable practices and solutions across
    the next generation.   
     
-   **The Sustainable Market Initiative (SMI) has announced its Terra
    Carta Accelerator Fund with a target of £100 million**.  The initial
    focus of the Accelerator Fund will be to bring natural capital
    projects, with climate co-benefits, to investability and scale with
    a focus on emerging and developing markets.  It also aims to pilot
    Nature and climate-aligned supply chain transitions across
    industries globally.  The Accelerator Fund builds on a challenge
    from His Majesty King Charles III to ensure the private sector is
    helping to scale a minimum of five land-based and five marine-based
    projects a year to 2030 as a significant contribution to the Global
    Biodiversity Framework including the effective conservation and
    management of at least 30% of the world’s land, coastal areas and
    oceans in addition to the restoration of 30% of terrestrial and
    marine ecosystems. The members of the Sustainable Markets
    Initiative’s Financial Services Task Force have committed over $8.9
    trillion to support the transition to net zero by 2030 (or sooner)
    and have already provided and mobilized over $2.5 trillion in
    capital as part of those commitments since 2020/2021.   
     
-   **Forrest Group (Fortescue, Minderoo Foundation and Tattarang) will
    pursue  a unique portfolio of blended philanthropic, private and
    public finance with seven priority actions to continue the scale-up
    of its green metals and green businesses**, including (1) embarking
    on a new project of work with the Green Hydrogen Standard 2.0 at
    COP28 to ensure standards are set in a way that helps emerging
    economies thrive while also partnering with leading African
    universities to develop the skills required to enable the hydrogen
    industry in Africa; (2) developing an ethical and secure supply
    chain for critical clean technologies with practical initiatives
    such as transforming an existing, surplus geothermal energy source
    to generate green hydrogen in Kenya; and (3) building an estimated
    $20 billion in renewable energy projects across the world, including
    in Africa, Australia, Europe and Latin America. Projects are
    expected to be financed in the rapidly developing green, structured
    finance global capital markets.

This is in addition to recent pledges and initiatives from Forum
participants showcasing climate leadership:

-   **Boston Consulting Group:** BCG previously announced that it
    expects to invest $2 billion in the next decade to reach their “Net
    Zero by 2030” commitment and to provide consulting support to
    society and organizations in addressing critical climate and
    sustainability efforts across a broad range of partnerships
    including with UN Framework Convention on Climate Change Conference
    of the Parties, the First Mover Coalition, and many others. They
    supported the initial set up of the Energy Transition Accelerator
    (ETA) design process and are excited about its potential. While
    important design issues remain to ensure high-quality credits and
    clear recognition of companies’ contributions, they are optimistic
    these issues can be successfully addressed, and in that case, expect
    to become a founding partner in the ETA community and encourage
    others to participate as well.   
     
-   **BlackRock:** At COP26, BlackRock announced the final close of the
    Climate Finance Partnership (CFP), a blended finance investment
    vehicle that seeks to accelerate the flow of capital into
    climate-related investments in emerging markets. So far in 2023, CFP
    has committed approximately $190 million into renewables investments
    in Kenya and the Philippines, and has approved the deployment of a
    further c. $90 million into two additional investments, both in
    emerging economies in South East Asia, which will be announced
    (subject to certain conditions) in due course. Following these
    capital commitments, CFP would have around $390 million of capital
    for deployment into future emerging markets climate technology
    investment opportunities.    
     
-   **Bloomberg Philanthropies**, in partnership with the Glasgow
    Financial Alliance for Net Zero, will build on its long-term
    commitment to move the world beyond coal and keep the 1.5°C global
    warming target within reach. To address the specific challenges
    involved in accelerating a successful managed phaseout of coal power
    in emerging economies, Bloomberg Philanthropies will expand
    its support for Just Energy Transition Partnerships in
    countries including Indonesia and Vietnam, with a focus on ways
    for public and private finance to work together to unlock capital to
    enable economies to reduce coal and ramp up the development and
    deployment of clean energy. In addition, Bloomberg
    Philanthropies will help develop global and local standards and
    policy frameworks to ensure that the managed phaseout of coal is
    done in an effective and orderly manner. This
    includes developing and delivering concrete integrity guidelines by
    COP28 for the use of carbon credits in incentivizing earlier coal
    retirement, avoiding the planned release of millions of tons of
    carbon dioxide into the atmosphere.   
     
-   **Community Jameel,** a global organisation focused on helping
    communities thrive, has announced that they are increasing their
    funding for climate initiatives ahead of COP28. The funding will
    support projects like the Jameel Observatory-CREWSnet, a platform
    that predicts climate change to help communities adapt. Community
    Jameel is committed to addressing climate change, particularly its
    impact on vulnerable communities. They will continue their efforts
    to combat food insecurity through agricultural innovation and
    climate-smart agriculture.   
     
-   **Ninety One**, a global investment manager, has announced initial
    funding for its new strategy called Emerging Market Transition Debt
    (EMTD). This strategy aims to provide commercial financing to
    support real-world efforts in reducing carbon emissions where it is
    most needed. The firm is now raising more funds with the goal of
    turning EMTD into a large-scale initiative worth billions of
    dollars. By actively participating in the Sustainable Markets
    Initiative, Ninety One is contributing to the creation of a new
    investment category focused on transition debt. They provide credit
    to high-emitting companies that have a strong potential for
    transitioning towards sustainability. The aim is to inspire other
    companies to offer similar opportunities and promote transition
    financing on a larger scale   
     
-   **Three Cairns Group and Sea Change Foundation
    International **announced the formation of Allied Climate Partners,
    Inc. (ACP), a philanthropic investment organization with a mission
    to increase the number of bankable, climate-related projects and
    businesses in emerging markets and developing economies to create
    significant environmental, economic, and social impact.  ACP will
    select regional investment managers in Southeast Asia, Africa, the
    Caribbean and Central America, and India and support them with
    capital and the expertise necessary to increase the number of
    climate-related projects and asset-oriented businesses by investing
    at the early-stages of the development process. The initiative will
    be formally launched at COP28.  
     
-   **The World Bank’s Private Sector Investment Lab** have announced 15
    Chief Executive Officers and Chairs who will make up the Lab.  The
    founding members comprise a core group charged with developing
    solutions to address the barriers to private sector investment in
    emerging markets and developing countries – including leaders from
    AXA, BlackRock, HSBC, Macquarie, Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group,
    Ninety One, PIMCO, Ping An, Royal Philips, Standard Bank, Standard
    Chartered, Sustainable Energy for All, Tata, Temasek, and Three
    Cairns Group. The Lab will identify new approaches, building on the
    World Bank’s current work, to address existing barriers and develop
    solutions, with the ultimate goal of crowding in greater levels of
    private finance in emerging markets. The Lab will initially focus on
    scaling transition finance in renewable energy and energy
    infrastructure. 

\###
