---
date: '2023-07-27'
published_time: 2023-07-27 11:30:07-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/27/as-part-of-president-bidens-unity-agenda-cancer-moonshot-announces-launch-of-new-arpa-h-program-to-develop-novel-technologies-for-more-precise-and-accurate-cancer-tumor-removal/
tags: statements-releases
title: "As Part of President\_Biden\u2019s Unity Agenda, Cancer Moonshot Announces\
  \ Launch of New ARPA-H Program to Develop Novel Technologies for More Precise and\
  \ Accurate Cancer Tumor\_Removal"
---
 
*Program launch represents major milestone for new agency established
and funded by President Biden and bipartisan members of Congress to
revolutionize how we improve health outcomes for Americans facing cancer
and other diseases*  
  
*President’s Unity Agenda also delivering progress in fight against
cancer thanks to the Bipartisan Honoring our PACT Act and SERVICE Act,
with new steps from the Department of Veterans Affairs, including to
expand access to breast cancer screenings*

Today, the Biden Cancer Moonshot announced a first-of-its-kind Advanced
Research Projects Agency for Health (ARPA-H) program to develop novel
technologies that will allow surgeons to remove cancerous tumors with
more precision and accuracy, resulting in better health outcomes for
Americans facing cancer. The launch of this program—ARPA-H’s first
program targeting cancer and second program overall—represents a major
milestone for ARPA-H, the new agency President Biden established and
funded with Democrats and Republicans in Congress last year to generate
breakthroughs in ways to prevent, detect, and treat cancer and other
diseases.  
  
This historic program will accelerate progress toward the goals set by
the President and First Lady for the Cancer Moonshot: cutting the cancer
death rate in half—preventing more than 4 million cancer deaths by
2047—and improving the experience of cancer patients, as well as their
families and caregivers. It will also advance the President’s Unity
Agenda, which is focused on areas that unite Americans, including ending
cancer as we know it today.  
  
As part of his Unity Agenda last year, President Biden called on
Congress to establish and fund ARPA-H to drive breakthroughs in cancer
and other diseases. He has since delivered results—working with Congress
on a bipartisan basis to invest $2.5 billion in ARPA-H, leading, in
part, to this new program.  
  
Surgical procedures are often the first treatment option for the
approximately 2 million Americans diagnosed with cancer each year.
However, current surgical technologies do not allow doctors to easily
and fully distinguish cancer cells from normal surrounding tissue in the
operating room. This can lead to repeat surgeries, a more difficult
recovery, and cancer recurrence, as well as higher health care costs.  
  
ARPA-H’s new Precision Surgical Interventions (PSI) program aims to
deliver groundbreaking new tools to enable surgeons to successfully
remove cancer for patients through a single operation by better
identifying and differentiating between healthy and cancer tissue.
Technologies developed through this program will also help surgeons spot
and avoid important structures such as nerves, blood vessels, and lymph
nodes, which can be mistakenly damaged during invasive surgical
procedures. In alignment with the Biden Cancer Moonshot and to advance
equity, the PSI program is designed to ensure emerging technologies are
accessible in rural and urban areas, improving health outcomes for all
Americans facing cancer.  
  
Through a Broad Agency Announcement (BAA) for the PSI program, ARPA-H
will solicit proposals for methods and techniques to improve visibility
of cancer and other critical anatomical structures during surgery.
ARPA-H’s PSI BAA will solicit proposals focused on cancer localization
and healthy structure localization. Recognizing that there is likely
more than one ambitious solution to this tough challenge, multiple
awards under this BAA are anticipated and resources available will
depend on the quality of the proposals received and the availability of
funds. To ensure the devices can be readily adopted in the real world,
awardees will consult with surgeons and ARPA-H on usability. A Proposers
Day for interested research teams is scheduled for September 7, 2023, in
Chicago, Illinois.  
  
**In addition, the Biden-Harris Administration is delivering progress in
the fight against cancer for service members and veterans with new steps
through bipartisan action:**

-   Today, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) announced that
    veterans who were exposed to burn pits and other toxins during their
    service are now eligible for breast cancer risk assessments and
    clinically appropriate mammograms at VA. Veterans are eligible for
    these screenings regardless of age, symptoms, family history, and
    whether they are enrolled in VA health care. This step marks
    progress on implementing the SERVICE Act and advances President
    Biden’s Unity Agenda by supporting veterans and driving progress
    toward the goals of the Biden Cancer Moonshot and its efforts to
    expand access to cancer screenings, so more Americans can catch
    cancer early, when outcomes are best.  
-   On Tuesday, VA announced that it will conduct a scientific review to
    determine whether there is a relationship between three
    conditions—acute leukemias, chronic leukemias, and multiple myeloma
    outside of the head and neck—and toxic exposures for service members
    who deployed to Iraq, Afghanistan, Somalia, Djibouti, Egypt, Jordan,
    Lebanon, Syria, Yemen, Uzbekistan, and Southwest Asia. This review
    is a part of the Biden-Harris Administration’s efforts under the
    Honoring our PACT Act to expand benefits and services for
    toxic-exposed veterans and their families. This action will also
    deliver on the Biden Cancer Moonshot goals to understand exposures
    to toxins, and to prevent cancer before it starts.

\# \# \#
