---
date: '2023-07-26'
published_time: 2023-07-26 09:17:50-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/26/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-the-75th-anniversary-of-the-desegregation-of-the-armed-forces/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on the 75th Anniversary of the Desegregation\
  \ of the Armed\_Forces"
---
 
Seventy-five years ago today, President Truman signed Executive Order
9981, ending the unconscionable racial segregation of our Armed Forces
and bringing our nation closer to our founding values. This landmark
Order, issued more than a decade before the passage of the Civil Rights
Act, directed the military to ensure the “equality of treatment and
opportunity for all persons in the armed services without regard to
race, color, religion or national origin.” It was a vital step forward
for our nation. It recognized the equal bravery and equal sacrifices of
generations of service members of color who deserved to be equally
honored. So today, as we commemorate this milestone on our unending
journey toward our more perfect union, we honor the contributions,
sacrifice, and resilience of the brave servicewomen and men of every
background who stepped up to defend our nation—in so many cases, even
before their rights as equals under the law had yet to be realized.

This contrast is particularly poignant in the stories of Black service
members, whose contributions to our Armed Forces date back to the
Revolutionary War and the founding of our country. Black regiments
joined the cause of the Union in the Civil War, while fighting for their
own freedom from enslavement. The Harlem Hellfighters helped turn the
tide of World War I, but did so while assigned to the French Army
because American commanders did not allow them to fight alongside white
units. The proud Tuskegee Airmen flew more than 15,000 sorties in World
War II, only to face discrimination and oppression when they returned
home. These stories, and countless others, venerate American heroes who
never gave up on our country, and in so doing, relentlessly pushed our
nation closer to the ideals of liberty and justice for all.   
  
Likewise, courageous women and men of color, including Native Americans,
Latinos, and Asian Americans have always stepped up to serve our Nation
dating back to our revolution. From the Native American Code Talkers of
World War II, whose innovative use of their native languages formed an
unbreakable code that helped securevictory in the Pacific while back
home the Tribal Nations were dispossessed of their land; to the famous
442<sup>nd</sup> Regimental Combat Team of Japanese Americans who fought
to liberate Europe even as their own families were wrongly imprisoned in
Japanese internment camps at home; to the Army’s
65<sup>th</sup> Infantry Regiment of Puerto Rican service members known
as the Borinqueneers, who fought bravely in the Korean War only to be
court martialed and jailed, these troops have led the fight for freedom
and equality at home and abroad. 

And today, as we celebrate this proud legacy of service, we also honor
those who currently serve in uniform and recommit ourselves to the work
we must do – as a military, and as a society – to ensure they can do so
with dignity and respect, secure in the knowledge that their talents
will be valued, their sacrifices will be honored, and their families
supported.

I have long said that our one truly sacred obligation as a nation is to
prepare and equip those we send into harm’s way, and to care for them
and their families both while they are deployed and when they return
home. Our military thrives and succeeds when our people succeed. Today,
more than 40 percent of active-duty service members are people of color.
Yet, despite this growing diversity, service members of color still face
unacceptable barriers. They are underrepresented in positions of senior
leadership, face bias in the military justice system, and are still more
likely to be dishonorably discharged.  We owe it to them and the entire
force to continue working to build a military where equal dignity and
equal respect are fully realized. 

As Commander in Chief, this is a priority for me personally, and for my
entire Administration. It is critical that the full diversity and
strength of our force is reflected at every level of the Department of
Defense, including at the highest levels of leadership. Our service
members deserve nothing less than a fair and equitable work place, from
the Secretary of Defense down to the newest recruit. That’s why the
Department of Defense has taken steps to better address racial bias in
the ranks and to strengthen equal opportunity, including by increasing
the transparency of promotion selections and updating hair and dress
standards. It’s also why I have committed to strengthening the military
justice system, advancing reforms to enhance fairness in the prosecution
and defense of serious crimes, including changes to ensure random
selection of panel members for courts-martial.

America’s greatest strength has always been our diversity, and there is
no greater testament to this than the success of our military. Let us
continue to break down barriers so that all qualified servicemembers, no
matter their race, sex, gender identity, sexual orientation, or
religious background, are treated with dignity and respect, can reach
their full potential and have their contributions valued. On this day,
the 75th Anniversary of the Executive Order that forever strengthened
our military, we must remain unflagging in our effort to complete the
work that lies ahead. That is how we will ensure the United States Armed
Forces remains the greatest fighting force in the history of the world.

\###
