---
date: '2023-07-18'
published_time: 2023-07-18 15:48:35-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/18/joint-readout-of-the-inaugural-u-s-rok-nuclear-consultative-group-meeting/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Joint Readout of the Inaugural U.S.-ROK Nuclear Consultative Group\_Meeting"
---
 
In line with the April 2023 *Washington Declaration* and the historic
decision by President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. and President Yoon Suk Yeol
to establish the bilateral Nuclear Consultative Group (NCG), the
national security authorities of the United States (U.S.) and the
Republic of Korea (ROK) launched the inaugural meeting of the NCG on
July 18, 2023, in Seoul. The NCG will be an enduring mechanism for
strengthening the U.S.-ROK Alliance and enhancing our combined
deterrence and response posture. As a result, the collective strength of
our two nations will directly contribute to the continued peace and
stability on the Korean Peninsula and across the Indo-Pacific region.  
  
The inaugural NCG meeting was convened by Dr. Kim Tae-hyo, Principal
Deputy National Security Advisor of the ROK; Dr. Kurt Campbell,
Coordinator for the Indo-Pacific at the U.S. National Security Council
(NSC); and Ms. Cara Abercrombie, Coordinator for Defense Policy and Arms
Control at the NSC. ROK and U.S. defense officials led at the assistant
secretary-level, and foreign affairs officials took part in the
meeting.  
  
This inaugural NCG meeting afforded the United States an opportunity to
reaffirm and strengthen the U.S. commitment to provide extended
deterrence to the ROK backed by the full range of U.S. capabilities,
including nuclear. Any nuclear attack by North Korea against the United
States or its allies is unacceptable and will result in the end of that
regime, and the U.S. and ROK sides highlighted that any nuclear attack
by the DPRK against the ROK will be met with a swift, overwhelming, and
decisive response. Both sides affirmed that the NCG will play an
integral role in discussing and advancing bilateral approaches,
including guidelines, to nuclear and strategic planning and responses to
DPRK aggression. To that end, both sides established a range of
workstreams to bolster nuclear deterrence and response capabilities on
the Korean Peninsula, including the development of security and
information sharing protocols; nuclear consultation and communication
processes in crises and contingencies; as well as coordination and
development of relevant planning, operations, exercises, simulations,
trainings, and investment activities. In particular, the U.S. and ROK
discussed joint planning and execution of ROK conventional support to
U.S. nuclear operations as well as how to enhance visibility of U.S.
strategic asset deployments around the Korean Peninsula.  
  
Both sides committed to promptly executing these workstreams and other
efforts within the NCG, and to report progress up to the ROK and U.S.
presidents through their respective chains-of-command in the coming
months. The NCG will be held quarterly at appropriate levels, and the
next principal-level meeting will take place later this year in the
United States.

\###
