---
date: '2023-07-28'
published_time: 2023-07-28 10:16:37-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/28/statement-from-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-on-legal-pathways-initiative-with-mexico/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan on Legal Pathways Initiative\
  \ with\_Mexico"
---
 
Following the very productive meetings that took place earlier this week
in Mexico between President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador and a U.S.
Delegation led by White House Homeland Security Advisor Elizabeth
Sherwood-Randall, the United States is taking additional steps to expand
access to safe, orderly, legal migration pathways. Today we are
announcing our full support for an international multipurpose space that
the Government of Mexico plans to establish in southern Mexico to offer
new refugee and labor options for the most vulnerable people who are
currently in Mexico. We also commit to accept refugee resettlement
referrals from qualified individuals from Cuba, Haiti, Nicaragua, and
Venezuela who are already in Mexico.  
  
This builds on a series of successful legal pathways initiatives that
President Biden and President Lopez Obrador have agreed to launch during
the last year. The expanded cooperation between the United States and
Mexico to manage our shared border in a humane and orderly way is a
testament to strong and enduring bonds of friendship and partnership
between our two countries.  
  
President Biden has significantly expanded legal pathways to the United
States, in line with the goals of the Los Angeles Declaration on
Migration and Protection. We encourage migrants to use these legal
pathways instead of putting their lives in the hands of dangerous
smugglers and traffickers. Pursuant to our laws, those seeking to enter
the United States unlawfully will continue to face strong consequences,
including removal, possible criminal prosecution, and a bar on reentry.

\###
