---
date: '2023-07-20'
modified_time: 2023-07-19 19:22:09-04:00
published_time: 2023-07-20 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/20/fact-sheet-bidenomics-is-boosting-clean-energy-manufacturing-for-offshore-wind-and-creating-good-paying-american-union-jobs/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Bidenomics is Boosting Clean Energy Manufacturing for Offshore\
  \ Wind and Creating Good-Paying American Union\_Jobs"
---
 
*President Biden to visit Philly Shipyard, where union workers are
building a new offshore wind vessel as part of continued manufacturing
boom—while Republicans in Congress voted to repeal the Inflation
Reduction Act and continue to try to block clean energy progress*

President Biden’s economic agenda—Bidenomics— is fueling America’s clean
energy future, creating American-made products in American factories
with American workers, and attracting more than $500 billion in private
sector manufacturing and clean energy investments, including in the
offshore wind industry. President Biden will visit Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania for a steel-cutting ceremony at the Philly Shipyard for
the [first offshore wind vessel of its
kind](https://gldd.com/offshore-wind/) to be Made in America and Jones
Act compliant, employing over 1,000 workers across nine unions to build
the vessel, using steel plates made by the United Steelworkers in
Indiana, and generating an estimated $125 million of U.S. economic
activity each year. This project is another example of how Bidenomics is
growing the economy from the middle out and the bottom up.  
  
Under President Biden’s leadership, the American offshore wind industry
is rapidly expanding—creating good-paying union jobs across the
manufacturing, shipbuilding, and construction sectors. Since President
Biden took office, companies
have [announced](https://www.energy.gov/investments-american-made-energy) 18
offshore wind shipbuilding projects as well as investments of nearly
$3.5 billion across 12 manufacturing facilities and 13 ports to
strengthen the American offshore wind supply chain, representing
thousands of new jobs. [New
data](https://www.offshorewindus.org/quarterly-report) released today
shows there are more than 4,100 companies in all 50 states that are
looking to support the U.S. offshore wind industry, up 54% since
President Biden signed the Inflation Reduction Act.

Also today, President Biden is announcing the first-ever Gulf of Mexico
offshore wind lease sale. This is the latest in a [broad set of actions
by the Biden-Harris
Administration](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/29/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-continues-to-advance-american-offshore-wind-opportunities/) to
build 30 gigawatts of offshore wind projects by 2030—enough to power
more than 10 million homes with clean energy. A key pillar of
Bidenomics, President Biden’s Investing in America agenda will help
create offshore wind jobs across the country, including through tax
credits from the Inflation Reduction Act to support Made in America wind
turbines and ships.

However, if Republicans in Congress had their way, their states would
have lost out on billions of dollars in investments, jobs, and
opportunity. In Pennsylvania alone, companies have committed to invest
approximately $2 billion in manufacturing and clean energy investments
since President Biden took office. Yet nearly every Republican Member of
the House voted again to overturn the Inflation Reduction Act’s clean
energy tax credits in April 2023—doubling down on their opposition at a
time when manufacturers were investing in their state.  
  
**<u>Bidenomics is Catalyzing America’s Clean Energy and Offshore Wind
Industry</u>**

As part of President Biden’s historic actions to build a clean energy
economy, the Biden-Harris Administration has [jumpstarted an American
offshore wind
industry](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/29/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-continues-to-advance-american-offshore-wind-opportunities/) that
will strengthen the nation’s energy security, make the power grid more
reliable while lowering energy costs, and reduce dangerous climate
pollution. The Biden-Harris Administration’s actions to advance
responsible offshore wind deployment are creating opportunities up and
down the supply chain. A [report released today by the Business Network
for Offshore
Wind](https://www.offshorewindus.org/quarterly-report) shows the immense
growth of the U.S. offshore wind industry since President Biden took
office, with the Inflation Reduction Act catalyzing further progress:

-   **Since January 2021, investments in the U.S. offshore wind industry
    have quadrupled** from $5 billion to $21.6 billion, including growth
    of $7.7 billion since President Biden signed the Inflation Reduction
    Act. These totals reflect investments across specific project lease
    areas as well as the supply chain, port and transmission
    infrastructure, and workforce development needed to support the
    industry.  
     
-   **More than 4,100 companies across all 50 states** have joined a
    supplier registry to express interest in providing components and
    services to the offshore wind industry—169% growth since President
    Biden took office and up 54% since he signed the Inflation Reduction
    Act.  
     
-   **The U.S. offshore wind industry now includes nearly 1,500
    contracts **for work in the growing American market, growth of 272%
    since President Biden took office and up 47% since he signed the
    Inflation Reduction Act, with 90% of these contracts going to
    companies that are either U.S. headquartered or have a U.S.
    presence.  
     

This nationwide growth reflects jobs up and down the offshore wind
supply chain and across the country. For example, today’s steel-cutting
ceremony at the Philly Shipyard launches the construction of the Acadia,
the first-ever Jones Act compliant vessel for offshore wind subsea rock
installation—a contract that was announced as a direct result of the
Administration’s clean energy agenda. This vessel will be crewed by
American mariners and take rocks from American quarries to protect the
foundations of offshore wind projects that produce American clean
energy. Additional supply chain progress includes:

-   **New and expanded ports and manufacturing facilities: **Today the
    Department of Energy (DOE) published an [updated
    map](https://www.energy.gov/investments-american-made-energy) of
    offshore wind supply chain investments announced just since
    President Biden took office, including nearly $3.5 billion across 12
    manufacturing facilities and 13 ports—representing major new
    economic opportunities across not just the East Coast, but also in
    the Midwest and along the Gulf of Mexico and West Coast. Under
    President Biden, the Department of Transportation’s Maritime
    Administration (MARAD) has awarded more than $100 million for port
    projects to support offshore wind development, through the Port
    Infrastructure Development Program expanded by the Bipartisan
    Infrastructure Law.  
     
-   **Vessel construction across multiple states: **Since President
    Biden took office, companies have
    also [announced](https://www.energy.gov/investments-american-made-energy) investments
    to build 18 offshore wind vessels across states including Florida,
    Louisiana, New York, Massachusetts, Michigan, Rhode Island, and
    Wisconsin. Last year,
    MARAD [announced](https://www.maritime.dot.gov/newsroom/dot-joins-new-federal-state-partnership-expand-domestic-offshore-wind-supply-chain) the
    designation of offshore wind vessels as Vessels of National Interest
    for priority consideration under the Federal Ship Financing Program.
    Since then, MARAD has received and advanced reviews of applications
    for a variety of offshore wind vessel types.  
     
-   **Steel manufacturing boosts to support offshore wind
    industry:** [Recent
    announcements](https://www.offshorewindus.org/quarterly-report) include
    an investment of $145 million to upgrade a steel facility in Mingo
    Junction, Ohio—following previously announced upgrades of $260
    million for a steel plate mill in Baytown, Texas—to serve the
    offshore wind industry and the broader clean energy industry; a new
    advanced component steel facility in Baltimore that will construct
    and assemble offshore wind components using steel prefabricated at
    Maryland facilities; and an additional contract for a facility in
    western New York to provide specialized structural steelwork for the
    Revolution Wind and South Fork Wind projects. 

Earlier this year at the International Offshore Wind Partnering Forum in
Baltimore, White House National Climate Advisor Ali Zaidi outlined [ten
ways the Administration is making
progress](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/29/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-continues-to-advance-american-offshore-wind-opportunities/) toward
the goal of deploying 30 gigawatts of offshore wind energy by 2030.
Recent progress made by the Biden-Harris Administration toward this goal
includes:

-   **New Lease Areas: **Today the Department of the Interior (DOI) is
    issuing the final sale notice for the first-ever offshore wind lease
    sale in the Gulf of Mexico, which will take place on August 29. This
    historic sale—with enough clean energy potential to power almost 1.3
    million homes—will include one lease area of 102,480 acres offshore
    Lake Charles, Louisiana, and two lease areas totaling nearly 200,000
    acres offshore Galveston, Texas. This sale will follow the
    Administration’s offshore wind sales in the [New York
    Bight](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-sets-offshore-energy-records-437-billion-winning-bids-wind), [Carolina
    Long
    Bay](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-announces-winners-carolina-long-bay-offshore-wind-energy),
    and northern and
    central [California](https://doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-announces-winners-california-offshore-wind-energy-auction),
    as well as yesterday’s announcement that DOI’s Bureau of Ocean
    Energy Management (BOEM) has completed another step in reviewing a
    potential offshore wind research lease in the [Gulf of
    Maine](https://www.boem.gov/newsroom/press-releases/boem-seeks-public-input-draft-environmental-analysis-gulf-maine-offshore).  
     
-   **Efficient and Responsible Permitting:** Earlier this week,
    BOEM [completed environmental
    analysis](https://www.boem.gov/newsroom/press-releases/boem-completes-environmental-analysis-proposed-wind-project-offshore-rhode) of
    the proposed Revolution Wind project offshore Rhode Island. If
    approved, it could power more than 300,000 homes with clean energy.
    This permitting milestone follows BOEM’s final
    construction [approval earlier this
    month](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-approves-third-major-offshore-wind-project-us-waters) for
    the nation’s third large-scale offshore wind project, Ocean Wind 1
    off the coast of New Jersey, which is expected to create more than
    3,000 good-paying jobs. Other recent progress includes draft
    Environmental Impact Statements for six additional projects: [Empire
    Wind](https://www.boem.gov/newsroom/press-releases/boem-seeks-public-comment-draft-environmental-analysis-proposed-wind-0), [Sunrise
    Wind](https://www.boem.gov/newsroom/press-releases/boem-advances-review-two-proposed-wind-projects-atlantic-coast), [Coastal
    Virginia Wind
    (CVOW)](https://www.boem.gov/newsroom/press-releases/boem-advances-review-two-proposed-wind-projects-atlantic-coast), [New
    England
    Wind](https://www.boem.gov/newsroom/press-releases/boem-seeks-comment-inform-environmental-review-proposed-wind-energy-project), [SouthCoast
    Wind](https://www.boem.gov/newsroom/press-releases/boem-seeks-comment-draft-environmental-analysis-proposed-wind-energy),
    and [Atlantic Shores
    South](https://www.boem.gov/newsroom/press-releases/boem-seeks-public-input-draft-environmental-analysis-proposed-wind-energy).
    In total, BOEM and cooperating agencies are on track to complete
    reviews of at least 16 project plans by 2025, representing more than
    27 gigawatts of clean energy. The Administration is holding projects
    to high standards for community engagement and environmental
    protection, including [work by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
    Administration](https://www.noaa.gov/offshore-wind-energy) (NOAA) to
    ensure protection of coastal and marine resources, and requiring
    offshore wind projects to adopt extensive monitoring and mitigation
    measures that reduce the potential for impacts to protected
    species.  
     
-   **Construction Milestones: **The nation’s first two large-scale
    offshore wind projects, approved by the Biden-Harris Administration,
    are both being built by union labor and achieved “steel in the
    water” by starting to install foundations last month. These projects
    will provide a wide range of benefits. For example, Vineyard Wind
    offshore Massachusetts will create enough clean electricity to power
    400,000 homes, save customers $1.4 billion on their utility bills
    over 20 years, and reduce climate pollution by more than 1.5 million
    metric tons each year—the equivalent of taking 325,000 gas cars off
    the road—while creating 3,600 good-paying jobs. South Fork Wind
    offshore New York is using high-tech cables made in Charleston,
    South Carolina at a new factory, an electrical substation engineered
    in Kansas and fabricated in Texas, and a service operations vessel
    being built at shipyards in Louisiana, Mississippi, and Florida,
    with components sourced from across 34 states.

\###
