---
date: '2023-07-25'
published_time: 2023-07-25 11:06:20-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/25/fact-sheet-president-biden-designates-emmett-till-and-mamie-till-mobley-national-monument/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Designates Emmett Till and Mamie Till-Mobley\
  \ National\_Monument"
---
 
Today, on what would have been Emmett Till’s 82<sup>nd</sup> birthday,
President Biden will sign a proclamation establishing the Emmett Till
and Mamie Till-Mobley National Monument in Mississippi and Illinois. The
new national monument will tell the story of the events surrounding
Emmett Till’s murder, their significance in the civil rights movement
and American history, and the broader story of Black oppression,
survival, and bravery in America.  

The new national monument will be anchored at three historic sites in
Chicago, Illinois; Sumner, Mississippi; and just outside of Glendora,
Mississippi. These sites are central to Emmett Till’s racially motivated
murder in 1955 and the defining events that followed – including the
courageous activism and leadership of his mother, Mamie Till-Mobley. The
new national monument will also encourage and enable partnerships
between the Department of the Interior, the National Park Service, and
local communities and organizations to help conserve and interpret a
broader network of historic sites that help tell the story of Emmett
Till and Mamie Till-Mobley.

The nationwide coverage of the horrific lynching of Emmett Till, as well
as Mamie Till-Mobley’s courageous efforts to honor her son’s story
through education and activism, elevated the broader reality of the
injustices and inequality that Black people experienced during the Jim
Crow era and helped catalyze the civil rights movement. Mere months
following Emmett Till’s murder, Rosa Parks refused to give up her seat
to a white passenger on a Montgomery city bus. She later cited Emmett
Till as the reason she would not acquiesce.   
  
Today’s designation builds on the Biden-Harris Administration’s work to
advance civil rights and racial justice, including through the
President’s signing of the Emmett Till Antilynching Act that codified
lynching as a federal hate crime. The Emmett Till and Mamie Till-Mobley
National Monument is President Biden’s fourth new national monument, and
reflects the Administration’s commitment to protecting places that help
tell a more complete story of our nation’s history.  
  
**Emmett Till and Mamie Till-Mobley National Monument**

The Emmett Till and Mamie Till-Mobley National Monument will be managed
by the National Park Service, and comprises 5.70 acres across three
separate historic sites in Illinois and Mississippi. Through the
historical objects protected at these sites, the monument tells the
story of Emmett Till’s too-short life and murder, the unjust acquittal
of his murderers, and the activism of his mother, Mamie Till-Mobley, who
courageously brought the world’s attention to the brutal injustices and
racism of the time.  
  
While on a trip from his home in Chicago to visit family in the
Mississippi Delta in 1955, 14-year-old Emmett Till was accused of making
inappropriate advances toward a white female grocery clerk. Emmett
Till’s cousins and friends, who were present at the scene, disputed the
claim. Four days after the alleged incident, he was pulled from his bed,
kidnapped, and brutally murdered by at least two white men. Three days
following this abduction, on August 31, 1955, Emmett Till’s mutilated
body was pulled from the Tallahatchie River.

  
Graball Landing, located just outside of Glendora, Mississippi, is one
of the three sites preserved by the new national monument. Graball
Landing is believed to be the site where Emmett Till’s body was
discovered in the Tallahatchie River. In 2008, the community installed a
memorial sign that has been removed or vandalized multiple times since
it was first erected. The most recent version of the sign – dedicated in
October 2019 – is over an inch thick and bulletproof.

Roberts Temple Church of God in Christ in Bronzeville, a historically
Black neighborhood on Chicago’s South Side, is the second monument site.
The church is where on September 3, 1955, Mamie Till-Mobley held an
open-casket funeral service for her son in defiance of directives from
Mississippi authorities that Emmett Till be buried quickly in
Mississippi. Over the course of several days, as many as 125,000 people
attended the visitation and funeral services to mourn Emmett Till and
bear witness.  
  
The third monument site is the Tallahatchie County Second District
Courthouse in Sumner, Mississippi where the trial of Emmett Till’s
murderers began on September 19, 1955 in a segregated courtroom. An
all-white jury wrongfully acquitted Emmett Till’s two killers after just
over an hour of deliberation. Both killers later admitted their crimes
to a leading magazine in an interview for which they were paid. No one
was ever held legally accountable for Emmett Till’s death.  
  
In addition to designating the three sites as a new national monument,
today’s proclamation directs the National Park Service to develop a plan
in consultation with local communities, organizations, and the public to
support the interpretation and preservation of other key sites in
Mississippi and Illinois that help tell the story of Emmett Till and
Mamie Till-Mobley. This may include the Glendora Cotton Gin (currently
known as the Emmett Till Historic Intrepid Center), Mound Bayou, the
Tutwiler Funeral Home, and the Emmett Till Boyhood Home.  
  
Today’s designation honors the tireless efforts of Emmett Till’s family,
community and civil rights leaders, and local, state, and federal
elected officials to ensure that these sites are protected and that
Emmett Till’s story continues to be told. In the lead up to the
designation, Secretary of the Interior Deb Haaland and White House
Council on Environmental Quality Chair Brenda Mallory visited the sites
and met with community members to learn about their vision on how to
best educate the public about not only the brutal lynching of Emmett
Till, but how the events surrounding his death helped to dismantle Jim
Crow and served as a turning point in the struggle for civil rights in
the United States.  
  
**Background on Antiquities Act Designations**

President Theodore Roosevelt first used the Antiquities Act in 1906 to
designate Devils Tower National Monument in Wyoming. Since then, 18
presidents of both parties have used this authority to protect unique
natural and historic features in America, including the Grand Canyon,
the Statue of Liberty, the Birmingham Civil Rights National Monument,
Stonewall National Monument, and the César E. Chávez National Monument.

  
The Emmett Till and Mamie Till-Mobley National Monument is President
Biden’s fourth new monument designation, following the creation of the
Castner Range National Monument in Texas and Avi Kwa Ame National
Monument in Nevada this spring, and Camp Hale-Continental Divide
National Monument in Colorado last fall.

\###
