---
date: '2023-07-17'
published_time: 2023-07-17 16:26:48-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/17/readout-of-president-joe-bidens-call-with-prime-minister-benjamin-netanyahu-of-israel-2/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of President Joe\_Biden\u2019s Call with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu\
  \ of\_Israel"
---
 
President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. spoke today with Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu of Israel to discuss a broad range of global and regional
issues of mutual concern.   The President underscored his iron-clad,
unwavering commitment to Israel’s security and condemned recent acts of
terror against Israeli citizens.  The two consulted on our close
coordination to counter Iran, including through regular and ongoing
joint military exercises. They noted that U.S.-Israel partnership
remains a cornerstone in preventing Iran from ever acquiring a nuclear
weapon.  The President stressed the need to take measures to maintain
the viability of a two-state solution and improve the security situation
in the West Bank.  To that end, he welcomed Israel’s willingness to
consider new steps to support Palestinian livelihoods, and recognized
promising steps by the Palestinian Authority to reassert security
control in Jenin and other areas of the West Bank.  He expressed concern
about continued settlement growth and called on all parties to refrain
from further unilateral measures.  The two leaders agreed to consult
with regional partners with the aim of convening a meeting soon in the
Aqaba/Sharm format as soon as possible. They also consulted on progress
towards establishing a more integrated, prosperous, and peaceful Middle
East, including through efforts to deepen and expand normalization with
countries in the region and beyond. Finally, President Biden reiterated,
in the context of the current debate in Israel about judicial reform,
the need for the broadest possible consensus, and that shared democratic
values have always been and must remain a hallmark of the U.S.-Israel
relationship. 

\###
