---
date: '2023-07-21'
modified_time: 2023-07-21 08:53:54-04:00
published_time: 2023-07-21 11:15:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/21/fact-sheet-white-house-launches-office-of-pandemic-preparedness-and-response-policy/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: White\_House Launches Office of Pandemic Preparedness and Response\_\
  Policy"
---
 
*Major General (ret) Paul Friedrichs Will Serve as the Inaugural
Director*

The Biden-Harris Administration has made historic progress on our
nation’s ability to manage COVID-19 so that it no longer meaningfully
disrupts the way we live our lives. Under President Biden’s leadership,
the Administration has taken significant steps to ensure all individuals
have continued access to lifesaving protections such as vaccines,
treatments, and tests, and that the nation is well prepared to manage
the risks of COVID-19 or other causes of potential pandemics in the
future.

As part of the President’s commitment to ensure that our country is more
prepared for a pandemic than we were when he took office, the
Administration is standing up the Office of Pandemic Preparedness and
Response Policy (OPPR). This will be a permanent office in the Executive
Office of the President (EOP) charged with leading, coordinating, and
implementing actions related to preparedness for, and response to, known
and unknown biological threats or pathogens that could lead to a
pandemic or to significant public health-related disruptions in the
United States. OPPR will take over the duties of the current COVID-19
Response Team and Mpox Team at the White House and will continue to
coordinate and develop policies and priorities related to pandemic
preparedness and response.

To lead this work, the President announced that Major General (ret) Paul
Friedrichs will serve as the inaugural Director of OPPR and Principal
Advisor on Pandemic Preparedness and Response as of August 7, 2023. Maj.
Gen. (ret) Friedrichs’ unparalleled experience makes him the right
person to lead this office. He is currently Special Assistant to the
President and Senior Director for Global Health Security and Biodefense
at the National Security Council (NSC). Maj. Gen. (ret) Friedrichs
previously served as Joint Staff Surgeon at the Pentagon, where he
coordinated all issues related to health services, provided medical
advice to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and served as
medical adviser to the Department of Defense (DoD) Covid-19 Task Force.

The Office of Pandemic Preparedness and Response Policy will:

Coordinate the Administration’s domestic response to public health
threats that have pandemic potential, or may cause significant
disruption, and strengthen domestic pandemic preparedness. This includes
ongoing work to address potential public health outbreaks and threats
from COVID-19, Mpox, polio, avian and human influenza, and RSV.

Drive and coordinate federal science and technology efforts related to
pandemic preparedness. Specifically, OPPR will oversee efforts to
develop, manufacture, and procure the next generation of medical
countermeasures, including leveraging emerging technologies and working
with HHS on next generation vaccines and treatments for COVID-19 and
other public health threats. During the height of the pandemic, the
Biden-Harris Administration made historic investments in COVID-19
vaccines, tests, and treatments that were made widely available. OPPR
will continue to leverage these investments as it drives future progress
in combatting COVID-19 and other public health threats.

Develop and provide periodic reports to Congress. As required by
statute, OPPR will develop and provide to Congress a biennial
Preparedness Review and Report and Preparedness Outlook Report every
five years.

Major General (ret) Paul Friedrichs, Inaugural Director of OPPR and
Principal Advisor on Pandemic Preparedness and Response

Major General Friedrichs is currently Special Assistant to the President
and Senior Director for Global Health Security and Biodefense at the
National Security Council (NSC). Prior to joining the NSC, Dr.
Friedrichs most recently served as the Joint Staff Surgeon and the
medical advisor to the Department of Defense (DoD) COVID-19 Task Force.
Throughout his career he has worked closely with Federal, State, Tribal,
local, and territorial government partners, as well as industry and
academic counterparts and has been active in multiple professional
medical societies. Dr. Friedrichs has also overseen the DoD global
patient evacuation system, supporting global medical care and numerous
interagency domestic and global disaster responses. He led the DoD Task
Force which developed plans to implement high reliability medical
principles across DoD and stood up the Air Force’s first medical
analytics capabilities. Over the course of his 37-year career, he has
led military hospitals and regional and global health care systems,
published multiple medical papers, and consistently sought opportunities
to partner with colleagues to improve health care delivery and
preparedness. As the United States’ representative to the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization Committee of Military Medical Chiefs, he worked
closely with many of America’s closest allies and partners throughout
the pandemic and in developing medical support to the Ukrainian
military.

Dr. Friedrichs is a board-certified physician who has cared for hundreds
of patients in combat and managed broad domestic and global public
health threats. He has spent all of his career in public service, having
first received his commission through Reserve Officer Training Corps in
1986 and rising to Major General in 2023.

\###
