---
date: '2023-07-31'
modified_time: 2023-07-31 12:56:20-04:00
published_time: 2023-07-31 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/31/fact-sheet-biden-%e2%81%a0harris-administration-announces-national-cyber-workforce-and-education-strategy-unleashing-americas-cyber-talent/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces National Cyber Workforce\
  \ and Education Strategy, Unleashing America\u2019s Cyber\_Talent"
---
 
<a
href="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/07/NCWES-2023.07.31.pdf"
data-id="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/07/NCWES-2023.07.31.pdf"
data-type="URL">Read the full strategy here </a>

Today, the Biden-Harris Administration unveiled the National Cyber
Workforce and Education  Strategy (NCWES), a first-of-its-kind
comprehensive approach aimed at addressing both  immediate and long-term
cyber workforce needs. Filling the hundreds of thousands of cyber job 
vacancies across our nation is a national security imperative and the
Administration is making  generational investments to prepare our
country to lead in the digital economy. The NCWES is  positioned to
empower every American seeking to participate in our digital ecosystem
and  underscores the critical need to fill a vast number of vacant cyber
jobs. 

The approaches outlined in the NCWES will supplement the
Administration’s ongoing efforts to  grow and strengthen middle class
working families, including through the Bipartisan  Infrastructure Law,
CHIPS and Science Act, and the Inflation Reduction Act. With the release
of  the NCWES, the Biden-Harris Administration is working to fill good
paying, middle class jobs.  

Many communities currently underrepresented in the cyber workforce do
not envision  themselves in cyber jobs or are not aware of the
tremendous opportunity to join this important  and growing workforce.
The NCWES focuses on empowering Americans to pursue these career  paths
in cyber. Many of these jobs are attainable with a certificate or
community college degree,  and available now in your local community and
across the country. 

The NCWES follows the release of the President’s National Cybersecurity
Strategy, which  established a vision for the development of digital
environment that is values-aligned and well resourced to address today’s
complex threat environment. The NCWES envisions a skills-based  digital
future where workers have access to good-paying, middle-class cyber jobs
within their  communities. In addition, educators are enabled to
continuously upskill the public, and  employers can expand and diversify
their workforce. The NCWES was developed in  consultation with
non-governmental stakeholder groups, including private industry,
academia,  non-profits, government partners, and more. 

**GUIDING IMPERATIVES  **

The NCWES emphasizes that no one actor can alone affect the needed
change at scale. This  means all stakeholders – including educators,
industry, government, and more – must all execute  on the objectives set
forth in this Strategy. 

Together, with our partners, the Biden-Harris Administration will: 

• **Leverage adaptable ecosystems to effect change at scale:** The NCWES
represents a  whole-of-nation effort to spark, support, and scale local
ecosystems for cyber education  and workforce development. 

• **Enable the lifelong development of cyber skills:** All Americans
should be equipped  with foundational cyber skills that are needed to
navigate daily life. Those in every sector  of the workforce should be
prepared with industry-specific or occupation-specific cyber  skills.
Further, people who are in the cyber workforce should be equipped with
specialized cyber skills that will change over the course of their
careers.  

• **Grow and enhance the cyber workforce through improving its diversity
and  inclusion**: A diverse workforce is a key strategic advantage. It
increases the pool of  eligible workers and which provides novel ways to
solve problems and develop  innovative solutions to our most complex
challenges. The NCWES charts a course for providing all Americans with
access to the good-paying jobs of the future.  

**APPROACH **

The NCWES seeks to build and enhance collaboration around four pillars: 

1\. **Equip Every American with Foundational Cyber Skills –** enable
everyone to enjoy the  full benefits of our interconnected society: 

o Make foundational cyber skill learning opportunities available to
all; 

o Promote the pursuit of foundational cyber skills and cyber careers;
and, o Foster global progress in foundational cyber skills. 

2\. **Transform Cyber Education –** address the immediate demand for a
skilled cyber  workforce while also preparing learners to meet the
future needs of a dynamic  technological environment: 

o Build and leverage ecosystems to improve cyber education, from K-12
education,  to higher education, community colleges, and technical
schools; 

o Expand competency-based cyber education;  

o Invest in educators and improving cyber education systems; and, 

o Make cyber education and training more affordable and accessible. 

3\. **Expand and Enhance the National Cyber Workforce –** collaborate
with a wide range  of stakeholders, adopt a skills-based approach to
recruitment and development, and  increase access to cyber jobs for all
Americans, including underserved and  underrepresented groups: 

o Grow the cyber workforce by proliferating and strengthening
ecosystems;

o Promote skills-based hiring and workforce development;  

o Leverage the diversity of America to strengthen the cyber workforce;
and, o Enhance international engagements. 

4\. **Strengthen the Federal Cyber Workforce –** communicate the
benefits of careers in  public service amongst both job seekers and
current employees and lower the barriers  associated with hiring and
onboarding: 

o Drive sustained progress through greater federal collaboration;  

o Attract and hire a qualified and diverse federal cyber workforce;  

o Improve career pathways in the federal cyber workforce; and, 

o Invest in human resources capabilities and personnel. 

**COMMITMENTS** ** **

Many of our stakeholders– including educators, industry, and government–
have already  demonstrated their commitment to the NCWES through their
actions and partnerships:  

**National Science Foundation (NSF) **

NSF will invest over $24M in CyberCorps®: Scholarship for Service (SFS)
awards over the next  four years. These awards will support the
development of a robust and resilient cybersecurity  workforce by
addressing the unique challenges around recruiting and retaining
cybersecurity  professionals for careers serving federal, local, state,
or tribal governments. Awards will be made  to: 1) University of Alabama
at Birmingham; 2) California State University; Sacramento; 3) 
University of Tennessee Chattanooga; 4) Tuskegee University; 5) State
University of New York  at Buffalo; 6) Mississippi State University; and
7) Idaho State University. 

**National Security Agency (NSA) **

The National Security Agency’s (NSA) National Center of Academic
Excellence in  Cybersecurity (NCAE-C) program will release four grants
to support a pilot initiative to develop four new Cyber Clinics at
accredited U.S. colleges and universities in Nevada, Minnesota, 
Louisiana and Virginia. The Cyber Clinics will support communities and
small governments  that would otherwise not have access to cyber risk
assessment and planning assistance and  provide an opportunity for over
200 students to develop competencies while in a supervised  learning
environment. NSA also expects to increase the number of NCAE-C
designated  institutions to 460 by the end of 2024, which will serve a
projected 174,000 students annually.  NSA also sponsors GenCyber summer
camps each year, with a goal of at least 100 camps across  the country,
serving 2,800 students and 600 teachers. 

**Office of the National Cyber Director (ONCD) **

ONCD is committed to greater diversity among internship applicants
through increased recruitment and outreach to underrepresented
communities, such as women, people of color, and people with
disabilities. ONCD will identify unique outreach channels with a focus
on reaching underrepresented communities and will create dedicated
recruitment materials by the Summer 2024 intern application season.

**National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) **

NIST will award up to $3,600,000 for Regional Alliances and
Multistakeholder Partnerships to  Stimulate (RAMPS) cybersecurity
education and workforce development projects. The Notice of  Funding
Opportunity for RAMPS is open to organizations that will bring together
employers and  educators to develop a skilled workforce to meet industry
needs within a local or regional  economy. NIST may fund up to 18 RAMPS
awards. Additionally, in cooperation with Katzcy, a  digital marketing
firm, NIST supports the US Cyber Games to recruit, train, and develop
the  team representing the United States in international cybersecurity
competitions. This program  engages with over 2,000 individuals in the
yearly U.S. Cyber Open and annually trains over 150  students though
months-long U.S. Cyber Combine and Pipeline programs. 

**Department of Labor (DOL) **

The Department of Labor announced a $65 million award in formula and
competitive grants to  45 states and territories to develop and scale
registered apprenticeship programs in cybersecurity  and other critical
sectors. Seven of these states and territories identified cybersecurity
as one of  their targeted sectors. DOL also made a competitive award to
Utah to support the expansion of  Registered Apprenticeship Programs for
cybersecurity and other sectors. The Department also announced a new
Registered Apprenticeship industry intermediary, Safal Partners LLC,
that will  specifically focus on launching, promoting, and expanding
Registered Apprenticeship programs  in cybersecurity.  

**Office of Personnel Management (OPM) **

OPM will partner with federal agencies, the Chief Human Capital Officer
(CHCO) Council  Recruitment and Outreach Working Group, and external,
good-government groups to host a  second Tech to Gov Job Fair by Q2 of
FY2024. Further, OPM is conducting an occupational  study to establish
or update one or more occupational series covering Federal government 
positions in the fields of software development, software engineering,
data science, and data  management. OPM will explore Digital Career work
in the Federal government to determine  workforce needs and policy
requirements supporting a Federal Digital Careers workforce. This  study
will identify the nature and scope of digital careers work and the
skills needed to perform  this work governmentwide. The results of the
study will affect how Federal agencies attract, hire,  and retain
Digital Career professionals governmentwide. OPM’s Tech to Gov Working
Group is  also partnering with the US Digital Service to support tech
hiring across government and  cultivate a pipeline of skilled tech
talent recruitment representatives, regardless of their job  series.  

**Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) **

VA announced a Cybersecurity Apprenticeship Program for Veterans: a
two-year developmental  program within the VA Cybersecurity Operations
Center (CSOC) to provide a unique, hands-on  learning and development
experience for cybersecurity apprentices, and to encourage a career in  

the federal cybersecurity workforce. Program Apprentices will develop
cyber knowledge and  experience through mentoring, on-the-job training,
and leading-edge training courses. The  program is a registered
apprenticeship with the Department of Labor and will begin recruiting 

and onboarding its first cybersecurity apprenticeship cohort in Q1
FY2024. The first cohort will  consist of approximately five
transitioning veterans coming from tech-specific Military  Occupational
Specialties (MOS), with the hopes of increasing capacity to 10. In
addition, VA  authorized a Special Salary Rate (SSR) for its technology
and cybersecurity personnel in the  2210, 1550, and 0854 occupational
series. This is an important step towards closing the growing  gap
between industry and Federal Government salary rates for technology and
cybersecurity  roles. The SSR represents an average increase of 17% in
basic pay for VA’s highly skilled  technical workforce who are dedicated
to providing veterans and their families with the world class benefits
they have earned. 

**Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) **

Each October, CISA’s Cybersecurity Awareness Month offers a focused
opportunity to engage  the public, businesses and other national and
international organizations in learning essential  cybersecurity tips
and providing information, tools, public engagement opportunities and
more  for audiences at all levels. In 2022, Cybersecurity Awareness
Month garnered more than 1,400  media mentions and included more than
120 CISA-wide speaking engagements—35 from CISA  leadership—six regional
trips, 111 social media posts with more than one million impressions,
 7,300 downloads of the Partner Amplification Toolkit, and 108,000 page
views of the 2022  landing page. Throughout the year, CISA encourages
diversity in the current and future cyber  workforce, expose young
people to seek careers in cybersecurity, and bridge the current cyber
 gap with women in cybersecurity and tech through partnerships with
groups like Girl Scouts of  the USA, Girls Who Code, and Women in
CyberSecurity (WiCyS). CISA also manages a  Federal Cyber Defense
Skilling Academy to help civilian federal employees develop cyber
 defense skills through training in the baseline knowledge, skills, and
abilities of a Cyber Defense  Analyst (CDA). 

**Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) **

HUD joined the Cyber Talent Initiative in July 2023 and partnered with
the Partnership for  Public Service to increase early career talent
pipeline and recruitment effort. HUD’s Office of the  Chief Information
Security Officer (OCISO) is collaborating across all HUD Program Offices
to  get at least 50 placements in the next fiscal year. This initiative
with enable participants a  cybersecurity and information technology
pathway into HUD by removing as many socio economic barriers as
possible. Participants will be provided opportunities to gain federal 
employment and hands-on job experience in an immersive environment while
learning HUD’s  mission, operations, and culture.  

**craig newmark philanthropies **

craig newmark philanthropies will provide an update on its $100 million
commitment towards its  Cyber Civil Defense Initiative. In 2023, it
doubled its $50 million commitment to cybersecurity  causes. It has also
issued 11 grants totaling over $12 million to non-profit organizations
with  programs that are well-aligned to many of the workforce strategy’s
key objectives, including  cyber capacity building; applied learning
opportunities; diversity, equity, and inclusion; digital  literacy; and
more. This builds on the $48+ million craig newmark philanthropies had
already  delivered to organizations focused on cybersecurity workforce
development, education, tools,  and services.

**Women in CyberSecurity (WiCyS) **

WiCyS is committed to mobilizing its network to underscore the
importance of diverse and  highly skilled cybersecurity professionals to
support the National Cyber Workforce and  Education Strategy through
four commitments: 1) create cybersecurity career accessibility and 
opportunities for upskilling and reskilling underrepresented groups; 2)
continue the WiCyS  Security Training Scholarship program by working
with a multi-organization approach to invest  in the talent pipeline;
and 3) mobilize U.S. regions through WiCyS’s 60 professional affiliates 
and 220 student chapters with increased opportunity via conferences,
events, and hosted  engagements; and 4) build a cybersecurity ecosystem
through industry engagement. Through  these commitments, WiCyS expects
to reach over 10,000 individuals. 

**Cybersafe Foundation  **

Cybersafe Foundation will develop a cybersecurity ecosystem playbook
specifically designed for  the African continent based on the vision
laid out in the National Cybersecurity Cyber  Workforce and Education
Strategy and the 2023 National Cybersecurity Strategy. The playbook 
will promote diversity and inclusion and include lessons learned and
best practices that support  cyber workforce development. Cybersafe
intends to use it to create opportunities for women and  girls to excel
in the cybersecurity field.  

**SANS Institute **

Over the last year, SANS and the National Cyber Scholarship Foundation
(NCSF) expanded  their partnership for CyberStart America and Cyber
FastTrack, programs to inspire high school  and college students across
the United States to develop foundational cyber skills. In CyberStart, 
students utilize a transformative cyber education platform to solve
challenges tied to real-world  scenarios and build their core skills and
knowledge, discovering a passion for cybersecurity in  the process. For
2023-24, SANS and NCSF plan to engage over 50,000 students in gamified 
learning, with up to 5,000 receiving training and certification
scholarships. Also, working with  its non-profit, Government, and
private sector partners, SANS plans to broaden, diversify, and 
strengthen the national cyber workforce through reskilling for career
changers. These reskilling  programs will provide over $9.2 million in
training and certification scholarships to 500+  individuals, driving
increased diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility in
cybersecurity  across the nation. 

**Cyber Readiness Institute (CRI) and the Center on Cyber and Technology
Innovation  (CCTI) **

In August 2023, CRI and CCTI will launch the Phased Critical
Infrastructure Pilot: Resiliency  for Water Utilities, providing up to
200 small water utilities with basic cybersecurity training and 
promoting a culture of cyber readiness. Microsoft is sponsoring this
initiative to help address the  challenge of securing the nation’s water
infrastructure from cyber threats. The pilot is based on  the CRI’s
Cyber Readiness Program, which is designed to assist small- and
medium-sized  businesses improve their cybersecurity risk management and
their ability to respond and recover  from a cybersecurity incident. CRI
and CCTI will also use the initiative to create a better  understanding
of the level of cyber readiness across water utilities.

**Girl Security **

Girl Security will unveil a new portfolio called All Secure, which
includes the first  comprehensive national security curriculum designed
for dual enrollment for high schools and  community colleges. As part of
All Secure, Girl Security also launched the Workforce Futures  Alliance,
which will join youth alongside industry leaders to design strategies
and outputs to  develop the security workforce talent to its fullest
potential. Over the next three years, the  organization will expand
current programming and implement new programs designed to  activate
1500 new mentees, 1200 workforce fellows, and 10 million US learners
through a  targeted engagement strategy with more than 20,000
dual-enrollment high schools and 935  community colleges nationwide. 

**Trellix **

Trellix is committed to hiring 300 interns over the next two years.
Trellix will also leverage  career growth platform Gotara to advance the
careers of 50 of Trellix’s high-performing women  and is committed to
offering roles to 12 employees via the Hispanic Alliance for Career 
Enhancement (HACE). 

**The Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) **

SHRM is the foremost expert, convener and thought leader on issues
impacting today’s evolving  workplaces. With nearly 325,000 members in
165 countries, SHRM impacts the lives of more  than 235 million workers
and families globally. SHRM has committed to offering free cyber 
training content for HR professionals and aims to provide the training
to at least 15,000 users,  projecting that these users would lead to the
hiring of up to 75,000 cyber professionals. 

**Omidyar Network **

Omidyar Network is a self-styled “philanthropic investment firm,”
composed of a foundation and  an impact investment firm. It has
committed $5 million dollars to support and expand  cybersecurity and
open-source security ecosystems, including work to ensure the next
generation  is informed and activated to engage across these
technologies. 

**NPower **

NPower is a workforce development non-profit. The organization commits
to embedding cyber  skills across all of its courses, primarily reaching
young adults and military-affiliated individuals.  NPower’s curriculum
routinely includes digital literacy to advance skills in cloud
computing,  cybersecurity, software development, and network
infrastructure. NPower also commits to  training over 6000 individuals
during the next three years and offering multiple on- and off ramps to
continued learning and fulltime employment, including through
apprenticeships.  

**Task Force Movement (TFM) **

TFM will be awarding cybersecurity scholarships to transitioning service
members/Veterans  and/or Military Spouses. TFM will fund 50 award
recipients in the next year to pursue quality  certification courses for
career pathway entry in the cybersecurity ecosystem, with plans to
 expand the program in future years. TFM will also align the award
recipients with employer  partners who are committed to hiring the award
recipients upon completion of the course.

**Check Point Software Technologies **

Check Point Software committed to training one million individuals in
cybersecurity skills by  2028 through its MIND Cyber Security Training
Program, which offers free training kits to all  educational
organizations in the United States. In addition, the MIND Cyber Security
Training  Program will include training for instructors and teachers
through the SecureAcademy program.  

**Black Tech Street **

Microsoft and Black Tech Street have announced an unprecedented
long-term alliance for  Historic Greenwood, the neighborhood in Tulsa,
Oklahoma given the moniker “Black Wall  Street” by Booker T. Washington
for its abundance of affluent Black entrepreneurs. Dubbed  “The Digital
Transformation of Black Wall Street to Black Tech Street,” this
long-term  

alliance aims to restore Greenwood’s position as a national hub for
Black talent and innovation  with an initial focus on Cyber. 

**MassBay Community College **

MassBay Community college plans to announce an increase in the number of
cybersecurity  professors, allowing an expected increase in MassBay
cybersecurity enrollment by more than 40  students, and strengthening
its cybersecurity program through the addition of a cyber range. 
Learners (on an annual basis) will include 45 students from a consortium
of colleges, 60 high  school students, and 135 employees from
businesses, municipalities, school systems, and non profit organizations
from the Greater Boston region. NSF grant funding will assist the school
in  increasing the diversity of the cybersecurity workforce. The school
is also applying for funding  to build a Cybersecurity Center, to
include the range, a Security Operations Center, and abundant  space
where college and high school students and employees from businesses,
municipalities,  school systems, and non-profit groups from the Greater
Boston region can strengthen their  cybersecurity skills. 

**Accenture & Immersive Labs **

Accenture is a global professional services company committed to
reducing traditional barriers to  employment and finding ways to
increase pathways into cybersecurity roles. Accenture and  Immersive
Labs are partnering to fill one million entry-level jobs in the next
decade by providing  a free, robust cybersecurity platform that not only
trains participants but also engages them in  reality-based exercises to
prove their skills, which unlocks jobs with hiring organizations within
 the platform. Recognizing the need for all people to have cyber skills
regardless of their roles,  Accenture will provide cybersecurity
training to more than 700,000 of Accenture’s people in the  next year.
Accenture has met its goal to fill 20% of entry-level roles from its
apprenticeship  program and is on track to achieve a gender-balanced
workforce by its 2025 goal. 

**National Cybersecurity Alliance (NCA) **

NCA is kicking off the 2nd year of the Historically Black Colleges and
Universities (HBCUs)  Cybersecurity Career Program “See Yourself In
Cyber.” “See Yourself In Cyber” aims to change  the narrative around
cybersecurity careers by showing students that there is a role in
security for  everyone and multiple pathways to a successful career. NCA
is committed to raising awareness  about cybersecurity careers and
increasing opportunities for underrepresented students. In its first 
year, the program connected over 1,000 students with recruiters and
professionals at on-campus  events across nine schools, and 142 students
have been paired with cybersecurity mentors. This 

fall, NCA will hold events at five HBCUs in September and November. Each
event will feature  both public and private sector employers, guest
speakers and recruiters, as well as local law  enforcement departments
to show students the variety of career paths offered in cyber as well
as  opportunities available in their own communities. 

**Aspen Institute’s Cybersecurity Program **

The Aspen Institute’s Cybersecurity Program plans to make three
commitments to coincide with  the release of the strategy: 1) for
cybersecurity education – Aspen will work with American  University on a
summary of openly availably government-issued cybersecurity resources;
2) for  cybersecurity workforce development – Aspen plans to publish a
guidebook on best practices  for cybersecurity employee development and
retention; and 3) for digital literacy – it will host  the Aspen Cyber
Summit in November in New York City and online to energize
practitioners,  students, and the public about cybersecurity issues,
policy, opportunities, and more.  

**Dakota State University (DSU) **

Dakota State University (DSU) in Sioux Falls, SD is enabling high school
students in South  Dakota to take as many as 30 credits of
university-level computer science coursework as dual  credit through the
Governor’s Cyber Academy program. Given the rural population in South 
Dakota, the courses will be offered online and at high schools across
the state to serve students at  public, private, and tribal schools as
well as those who are home-schooled. DSU anticipates 40  students will
enroll in the Academy this fall, with the goal of 250 students annually
by 2027. In  addition, 83 South Dakota small businesses, including
minority owned, veteran owned, rural and  urban businesses, have
enrolled in CyberSafe SD, a cybersecurity initiative sponsored by the
U.S  Small Business Administration designed to empower small businesses
to safeguard against cyber  threats. The businesses range from boutique
single person businesses, to larger 300 employee  businesses from
sectors include manufacturing, healthcare, law, telecommunications,
agriculture,  education, entertainment, biotech, construction, retail,
and tourism. Last, DSU is participating in  CyberSkils2Work, which
focuses on training military personnel and first responders in the 
domains of open-source intelligence and dark web investigations. The
program has achieved  remarkable success, surpassing projected
enrollment by training over 300 learners to date, and  plan to train 200
more participants this coming academic year. Its impact and
effectiveness have  been widely recognized, leading to securing
additional funds to cater to the growing demand for  such critical
training. 

**Information Technology Senior Management Forum (ITSMF) **

ITSMF aims to raise the number of Black CISOs by 10% by 2026 and
increase the cybersecurity  workforce pipeline by the same percentage.
The impact of ITSMF’s efforts results in industry  innovation, growth,
and thought leadership through increased representation of talented
Black  professionals in cyber and risk management at senior levels. 

**Mastercard **

Mastercard is doubling down on its long-standing efforts to build the
cyber workforce and drive  security for our shared digital ecosystem.
Mastercard will align its cybersecurity roles to the  NICE Career
Navigation structure to simplify career growth and develop a robust
skillset across  many cybersecurity domains. To support its own talent
development, Mastercard will also create  upskilling pathways for junior
professionals mapped to this same NICE structure by 2024. 

Additionally, Mastercard will further its support of equipping American
girls with foundational  cyber skills through its commitment to educate
5 million students by 2025 with its flagship  STEM education program,
Girls4Tech™. Mastercard will also support access to free  cybersecurity
education, trainings, and resources for up to 10 million micro, small
and medium  businesses by 2025. The security of these businesses is
critical and these resources, combined  with our ongoing substantial
investment, will help protect their ecosystem and our nation’s 
economy.  

**iKeepSafe **

iKeepSafe will host online trainings for educators reaching 400
educators each month over the  next year, utilizing the online training
content found at no cost on the iKeepSafe website–Data  Privacy in
Education – an iKeepSafe Educator Training Course. This training will
provide  educators at all levels – teachers, administration, and support
staff – with the necessary  information to understand their role in
helping to keep students and student data safe in an  increasingly
online learning environment.  

**Lightcast **

Lightcast will provide quarterly data announcements on the size of the
cyber talent needs,  providing a more comprehensive, up-to-date picture
of the cyber labor market. In addition,  Lightcast will develop a
skills-based hiring toolkit for employers to help companies implement 
skills-based hiring best practices in developing their cyber workforce.
In addition, Lightcast is on  track to get up to 900,000 unique users on
the CyberSeek website this year. 

**The International Information System Security Certification Consortium
(ISC)²** (ISC)² achieved a significant milestone in its current pledge
for one million individuals to receive  (ISC)²’s new “Certified in
Cybersecurity” certification. To date, over 265,000 people have 
enrolled and more than 27,000 individuals achieved this entry-level
certification in less than 10  months. 

**Google **

In collaboration with the Consortium of Cybersecurity Clinics,
Google.org has committed more  than $20 million to help thousands of
students receive hands-on experience in cybersecurity.  This funding
will support the creation and expansion of cybersecurity clinics at 20
higher  education institutions across the U.S., and follows the launch
of the Google Cybersecurity  Certificate focused on preparing people for
entry-level jobs in cybersecurity. For cyber clinics  across the
country, Google.org commits to providing expert Googlers as volunteers
to serve as  student mentors in collaboration with the Consortium of
Cybersecurity Clinics and select  universities. In addition to
volunteers, the cyber clinics will receive access to the Google 
Cybersecurity Certificate, Google Titan security keys, and student
mentorship opportunities from  Google at no cost.  

**CrowdStrike **

CrowdStrike will fill 300+ internship positions, fund ten $10,000
scholarships, expand upon its  successful SkillBridge apprenticeship
program, and continue to offer its “return-to-work”  program focused on
caregivers by Q1 2025. Crowdstrike is also committed to making training 
materials and resources more broadly accessible to help upskill users.
Further, CrowdStrike 

continues the development of a Next Generation Leaders Program initially
announced at  ONCD’s roundtable on “The State of Cybersecurity in the
Black Community” earlier this year,  with an anticipated launch during
the Spring academic semester. 

**Microsoft **

Microsoft is partnering with Last Mile Education Fund, Whatcom Community
College, and the  American Association of Community Colleges to achieve
its 2021 goal of helping skill and  recruit into the cybersecurity
workforce 250,000 people by 2025. To date, this effort has  supported
over 379 community colleges in 48 out of 50 states (nearly a third of
all community  colleges in the United States). This includes $1,177,000
in direct scholarship support to 2,378  students; $93,000 in additional
voucher assistance; 50 faculty supported through capacity  building
community of practice; 28 academic/workforce professionals trained; and
support over  60 cybersecurity classes in the upcoming 2023-24 school
year, with content from curriculum  partners CYBER.ORG and CodeHS. 

**SAP  **

SAP – the world’s largest enterprise software provider – will further
its commitment to help  close the cybersecurity skills gap by expanding
its Global Security Early Talent program. This  two-year program is
designed for high-performing early career professionals, with little to
no  professional experience, who have a basic understanding of
information technology and security  topics. This builds on SAP’s
ambitious digital skills initiative goal to upskill two million
learners  worldwide with technology skills by the end of 2025. 

**ConSol USA **

ConSol USA has innovated a demand-led, “ecosystem of ecosytems” model
that engages under utilized talent (such as non-degreed, veterans,
women, people of color) in underserved  communities, in line with the
imperatives of the National Cyber Workforce and Education  Strategy.
ConSol USA has executed initial agreements, and is negotiating with
other  organizations, reaching a range of academic stakeholders
including the University of Texas at  San Antonio, George Washington
University, and the University of California at Davis. ConSol  USA is
also engaged with USAA to reach military, veterans and their families.
Through these  efforts, ConSol USA is committed to directly hire and
deploy a minimum of 11,000 cyber  technologists nationally by 2027. 

**American University**

American University (AU) is committed to strengthening the cybersecurity
workforce by continuing to expand access to hands-on cybersecurity
training opportunities to all students, regardless of discipline.
Through the newly launched Shahal M. Khan Institute for Cyber and
Economic Security, and in collaboration with our global technology
partner Cyber Range Solutions, AU is transforming cyber education by
grounding technical cyber exercises in the context of national security
and economic policy. In addition, AU announced its commitment to helping
equip every American with foundational cyber skills.

Coordinated by the Office of the National Cyber Director, the
Administration’s implementation  of this Strategy is already underway.  

To learn more about the strategy and ongoing efforts by our stakeholders
– including educators,  industry, and government – visit <a
href="https://www.whitehouse.gov/oncd/preparing-our-country-for-a-cyber-future/"
data-id="81369" data-type="eop_oncd">WhiteHouse.gov/cyberworkforce</a>. 

\###
