---
date: '2023-07-01'
modified_time: 2023-07-01 13:39:30-04:00
published_time: 2023-07-01 09:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/01/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-the-50th-anniversary-of-the-all-volunteer-force/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on the 50th Anniversary of the All-Volunteer\_\
  Force"
---
 
Fifty years ago today, the military draft ended—creating the
All-Volunteer Force. On this historic anniversary, we recognize all the
brave women and men who have raised their hand to serve. And together,
we recommit to sustaining and strengthening our force for decades to
come—including by demonstrating our support for our service members and
our veterans, as well as their families, caregivers, and survivors.  
  
The success of the All-Volunteer Force was not inevitable. Fifty years
ago, there were questions as to whether we could attract the talent our
military needed, or whether Americans would answer the call to serve.
But today, we see so clearly that the eleven million women and men who
have joined active-duty service over the last five decades—and the four
million more who have joined our National Guard and Reserve forces—are
the reason why our military remains the greatest fighting force in the
history of the world. At our bases, outposts, and vessels around the
world, these women and men have stepped up to answer freedom’s call,
many of whom have volunteered for multiple combat tours. They have taken
on our nation’s toughest missions—risking their own safety to protect
the safety of their fellow Americans. And, year after year, they have
made our nation stronger and more secure.  
  
To keep our force strong and ready to meet the challenges and deter the
threats of the future, we must continue to recruit the best of American
talent and draw on the contributions of every qualified patriot who
raises their hand to serve.  That’s why my Administration has been
focused on honoring our promises to our service members and veterans, as
well as their families, caregivers, and survivors.  Earlier this year, I
directed the Department of Defense to review pay and benefits for our
military members—because our force and their families deserve a 21st
century compensation system that reflects their service and sacrifice.
Last month, I signed an Executive Order that establishes the most
comprehensive set of administrative actions in decades to support the
economic security of military and veteran spouses, caregivers, and
survivors. With bipartisan support, I have signed more than 25 bills to
support our nation’s veterans, including the PACT Act— the most
significant law in our Nation’s history to help the millions of veterans
who were exposed to fumes from burn pits or other toxic substances
during their service. The First Lady, through
her *[Joining Forces](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/joiningforces/)* initiative,
continues to support those who serve alongside our active-duty military
members, including their family members, caregivers and survivors.  
  
In a year when we are also honoring the 75<sup>th</sup> anniversary of
the desegregation of our Armed Forces and the 75<sup>th</sup>
anniversary of women’s full integration into our military, we also
recognize the undeniable truth that the diversity of our military, like
our nation, is our greatest strength. And, since day one, my
Administration has worked to ensure that everyone qualified to wear our
nation’s uniform can do so with dignity and safe in the knowledge that
their talents will be fully valued—including by reversing the ban on
openly transgender people serving in the military and reforming how the
military investigates and prosecutes sexual assault and sexual
harassment.  
  
I have long believed that we have a truly sacred obligation as a nation
to properly prepare and equip those we send into harm’s way, and to care
for them and their families, both while they are deployed and when they
return home. So today, as we mark this important milestone, Jill and I
invite you to join us in celebrating the brave women and men who have
volunteered to take up the cause of our great nation over the last 50
years. Let us thank their families, caregivers, and survivors, and all
those who have stood beside them every step of the way. And together,
let us honor their service and sacrifice by renewing our commitment to
strengthening and sustaining our All-Volunteer Force for all the years
ahead.

\###
