---
date: '2023-07-27'
modified_time: 2023-07-27 13:11:46-04:00
published_time: 2023-07-27 10:41:40-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/27/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-action-to-protect-renters/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Takes Action to Protect\_Renters"
---
 
Over 44 million households, or roughly 35 percent of the U.S.
population, live in rental housing. But our nation’s rental market is
defined by a patchwork of state and local laws and legal processes that
leave far too many renters with little recourse when housing providers
fail to comply with the law or the lease agreement.  President Biden
believes every American deserves access to safe, accessible, and
affordable housing, reflected in the [*Blueprint for a Renters Bill of
Rights*](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/White-House-Blueprint-for-a-Renters-Bill-of-Rights-1.pdf)*,*
which outlines principles and best practices at the federal, state and
local level that would strengthen tenant protections and increase
fairness in the rental market.  
  
Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is building on this framework and
announcing a series of new, concrete actions to protect renters, which
include:

-   Ensuring all renters have an opportunity to address incorrect tenant
    screening reports;
-   Providing new funding to support tenant organizing efforts; and
-   Ensuring that renters are given fair notice in advance of eviction.

Today’s announcements build on a record of action and progress on behalf
of renters. In response to the pandemic, the Biden-Harris Administration
deployed unprecedented tools to keep Americans housed, including
delivering nearly 11 million emergency rental assistance payments, and
establishing a first-of-its-kind national eviction prevention
infrastructure that kept eviction filings below pre-pandemic levels for
1.5 years after the eviction moratorium ended. However, many of the
systemic inequities in rental markets that existed prior to the pandemic
persist today and are compounded by our nation’s housing affordability
challenges. That is why the Biden-Harris Administration has taken bold
action to address issues of housing supply and lower costs through its
[Housing Supply Action
Plan](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/16/president-biden-announces-new-actions-to-ease-the-burden-of-housing-costs/),
including actions also [announced
today](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/27/biden-harris-administration-announces-actions-to-lower-housing-costs-and-boost-supply/),
and is announcing new actions on renters protections here.  
  
*Today’s actions include*:  
  
**Ensuring fair tenant screening practices.** The U.S. [Department of
Housing](https://www.hud.gov/www.hud.gov/program_offices/housing/mfh/hsgrent/Denial_of_Admission)
[and Urban
Development](https://www.hud.gov/sites/dfiles/PIH/documents/Adverse%20Action%20Notice.pdf) (HUD),
the [U.S. Department of
Agriculture](https://www.rd.usda.gov/newsroom/news-release/biden-harris-administration-takes-action-advance-renters-rights)
(USDA), and three independent agencies, the [Consumer Financial
Protection
Bureau](https://www.consumerfinance.gov/about-us/blog/federal-housing-agencies-strongly-encourage-landlords-to-provide-tenants-written-notice-of-their-rights/)
(CFPB), the [Federal Trade
Commission](https://www.ftc.gov/business-guidance/resources/using-consumer-reports-what-landlords-need-know) (FTC)
and the [Federal Housing Financing
Agency](https://www.fhfa.gov/Media/PublicAffairs/Pages/FHFA-Director-Sandra-Thompson-Statement-on-Best-Practices-For-Adverse-Action-Notices-for-Renters.aspx)
(FHFA) are each releasing guidance or best practices to landlords,
operators, and stakeholders who rely on tenant screening reports when
evaluating applications from renters. This guidance communicates the
Administration’s expectations on informing renters of what information
in their screening report is responsible for their application being
denied. This information will help renters by giving them an opportunity
to correct errors in their reports and address issues that impact their
applications.  

**Funding tenant education and outreach. **HUD [is
announcing](https://www.hud.gov/program_offices/spm/gmomgmt/grantsinfo/fundingopps/tenanteducation)
$10 million in new funding for tenant education and outreach in
properties it supports. This funding will support capacity building
efforts that enable tenants who live in HUD’s project based rental
assistance housing to engage with property managers and help sustain
safe, decent, and affordable housing. Under the program, funding can be
used for training and technical assistance, as well as establishing and
operating tenant organizations.  

**Providing more time for tenants to avoid eviction**. HUD has committed
to issue a notice of proposed rulemaking that would require that tenants
of public housing and properties with project-based rental assistance
receive a written notice at least 30 days prior to lease termination for
nonpayment of rent. This proposed rule would curtail preventable and
unnecessary evictions by providing tenants time and information to help
address nonpayment violations. Tenants in public housing and properties
with project-based rental assistance are already entitled to receive a
30 day notice in cases of non-payment of rent. However, if finalized,
the proposed rule would permanently memorialize this requirement in
HUD’s regulations, allowing the agency additional latitude to
effectively communicate and implement these protections. As part of the
rulemaking process, tenants and other parties will also be able to
provide their comments and perspectives to help HUD make sure this rule
assists with preventable evictions.

**Increasing resident engagement requirements.** This week, HUD
[published new guidance](https://www.hud.gov/RAD/library/notices) for
public housing authorities and multifamily housing owners participating
in the Rental Assistance Demonstration, strengthening resident
protections through updated resident engagement requirements and
enhanced HUD oversight tools, including active monitoring of additional
information that demonstrates resident engagement. These new
requirements will help ensure residents have more opportunities to
provide feedback on the preservation of their homes. 

**Ensuring renters have a seat at the table.** The Biden-Harris
Administration has prioritized engagement with tenants, tenant
organizers and advocacy organizations, including in the creation of its
Blueprint for a Renters Bill of Rights. These engagements ensure renter
voice and expertise inform the government’s understanding of challenges
that exist in the rental market, and that solutions increase fairness.
This week HUD hosted the National Conversation at The Community Table,
to hear directly from hundreds of renters on federal policy. In
addition, FHFA, FTC and CFPB have each issued requests for information
that will inform their respective policymaking; Treasury is hosting
quarterly tenant listening sessions on individuals’ experiences with
emergency rental assistance; and USDA will host a convening with renters
in rural areas this fall.

**Announcing major private sector and state and local action.** In
January, the White House
[announced](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/01/25/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-actions-to-protect-renters-and-promote-rental-affordability/)
its Resident-Centered Housing Challenge, a call to action to housing
providers and other stakeholders to strengthen practices that improve
quality of life for renters. Since then, over 100 public and private
sector entities have pledged to align with the principles in the
Blueprint for a Renters Bill of Right. The Administration continues to
rally the private and public sector, and welcomes additional actions
from housing providers and others to meet this call. Several commitments
were
[announced](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/01/25/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-actions-to-protect-renters-and-promote-rental-affordability/)
at the launch of the challenge; examples of new actions include:  
  
***Private Actors***

-   **Zillow**, next year, will launch the ability for its nearly 28
    million average monthly unique visitors to search for affordable
    rental units, including listings that may meet requirements for
    programs like the Housing Choice Vouchers and income restricted
    affordable housing. Zillow will offer a one-stop-shop for renters to
    find affordable rentals and easy to understand information about
    local laws that will help ensure users know their rights related to
    leasing and remaining housed with or without rental assistance.  
-   **AffordableHousing.com** will, this year, deploy “Clear and Fair”
    digital leases that advocate the principles outlined in the White
    House Blueprint for a Renter Bill of Rights. Property owners who use
    these “Clear and Fair” leases will be acknowledged on the site,
    which receives more than 100 million property searches each year.  
-   Last week, **Zillow, Apartments.com, and AffordableHousing.com**
    [announced](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/19/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-on-junk-fees-in-rental-housing-to-lower-costs-for-renters/)
    they will provide consumers with total, upfront cost information on
    rental properties, which can be hundreds of dollars on top of the
    advertised rent.

***State and Local Governments***

-   **Colorado** enacted [House Bill
    23-1120](https://leg.colorado.gov/bills/hb23-1120), which requires
    landlords and tenants to go through mediation in eviction
    proceedings if the tenant qualified for some forms of financial
    assistance, and [House Bill
    23-1095](https://leg.colorado.gov/bills/hb23-1095), prohibiting
    rental agreements from including a certain waiver that limit a
    renter’s legal recourse.  
-   **Connecticut** enacted [Senate Bill
    998](https://www.cga.ct.gov/asp/cgabillstatus/cgabillstatus.asp?selBillType=Bill&which_year=2023&bill_num=998),
    which increases fines on landlords to $2,000 for breaking housing
    code violations, bans landlords from housing discrimination based on
    sexual orientation, puts new limits on the amount landlords can
    charge in fees for overdue rent, offers protections against certain
    evictions and rent increases to a protected class, and removes
    online eviction records of cases that were withdrawn, dismissed, or
    decided in favor of the tenant within 30 days.

<!-- -->

-   **Jersey City, NJ**
    [announced](https://www.nj.com/hudson/2023/04/jersey-city-announces-right-to-counsel-program-for-tenants-would-be-funded-by-fee-on-developers.html)
    a “Right To Counsel” program in April 2023, as did **Westchester
    County, NY** [in May
    2023](https://westchestercountyny.legistar.com/View.ashx?M=F&ID=11900481&GUID=F316D85D-8283-424B-BD7E-C8ED999AE8E3),
    and  **St. Louis, MO** [in July
    2023](https://www.stlouis-mo.gov/government/city-laws/board-bills/boardbill.cfm?bbDetail=true&BBId=15271)**.**
    These programs offer legal assistance to qualified renters facing an
    eviction.  
-   **Los Angeles, CA** and **Santa Ana, CA** each released a series of
    renter protections. Los Angeles’ ordinances include “just cause”
    eviction protections, a timeline for paying rental debt accrued
    during the pandemic, and require landlords to pay relocation fees in
    some situations, amongst other protections. Santa Ana’s new rental
    registry will ensure tenants and landlords know their rights and
    responsibilities and will compliment an eviction prevention program
    providing rental assistance and supports to qualified households.

These actions come on the heels of other Biden-Harris Administration
actions since creating the [*Blueprint for a Renters Bill of
Rights*](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/White-House-Blueprint-for-a-Renters-Bill-of-Rights-1.pdf)*.*
CFPB and FTC, both independent agencies, issued a [Request for
Information](https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/news/press-releases/2023/02/ftc-cfpb-seek-public-comment-how-background-screening-may-shut-renters-out-housing)
seeking public comment on how background screening may shut renters out
of housing. FHFA, also in independent agency, initiated a
[process](https://www.fhfa.gov/Media/PublicAffairs/Pages/FHFA-Requests-Input-on-Multifamily-Tenant-Protections.aspx)
to [solicit
feedback](https://www.fhfa.gov/Media/PublicAffairs/Pages/FHFA-Requests-Input-on-Multifamily-Tenant-Protections.aspx)
on ways to advance renter protections in its financing programs. All
three agencies have committed to using those responses to inform
potential policy action. HUD released a [notification for public
comment](https://www.hud.gov/press/press_releases_media_advisories/hud_no_23_084)
on ways it can improve its regulations and accessibility standards to
ensure that individuals with disabilities have equal access to all
HUD-assisted programs, activities, and facilities. In addition, the
White House announced first-of-its-kind [funding for legal
services](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/29/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-action-to-address-veteran-homelessness/)
for veterans experiencing or at risk of homelessness in June**.** Just
last week, President Biden announced [new
actions](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/19/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-on-junk-fees-in-rental-housing-to-lower-costs-for-renters/)
to address unfair and hidden fees in the rental housing market.
Congressional action could bolster these efforts by codifying renters’
rights into law, and to passing the President’s [budget
proposal](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/09/fact-sheet-president-bidens-budget-lowers-housing-costs-and-expands-access-to-affordable-rent-and-home-ownership/),
which includes historic investments to lower housing cost and protect
renters, expand housing supply and affordability, including funding for
eviction prevention.

\###
