---
date: '2023-07-02'
published_time: 2023-07-02 10:46:51-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/02/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-national-wildland-firefighter-day/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on National Wildland Firefighter\_Day"
---
 
Today, on National Wildland Firefighter Day, I join Americans across the
country in expressing deep gratitude for our wildland firefighters and
support personnel who heroically protect our communities and natural
resources from wildfires.  
  
National Wildland Firefighter Day takes place during the Week of
Remembrance that is held annually from June 30 to July 6 which serves as
a moment for the entire Nation to reinforce our commitment to wildland
firefighter safety, as we remember those who made the ultimate
sacrifice.   
  
We also celebrate our wildland firefighting teams who are currently
making an impact and helping keep communities safe in Canada, as they
battle a historically difficult start to their wildfire season.  Through
the National Interagency Fire Center, we have deployed almost 1,300
Federal and State firefighters, support personnel, and significant
firefighting assets, such as airtankers and advanced technology support,
to help our Canadian allies.  
  
This week, we also honor the lives of firefighters who have fallen in
the line of duty, like the 19 Granite Mountain Hotshot firefighters who
died fighting the Yarnell Hill Fire in Arizona ten years ago.  Their
sacrifice — and that of too many others — drives us to renew our
commitment to wildland firefighter safety.   
  
Recognizing the service of our wildland firefighting teams on this day
is especially important because we continue to ask more of them year
after year.  Since taking office, I have traveled to communities across
the country that have been impacted by historic wildfires. I’ve met with
firefighters working night and day to keep their communities safe, as
fires get larger, more intense, and more difficult to control because of
climate change.   
  
That is why my Administration continues to make supporting this
workforce a top priority.  The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and the
Inflation Reduction Act included over $7 billion in funding for the
Department of Agriculture, the Department of the Interior, and the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to increase pay for our
wildland firefighters and to enhance our ability to prevent, mitigate
and respond to wildfires. These resources will help over 100 at-risk
communities in 22 states and seven Tribes develop and implement plans to
protect themselves from wildfires.   
  
I have directed my Administration to do everything possible to ensure
wildland firefighters receive the wages, benefits, and other investments
for health and wellness that are necessary to support and grow this
critical workforce.  We will continue work with Congress to get it
done.   
  
I have also directed my Administration to work proactively with private
sector partners to spur technological innovations and ensure we are
investing in further research and development of wildfire protective
equipment and response, detection, and suppression tools. We owe nothing
less to our brave firefighters and their loved ones.  
  
Finally, I have directed my Administration to invest in building more
resilient communities.  Resilience keeps us safer – and reduces the
burden on our firefighters.  Today please join me in thinking about all
of them and expressing gratitude for their selfless service to our
country.  
  
May God bless our firefighters and their families across our Nation.

\###
