---
date: '2023-07-13'
modified_time: 2023-07-13 09:53:49-04:00
published_time: 2023-07-13 10:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/13/readout-of-the-third-united-states-nordic-leaders-summit/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of the Third United\_States \u2013 Nordic Leaders\u2019\_Summit"
---
 
On 13 July 2023, the Presidents of Finland and the United States and the
Prime Ministers of Denmark, Iceland, Norway, and Sweden met in Helsinki
for the third U.S.-Nordic Leaders’ Summit. Building on the previous
meetings in the same format, the leaders reconfirmed the strong
U.S.-Nordic partnership and the intensifying cooperation between their
countries, focusing on security, the environment, technology and
society.  
   
On security, the Nordic countries and the United States reiterated their
unequivocal condemnation of Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine.
They remained unwavering in their support for Ukraine’s independence,
sovereignty, and territorial integrity within its internationally
recognized borders. They pledged to continue their support for Ukraine
for as long as it takes, including through sustained security, economic,
legal, and humanitarian assistance. The leaders committed to continue
diplomatic outreach to build the widest possible international support
for a just and lasting peace in Ukraine founded on the principles of the
UN Charter. This includes an increased engagement and dialogue with
global partners on the challenges faced due to the war.       
   
Meeting immediately after the NATO Summit in Vilnius, the leaders
reconfirmed the importance of the Alliance for regional and
transatlantic security and stability. The United States and Nordic
leaders welcomed the 10 July 2023 statement by Sweden, Türkiye, and NATO
Secretary General Stoltenberg and look forward to Sweden joining NATO as
soon as possible. The leaders noted that Finnish and Swedish NATO
membership will strengthen the ability of the Nordic region to
contribute even further to the security of all NATO Allies. The Nordic
countries also noted their appreciation for the continued U.S.
commitment to transatlantic, European and Northern European security,
and they stand ready to deepen their security and defense cooperation
with the United States, including through the Nordic Defense Cooperation
framework.  
   
On the environment, the leaders underscored that climate change and
biodiversity loss are among the most critical challenges facing our
planet. In this context, the leaders noted the importance of protecting
and preserving the Arctic and promoting its sustainable economic
development, working in consultation with the indigenous peoples of the
Arctic. U.S. and Nordic leaders discussed ways to intensify cooperation
on clean technologies, resource and energy efficiency, energy security,
critical mineral resources, and resilient supply chains. They noted that
cooperation on these issues is critical to achieving shared goals of
tackling the climate crisis, accelerating the clean energy transition,
and upholding high environmental, social, labor, and governance
standards. The leaders are committed to pursuing the opportunities in
the transition, enabling new jobs and growth. The United States and the
Nordic countries also work closely together in relevant international
fora to address climate change, biodiversity loss, ocean health, and
sustainable development.    
   
On technology, the leaders recognized the crucial significance of
critical and emerging technologies—with appropriate guardrails and risk
mitigation measures—for global prosperity and security. The United
States and the Nordic countries committed to step up cooperation on
technologies such as 5G and 6G, artificial intelligence, cybersecurity,
and quantum technologies. They noted that cooperation on fundamental and
applied research enables the United States and Nordic partners to stay
at the technological forefront and to develop technologies and standards
that align with common values and interests and are applied in ways that
protect democracy and uphold human rights and fundamental freedoms. The
leaders underlined the strategic importance of international
connectivity.  
   
On society, the leaders reaffirmed the fundamental and shared values of
democracy, respect for human rights, gender equality, the protection and
equal treatment of all people, rule of law, and economic freedom as the
basis of U.S.-Nordic cooperation. These values are indispensable to the
resilience of our societies. From that foundation, increased cooperation
between the United States and the Nordic countries will help reduce
critical strategic dependencies and vulnerabilities and create a more
prosperous and secure future for all our citizens. The leaders stressed
the importance of people-to-people connections between their countries
at all levels as an essential component of U.S.-Nordic ties.

\###
