---
date: '2023-07-14'
modified_time: 2023-07-13 18:12:12-04:00
published_time: 2023-07-14 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/14/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-launches-historic-20-billion-competition-to-catalyze-investment-in-clean-energy-projects-and-tackle-the-climate-crisis/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Launches Historic $20 Billion\
  \ Competition to Catalyze Investment in Clean Energy Projects and Tackle the Climate\_\
  Crisis"
---
 
*Vice President Harris visits Coppin State University, an HBCU in
Baltimore, Maryland, on final day of Investing in America tour to
announce historic investment to capitalize a national-scale clean energy
financing network and provide unprecedented support for underserved
communities*

To close-out the Biden-Harris Administration’s second Investing in
America tour and highlight the impact of Bidenomics in communities
nationwide, Vice President Kamala Harris will announce a **$20 billion
competition to capitalize a clean energy financing network that will
massively expand investment in new projects that reduce pollution**
across the country. The funding is part of the Environmental Protection
Agency’s Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund, a first-of-its-kind and
national-scale $27 billion competition funded through President Biden’s
Inflation Reduction Act to combat the climate crisis by catalyzing
public and private capital for projects that slash harmful climate
pollution in communities across the country, especially underserved
communities, all while lowering energy costs for families and creating
good-paying jobs.

The Vice President will make the announcement at Coppin State
University, a Historically Black College and University (HBCU), where
she will be joined by Senator Tom Carper, Senator Ed Markey, Senator
Chris Van Hollen, Congressman Frank Pallone, Congressman David Trone,
Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Michael Regan, and
Maryland Lieutenant Governor Aruna Miller. The event concludes the
second round of the Administration’s Investing in America tour, where
President Biden, Vice President Harris, First Lady Jill Biden, Cabinet
members, and other Administration leaders held over 50 events and
traveled to over 30 states and territories to highlight how Bidenomics
is growing the economy from the middle out and bottom up in every
community across the country.

The $20 billion will be deployed through two separate and complementary
competitions, each aimed at mobilizing a national-scale clean energy
financing network that ensures the clean energy opportunity reaches all
Americans in every zip code:

-   The $**14 billion National Clean Investment Fund (NCIF)
    competition** will provide grants to support two-to-three national
    clean financing institutions that will partner with the private
    sector to provide accessible, affordable financing for tens of
    thousands of clean technology projects nationwide. At least 40% of
    NCIF funds will flow to low-income and disadvantaged communities,
    including communities with environmental justice concerns,
    traditional energy communities, rural communities, Tribal
    communities and other underserved areas.

<!-- -->

-   The **$6 billion Clean Communities Investment Accelerator (CCIA)
    competition** will work in tandem with the NCIF by providing grants
    to support two-to-seven hub nonprofit organizations that will
    provide funding and technical assistance to community lenders
    working to finance clean technology projects – from retrofitting
    homes to be highly efficient and zero emissions to electrifying
    small businesses’ delivery fleets – in low-income and disadvantaged
    communities. All CCIA funds will flow to these communities, helping
    advance the Biden-Harris Administration’s commitment to
    environmental justice.

Last month, Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Michael Regan
announced the first part of funding through the Greenhouse Gas Reduction
Fund – [**$7 billion for the “Solar for All”
competition**](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/biden-harris-administration-launches-7-billion-solar-all-grant-competition-fund#:~:text=WASHINGTON%20%28June%2028%2C%202023%29%20%E2%80%93%20Today%2C%20the%20U.S.,clean%20solar%20energy%20for%20millions%20of%20low-income%20households.),
which will increase access to affordable, resilient, and clean solar
energy for millions of low-income households.

The Greenhouse Gas Reduction Program advances the Biden-Harris
Administration’s [Justice40
Initiative](https://www.whitehouse.gov/environmentaljustice/justice40/),
which sets the goal that 40% of the overall benefits from certain
federal investments flow to disadvantaged communities that are
marginalized, underserved, and overburdened by pollution.

Today’s announcement furthers the Biden-Harris Administration’s historic
climate agenda, which is lowering energy costs for hardworking families,
bolstering America’s energy security, creating hundreds of thousands of
good-paying jobs, advancing environmental justice, and strengthening
community-driven climate resilience across the country. And it
demonstrates how Bidenomics—President Biden’s vision for growing the
economy from the middle out and the bottom up—is driving clean energy
investment across the country.

The announcement today builds on a recent slate of major clean energy
announcements through the Biden-Harris Administration’s Investing in
America agenda, including:

**<u>Expanding Access to Capital and Funding for Clean Energy
Projects</u>**

-   Earlier this month, the Department of Energy announced nine states
    and three Tribal nations as the third cohort to receive more than
    [**$200 million in Grid Resilience State and Tribal Formula
    Grants**](https://www.energy.gov/articles/biden-harris-administration-invests-over-200-million-states-and-tribal-nations-modernize).
    These grants are part of $2.3 billion from President Biden’s
    Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to ensure that communities across the
    Nation have access to affordable, reliable, clean electricity and
    that power grids are modernized to meet the needs of a clean energy
    economy and increasingly climate-impacted society.

<!-- -->

-   In June, the Treasury Department [**released guidance on direct
    pay**](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy1533), a key
    provision in the Inflation Reduction Act to expand the reach of
    clean energy tax credits and help build projects more quickly and
    affordably, which will create good-paying jobs, lower energy costs
    for families, and advance American innovation. As a result, local
    governments, territories, Tribes, nonprofits, and other tax-exempt
    entities will be able to access clean energy tax credits for the
    first time.

<!-- -->

-   In May, the Department of Energy’s Loan Programs Office [**issued
    guidance for its Clean Energy Financing
    Program**](https://www.energy.gov/lpo/title-17-clean-energy-financing),
    which can provide over $300 billion in loan guarantees for projects
    that will revitalize communities and drive clean energy progress
    across the power sector, industrial sector, and beyond.

<!-- -->

-   In May, the Treasury Department [**provided additional guidance for
    the $10 billion Advanced Manufacturing Tax
    Credit**](https://www.energy.gov/infrastructure/qualifying-advanced-energy-project-credit-48c-program),
    opening the first round of the program to advance industrial
    decarbonization and boost American manufacturing in the industries
    of the future. To ensure President Biden’s manufacturing boom
    delivers benefits to communities across the country, 40% of the
    funding will be set aside for projects in energy communities.

**<u>Investing in Clean Buildings and Schools  </u>**

-   This week, the Department of Energy announced [**$90 million in
    competitive
    awards**](https://www.energy.gov/articles/biden-harris-administration-announces-90-million-support-resilient-and-efficient-building)
    to help states, cities, tribes, and partnering organizations
    implement updated energy codes for buildings. Funded by the
    President’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, these awards will support
    27 projects across 26 states and the District of Columbia to ensure
    buildings meet the latest standards for energy efficiency — reducing
    greenhouse gas emissions and lowering energy bills for American
    families and businesses.

<!-- -->

-   In June, the Government Services Administration [**announced nearly
    $1
    billion**](https://www.gsa.gov/about-us/newsroom/news-releases/bidenharris-administration-announces-nearly-1-bi-06202023)
    from the Inflation Reduction Act to make more than 100 federal
    buildings across the country net zero and/or electric—including the
    second largest in its portfolio, the Ronald Reagan Building in
    Washington, DC.

<!-- -->

-   In June, the Department of Energy [**announced $178 million in
    funding from the Bipartisan Infrastructure
    Law**](https://www.energy.gov/articles/biden-harris-administration-announces-178-million-improve-health-safety-and-lower-energy)
    to 24 selectees through the Renew America’s Schools grant program,
    which will support the implementation of energy improvements in K–12
    schools across the country, including upgrading HVAC systems,
    installing innovative technologies like solar panels and batteries,
    and alternative-fuel vehicle infrastructure.

<!-- -->

-   In March, the Department of Energy announced [**$250 million in
    funding**](https://www.energy.gov/femp/articles/biden-harris-administration-announces-250-million-federal-agencies-advance-net-zero)
    through the Assisting Federal Facilities with Energy Conservation
    Technologies (AFFECT) program to help federal agencies implement
    net-zero building projects. Funded by the Bipartisan Infrastructure
    Law, this investment will support energy and water conservation
    efforts to reduce emissions from government facilities, setting an
    example in sustainability as the country works to transition to
    clean energy.

**<u>Driving Electric Vehicle Adoption</u>**

-   In June, the Department of Transportation [**announced $1.7
    billion**](https://www.transportation.gov/briefing-room/biden-harris-administration-announces-nearly-17-billion-help-put-better-cleaner-buses)
    to put more than 1,700 clean buses on the road across 46 states and
    territories. Nearly half of these buses will be zero-emission
    models, bringing the total number of zero-emission transit buses
    funded by the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law over two years to more
    than 1,800 – and more than doubling the number of zero-emission
    transit buses on America’s roadways.

<!-- -->

-   In June, [**the Biden-Harris Administration
    announced**](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/27/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-driving-forward-on-convenient-reliable-made-in-america-national-network-of-electric-vehicle-chargers/)
    that nearly $24 billion has already been committed for electric
    vehicle public charging infrastructure through 2030 as a result of
    President Biden’s Investing in America agenda, rising demand for
    electric vehicles, and investment from private firms, the public
    sector, and electric utilities. President Biden’s Bipartisan
    Infrastructure Law invests $7.5 billion in EV charging, $10 billion
    in clean transportation, and over $7 billion in EV battery
    components, critical minerals, and materials, and the Administration
    is on track to achieve the President’s goal of 500,000 public
    electric vehicle chargers.

<!-- -->

-   In April, the Environmental Protection Agency announced [**$400
    million in
    grants**](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/biden-harris-administration-announces-400-million-grant-program-fund-clean-school)
    through the Clean School Bus Program, which offers funding for
    school districts to replace dirty diesel buses and transition to
    cleaner school bus fleets. Funded by the Bipartisan Infrastructure
    Law, this program is funded for five years and will distribute over
    $5 billion to deliver cleaner school buses across the country. 

**<u>Supporting Rural and Energy Communities</u>**

-   This week, the U.S. Department of Agriculture announced the
    availability of [**$21 million in technical assistance
    grants**](https://www.rd.usda.gov/newsroom/news-release/usda-announces-21-million-investment-help-lower-energy-costs-farmers-and-rural-business-owners)
    from the Inflation Reduction Act through the Rural Energy for
    America Program to help agricultural producers and rural small
    businesses access federal funds for renewable energy and energy
    efficiency improvements.

<!-- -->

-   In May, the U.S. Department of Agriculture announced the [**biggest
    investment in rural
    electrification**](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2023/05/16/biden-harris-administration-makes-historic-11-billion-investment)
    since the New Deal and the creation of the Tennessee Valley
    Authority—nearly $11 billion through the Inflation Reduction Act to
    help rural energy and utility providers bring affordable, reliable
    clean energy to their communities across the country.

<!-- -->

-   In April, the Biden-Harris administration [**released a slate of new
    investments to support energy
    communities**](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/04/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-clean-energy-projects-to-revitalize-energy-communities-support-coal-workers-and-reduce-reliance-on-competitors-like-china/),
    including new guidance on the Inflation Reduction Act’s energy
    communities bonus credit from Treasury to drive new clean energy
    projects, and $450 million from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law
    for clean energy demonstration projects on current and former mine
    land through the Department of Energy. 

\###
