---
date: '2023-07-11'
modified_time: 2023-07-11 12:05:53-04:00
published_time: 2023-07-11 12:05:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/11/fact-sheet-vice-president-harris-announces-actions-to-lower-child-care-costs-and-support-child-care-providers/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Vice President Harris Announces Actions to Lower Child Care Costs\
  \ and Support Child Care\_Providers"
---
 
**Lowering hard-working families’ child care costs is a core pillar of
“Bidenomics”**

From the beginning of this Administration, President Biden and Vice
President Harris have been focused on child care costs as a critical
challenge for families. That is why President Biden signed the most
comprehensive set of executive actions any President has ever taken to
make care more affordable and accessible for hard-working families, and
provide support for care workers and family caregivers while
strengthening the care economy. In his Executive Order (EO) that he
signed in April, the President directed the Department of Health & Human
Services (HHS) to consider advancing policies that reduce child care
costs for families and improve provider payment policies to strengthen
the child care market. 

Today, Vice President Harris is announcing new steps to deliver on the
fight to lower the cost of child care, strengthening the Child Care &
Development Block Grant (CCDBG) program, which supports 1.5 million
children and their families each month with child care assistance.
Specifically, the Vice President will announce an HHS notice of proposed
rulemaking (NPRM) that would: 

-   Cap child care copayments for working families at no more than 7% of
    a family’s income and encourage states to waive copayments for
    families at or below 150% of the federal poverty level;
-   Improve financial stability for child care providers and incentivize
    their participation in the CCDBG program by ensuring they are paid
    on-time and based on program enrollment instead of attendance; and,
-   Make it easier for families to access CCDBG by encouraging states to
    accept online applications for CCDBG enrollment and to make siblings
    of children who already receive the subsidy presumptively eligible
    for benefits.

The NPRM builds upon a core pillar of the “Bidenomics” agenda by
lowering child care costs and improving the financial stability of child
care providers so that more parents can find child care when and where
they need it.

**<u>Lower Child Care Costs for Working Families</u>**

Child care costs are too high for many families. HHS estimates that,
between 2005 and 2021, the average family copayment increased nearly
20%. High copayments may mean that families cannot afford to participate
in the CCDBG program and instead have to patch together child care,
reduce work hours, or exit the workforce entirely. In addition, research
from the U.S. Census Bureau’s Survey of Income and Program Participation
concluded that families with low incomes paid five times more than
families with higher incomes, as a portion of their income. In 2016, HHS
established 7% of family income as the federal benchmark of an
affordable child care copayment. However, currently, only 14 states have
set copayment rates for families participating in CCDBG at or below this
level.

The NPRM would reduce the significant financial strain that high
copayments can cause for families receiving child care assistance by
capping copayments at no more than 7% of a family’s
income. **Nearly 80,000 families would see their child care payments
reduced **due to the 7% copayment cap. The proposed rule also encourages
states to waive copayments for families at or below 150% of the federal
poverty level. This change could eliminate copayments entirely for these
families and save a family of three more than $250 a month in Ohio,
nearly $300 a month in North Carolina, and over $350 in New Hampshire. 

**<u>Improve Financial Stability of Child Care Providers</u>**

Child care providers that get payments through CCDBG experience burdens
of their own, which disincentivize their participation in the program.
For example, families typically pay for child care prior to receiving
services (e.g.,payment for child care for the month of February is due
February 1<sup>st</sup>) because providers need to cover expenses like
payroll and rent. However, only eight states currently pay CCDBG child
care providers in this manner. Further, nearly one-third of states
continue to pay CCDBG providers based on attendance as opposed to
enrollment – meaning providers’ payments can be adjusted *downward* if
children miss days.  

The NPRM would stabilize operations for participating providers and
encourage more providers to participate in CCDBG by ensuring that
providers are paid prospectively instead of weeks after providing
services to children and families. **Nearly 200,000 providers would
start getting paid on-time as opposed to
retrospectively.** Additionally, the proposed rule would ensure that
providers are paid based on program enrollment, giving providers needed
financial stability. **Over 100,000 providers would start getting paid
based on enrollment instead of attendance**, offering providers
reimbursements that are more stable.  

**<u>Make it Easier for Families to Access CCDBG</u>**

Some families currently face barriers in accessing CCDBG because of
challenging enrollment processes and paperwork burdens. For instance, in
one-third of states, families still use paper applications to access
child care assistance. Additionally, families in most states who already
benefit from CCDBG for one child must re-submit their eligibility
information if they have another child.    

The NPRM encourages states to streamline eligibility and enrollment
processes to make it easier for families to receive child care
assistance faster and make program bureaucracy less likely to disrupt
parent employment, training, and education and impede access to child
care. For instance, the **NPRM encourages all states to accept online
applications for enrollment – extending a policy that already exists in
two out of three states. The proposed rule would also encourage states
to make siblings of children who already receive subsidy presumptively
eligible for benefits, making it easier for families to get the
assistance they need.** These changes would help ensure timely access to
care for families experiencing a significant life change and reduce the
up-front burden on those families. 

\###
