---
date: '2023-07-27'
published_time: 2023-07-27 07:19:23-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/27/readout-of-fifth-meeting-of-the-ukraine-donor-coordination-platform-steering-committee/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of Fifth Meeting of the Ukraine Donor Coordination Platform Steering\_\
  Committee"
---
 
On July 25th, the fifth meeting of the Steering Committee of the
Multi-agency Donor Coordination Platform for Ukraine was co-chaired in a
virtual format by Deputy National Security Advisor for International
Economics Mike Pyle, Deputy Prime Minister for Restoration of Ukraine
Oleksandr Kubrakov, and European Commission Director-General for
Neighborhood and Enlargement Negotiations Gert Jan Koopman.

The group discussed progress to align donor and international financial
institution (IFI) assistance with Ukraine’s priority needs. The group
commended the progress made since the last steering committee meeting
and recognized there is more to do to ensure these efforts are fully
coordinated and synchronized. Donors committed to continue working to
match available financing to identified gaps building on recent sectoral
workshops. In addition, participants discussed how to coordinate support
for Ukraine’s reform agenda, including by aligning donor support around
a consolidated view of Ukraine’s reform priorities.

Deputy National Security Advisor Pyle welcomed the strengthened
coordination between Ukraine, donors, and IFIs to ensure assistance is
meeting Ukraine’s priorities. He underscored the role of the Platform as
the primary vehicle for donors to engage together with Ukraine on its
priorities for recovery and reconstruction, leveraging the critical
expertise of the IFIs and the central role of the EU. DNSA Pyle called
for the group to intensify its efforts to prioritize and sequence donor
and IFI support for Ukraine’s investment and reform plans. He reiterated
these efforts will create an enabling environment for investment, job
creation, and economic growth and stability.

Collaboration within the Platform will continue in the coming weeks, and
the Steering Committee will meet again in September.

\###
