---
date: '2023-07-25'
published_time: 2023-07-25 13:42:05-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/25/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-works-to-make-it-easier-for-people-with-disabilities-to-access-public-services-online/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Works to Make it Easier for\
  \ People with Disabilities to Access Public Services\_Online"
---
 
*Announces new proposed rule ahead of 33<sup>rd</sup> anniversary of the
ADA that would improve online access to state and local services for
nearly 50 million people with vision, hearing, cognitive, and manual
dexterity disabilities.  *

For more than three decades, the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
has been a driving force in moving America closer to the promise of
equal opportunity, full participation, independent living, and economic
self-sufficiency for the 61 million individuals with disabilities in our
country. Because of the ADA and its protections against discrimination
in public accommodations, employment, transportation, and community
living, millions of people with disabilities have grown up with the
promise of the same rights and chances as their peers without
disabilities — and our communities, our economy, and our country are all
stronger as a result.

Despite the important progress made under the ADA, many people with
disabilities cannot access web or mobile-based state and local
services—such as voter registration, filing taxes, applying for critical
social services, accessing vital records, registering for vaccines, and
taking online courses. This lack of accessibility has led unequal access
to critical services for millions of Americans. As most services turned
online during the pandemic, access disparities worsened. Deaf and hard
of hearing people could not understand video messages from governors and
mayors due to lack of captioning and American Sign Language
interpretation. Community college students with certain disabilities,
such as manual dexterity disabilities, could not properly navigate
online course content.

That’s why tomorrow, in recognition of the 33<sup>rd</sup> Anniversary
of the ADA, the Biden-Harris administration is taking new steps to
strengthen the ADA and improve online accessibility to state and local
services for the nearly 50 million people with disabilities with vision,
hearing, cognitive, and manual dexterity disabilities.

**<u>New Biden-Harris administration Rule to Improve Online
Accessibility</u>:**

The Department of Justice (DOJ) is proposing a new rule that would
establish accessibility standards for state and local governments’ web
and mobile app-based services. This proposed rule will better enable
state and local governments to meet their ADA obligation to provide
equal access to their services, programs, and activities for people with
disabilities. The proposed rule suggests clear technical standards, like
including text descriptions of images so people using screen readers can
understand the content, providing captions on videos, and enabling
navigation through use of a keyboard instead of a mouse for those with
limited use of their hands. Clearer standards will both ensure that
people with disabilities can access vital services and make it easier
for states and localities to understand their ADA obligations.

The proposed rule will move us toward a more inclusive nation through
equal access to crucial state and local services. It will help ensure
that students with disabilities can access course content for the
courses they enroll in, including higher level math and science. It will
improve voter registration websites so that voters with disabilities can
register independently. And it will help people with disabilities
commute to work by helping them access bus and train information online.

**<u>Previous Administration Actions to Support People with
Disabilities</u>**

Tomorrow’s announcement follows a series of historic investments through
President Biden’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and Inflation Reduction
Act to strengthen accessible infrastructure, provide affordable
internet, expand access to health care, and increase access to
educational and job opportunities for Americans with disabilities. And
it builds upon the Administration’s broader agenda to achieve a more
inclusive, accessible, and equitable country for people with
disabilities. In the past year, the Administration has been:

-   **Investing in Accessible Infrastructure**
    -   **Accessible Rail Stations.** The Federal Transit Authority’s
        [All Stations Accessibility
        Program](https://www.transit.dot.gov/funding/grants/grant-programs/all-stations-accessibility-program-fy22-23-projects),
        established by BIL, has awarded $686 million in funding to 15
        projects in 9 states to increase the number of rail stations
        that meet or exceed ADA standards.

    <!-- -->

    -   **Accessibility of Electric Vehicle Network.** Last summer, the
        U.S. Access Board developed [design
        recommendations](https://www.access-board.gov/tad/ev/) for
        accessible electric vehicle charging stations, the foundation
        for ensuring access to new forms of transportation.

<!-- -->

-   **Delivering Internet for All, including People with Disabilities**
    -   **Affordable Broadband.** In June, the Department of Commerce
        [announced](https://internetforall.gov/news-media/biden-harris-administration-announces-state-allocations-4245-billion-high-speed-internet)
        $42.5 billion in grants to states to ensure everyone in American
        has affordable, reliable high-speed internet. This is especially
        important for people with disabilities who often rely heavily on
        the internet to access basic services. 

    <!-- -->

    -   **Communications Services for Incarcerated People with
        Disabilities.** In September 2022, the Federal Communications
        Commission took action to [expand
        access](https://www.fcc.gov/document/fcc-mandates-trs-access-incarcerated-people-disabilities)
        to telecommunications relay services and direct video
        communications for incarcerated people with communication
        disabilities.

    <!-- -->

    -   **Accessibility of Virtual Meeting Platforms**. On June 8, the
        Federal Communications Commission voted to require [video
        conferencing](https://www.fcc.gov/document/fcc-requires-video-conferencing-accessibility-proposes-asl-support-0)
        platforms like Zoom, WebEx, and Microsoft Teams to incorporate
        accessibility like captioning and display of sign language
        interpreters.

<!-- -->

-   **Supporting Community Living and Employment**
    -   **Care as Infrastructure**. On April 18, the President signed an
        [Executive
        Order](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/04/18/executive-order-on-increasing-access-to-high-quality-care-and-supporting-caregivers/)
        on Increasing Access to High-Quality Care and Supporting
        Caregivers. The Executive Order included more than 50 directives
        to agencies, including to expand home-based care for veterans
        with disabilities, improve pay for direct support workers, and
        ensure access to home and community-based services (HCBS).
    -   **Transition from Education to Employment.** The Department of
        Education (ED) is increasing employment among youth with
        disabilities through their [Pathways to Partnerships
        Project](https://rsa.ed.gov/about/programs/disability-innovation-fund-pathways-to-partnerships),
        which will provide an estimated $224 million to improve
        pre-employment transition services for students through
        vocational rehabilitation, state and local education agencies,
        and centers for independent living.
    -   **Nondiscrimination in Housing.** The Department of Housing and
        Urban Development released an Advanced Notice of Proposed
        Rulemaking to update its Section [504
        regulation](https://www.hud.gov/504) and invite public input on
        accessible design, websites and other technology, auxiliary
        aids, and services including assistive technologies.
-   **Expanding Access to Health Care**
    -   **Easier Enrollment in Medicaid**. In August 2022, CMS issued a
        proposed rule that would [reduce red tape and
        simplify](https://www.cms.gov/newsroom/fact-sheets/streamlining-eligibility-enrollment-notice-propose-rulemaking-nprm)
        applications, verifications, enrollment, and renewals for health
        care coverage through Medicaid and the Children’s Health
        Insurance Program. This proposed rule will help ensure
        continuity of services for children and adults with disabilities
        and reduce paperwork.

    <!-- -->

    -   **Access to Services at School**. On May 18, HHS and ED took
        [action](https://www.ed.gov/news/press-releases/biden-harris-administration-takes-action-help-schools-deliver-critical-health-care-services-millions-students)
        to make it easier for schools to provide critical health care
        services, especially mental health services, for millions of
        students across the nation through a new regulation to
        [streamline](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2023/05/18/2023-10542/assistance-to-states-for-the-education-of-children-with-disabilities)
        Medicaid billing protections at school and a [comprehensive
        guide](https://www.medicaid.gov/medicaid/financial-management/downloads/sbs-guide-medicaid-services-administrative-claiming.pdf)
        to billing Medicaid for schools.

    <!-- -->

    -   **Reforming Public Charge.** So that immigrants and their U.S.
        citizen and non-U.S. citizen family members can access important
        government services to keep their families safe and healthy, the
        Department of Homeland Security finalized a regulation on how it
        determines whether noncitizens are inadmissible to the United
        States because they are [likely to become a public
        charge](https://www.uscis.gov/green-card/green-card-processes-and-procedures/public-charge/public-charge-resources). 
-   **Responding to COVID-19**
    -   **Improving Indoor Air Quality.** The Administration continues
        to promote the importance of [indoor air
        quality](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/ostp/news-updates/2022/12/08/clean-indoor-air-benefits-everyone/)
        to reduce the spread of COVID-19 and other airborne diseases,
        protect against outdoor air pollutants such as smog and wildfire
        smoke, and decrease the number of environmental triggers for
        conditions like asthma and allergies. In May, CDC updated its
        [guidance](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/ventilation.html)
        on ventilation in buildings to promote better indoor air
        quality.

    <!-- -->

    -   **Addressing Long COVID.** As announced last August, HHS will
        create an [Office of Long COVID Research and
        Practice](https://www.covid.gov/assets/files/National-Research-Action-Plan-on-Long-COVID-08012022.pdf).
        This office will coordinate the whole-of-government response to
        the long-term impacts of COVID-19, as directed by the April 2022
        Presidential
        [memorandum](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/04/05/memorandum-on-addressing-the-long-term-effects-of-covid-19/)
        on Addressing the Long-Term Effects of COVID-19.

\###
