---
date: '2023-07-31'
modified_time: 2023-07-31 09:16:42-04:00
published_time: 2023-07-31 10:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/31/statement-from-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-and-principal-deputy-national-security-advisor-jon-finer-on-the-presidents-intelligence-advisory-boards-review-of-section-702-o/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan and Principal Deputy\
  \ National Security Advisor Jon Finer on the President\u2019s Intelligence Advisory\
  \ Board\u2019s Review of Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance\_\
  Act"
---
 
Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) is one
of the nation’s most critical intelligence tools used to protect the
homeland and the American people.  Thanks to intelligence obtained under
this authority, the United States has been able to understand and
respond to threats posed by the People’s Republic of China, rally the
world against Russian atrocities in Ukraine, locate and eliminate
terrorists intent on causing harm to America, enable the disruption of
fentanyl trafficking, mitigate the Colonial Pipeline ransomware attack,
and much more.

With Section 702 set to expire on December 31, 2023, absent renewal, the
President asked the President’s Intelligence Advisory Board (PIAB) to
conduct a review of the effectiveness of Section 702 collection and
oversight and to provide recommendations as to potential
reforms. In order to inform ongoing discussions about Section
702‘s  reauthorization, today the Biden-Harris administration is
publicly releasing, in unclassified form, the vast majority of the
report delivered to the President by the PIAB.  

We agree with the unanimous conclusion reached by this group of
independent, deeply experienced experts that failure to
reauthorize Section 702 could be “one of the worst intelligence failures
of our time.” We also agree with the Board’s recommendation that Section
702 should be reauthorized without new and operationally damaging
restrictions on reviewing intelligence lawfully collected by the
government and with measures that build on proven reforms to enhance
compliance and oversight, among other improvements.  We look forward to
reviewing the Board’s recommendations for how we can secure this
critical national security authority and to working with Congress to
ensure its reauthorization.  
  
Read the [full report
here](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/07/Presidents-Intelligence-Advisory-Board-and-Intelligence-Oversight-Board-Review-of-FISA-Section-702-and-Recommendations-for-Reauthorization.pdf).

\###
