---
date: '2023-07-03'
modified_time: 2023-07-03 14:30:27-04:00
published_time: 2023-07-03 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/03/president-biden-announces-nominees-to-bipartisan-boards-and-commissions/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Nominees to Bipartisan Boards and\_Commissions"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve as Republican members of boards and
commissions that are required, by statute or longstanding practice, to
include bipartisan membership.

• Andrew N. Ferguson, Nominee for Commissioner of the Federal Trade
Commission  
• Melissa Holyoak, Nominee for Commissioner of the Federal Trade
Commission  
• Henry J. Kerner, Nominee for Member of the Merit Systems Protection
Board  
• Amanda Wood Laihow, Nominee for Member of the Occupational Safety and
Health Review Commission  
• Elliott Abrams, Nominee for Member of the United States Advisory
Commission on Public Diplomacy  
• Jamie Fly, Nominee for Member of the International Broadcasting
Advisory Board, United States Agency for Global Media  
• Laura Dove, Nominee for Trustee of the James Madison Memorial
Fellowship Foundation  
• Bradford P. Wilson, Nominee for Trustee of the James Madison Memorial
Fellowship Foundation

**<u>Andrew N. Ferguson, Nominee for Commissioner of the Federal Trade
Commission</u>**

Andrew N. Ferguson is the Solicitor General of the Commonwealth of
Virginia. He oversees the appellate litigation of Virginia and its
agencies; represents Virginia before the Supreme Court of the United
States, the Supreme Court of Virginia and the federal courts of appeals;
and defends Virginia’s statutes and regulations from constitutional
challenge. Before accepting the appointment as Solicitor General,
Ferguson served as Chief Counsel to U.S. Senate Republican Leader Mitch
McConnell from 2019 until 2021. In that role, he was Leader McConnell’s
chief legal advisor and judicial confirmation strategist. Before serving
as Leader McConnell’s Chief Counsel, Ferguson served as Chief Counsel
for Nominations and the Constitution to then-Judiciary Committee
Chairman Lindsey Graham (R-SC), and as Senior Special Counsel to
then-Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-IA). Ferguson also
practiced antitrust law at several large D.C. law firms, where he
represented clients in private antitrust litigation and before the
Federal Trade Commission and Department of Justice. He has also
represented clients before the U.S. Supreme Court and federal courts of
appeals at Bancroft P.L.L.C. Ferguson clerked for Judge Karen L.
Henderson on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit and for
Justice Clarence Thomas on the Supreme Court of the United States. He
earned his undergraduate degree from the University of Virginia, where
he graduated with highest distinction. He earned his law degree from the
University of Virginia School of Law, where he was an articles editor of
the Virginia Law Review. Ferguson was born and grew up in Harrisonburg
and Rockingham County.

**<u>Melissa Holyoak, Nominee for Commissioner of the Federal Trade
Commission</u>**

Melissa Holyoak currently serves as the Utah Solicitor General with the
Utah Attorney General’s Office, where she manages the civil appeals,
criminal appeals, constitutional defense and special litigation, and
antitrust and data privacy divisions. In that capacity, she oversees
merger reviews, data privacy and antitrust enforcement actions, and
provides leadership in consumer protection matters. Holyoak is an
experienced litigator, with much of her twenty years of practice focused
on consumer protection. Prior to joining the Utah Attorney General’s
Office, Holyoak served as President and General Counsel of Hamilton
Lincoln Law Institute, a Washington, D.C.-based public interest firm
representing consumers challenging unfair class actions and regulatory
overreach. She served in previous positions as a public interest
attorney with the Competitive Enterprise Institute and the Center for
Class Action Fairness. Holyoak also worked as an associate with
O’Melveny & Myers LLP. She graduated from the University of Utah S.J.
Quinney College of Law in 2003 as a member of the Order of the Coif and
the Law Review, and earned her B.A. from the University of Utah. She
lives in Utah with her husband and four children.

**<u>Henry J. Kerner, Nominee for Member of the Merit Systems Protection
Board</u>**

Henry J. Kerner has served as Special Counsel of the U.S. Office of
Special Counsel (OSC) since October 2017. In this role, Kerner has
implemented new processes and procedures to dramatically increase OSC’s
responsiveness to whistleblower complaints and focus on customer
service. He has also overseen a significant restructuring of OSC’s
programmatic units to streamline the handling of prohibited personnel
practice investigations. This reorganization involved combining units
with overlapping responsibilities to make OSC’s processes more
efficient. Kerner began his legal career working as a career prosecutor,
primarily in Compton, California, for 18 years. In 2011, he joined the
staff of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, the
chief investigative committee of the United States House of
Representatives. Under Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA), and later, Chairman
Jason Chaffetz (R-UT), he led investigations of the federal bureaucracy
and advocated on behalf of whistleblowers. Kerner also served as Staff
Director of the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, the
lead investigative committee of the U.S. Senate, under Ranking Member
Senator John McCain (R-AZ). Kerner holds a J.D. from Harvard Law School.

**<u>Amanda Wood Laihow, Nominee for Member of the Occupational Safety
and Health Review Commission</u>**

Amanda Wood Laihow was first appointed to serve as a Commissioner on the
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (OSHRC) in January
2020. Prior to her appointment as a Commissioner, Wood Laihow served as
Chief Counsel to OSHRC Chairman James J. Sullivan, Jr., where she was
the primary legal advisor to the Chairman, giving critical, independent,
and innovative legal advice on all pending matters. Previously, Wood
Laihow was the Director of Labor and Employment Policy for the National
Association of Manufacturers. As a labor and employment policy expert,
she advocated on significant labor issues pertaining to employee health
and safety under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Fair Labor
Standards Act, the National Labor Relations Act, and anti-discrimination
laws. Before her private sector experience, Wood Laihow served as Deputy
General Counsel for the Honorable Susan M. Collins on the Senate
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee working on labor
and employment legislation affecting both private- and public-sector
employees and prior to that served as an Assistant General Counsel at
the General Services Administration. A Maine native, Wood Laihow
received her J.D. from the University of Maine School of Law and her
B.A. in Political Science from the University of New Hampshire. She
currently resides in Alexandria, Virginia with her husband and two
daughters.

**<u>Elliott Abrams, Nominee for Member of the United States Advisory
Commission on Public Diplomacy</u>**

Elliott Abrams is senior fellow for Middle Eastern Studies at the
Council on Foreign Relations in Washington, D.C. Abrams’ career in
public service began when he served as Assistant Counsel to the United
States Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations in 1975. From
1976 to 1979, he worked for the late Senator Henry M. Jackson and the
late Senator Daniel P. Moynihan. Joining the Reagan Administration in
1981, he served as Assistant Secretary of State for International
Organization Affairs, Human Rights, and Latin America. In the
Bush-Cheney Administration, Abrams served as a Senior Director of the
National Security Council and then as a Deputy Assistant to the
President and Deputy National Security Adviser. Most recently, Abrams
served in the State Department as Special Representative for Iran and
Special Representative for Venezuela during the Trump-Pence
Administration. From 1996 to 2001, he was President of the Ethics and
Public Policy Center in Washington, D.C. Further, Abrams served as
member and Chair of the United States Commission on International
Religious Freedom between 1999 and 2001 before being reappointed to
membership for another term from 2012 to 2014. Abrams was a member of
the Board of the National Endowment for Democracy from 2011 to 2023, and
has served as a member of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council, which
directs the activities of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum, from 2009
to 2016. Abrams is Chairman of the Vandenberg Coalition, Chairman of the
Tikvah Fund, and a board member of the Jewish People Policy Institute
and the Israel Democracy Institute. Abrams holds a B.A. from Harvard
College, and M.Sc. in Economics from the London School of Economics, and
a J.D. from Harvard Law School.

**<u>Jamie Fly, Nominee for Member of the International Broadcasting
Advisory Board, United States Agency for Global Media</u>**

Jamie Fly served as President and CEO of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty
(RFE/RL) from 2019 to 2020 and 2021 to 2023. Prior to his time at
RFE/RL, Fly served in various roles at The German Marshall Fund of the
United States including Senior Fellow, Advisor to the President,
Co-Director of the Alliance for Security Democracy, and Director of the
Future of Geopolitics and Asia programs. He served as Counselor for
Foreign and National Security Affairs to Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL)
between 2013 and 2017, serving as his Foreign Policy Advisor during his
presidential campaign. Prior to joining Senator Rubio’s staff, Fly
served as the Executive Director of the Foreign Policy Initiative (FPI).
Prior to joining FPI, Fly served in the Bush-Cheney Administration at
the National Security Council from 2008 to 2009 and in the Office of the
Secretary of Defense 2005 to 2008. For his work in the Department of
Defense, Fly has been awarded the Office of the Secretary of Defense
Medal for Exceptional Public Service. He holds his B.A. in International
Studies and Political Science from American University and an M.A. in
German and European Studies from Georgetown University.

**<u>Laura Dove, Nominee for Trustee of the James Madison Memorial
Fellowship Foundation</u>**

Laura Dove is the Senior Director for Administration at the Harvard
Kennedy School’s Institute of Politics, where she works to inspire
students to enter public service. Prior to her appointment at Harvard,
Dove was a Pritzker Fellow at the University of Chicago, where she led a
seminar focused on the role of the Senate. Dove spent more than 20 years
working for the U.S. Senate, in various roles in Republican leadership
offices and ultimately as Secretary for the Majority under Leader Mitch
McConnell. Dove retired from the Senate in 2020 and served as Federal
Government Relations Director for Ford Motor Company before
transitioning to her current academic focus. She lives with her family
in Alexandria, Virginia.

**<u>Bradford Pentony Wilson, Nominee for Trustee for the James Madison
Memorial Fellowship Foundation</u>**

Bradford Pentony Wilson is Executive Director of the James Madison
Program in American Ideals and Institutions, Occasional Lecturer in
Politics, and Fellow of Forbes College at Princeton University. His
interests include American constitutional law, American political
thought, and Western political thought. Wilson is the author of
*Enforcing the Fourth Amendment: A Jurisprudential History*, and
co-editor of three books: *American Political Parties & Constitutional
Politics*, *Separation of Powers and Good Government*, and *The Supreme
Court and American Constitutionalism*. He is also the editor of *The
Constitutional Legacy of William H. Rehnquist*. Wilson co-edited a
two-volume edition of *The Political Writings of Alexander Hamilton*,
published by Cambridge University Press in 2017. Wilson’s co-edited two
volumes of *The Political Writings of George Washington* will be
published by Cambridge University Press in fall of 2023. Wilson has
served as President of the Association for the Study of Free
Institutions since 2006. From 1994 to 1995, Wilson was a Fulbright
Senior Scholar at Moscow State University and Moscow’s International
Juridical Institute, and prior to this he was a Research Associate to
two Chief Justices of the United States, Warren E. Burger and William H.
Rehnquist from 1984 to 1987. He has been an editor of *Interpretation: A
Journal of Political Philosophy* since 1982. Wilson received his B.A.
from North Carolina State University, his M.A. from Northern Illinois
University, and his Ph.D. in Politics from The Catholic University of
America.

\###
