---
date: '2023-07-11'
modified_time: 2023-07-11 15:01:18-04:00
published_time: 2023-07-11 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/11/president-biden-announces-key-nominees-50/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Nominees"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve as key leaders in his administration:

-   Erika L. McEntarfer, Nominee for Commissioner of Labor Statistics at
    the Department of Labor
-   Jeff Rezmovic, Nominee for Chief Financial Officer at the Department
    of Homeland Security
-   Laura Stone, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Republic of the Marshall Islands
-   Leslie N. Bluhm, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors of
    AmeriCorps
-   Alvin Harlyn Warren, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors of
    AmeriCorps
-   David K. Sing, Nominee for Member of the National Council on the
    Humanities
-   William J. Brodsky, Nominee for Director of the Securities Investor
    Protection Corporation
-   Claudia Slacik, Nominee for Director of the Securities Investor
    Protection Corporation
-   Todd Gloria, Nominee for Trustee of the Harry S. Truman Scholarship
    Foundation
-   Tadd M. Johnson, Nominee for Member of the Board of Trustees of the
    Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation

**<u>Erika L. McEntarfer, Nominee for Commissioner of Labor Statistics
at the Department of Labor</u>**

Erika L. McEntarfer is a senior supervisory economist in the Center for
Economic Studies at the United States Census Bureau and recently served
as a senior economist at the White House Council of Economic Advisors.
She leads a section of economists conducting research in various fields
of economics, including labor, macro-, education, and urban economics.
She also leads development of new experimental economic statistics
derived from the Longitudinal Employer-Household Dynamics jobs data,
such as Job-to-Job Flows, Post-Secondary Employment Outcomes, and
Veteran Employment Outcomes. McEntarfer’s own research is focused on job
loss, retirement, worker mobility, and wage rigidity. Prior to joining
CES, she was an economist at the U.S. Treasury Department. She holds a
B.A. in Social Science from Bard College and a Ph.D. in Economics from
Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University.

**<u>Jeff Rezmovic, Nominee for Chief Financial Officer at the
Department of Homeland Security</u>**

Jeff Rezmovic is an experienced national security leader and most
recently served as Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy at the Department of
Homeland Security, where he supported the Secretary of Homeland Security
in overseeing the daily operations of the Department’s 260,000 personnel
and $98 billion budget. In this role, Rezmovic worked to advance the
strategic, policy, and operational priorities of the Department,
including: counterterrorism; cybersecurity; border security;
immigration; emergency management; and combating human trafficking and
child exploitation. From 2018-2020, Rezmovic served as a Branch Chief at
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, overseeing data and
information sharing relationships with international and interagency
partners. From 2011 through 2017, Rezmovic served in the DHS Office of
the Deputy Secretary in a variety of roles, including Acting Deputy
Chief of Staff and Counselor to the Deputy Secretary. He also served as
Chief of Staff of the DHS Blue Campaign, where he shaped and implemented
the Department’s anti-human trafficking priorities by administering a
nationwide public awareness campaign to combat human trafficking and
spearheading policy solutions to support survivors of human
trafficking.  In 2010, Rezmovic served as a Presidential Management
Fellow and Speechwriter for the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
Rezmovic is a graduate of the University of Michigan, and received his
law degree from the University of Colorado.

**<u>Laura Stone, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Republic of the Marshall Islands</u>**

Laura Stone, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service with the rank
of Minister-Counselor, currently serves as the Deputy Coordinator of the
Secretary of State’s Office of COVID Response and Health Security. She
previously served as the Deputy Assistant Secretary for India, Nepal,
Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Bhutan, and Maldives; in the office of the
Undersecretary of State for Economic Growth, where she coordinated
efforts to counter Chinese malign economic influence; and Acting Deputy
Assistant Secretary for China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, and Mongolia. Prior to
that, she worked as the Director of the Office of Chinese and Mongolian
Affairs; Director of the Economic Policy Office in the Bureau of East
Asia and Pacific Affairs; and Economic Counselor in Hanoi, Vietnam.
Stone also served three tours in Beijing as well as tours in Bangkok,
Tokyo, the Public Affairs Bureau, the Office of the Secretary of
Defense, and the Bureau of Intelligence and Research. Stone is the
recipient of numerous State Department awards, including the Cordell
Hull Award for Economic Achievement by a Senior Officer. Stone holds an
M.Phil. in International Relations from Oxford University and a Bachelor
of Arts from Cornell University. She speaks Chinese.

**<u>Leslie N. Bluhm, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors of
AmeriCorps</u>**

Leslie N. Bluhm has served as a Member of the AmeriCorps Board of
Directors since July 2022. She is a social entrepreneur who empowers
people to tackle challenges through collaborative action. In 1991, Bluhm
co-founded Chicago Cares, Inc., the city’s leading volunteer service
organization, which has sought to strengthen trust between Chicagoans
from different communities, backgrounds, and life experiences. Bluhm was
recognized by the University of Chicago with an alumni professional
achievement award in 2023. She was also named one of six Chicagoans of
the year by Chicago Magazine and was named to Crain’s 40 under 40. She
is proud to serve on the Board of Directors of Chicago Cares, the Museum
of Contemporary Art Chicago, OneGoal, the Whitney Museum of American
Art, and Shining Hope for Communities. She also serves on the Board of
Directors of Rush Street Interactive, Inc. Bluhm earned her B.A. from
the University of Michigan and a J.D. from the University of Chicago Law
School. Before founding Chicago Cares, she was an attorney in the New
York offices of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher, & Flom. Bluhm and her
husband, David Helfand, reside in Chicago with their two sons.

**<u>Alvin Harlyn Warren, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors
of AmeriCorps</u>**

Alvin Harlyn Warren has served as a Member of the AmeriCorps Board of
Directors since March 2022. Warren is Vice President of Career Pathways
and Advocacy for the LANL Foundation in Espanola, New Mexico. He is
responsible for expanding young students’ and adult learners’ access to
high-quality academic, technical, and professional opportunities, as
well as personalized supports in districts, schools, communities and
Native American pueblos, tribes, and nations in support of college,
career, and community readiness. Warren has also previously served as
the New Mexico Cabinet Secretary of Indian Affairs, Lieutenant Governor
of Santa Clara Pueblo, Program Officer for the W.K. Kellogg Foundation
and national Tribal Lands Program Director for the Trust for Public
Land. During his career he has helped: tribes across the United States
regain and protect traditional lands; ensure over $150 million in state
dollars flowed to tribes to build essential infrastructure; enact state
legislation establishing a framework for collaborative state-tribal
governmental relations; support tribal immersion and dual-language
schools; transform high schools across New Mexico and improve public
awareness and narratives about Indigenous peoples. He is the Vice
President of the Santa Fe Indian School board of trustees and a founding
member and former President of the Kha’p’o Community School board. 
Warren holds his B.A. in History from Dartmouth College and a Master of
Public Administration from Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School
of Government. Warren is a member of Santa Clara Pueblo where he lives
with his wife Pamela, an Isleta Pueblo tribal member, and their
children. He is a longtime farmer and is actively involved in the
cultural life of his tribal community.

**<u>David K. Sing, Nominee for Member of the National Council on the
Humanities</u>**

David K. Sing is Professor Emeritus at the University of Hawai’i Hilo
and a managing partner at Educational Prism, LLC. Sing designed an
education model and has directed programs at the K-12 level such as Nā
Pua No’eau, as well as in higher education, through programs such as Ke
Ola Mau Health Pathways, Hawaiian Leadership Development Program, which
raise achievement and aspirations through a pedagogy that integrates
native perspective, history, language, culture, and values. Sing also
mobilized Native Hawaiian education caucus groups, creating a voice for
Native Hawaiian education to be heard through grassroots venues (Native
Hawaiian Education Association and Hawaiian Leadership Conference). He
was the first Native Hawaiian voted on to the Board of the National
Indian Education Association. Sing was awarded the National Indian
Education Association Educator of the Year Award in 2008 and Lifetime
Achievement Award in 2021. In 1991 and 2009 he received the Native
Hawaiian Education Award recognized as the outstanding educator for
contributing to the achievement and educational enrichment of Native
Hawaiian children. Sing received his Master’s and Doctorate degrees from
Claremont University in California.

**<u>William J. Brodsky, Nominee for Director of the Securities Investor
Protection Corporation</u>**

William J. Brodsky has served as a Director of the Securities Investor
Protection Corporation since May 2022. He has been in the financial
services industry for over 50 years. His career roles have included
asset classes of stocks, options, futures, private equity, and venture
capital. Brodsky has worked at four major exchanges, including the New
York Stock Exchange and the American Stock Exchange, as well as the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange, where he served as President and CEO from
1985 to 1997, and also the Chicago Board Options Exchange, where he
served as Chairman and CEO from 1997 to 2013 and later Chairman from
2013 to 2017. Brodsky has also served on the boards of the Options
Clearing Corporation and the Futures Industry Association.
Internationally, Brodsky was Chairman of the International Options
Market Association as well as Chairman of the World Federation of
Exchanges, a global body comprised of more than sixty of the leading
exchanges of the world. He also served for over ten years on the
International Capital Markets Advisory Committee of the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York. Currently, Brodsky is a life Trustee of Syracuse
University where he serves on the Investment and Endowment Committee. He
is a life Trustee of Northwestern Memorial Hospital, where he served as
Chairman of the Board and, Chairman of its Investment Committee for 14
years. He served as Chairman of the Board of Navy Pier, Inc.—the most
visited venue in Chicago and the Midwest—from 2013 to 2023. Brodsky is
Chairman of Cedar Street Asset Management and Options Solutions.

**<u>Claudia Slacik, Nominee for Director of the Securities Investor
Protection Corporation</u>**

Claudia Slacik has served as Chair of the Board of the Securities
Investor Protection Corporation since February 2022. Slacik has a career
spanning over 30 years in the financial services sector. She has a
breadth of experience in financial restructurings, risk management,
corporate finance, trade finance and general management. Slacik also has
experience serving on boards of directors, both public and private, with
an audit committee specialty. Slacik has worked for JPMorgan, Citibank
and Bankers Trust in New York and London. From 2013 to 2016, Slacik was
the Chief Banking Officer of at the Export Import Bank of the United
States. In 2018, she was a Fellow in Harvard’s Advanced Leadership
Institute and she currently serves on the boards of Junior Achievement
Worldwide and the Collegiate Churches of New York. She has degrees from
Smith College and NYU and lives in New York City with her wife, Susan M.
Davis.

**<u>Todd Gloria, Nominee for Member of the Board of Trustees of the
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation</u>**

Todd Gloria currently serves as the 37th Mayor of the City of San Diego.
A third-generation San Diegan, he is the first person of color and the
first LGBTQ person to be elected the city’s Mayor. Gloria began his
political career serving two terms as a City Councilmember, including
several years as City Council President. He then served two terms in the
California State Assembly representing the 78th Assembly District. Prior
to serving in elected office, Gloria began his career at the County of
San Diego’s Health and Human Services Agency before serving as District
Director to Representative Susan A. Davis (D-CA). Gloria holds a B.A.
from the University of San Diego.

**<u>Tadd M. Johnson, Nominee for Member of the Board of Trustees of the
Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation</u>**

Tadd M. Johnson has served as a Member of the Board of Trustees of the
Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation since December 2017. He
is the first Native American on the University of Minnesota Board of
Regents. Prior to that, he was the first Senior Director of American
Indian Tribal Nations Relations for the University of Minnesota system.
An enrolled member of the Bois Forte Band of Chippewa, Professor Johnson
served as a tribal attorney for more than 30 years, but has also served
as a tribal court judge, a tribal administrator, and is a frequent
lecturer on American Indian history and federal Indian law. Johnson
spent five years with the U.S. House of Representatives, ultimately
becoming Staff Director and Counsel to the Subcommittee on Native
American Affairs. In 1997, President Clinton appointed Johnson to Chair
of the National Indian Gaming Commission. Johnson earned his B.A. from
the University of St. Thomas and his law degree from the University of
Minnesota. He has served as faculty member of the National Judicial
College and has served on the Board of the Minnesota Chamber of
Commerce.

\###
