---
date: '2023-07-07'
modified_time: 2023-07-06 22:17:27-04:00
published_time: 2023-07-07 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/07/fact-sheetpresident-biden-announces-new-actions-to-lower-health-care-costs-and-protect-consumers-from-scam-insurance-plans-and-junk-fees-as-part-of-bidenomics-push/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Announces New Actions to Lower Health Care Costs\
  \ and Protect Consumers from Scam Insurance Plans and Junk Fees as Part of \u201C\
  Bidenomics\u201D\_Push"
---
 
*Actions are the latest in a series of steps the Biden Administration
has taken to eliminate hidden junk fees and lower prescription drug
costs*

Today, President Biden announced a series of new actions under a core
pillar of his “Bidenomics” agenda to lower health care costs and crack
down on surprise junk fees for American families and consumers. Since
the beginning of his Administration, President Biden has passed historic
legislation to lower health care costs for tens of millions of
Americans, took on Big Pharma to finally allow Medicare to negotiate
lower prescription drug prices, and took action to eliminate hidden fees
in every sector of the economy. Today, the Administration is taking
additional steps to continue to deliver on those promises.

Today, the President is announcing:

-   **The Biden-Harris Administration is cracking down on junk
    insurance.  **New proposed rules would close loopholes that the
    previous administration took advantage of that allow companies to
    offer misleading insurance products that can discriminate based on
    pre-existing conditions and trick consumers into buying products
    that provide little or no coverage when they need it most.  These
    plans leave families surprised by thousands of dollars in medical
    expenses when they actually  use health care services like a
    surgery.  If finalized, the rule would limit so-called “short-term”
    plans to truly short time periods, close loopholes made worse by the
    previous administration, and establish a clear disclosure for
    consumers of the limits of these plans.  
     
-   **The Administration is releasing important guidance on rules
    against surprise medical billing.** Biden-Harris Administration
    rules are already preventing as many as 1 million surprise medical
    bills every month.  New guidance will help stop providers from
    gaming the system by evading the surprise billing rules with
    creative contractual loopholes that still leave consumers with
    unexpected costs.  
     
-   **The Administration is announcing new steps to protect consumers
    from unfair medical debt. **For the first time in history, the
    Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, HHS, and Treasury are
    collaborating to explore whether health care provider and
    third-party efforts to encourage consumers to sign up for these
    products are operating outside of existing consumer protections and
    breaking the law. Medical credit cards and loans often lead to
    higher costs without consumers fully understanding the risks.  
     
-   **The Department of Health and Human Services is releasing a new
    report showing that nearly 19 million seniors and other Part D
    beneficiaries are projected to save $400 per year on prescription
    drugs **when President Biden’s $2,000 out-of-pocket cap goes into
    effect. It’s also releasing state by state data that demonstrates
    how seniors across the country are helped by just one element of the
    President’s robust agenda to lower prescription drug prices.

**These actions are the latest in a series of steps the Administration
has taken to address hidden junk fees** across industries, including:
cracking down on bounced check and overdraft fees in the banking
industry, which is saving consumers more than $5 billion every year;
proposing rules to require airlines to disclose all of their fees up
front and successfully pushing a number of airlines to end family
seating fees; and mobilizing private sector action to eliminate hidden
junk fees for concert and sports tickets.

**<u>Cracking down on junk insurance</u>**  
The Affordable Care Act has helped tens of millions of Americans access
high-quality, affordable health insurance and protects Americans from
being discriminated against because of pre-existing conditions.  But
actions from the previous administration allowed insurance companies to
take advantage of loopholes in the law and sell “junk insurance” plans
that evade these protections. These “junk insurance” plans leave
families surprised by thousands of dollars in bills, often because the
insurance plan claims they have a pre-existing condition that isn’t
covered.  For example, a man in Montana faced [$43,000 in health care
costs](https://www.latimes.com/politics/la-na-pol-trump-shortterm-health-insurance-consumer-problems-20190402-story.html) because
his insurance plan claimed his cancer was a pre-existing condition, and
a Pennsylvania woman was surprised by nearly [$20,000 in
bills](https://www.inquirer.com/health/obamacare-skimpy-health-plan-villanova-professor-20190405.html) for
an amputation her junk plan refused to cover.  Today, the Biden-Harris
Administration is proposing rules to crack down on this junk insurance,
as part of the latest efforts by the Administration to eliminate hidden
and junk fees in every industry across the economy.  These actions will
reduce scam insurance plans that offer really no insurance at all.

-   *“Short-term” plans must be truly short-term*.  Under the new rules,
    if finalized, plans that claim to be “short-term” health insurance
    would be limited to just 3 months, or a maximum of 4 months, if
    extended – instead of the 3 years that junk plans can offer today as
    a result of changes made by the previous administration.  
     
-   *Income replacement “fixed indemnity” plans cannot mimic
    comprehensive health insurance. *Under the proposed rules, plans
    that want to be exempt from the rules for health insurance — because
    they are designed to replace lost income when people get sick,
    rather than provide full medical coverage – have to live up to their
    original purpose and cannot be designed like comprehensive health
    insurance. This means that plans would need to make clear that
    people signing up for these plans would get a defined benefit, like
    $100 per day of illness, instead of thinking that they have
    comprehensive insurance. This proposed rule aims to prevent
    Americans from being on the hook for high medical costs, like a
    woman who needed an amputation and was [left
    with](https://www.inquirer.com/health/obamacare-skimpy-health-plan-villanova-professor-20190405.html) $20,000
    in medical debt because her plan did not include comprehensive
    coverage.  
     
-   *Plans have to clearly disclose limits. *Under the proposed rules,
    plans are required to provide consumers with a clear disclaimer that
    explains the limits of their benefits, including to existing
    consumers currently enrolled in these plans. 

**<u>Preventing surprise medical billing</u>**  
Before President Biden took office, millions of people received surprise
bills for health care they thought was in-network care covered by their
health plan.  This could include when people need emergency care and are
taken to the nearest hospital, or when a pregnant woman delivers her
baby at an in-network hospitals only to find out that the
anesthesiologist who cared for her is actually out-of-network.  These
surprise bills can cost people hundreds or thousands of dollars,
averaging between $750 to $2,600. The Administration is protecting
millions of consumers from surprise medical bills through the
implementation of the No Surprises Act, which has already protected 1
million Americans every month since January 1, 2022 from unfair,
undeserved out-of-network charges and balance bills.  
  
The Biden-Harris Administration is taking an important next step to
protect consumers from surprise medical bills by issuing guidance to
clarify that payers cannot use loopholes to avoid surprising billing
protections:

-   *Ending abuse of “in-network” designation.* Today, some health plans
    contract with hospitals, but try to claim that they are not
    technically “in-network” – which can expose consumers to higher
    payments when they have to make a hospital visit.  The
    Administration today is making clear this is not allowed under
    federal law: health care services provided by these providers are
    either out-of-network and subject to the surprise billing
    protections, or they are in-network and subject to the ACA’s annual
    limitation on cost-sharing, further protecting consumers from
    excessive out-of-pocket costs.  
     
-   *Facility fees treated like other health care costs.* The
    Administration is also concerned about an increase in patients being
    charged “facility fees” for health care provided outside of
    hospitals, like at a doctor’s office. These fees are often a
    surprise for consumers. The Administration today is making clear
    that health plans and providers must make information about these
    facility fees publicly available to consumers, as well as other
    price information for services and items they cover or provide. In
    addition, nonparticipating providers and nonparticipating emergency
    facilities cannot evade the protections of the No Surprises Act,
    including the prohibition on balance billing, by renaming charges
    otherwise prohibited under the No Surprises Act as “facility fees.”

**<u>Protecting consumers from unfair medical debt</u>**  
Increasingly, health care providers are signing up patients for
third-party medical credit cards and loans to help pay for care. These
credit cards often include teaser rates and deferred interest features
that lead to higher costs for consumers, and may be offered even when
low- or no-cost alternatives, such as zero-interest payment plans,
financial assistance, or health coverage may be available. Health care
providers may be promoting these products because they could allow
providers to get paid faster, outsource servicing and collections costs
to third parties, receive a higher payment from consumers who otherwise
would pay a discounted price for care, and in some circumstances,
receive a share of the interest revenue gained by the third-party
financial company.  
  
Use of these products may complicate insurance coverage and the
availability of financial assistance, and consumers may not fully
understand the risks associated with these products, leading to higher
costs and negative impacts on consumers’ financial, physical, and
emotional well-being.  
  
For the first time ever, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
(CFPB), HHS, and Treasury are collaborating on the needs of health care
consumers by releasing a Request for Information (RFI) to learn more
about this emerging practice and solicit comment on potential policy
actions. Part of this RFI will explore whether providers are operating
outside of existing consumer protections, because once medical bills are
placed on medical credit cards, there may be gaps in how various
consumer protections apply. 

**<u>New data shows nearly 19 million seniors and other Medicare
beneficiaries will save an estimated $400 per year in prescription drug
costs because of President Biden’s out-of-pocket spending cap</u>**  
Thanks to President Biden’s Inflation Reduction Act, out-of-pocket
spending on prescription drugs at the pharmacy will be capped at $2,000
per year for Medicare Part D enrollees starting in 2025.  Today, the
Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) released data showing that
18.7 million (or 1 in 3) seniors and people with disabilities who are
enrolled in Part D plans will save, on average, $400 per year when the
$2,000 cap and other Inflation Reduction Act provisions go into effect
in 2025. And some enrollees will save even more: 1.9 million enrollees
with the highest drug costs will save an average of $2,500 per year
starting in 2025. Overall, the law’s Part D benefits provisions will
reduce enrollee out-of-pocket spending by about $7.4 billion annually.  
  
To view data broken down by state and demographic, visit LINK.  
  
Today’s actions follow significant milestones achieved last week in
implementing President Biden’s historic law to lower health care and
prescription drug costs. On June 30, the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services released revised guidance that describes how they will
negotiate lower prescription drug prices for seniors later this year.
The first ten drugs selected for negotiation will be announced by
September 1, 2023. Also last week, the $35 monthly cap on insulin for
Medicare Part B beneficiaries went into effect. Already 1.5 million
Medicare Part D beneficiaries were saving up to hundreds of dollars per
month on insulin costs because of the Inflation Reduction Act, and many
more will benefit from these cost savings starting this month.

  
 ###
