---
date: '2023-07-26'
modified_time: 2023-07-27 09:15:52-04:00
published_time: 2023-07-26 17:58:03-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/26/what-they-are-saying-members-of-congress-labor-leaders-business-groups-disability-advocacy-groups-and-more-celebrate-martin-omalleys-nomination-to-be-social-security-administrat/
tags: statements-releases
title: "WHAT THEY ARE SAYING: Members of Congress, Labor Leaders, Business Groups,\
  \ Disability Advocacy Groups, and More Celebrate Martin O\u2019Malley\u2019s Nomination\
  \ to be Social Security Administration Commissioner"
---
 
Today, President Biden announced his intent to nominate former Maryland
Governor Martin O’Malley as Commissioner of the Social Security
Administration. Governor O’Malley is a lifelong public servant who has
spent his career making government more accessible and transparent,
while keeping the American people at the heart of his work. As Governor,
he made government work more effectively across his administration and
enhanced the way millions of people accessed critical services. Governor
O’Malley will continue to be a strong partner who works tirelessly to
protect and strengthen Social Security for generations to come.

*See below for what they are saying:*

**<u>Congressional Leaders</u>**

**Maryland Senator Ben Cardin:** “Martin O’Malley never backs down from
a challenge. I’m excited by the news that
[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS) has nominated my friend, and one of
Maryland’s most successful governors, to be the next Commissioner of the
Social Security Administration.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenatorCardin/status/1684220691728433152?s=20),
7/26/23\]

**Maryland Congressman Kweisi Mfume:** “Improving government service has
always been a guiding principle and hallmark of the operational
leadership Martin O’Malley provides. I commend
[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS) on this very important nomination.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepKweisiMfume/status/1684258787794747410?s=20),
7/26/23\]

**West Virginia Senator Joe Manchin:** “I applaud the Biden
Administration for selecting former Governor Martin O’Malley to serve as
commissioner of the Social Security Administration. When we were both
serving as governors, I found him to be a strong leader and
compassionate person who understands the needs of America’s seniors. The
SSA is one of our nation’s most critical support agencies and seniors in
West Virginia and across the country rely on social security. Governor
O’Malley’s unique perspectives and wealth of experience make me
confident that he will hit the ground running and be effective on day
one. I look forward to working with my colleagues to quickly confirm his
nomination.”
\[[Statement](https://www.manchin.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/manchin-applauds-nomination-of-martin-omalley-for-commissioner-of-social-security-administration),
7/26/23\]

**Oregon Senator, Chair of the Senate Finance Committee, Ron Wyden:**
“Social Security needs a confirmed commissioner in order to ensure
Americans are receiving the best service possible for their earned
Social Security benefits. Governor O’Malley is a proven leader with
experience running a large organization that millions of families count
on. I look forward to moving this nomination through the Finance
Committee as soon as possible.”
\[[Statement](https://www.finance.senate.gov/chairmans-news/wyden-statement-on-omalley-nomination-to-lead-social-security),
7/26/23\]

**Maryland Congressman Jamie Raskin:** “Delighted President Biden has
chosen Governor [@MartinOMalley](https://twitter.com/MartinOMalley) to
lead the Social Security Administration. Gov. O’Malley’s data-focused
leadership and commitment to a decent livelihood & retirement for all
Americans make him a perfect selection to helm SSA. We are in capable
hands.
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepRaskin/status/1684224867803987968),
7/26/23\]

**Maryland Congressman Steny H. Hoyer:** “Former MD Gov. Martin O’Malley
was nominated today to be the Commissioner of the Social Security
Administration—an able, principled, & effective leader, I have full
confidence in his ability to lead @SocialSecurity upholding our shared
principles & commitment to public service.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepStenyHoyer/status/1684269258748973056?s=20),
7/26/23\]

**Connecticut Congressman John Larson**: “I applaud President Biden for
nominating a champion for Social Security, Martin O’Malley, to lead the
Social Security Administration and move it forward to better serve
current and future beneficiaries. Governor O’Malley has long supported
protecting and expanding Social Security. He knows just how important
this program is to our seniors and that the modest payments they live on
are simply not enough. I look forward to working alongside him as we
work to ensure SSA has the resources it needs to serve our most
vulnerable Americans for decades to come.”
\[[Statement](https://twitter.com/RepJohnLarson/status/1684230316154556416?s=20),
7/26/23\]

**<u>State and Local Government Officials</u>**

**Maryland Governor Wes Moore:** “Congratulations to our friend Governor
[@MartinOMalley](https://twitter.com/MartinOMalley) on being nominated
by President Biden to serve as Commissioner of the Social Security
Administration. Governor O’Malley has elevated our state. Maryland knows
that in his new role, his service will elevate our country.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/GovWesMoore/status/1684248660333436928),
7/26/23\]

**Baltimore, Maryland Mayor Brandon Scott:** “Glad to see @POTUS picking
one of Maryland’s own to lead the Social Security Administration. I know
@MartinOMalley will make our city and our state proud in this
Administration.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MayorBMScott/status/1684267741396492294?s=20),
7/26/23\]

**Brian Frosh, Former Maryland Attorney General:** “Gov. O’Malley is an
inspired choice to lead Social Security Admin!!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/BrianFrosh/status/1684258334474371081),
7/26/23\]

**Richmond, Virginia Mayor Levar Stoney:** “As a former mayor,
@MartinOMalley is no stranger to solving complex problems. I know he
will work hard to protect social security- a pillar of our country that
millions rely on for their livelihood- and ensure it’s continued
preservation for generations to come. Congrats!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/LevarStoney/status/1684224713856364544?s=20),
7/26/23\]

**Deval Patrick, Former Massachusetts Governor:** “I’m excited and glad
that [@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS)has asked my friend and former
colleague [@MartinOMalley](https://twitter.com/MartinOMalley) to lead
the [@SocialSecurity](https://twitter.com/SocialSecurity)
Administration. Martin has a record as both governor and mayor of using
technology and data to make programs easier for regular people to
navigate.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/DevalPatrick/status/1684228911062736898?s=20),
7/26/23\]

**Stephen Goldsmith, Former Mayor of Indianapolis and Director of Data
Smart City Solutions at HKS:** Today the President nominated former
Maryland Governor O’Malley to lead the Social Security Administration.
In terms of operational excellence, the Governor is exceptionally well
qualified. The Harvard Kennedy School Innovations in American Government
Program I used to manage gave its important award to then Mayor O’Malley
for his pioneering work in \#citistat a program which produced
breakthrough accomplishments in managing government and improving
customer service with data. \#government His goal then and what he did
subsequently was to transform government to improve how it responds to
its residents. Those skills will provide much needed support to a SSA on
which so many Americans rely.”
\[[Statement](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7090038076294500352/?updateEntityUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afs_updateV2%3A%28urn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7090038076294500352%2CFEED_DETAIL%2CEMPTY%2CDEFAULT%2Cfalse%29),
7/26/23\]

**Mike Bloomberg, Co-Founder and CEO of Bloomberg and Former Mayor of
New York City:** “Great choice by [@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS) in
picking Martin O’Malley to lead the Social Security Administration. As a
former mayor and governor, he has outstanding executive experience using
using data to improve government performance, transparency, and customer
service. His nomination deserves strong bipartisan Senate support.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MikeBloomberg/status/1684245011733282818?s=20),
7/26/23\]

**<u>Community, Advocacy and Labor Organizations</u>**

**Robert Shea, CEO, GovNavigators:** “I’m a longtime admirer of
[@MartinOMalley](https://twitter.com/MartinOMalley)‘s public
administration chops. And
[@SocialSecurity](https://twitter.com/SocialSecurity) needs someone just
like that. Thanks for accepting the challenge, Governor! The country’s
gonna be better off for your service.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/robertjshea/status/1684232182129106946?s=20),
7/26/23\]

**Max Stier, President and CEO, Partnership for Public Service**:
“President Biden has made a wise choice to nominate former Gov. Martin
O’Malley to head the Social Security Administration. The SSA does
critical work that millions of Americans depend on every day, and the
more than 56,000 career public servants who make up its workforce
deserve high quality leadership. The next commissioner will have the
opportunity to attract and retain top talent, improve the employee
experience, make strategic decisions to modernize agency operations and
improve how the agency delivers critical services to the public. Former
Gov. O’Malley has demonstrated capable leadership throughout his career
in public service, and we look forward to working alongside him to build
a better government.” \[[Press
Release](https://ourpublicservice.org/press-release/partnership-for-public-service-statement-on-appointment-of-former-gov-martin-omalley-to-lead-social-security-administration/),
7/26/23\]

**Bob Blancato, Executive Director, National Association of Nutrition
and Aging Services Program:** “The National Association of Nutrition and
Aging Services Programs (NANASP) commends President Biden’s nomination
of former Gov Martin O’Malley to be the next Commissioner of Social
Security.  He has chosen a respected former Governor and Mayor who has a
great reputation for service and who will bring his innovative skills to
SSA at a time when it is needed. It is highly appropriate to have a
former elected official in this role as they can bring a higher level of
sensitivity to an agency where service to people in its main
responsibility. This is a vitally important time to have a qualified and
permanent Commissioner.” \[Statement, 7/26/23\]

**Karyne Jones, President and CEO, National Caucus and Center on Black
Aging:** “Social Security continues to provide older adults a minimum
standard quality of life. Governor O’Malley has the experience,
leadership, vision, and compassion to protect and ensure this American
commitment to age in dignity.” \[Statement, 7/26/23\]

**Everett Kelley, President, American Federation of Government Employees
(AFGE):** “We applaud the White House for nominating former Maryland
Governor Martin O’Malley to be the next SSA commissioner. Governor
O’Malley is a strong advocate for working people and labor rights, and
he has the skills and experience necessary to tackle to various
challenges facing SSA like the recruitment and retention of its
dedicated workforce. We look forward to working with Governor O’Malley
during the confirmation process on his ideas to strengthen the agency
and its work on behalf of the 67 million Americans who receive Social
Security benefits every month.”
\[[Statement](https://twitter.com/AFGENational/status/1684247342042447879/photo/1),
7/26/23\]

**Nancy Altman, President, Social Security Works:** “Social Security
Works and I, personally, applaud the nomination of Governor O’Malley, a
longtime Social Security champion. We will do all we can to ensure his
swift confirmation.  We look forward to working with him, once
confirmed, to secure more funding for SSA as the president requested and
higher benefits, with no cuts, as he, President Biden, and indeed the
Democratic Party, through its 2020 platform, have called for.”
\[[Statement](https://socialsecurityworks.org/2023/07/26/martin-omalley-will-fight-for-social-security/),
7/26/23\]

**Social Security Works PAC,** “Social Security Works applauds the
nomination of @MartinOMalley, a longtime Social Security champion, as
the next Commissioner of the Social Security Administration. Like
@POTUS, O’Malley supports expanding Social Security’s modest benefits,
not cutting them.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SSWorks/status/1684220114206425090?s=20),
7/26/23\]****

**Social Security Works:** “Social Security Works applauds the
nomination of Governor O’Malley, a longtime Social Security champion.
Like President Biden, O’Malley supports expanding Social Security’s
modest benefits, not cutting them. At a time when Social Security is
under attack from Republicans in Congress, O’Malley is the fighter that
the American people need at SSA’s helm…The Senate should swiftly confirm
O’Malley so he can work to provide the American people with that
first-class service and fight for increasing, not cutting, their
benefits. Notably, SSA has not had a Senate-confirmed commissioner
nominated by a Democratic president since 2001. During that time,
Congressional Republicans have starved SSA of resources, resulting in
backlogs and long waits. With staffing the lowest it has been in a
quarter of a century, SSA’s hardworking and dedicated public servants
are overworked and underpaid. Governor O’Malley is a proven champion and
fighter. As commissioner, he will be in prime position to persuade
Congress to allow SSA to spend just a few percentage points more of
Social Security’s $2.8 trillion surplus on administrative expenses, as
President Biden has requested. We are confident that O’Malley, working
closely with President Biden, will fight not only for expanded benefits
and against cuts, but also for opening new field offices and against
closing existing ones…” \[[Press
Release](https://socialsecurityworks.org/2023/07/26/martin-omalley-will-fight-for-social-security/),
7/26/23\]

**Social Security Works (@SSWorks):** “Social Security Works applauds
the nomination of @MartinOMalley, a longtime Social Security champion,
as the next next Commissioner of the Social Security Administration.
Like @POTUS, O’Malley supports expanding Social Security’s modest
benefits, not cutting them.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SSWorks/status/1684220114206425090),
7/26/23\]

**Ben Jealous, Executive Director, Sierra Club:** “Martin O’Malley is a
progressive leader with the executive skills to get things done. Whether
it was repealing the death penalty, passing marriage equality, restoring
voting rights, raising the minimum wage, or being a fierce defender of
the environment and addressing climate change, O’Malley’s track record
of accomplishments makes him an outstanding choice to lead Social
Security.” \[Statement, 7/26/23\]

**Alliance for Retired Americans (@ActiveRetirees):** “Americans earn
their Social Security benefits, paying into the system with every
paycheck. They deserve world-class service from a fully staffed
workforce equipped with the best tools and technology available. The
Alliance is confident that under Governor O’Malley’s leadership, SSA
will deliver.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/ActiveRetirees/status/1684223501895450625),
2/26/23\]

**Richard Fiesta, Executive Director, Alliance for Retired Americans:**
“Members of the Alliance for Retired Americans are pleased that
President Biden has nominated former Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley
to be the next Social Security Administration (SSA) Commissioner. The
SSA needs a strong Commissioner now more than ever. With 10,000
Americans turning 65 each day, the workload increases every day and the
budget has been woefully inadequate to meet the needs of seniors, people
with disabilities and all American families. Gov. O’Malley has a proven
track record and the experience to navigate these challenges and ensure
that Americans are able to get the benefits they have earned. American
workers have earned their Social Security benefits, paying into the
system with every paycheck. They deserve world class service from a
fully staffed workforce equipped with the best tools and technology
available. The Alliance for Retired Americans is confident that under
Governor O’Malley’s leadership SSA will deliver. There is no time to
waste. We urge the Senate to confirm Gov. O’Malley without delay.”
\[[Press
Release](https://retiredamericans.org/retirees-praise-biden-nomination-of-martin-omalley-to-be-social-security-commissioner/),
7/26/23\]

Matthew Biggs, President, International Federation of Professional and
Technical Engineers (IFPTE): “As a native Marylander, I know well Gov.
O’Malley’s record of advocating for workers, students, the poor, our
retirees, and other people who too often get left behind. I also commend
him and his family for their tradition of service and generations of
thoughtful, effective leadership in all three branches of state
government, including their support for working families and the unions
that represent them. Maryland is a better place to work, live, learn and
breathe, thanks to their contributions. Gov. O’Malley is ideally
qualified to lead SSA and IFPTE enthusiastically endorses his
nomination.” \[Statement, 7/26/23\]

**National Council on Aging (@NCOAging):** “📣NCOA is pleased that
[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS) nominated Martin O’Malley to be
[@SocialSecurity](https://twitter.com/SocialSecurity) Commissioner. Gov.
O’ Malley has dedicated his career to service and understands public
programs like
[\#SocialSecurity](https://twitter.com/hashtag/SocialSecurity?src=hashtag_click)
are truly a lifeline to millions of
[\#OlderAdults](https://twitter.com/hashtag/OlderAdults?src=hashtag_click).
Looking forward to working him.

**GovNavigators:**
“[GovNavigators](https://www.linkedin.com/company/govnavigators/) are
huge fans of [Martin J.
O’Malley](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ACoAAC2t9RoB-YJHcAp5IfdMHuYqSGcpUs1Rsgk).
And Social Security needs someone just like him. He’s the father of
Citistat and Statestat — which inspired key amendments to GPRA. He’s
sure to bring those proven practices to SSA. And the country will be
better off for it. Thanks for accepting the challenge, Governor!”
\[[Press
Release](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/govnavigators_exclusive-biden-taps-ex-maryland-governor-activity-7090001148966760449-M_c8/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=member_desktop),
7/26/23\]

**Advance Maryland:** “Excited to see Maryland’s own Governor
[@MartinOMalley](https://twitter.com/MartinOMalley) in this role. As
governor, he expanded Medicaid, improved access to data & transparency,
fought for Dreamers, and led efforts to make Maryland a more inclusive
state. Great choice by [@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS)!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/AdvanceMaryland/status/1684273523030646787),
7/26/23\]

**National Academy of Public Administration,** “Congratulations to
\#NAPAFellow @MartinOMalley” \[…\]
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/napawash/status/1684246820585607168?s=20),
7/26/23\]

**Max Richtman, President and CEO, National Committee to Preserve Social
Security and Medicare**: “We commend President Biden for nominating
former Maryland governor Martin O’Malley as Social Security
Commissioner. It has been more than 20 years since the Senate has
confirmed a permanent commissioner nominated by a Democratic president,
and it is way past time for the Social Security Administration (SSA) to
have one. As a confirmed commissioner, Martin O’Malley will be able to
advocate effectively for SSA, which has been chronically underfunded and
has struggled to provide adequate customer service. As a presidential
candidate in 2016, Governor O’Malley championed the expansion of Social
Security. He proposed boosting benefits and adopting a more generous
(the CPI-E) for calculating COLAs — while adjusting the payroll wage cap
so that the wealthy pay their fair share.  He insisted that ‘it is our
responsibility to ensure that Americans who put in a lifetime of hard
work are able to retire with the dignity they deserve.’ American
workers’ payroll taxes largely fund the SSA.  They have every right to
expect the agency that administers their benefits to be fully funded —
with a permanent commissioner at the helm. The Senate should confirm
Governor O’Malley in a timely manner when it returns from August
recess.” \[[Press
Release](https://www.ncpssm.org/documents/news-releases/biden-doing-right-thing-by-nominating-permanent-social-security-commissioner/),
7/26/23\]

**National Asian Pacific Center on Aging (NAPCA):** “NAPCA supports the
nomination of former Maryland Gov. Martin O’Malley to be next
Administrator of the Social Security Administration. We need strong
leadership to ensure that AA & NH/PI older adults are receiving critical
financial benefits.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/NAPCA_aging/status/1684380111389491201?s=20),
7/26/23\]

*\###*
