---
date: '2023-07-25'
published_time: 2023-07-25 07:15:05-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/25/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-action-to-make-it-easier-to-access-in-network-mental-health-care/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Takes Action to Make it Easier\
  \ to Access In-Network Mental Health\_Care"
---
 
*President Biden announces new landmark rule to strengthen mental and
physical health parity requirements and improve mental health care
access for more than 150 million Americans*

Ensuring robust access to mental health care has been a bipartisan
priority for almost 15 years, since the 2008 enactment of the [Mental
Health Parity and Addiction Equity
Act](https://www.cms.gov/CCIIO/Programs-and-Initiatives/Other-Insurance-Protections/mhpaea_factsheet)
(MHPAEA), a landmark law that called for mental health care benefits
covered by health plans to be provided at the same level as physical
health care benefits, and which was strengthened on a bipartisan basis
in 2020. Yet today, too many Americans still struggle to find and afford
the care they need. Of the 21% of adults who had any mental illness in
[2020](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC9938503/), less than
half received mental health care; fewer than one in ten with a substance
use disorder received treatment. 
[Research](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC8536951/) shows
that people with private health coverage have a hard time finding a
mental health provider in their health plan’s network, like these two
[mothers](https://www.pbs.org/newshour/health/why-parents-are-struggling-to-find-mental-health-care-for-their-children)
in California.  They struggled to find a therapist to help their
children, calling multiple therapists in their plans’ networks, only to
find that these providers weren’t accepting new patients or had months
long waiting lists.   
  
Despite the repeated bipartisan efforts aimed at mental health parity,
insurers too often make it difficult to access mental health treatment,
causing millions of consumers to seek care out-of-network at
significantly [higher
costs](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC8128060/) and pay
out of pocket, or defer care altogether.  [One
study](https://www.mhtari.org/Survey_Conducted_by_NORC.pdf) shows that
insured people are well more than twice as likely to be forced  to go
out-of-network and pay higher fees for mental health care  than for
physical health care. And the problem is getting worse: in recent years,
the gap between usage of out-of-network care for mental health and
substance use disorder benefits versus physical health benefits
[increased 85
percent](https://assets.milliman.com/ektron/Addiction_and_mental_health_vs_physical_health_Widening_disparities_in_network_use_and_provider_reimbursement.pdf). 
As a result, millions of people are paying for out of network care for
mental health services they need, like this [family in
Michigan](https://www.npr.org/sections/health-shots/2022/10/19/1125446666/debt-mental-health-care-u-s-families)
who spent hundreds of thousands of dollars to treat their son’s
depression and anxiety because the specialized care he needed wasn’t
close to home and this mother in [Rhode
Island](https://www.npr.org/sections/health-shots/2022/10/19/1125446666/debt-mental-health-care-u-s-families)
who had to submit additional paperwork to get care for her daughter when
her private insurance company initially denied her treatment.   
  
President Biden believes mental health is health. As part of his Unity
Agenda, he released a comprehensive national strategy to transform how
mental health is understood, accessed, treated, and integrated in and
out of health care settings. That’s why, today, the President is
announcing new actions that would improve and strengthen mental health
parity requirements and ensure that more than 150 million Americans with
private health insurance can better access mental health benefits under
their insurance plan. Today’s proposed rule reinforces MHPAEA’s
fundamental goal of ensuring that families have the same access to
mental health and substance use benefits as they do physical health
benefits. And it would make it easier to get in-network mental health
care and eliminate barriers to access that keep people from getting the
care they need, when they need it.  Specifically, the proposed rule
would:

-   **Require health plans to make changes when they are providing
    inadequate access to mental health care.** In 2020, Congress made
    changes to MHPAEA that require health plans to conduct meaningful
    comparative analyses that will help ensure that access to mental
    health and substance use benefits is no more restrictive than to
    medical benefits.  Today’s proposed rule would make clear that
    health plans need to evaluate the *outcomes* of their coverage rules
    to make sure people have equivalent access between their mental
    health and medical benefits.  This includes evaluating the health
    plan’s actual provider network, how much it pays out-of-network
    providers, and how often prior authorization is required and the
    rate at which prior authorization requests are denied.  These
    analyses will show plans where they are failing to meet their
    requirements under the law, and will require plans to improve access
    to mental health care – by including more mental health
    professionals in their networks or reducing red tape to get care –
    to be in compliance with the law.  
-   **Make it clear what health plans can and cannot do.** The proposed
    rule will provide specific examples that make clear that health
    plans cannot use more restrictive prior authorization, other medical
    management techniques, or narrower networks that make it harder for
    people to access mental health and substance use disorder benefits
    than their medical benefits. Under the proposed rule, health plans
    must use similar factors in setting out-of-network payment rates for
    mental health and substance use disorder providers as they do for
    medical providers.  
-   **Close existing loopholes.** When MHPAEA was first enacted, it did
    not require non-federal governmental health plans, like those
    offered to state and local government employees, to comply with its
    requirements. Today’s proposed rule would close that loophole and
    codify Congressional changes made to MHPAEA by requiring more than
    200 additional health plans to comply with MHPAEA, providing
    critical protections to 90,000 consumers. 

With today’s changes, this rule would help increase utilization of
mental health and substance use care, ensure comparable payment for
mental health care professionals, likely incentivizing more people to
join the mental health workforce.  In addition to announcing the
proposed rule, the President also announced the Administration’s
intention to issue a request for information on how it can best work
with states to ensure compliance with MHPAEA’s critical protections for
the millions of Medicaid beneficiaries enrolled in private Medicaid
health plans.

**These actions are the latest in a series of steps the Administration
has taken to tackle the mental health care crisis**, including:

-   **Advancing access to services in Medicare.** The Administration
    recently issued proposed rules that, if finalized, would expand
    access to mental health and substance use care by covering intensive
    outpatient services; increasing Medicare rates for crisis care,
    substance use disorder treatment, and psychotherapy; and allowing
    more mental health and substance use providers to get paid by
    Medicare.  
-   **Enhancing crisis response.** The Administration has invested
    nearly $1 billion into strengthening and expanding the 9-8-8 suicide
    and crisis lifeline. Earlier this month, the Administration added
    Spanish text and chat services to the existing LGBTQI+ and veteran
    specific specialized services 9-8-8 offers, and is also developing
    video phone services to better serve deaf and hard of hearing
    individuals in the coming months.   
-   **Providing mental health services in schools.** The Administration
    recently updated [Medicaid School Claiming and Administrative
    Guide](https://www.medicaid.gov/medicaid/financial-management/downloads/sbs-guide-medicaid-services-administrative-claiming.pdf)
    and proposed a rule that would make it easier for schools to bill
    Medicaid by streamlining billing processes and permissions.

\# \# \#
