---
date: '2023-07-17'
published_time: 2023-07-17 17:18:09-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/17/letters-to-the-speaker-of-the-house-and-the-president-of-the-senate-on-the-notification-to-the-congress-regarding-the-secretary-of-the-interiors-certification-under-section-8-of-the-fisherman/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Letters to the Speaker of the House and the President of the Senate on the\
  \ Notification to the Congress Regarding the Secretary of the Interior\u2019s Certification\
  \ Under Section 8 of the Fisherman\u2019s Protective Act of 1967, as\_amended"
---
 
Dear Mr. Speaker:   (Dear Madam President:)  
  
On May 18, 2023, the Secretary of the Interior certified under section 8
of the Fisherman’s Protective Act of 1967, as amended (the “Pelly
Amendment”) (22 U.S.C. 1978), that nationals of Mexico are engaging in
trade or taking of totoaba and vaquita that diminishes the effectiveness
of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild
Fauna and Flora (CITES).  This letter constitutes my notification to the
Congress consistent with subsection (b) of the Pelly Amendment.  
  
In 1975, Mexico recognized totoaba as a protected species and prohibited
all fishing for the species.  However, illegal fishing for totoaba has
continued.  Nets set to catch totoaba also take non-target species,
including the vaquita, a small porpoise that is the most endangered
marine mammal in the world.  Both vaquita and totoaba were listed in
CITES Appendix I in the 1970s, and both are considered to be facing
extremely high risk of extinction.  
  
Despite international protections and Mexico’s domestic ban on totoaba
fishing, the illegal harvest and international trade in totoaba has
continued in response to the ongoing demand in the People’s Republic of
China (PRC).  With the price of a single totoaba swim bladder estimated
at thousands of dollars, the incentive for illegal harvest and trade is
high.  Many of these illegally harvested swim bladders are trafficked
from Mexico through the United States to the PRC.  As the illegal
harvest of totoaba has continued, the vaquita population has plummeted.
 Recent estimates suggest there are fewer than 15 individual vaquitas
remaining in the wild.  Despite these low numbers, scientists believe
that the vaquita can survive and recover if the threats to its survival
are reduced or eliminated.  
  
Several efforts to protect totoaba and vaquita are ongoing.  The United
States has been engaged in a diplomatic dialogue with Mexico about the
vaquita through the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement environment
consultation process.  In March 2023, the CITES Secretariat recommended
that all parties to CITES suspend trade with Mexico in CITES-listed
species because of Mexico’s failure to comply with its obligations to
CITES.  Mexico submitted a CITES Compliance Action Plan to the CITES
Secretariat in April 2023, outlining a set of steps they will take to
improve enforcement and monitoring of illegal fishing in the Gulf of
California.  The Secretariat subsequently withdrew the recommendation
the following month upon Mexico’s submission of a compliance action
plan.   
  
The Mexican government has also entered into a partnership with the
non-governmental organization Sea Shepherd Conservation Society to
remove gillnets from a small priority region (the “Zero Tolerance Area”
or ZTA).  On June 26, 2023, Sea Shepherd reported that the ZTA of the
Gulf of California is “functionally gillnet free.”  
  
These steps are important, but insufficient to ensuring the recovery of
the vaquita.  In a certification on May 18, 2023, the Secretary of the
Interior expressed my Administration’s concerns about the ongoing
trafficking of totoaba and inadequate conservation outcomes to date.
 The Government of Mexico must do more to prevent this illegal trade,
enforce against illegal totoaba fishing across its full range, and
protect these species, or it is likely that the totoaba population will
continue to decline and the vaquita will soon become extinct.  
  
To ensure that this issue continues to receive the highest level of
attention, I have directed:    
  
     (1)  relevant executive departments and agencies (agencies) to
convene a high-level dialogue with the Government of Mexico to discuss
the steps it will take to reduce illegal trafficking of totoaba and
enhance conservation of the vaquita.  Through this dialogue, the United
States will encourage Mexico to strengthen and implement its CITES
compliance action plan and comply with all relevant CITES decisions
regarding totoaba and vaquita, including expansion of enforcement
efforts beyond the ZTA.  The United States will also establish a
schedule of at least quarterly meetings with the Government of Mexico to
review its CITES Compliance Action Plan implementation, with a focus on
enhanced monitoring and enforcement actions to prevent and deter totoaba
fishing and trafficking, including seizures, arrests, and prosecutions.
 The United States will also include totoaba and vaquita enforcement
matters on the agenda for the next High Level Security Dialogue with
Mexico;  
  
     (2)  relevant agencies to coordinate efforts to assist and support
Mexico’s compliance, anti‑trafficking, anti-corruption, and other
measures as appropriate.  If requested by the Government of Mexico, the
United States will assist Mexico with relevant training and capacity
building; and

     (3)  the Secretary of the Interior, in coordination with the
Secretary of Commerce, Secretary of State, and the United States Trade
Representative, among other agencies as appropriate, to develop an
assessment by July 2024, of Mexico’s enforcement actions and
implementation of its CITES Compliance Action Plan.  
  
I am not directing the Secretary of the Treasury to impose trade
measures on Mexican products for the activities that led to the
certification by the Secretary of the Interior at this time because the
actions outlined above are the appropriate means to address this issue.
 However, to ensure that this issue continues to receive the highest
level of attention, the Secretary of the Interior, in coordination with
the Secretary of Commerce, Secretary of State, and the United States
Trade Representative, and other agencies as appropriate, will monitor
Mexico’s enforcement actions and progress and provide me with a report
not later than 1 year from the date of this notification on whether
these actions have reduced the illegal harvest and trafficking of
totoaba and enhanced the conservation of vaquita.  The report will be
used as the basis for assessing whether additional steps, including
potential trade restrictions, will be necessary.  
  
I believe that continued focus is required to curtail the illegal taking
of and commercial trade in totoaba and to support conservation efforts.
 These actions hold the most promise of reducing illegal trade in
totoaba and instituting effective conservation of the vaquita.  
  
                                                                       
              Sincerely,

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
