---
date: '2023-07-12'
modified_time: 2023-07-12 10:44:59-04:00
published_time: 2023-07-12 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/12/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-launches-workforce-hub-in-columbus-ohio-and-announces-new-commitments-to-help-more-workers-access-good-jobs/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Launches Workforce Hub in Columbus,\
  \ Ohio and Announces New Commitments to Help More Workers Access Good\_Jobs"
---
 
*Intel and Columbus State Community College to launch new certificate
program for semiconductor technician roles*

Today, First Lady Jill Biden will join leaders in Columbus, Ohio as the
city holds a kickoff for its Workforce Hub and announces plans to ensure
students and workers have access to good-paying jobs created by
President Biden’s Investing in America agenda. In May, the [Biden-Harris
Administration named Columbus as one of five Workforce
Hubs](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/16/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-strategies-to-train-and-connect-american-workers-to-jobs-created-by-the-presidents-investing-in-america-agenda/)—along
with Pittsburgh, Augusta, Baltimore, and Phoenix—where historic
legislation passed by President Biden, including the American Rescue
Plan, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the CHIPS and Science Act, and
the Inflation Reduction Act, are catalyzing private and public
investments and creating good-paying jobs. These investments demonstrate
how Bidenomics—President Biden’s vision for growing the economy from the
middle out and bottom up—is creating jobs and opportunity in cities and
states across the country.

Columbus has emerged as a center of investment in key
industries—including semiconductor manufacturing, clean energy,
biotechnology, high-performance computing, and transportation. The
Administration is working alongside Mayor Andrew Ginther and Columbus
State Community College (CSCC) to bring together other institutions of
higher education, employers, unions, high schools, and other
stakeholders to ensure a diverse and skilled workforce that can meet the
demand for labor driven by investments in and around Columbus

Today, Hub partners are announcing the following commitments and goals
to expand pathways into these good jobs:

-   CSCC will work with partners across the state to quadruple the
    number of students trained for engineering technology jobs over the
    next five years.  
     
-   This fall, CSCC will launch a new certificate program for
    semiconductor technician roles that was developed in partnership
    with Intel through the Ohio Semiconductor Collaboration Network.  
     
-   Partners will prepare at least 10,000 skilled construction trades
    workers to meet the demandof announced expansion projects in the
    region. To help get there, the Columbus / Central Ohio Building and
    Construction Trades Council will expand the pipeline into critical
    Investing in America occupations:  
    -   IBEW 683 Columbus will expand its Registered Apprenticeship
        program from 600 to 1,000 over the next four years.  
         
    -    Ironworkers 172 Columbus will increase their Registered
        Apprenticeship program from 150 to 250 in the next two years.  
         
    -   Plumbers and Pipefitters 189 Columbus, Sheet Metal Workers 24
        Columbus, and Roofers 86 Columbus are all expanding their
        training facilities to meet the demand driven by these
        investments. 

In addition to these initiatives, OhioHealth and CSCC recently announced
a new $120 million investment to double the number of professionals
trained in high-need healthcare occupations— including nursing, surgical
technology, medical imaging, respiratory therapy, and sterile
processing. This commitment will help to meet the region’s foundational
labor supply needs and ensure Columbus’s workers and their families have
access to the care they need.

President Biden’s Investing in America agenda is creating jobs and
opportunities in Columbus and across Ohio – and these efforts will help
fill those jobs with American workers. Since the beginning of the
Biden-Harris Administration, private companies have announced $31
billion in manufacturing investments in Ohio, including $20 billion from
Intel for semiconductor manufacturing, $8 billion for batteries and EVs,
and another $2 billion for clean energy manufacturing.

Additionally, the Administration has already awarded $7.2 billion for
public infrastructure projects in Ohio, including $27 million for the
Central Ohio Transit Authority to replace diesel buses at the end of
their useful life with battery electric ones through the Low or
No-Emissions Grant Program; nearly $20 million to modernize John Glenn
Columbus International through the Airport Infrastructure Grants
Program; and $12 million to make safety improvements on Livingston
Avenue West through the Safe Streets for All program. And, the
Biden-Harris Administration has awarded Ohio $1.4 billion in funding to
build out broadband infrastructure across the state to ensure every home
and business has access to affordable, high-speed internet.

Over the coming months, Columbus Hub partners will continue their work
with the Biden-Harris Administration to identify new efforts and
strategies to meet the region’s workforce needs.

Following the Workforce Hub launch event in Columbus, First Lady Jill
Biden will travel to two other Hubs—Augusta and Pittsburgh—in the coming
week to highlight efforts in those communities to connect workers and
families with good jobs created by President Biden’s Investing in
America agenda.

\###
