---
date: '2023-07-24'
published_time: 2023-07-24 12:21:11-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/24/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-shuwanza-goff/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on Shuwanza\_Goff"
---
 
Today, President Biden announced that Shuwanza Goff will serve as
Assistant to the President and Director of the Office of Legislative
Affairs.  
  
*Statement from President Biden:*  
  
“Since taking office, I have relied on Louisa Terrell’s wise counsel and
tireless engagement with our nation’s legislators, and she has delivered
for the American people. I am pleased to announce that Shuwanza Goff, a
Day 1 member of my team, will serve as my new Director of Legislative
Affairs and help finish the job.  
  
“Shuwanza is a proven leader and trusted voice on both sides of the
aisle. She returns to the White House with strong relationships across
both Chambers, forged over more than a decade on Capitol Hill.  
  
“As my Deputy Director of Legislative Affairs, Shuwanza helped pass
monumental pieces of legislation through Congress: from the American
Rescue Plan and the Bipartisan Infrastructure Bill, to the Chips and
Science Act and the Inflation Reduction Act.  
  
“Shuwanza’s close partnership with my decades-long friends in the House
and Senate, and her expertise, instincts and deep respect for the United
States Congress will continue to serve our Administration and the
American people well.”  
  
Goff will be the first African-American woman to serve as White House
Director of Legislative Affairs.  
  
**Shuwanza Goff, Assistant to the President and Director of Legislative
Affairs**  
  
Shuwanza Goff recently served as Deputy Assistant to the President and
Deputy Director of White House Legislative Affairs and House Liaison.  
  
In this role, she led negotiations with Congressional leaders and
coordinated outreach to advance White House initiatives and priorities
on issues including infrastructure, COVID-19, postal reform, gun
violence, semiconductors, healthcare and two major reconciliation
packages. In addition, she assisted in the historic confirmation process
of Supreme Court Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson.  
  
Prior to this role, Shuwanza was the director of legislative operations
in the office of the Majority Leader Steny H. Hoyer, where she was
appointed as the first African-American woman to serve as floor director
for the U.S. House of Representatives. In this role, she developed,
presented, and executed legislative strategies and coordinated
legislative activity with Democratic and Republican House leadership
offices, the Senate, and the White House. Additionally, she determined
which bills came to the House floor, set the legislative schedule, and
helped craft the overall House Democratic agenda.  
  
Shuwanza began her career on Capitol Hill in 2008 in the office of the
Majority Leader Steny H. Hoyer.

Shuwanza received her Master’s in Science in justice, law and society
from American University and her Bachelor of Arts in political science
from the University of Tennessee. She is a native of Virginia.

\###
