---
date: '2023-07-13'
modified_time: 2023-07-14 00:48:36-04:00
published_time: 2023-07-13 22:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/13/remarks-by-president-biden-and-president-sauli-niinisto-of-the-republic-of-finland-in-joint-press-conference-helsinki-finland/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and President Sauli Niinist\xF6 of the Republic\
  \ of Finland in Joint Press Conference | Helsinki,\_Finland"
---
 
Presidential Palace  
Helsinki, Finland

5:39 P.M. EEST  
  
MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Please be seated.  
  
Welcome to this joint press conference by President of the Republic of
Finland, Sauli Niinistö, and President of the United States, Joe
Biden.  
  
We will begin with statements by the presidents.  
  
PRESIDENT NIINISTÖ:  Thank you, and good afternoon.  
  
Excellent that we have this kind of a big hall in the castle.  Plenty of
you here.  
  
First of all, Joe, Mr. President, I want to thank you for visiting
Finland.  We have had possibilities of meeting each other quite often
during the —  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  And I like it here even better.  (Laughs.)  
  
PRESIDENT NIINISTÖ:  Yeah.  (Laughs.)  And, by the way, first time we
met, also in Helsinki, I was the Speaker of Parliament when you
visited.  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  I remember.  
  
PRESIDENT NIINISTÖ:  So, we have had a lot of discussions during the
last couple of years.  I want to, once again, thank you for the strong
support you have given all the time.  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  It’s my honor.  
  
PRESIDENT NIINISTÖ:  The new era in Finnish security policy  
has begun, and you will be one of those who brought it to history.  
  
I also want to thank you for the Vilnius meeting.  It was very touching
to feel the unity between Allies.  And I think it was greatly created by
you.  
  
We had possibilities of discussing bilaterally today.  I took up the
negotiations of our defense cooperation agreement.  We are going to
continue our security discussion bilat, and that is of vital importance
to Finland.  
  
In the same time also, Sweden and Denmark are having similar
discussions.  And at the end, it seems that all the five Nordic
countries will have a bilateral agreement with USA.  
  
Technology is one of the key words for the future.  There are elements
like artificial intelligence, quantum technology, sky technology.  All
that is leading our way to the future.  And we have to make sure that
it’s leading our way in a very secure way.  And that demands
responsibility of those who know how.  And that is why it is very
important to coordinate and cooperate with our knowledge and resources
forward in this sector.  
  
We also had a discussion on our neighbor, and I think that we both share
similar views.   
  
The war in Ukraine was also discussed.  We both see that we will
continue support to Ukraine, which is defending not only herself but
also all the values we represent in the Western world.  
  
We also had a meeting with the Nordic family.  It is a tradition, which
started during President Obama’s time, and it has been a very valuable
tool for us to get — even better understand each other’s security and
technology.  They’re also discussed there.  And a lot of time and
thoughts were presented on environmental issues.  
  
So, once again, it has been great to have you here.  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, thank you, Mr. President.  It’s been great to be
here.  
  
Look, it’s an honor to be with you and our other Nordic friends.  We
just finished, I would suggest, a very productive U.S.-Nordic Leaders’
Summit on the heels of the historic NATO Summit in Vilnius and — where
Finland took its place at the table as — as our newest Ally.  We’ve
always been friends, but our newest official Ally member of NATO.  
  
And I also want to thank Minister Kristersson of Sweden, who will soon
be joining NATO, and Prime Minister Støre of Norway.  She — we’ve had a
great relationship.  And Frederiksen of Denmark, and the Min- — the
Ministry <s>Jakoblindóttir</s> \[Jakobsdóttir\] of Ireland — or —
“daughter of Ireland.”  You can tell that’s a Freudian slip; I’m
thinking of home.  The daughter of Iceland.  
  
And — and I — I want to say I think we’ve had a very productive summit. 
We discussed, Mr. President, where we stand at an inflection point in
history where the decisions we make now are going to determine the
course of the history for the next four or five, six decades.  
  
And this week, we affirmed how Finland and the United States, together —
together with Allies and partners — are working in lockstep to set us on
a stronger, safer, and more secure path, not just for Europe, not just
for NATO, but for the world.  
  
In Vilnius, NATO met with 33 nations for the first — 31 nations for the
first time.  We showed the world our Alliance is more united than
ever.  
  
And soon, it’ll be 32 Allies, thanks to an agreement with Turkey to move
Sweden’s accession protocols forward.  
  
And as capable partners and committed democracies, both Finland and
Sweden are going to add significantly to the strength, security, and —
and unanimity of NATO.  And a stronger NATO makes the entire world
stronger.  
  
Mr. President, as your Ally, we want the people of Finland to know the
United States is committed to Finland, committed to NATO, and those
commitments are rock solid; that we will defend every inch of NATO
territory, and that includes Finland, obviously.  
  
Second, over the past week, we reaffirmed our unwavering support for the
brave people of Ukraine as they defend their country against Russia’s
brutal and inhumane attacks.  
  
Our Allies and partners around the world understand that this fight is
not only a fight for the future of Ukraine; it’s about sovereignty,
security, and freedom itself.  
  
I want you to think about what would happen if we didn’t do anything,
what is likely to happen in the rest of Europe if we did nothing.  
  
So, this week, NATO has officially elevated our relationship with
Ukraine.  Allies also agreed to lift the Membership Action Plan that’s
usually required before you can be admitted and — from Ukraine.  And
it’s created a path for membership for Ukraine as it continues to make
progress on the necessary democratic and security reforms required of
every NATO member.  
  
We also made clear to President Zelenskyy that we’re not waiting for
NATO membership to be finalized to commit to the long-term security of
Ukraine.   
  
The leaders of the G7 together issued a new Joint Declaration of Support
for Ukraine, a declaration I was glad to see the Nordic nations
immediately welcomed and supported.  
  
It’s going to launch a process, open to any nation, to negotiate
bilateral security agreements with — with Ukraine until they’re
officially members of NATO.  It’ll not only ensure that Ukraine can
defend itself today, but it will deter future aggression as well, with a
capable force across a- — land, air, and sea from their friends.  
  
And, finally, at every stop of — in every summit on this trip, we
focused on using the power of partnership to take on the challenges that
matter most to the people’s lives and our countries.  
  
In the United Kingdom, we brought together public, private, and
philanthropic partners to discuss ways to unlock literally trillions of
private dollars in finance to fight climate change.  
  
In Lithuania, NATO Allies met, and the EU and our pro- — our
Indo-Pacific partners, to continue advancing our work on terrorism,
cyber threats, resilience, and so much more.  
  
And here in Finland, at our U.S.-Nordic Leaders’ Summit, we reaffirmed
our commitment to stand together, power — to power a clean energy
transition; to preserve regional security; to promote democratic values;
and to pioneer the technologies of the future, from quantum computing to
advanced communications systems.  So we did it together.  
  
Mr. President, at this critical moment in history, this inflection
point, the world is watching to see: Will we do the hard work that
matters to forge a better future?  Will we stand together?  Will we
stand with one another?  Will we stay committed to our course?  
  
This week, Finland and the United States and our Allies and partners
said a resounding, loud “yes.”  Yes, we’ll step up.  Yes, we’ll stand
together.  And, yes, we’ll keep working toward a stronger, safer, and
more secure world.  
  
So, Mr. President, thank you again for having me here.  
  
As partners, friends, and Allies, I look forward to our work together in
the years ahead.  And it’s been a real pleasure getting to know you even
better.  Thank you.  
  
MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Now we have time for questions.  
  
PRESIDENT NIINISTÖ:  Shall we start with Lida Tikka?  You.   
  
Q    Lida Tikka, Finnish Public Broadcasting Service.  My question is
for Mr. President Biden.  The political volatility of U.S. remains a big
worry for European partners.  Meanwhile, back in Washington, a
bipartisan group of senators has repeatedly failed to pass through
Senate a bill that would prevent the U.S. presidents in the future from
withdrawing from NATO without Senate’s approval.  What actions —  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Sorry, what — what, I’m sorry?  I didn’t hear the last
part of your question.  
  
Q    In Washington, a bipartisan group of senators has repeatedly failed
to pass through Senate a law that would prevent future U.S. presidents
from withdrawing from NATO without Senate’s approval.  What actions will
you take to assure Finland that the U.S. will remain a reliable NATO
partner for decades to come?  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  I absolutely guarantee it.  There is no question. 
There’s overwhelming support from the American people.  There’s
overwhelming support from the members of the Congress, both House and
Senate.  In both parties, notwithstanding the fact there are some
extreme elements of one party, we will stand together.   
  
The American people have known for the — since the end of World War Two
and the formation of NATO that our security rests in the unanimity among
European and transatlantic partner — us.  
  
And so, this is g- — you know, no one can guarantee the future, but this
is the best bet anyone could make.  
  
Q    And my second question, on that note, to Mr. President Niinistö. 
Hearing this answer that no one can guarantee a future, are you worried
that the political instability in U.S. will cause issues in the Alliance
in the future?  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Let me be clear: I didn’t say we didn’t guarantee — we
couldn’t guarantee the future.  You can’t tell me whether you’re going
to be able to go home tonight.  No one can be sure what they’re going to
do.  
  
I’m saying: As sure as anything can possibly be said about American
foreign policy, we will stay connected to NATO — connected to NATO,
beginning, middle, and end.  We’re a transatlantic partnership.  That’s
what I’ve said.  
  
PRESIDENT NIINISTÖ:  It seems that the President has answered your
problems.   
  
But I have to tell you that during this process, I met approximately —
President many times — but I would say about 50 people from Congress and
Senate.  And I think the message was quite clear, quite united.  And I
have no reason to doubt about USA policies in the future.  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Let me say one more thing.  We learned a hard lesson. 
Peace and security in Europe is essential to U.S. security and peace. 
The idea that there could be conflict in Europe among our friends and us
not engaged has never happened in modern history.  That’s why we’re
staying together.  
  
MODERATOR:  Next question, President Biden.  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Oh, I have to call on somebody.  I’m sorry.   
  
Wall Street Journal.  Andrew?  
  
Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  You’ve said that Ukraine shouldn’t enter
NATO until after the war is over.  Are you concerned at all that those
comments could motivate Putin to keep the war going or discourage him
from entering peace negotiations?   
  
And is there a serious risk that this war could drag on for years?  And
do you see any path toward the war ending with Putin still in power?  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  First of all, no one can join NATO while the war — a
war is going on, where a NATO nation is being attacked, because that
guarantees that we’re in a war and we’re in a third world war.   
  
So that is not about whether or not they should or shouldn’t join.  It’s
about when they can join.  And they will join NATO.  
  
The issue of whether or not this is going to keep Putin from continuing
to fight, the answer is: Putin has already lost the war.  Putin has a
real problem.  How does he move from here?  What does he do?  And so,
the idea that there’s going to be — what vehicle is used, he could end
the war tomorrow; he could just say, “I’m out.”   
  
But what agreement is ultimately reached depends upon Putin and what he
decides to do.  But there — there is no possibility of him winning the
war in Ukraine.  He’s already lost that war.  Imagine if — even if —
anyway.  He’s already lost that war.  
  
Q    And just on the question of — of a concern about it going on for
years: Is there a possibility that there’s a stalemate and this becomes
—  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  I’m sorry?  
  
Q    The question of whether the war could go on for years.  Is there a
possibility there’s a stalemate and it can continue for quite some
time?  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, I don’t think the war can go on for years for
two reasons.  Number one, I don’t think that they — that Russia could —
could maintain the war forever — number one — in terms of their
resources and capacity.   
  
Number two, I think that there is going to be a circumstance where,
eventually, President Putin is going to decide it’s not in the interest
of Russia — economically, politically, or otherwise — to continue this
war.  But I can’t predict exactly how that happens.   
  
My hope is and my expectation is you’ll see that Ukraine makes
significant progress on their offensive and that it generates a
negotiated settlement somewhere along the line.  
  
Q    And I have a question for the Finnish President.  But I would be
remiss if I didn’t raise my colleague, Evan Gershkovich, who’s been in
prison for more than 100 days.  I just wondered if you had an update on
— on the process for trying to get him out of prison and if you’re
serious about a prisoner exchange.  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Oh, I’m serious about a prisoner exchange.  I’m
serious about doing all we can to free Americans who are being illegally
held in Russia or anywhere else for that matter.  And that process is
underway.  
  
Q    And for the Finnish <s>Prime Minister</s> \[President\], do you
envision the possibility of the U.S. having a permanent military base in
Finland?  
  
PRESIDENT NIINISTÖ:  Like I told, we are discussing on DCA, the Defense
Cooperation Agreement, and it has a lot of elements.  They are still
open.  But we are open on negotiations, and I know that our counterpart
is also very open.  So, let us see.  
  
MODERATOR:  Next question goes to President Niinistö.  Please.  
  
PRESIDENT NIINISTÖ:  Yes, it’s Helsingin Sanomat, Elina Väntönen.  
  
Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  And my question is for Mr. President
Biden.  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  (Laughs.)  Okay.   
  
Q    Or should I just say President Biden?  (Laughs.)  You have
repeatedly talked about Finlandization becoming NATOization of Finland. 
Now, based on your —  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Sorry, I — what nation?   
  
Q    You have repeatedly talked about Finlandization —  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Oh, I see.  
  
Q    — becoming NATOization of Finland.   
  
Based on your long experience, how does that change Finland’s place in
the world?   
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, first of all, the context in which I said that
was: The gentleman who occupies a seat on the other side of the — your
border, in Moscow, said he wanted — I said he wanted the
<s>Findalization</s> \[Finlandization\] of NATO.  I said it was more
likely he’s going to get the NATOization of Finland.  That’s what —
that’s the context in which that was said.   
  
And what was the second part of your question?  
  
Q    I asked: How has Finland’s position in the world changed during
this —  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Look —  
  
Q    — NATO membership process?  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  — Finland is already a strong, vibrant nation.  I
think what Finland’s joining NATO does — and with Sweden as well — when
the Nordic countries are all members of — of NATO: It just makes the
world safer.  It significantly increases the prospect that there is less
likely to be war.  
  
We’re — we’re deadly earnest about the notion.  We’ll defend every
single inch of NATO territory.  And now we’re going to — we’re on the
way of getting to 32 NATO nations.  That’s a significant commitment. 
And so, the likelihood of any nation voluntarily deciding they’re going
to attack one of the nations or Finland is highly unlikely.   
  
And so — but if it — if it were to, they understand they’re not just
attacking Finland; they’re attacking 31 other countries.  
  
MODERATOR:  Next question, President Biden, please.  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Oh, I’m sorry.  I guess it’s Arlette from CNN.   
  
Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  We’ve seen more disarray with Russian
generals, most recently with the firing of a general who criticized the
Defense Ministry.  This following that rebellion by Prigozhin.  Does
this raise any new concerns about Putin potentially doing more drastic
things regarding Ukraine, like nuclear weapons, or potentially against
the U.S., like election interference?  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, first of all, they already interfered in
American elections.  So that would not be anything new.  They did that
last time — they tried to.   
  
But with regard to — I — I don’t think there’s any real prospect — you
never know — but of — of Putin using nuclear weapons.  Not only has the
West, but China and the rest of the world has said, “That’s — don’t go
there.  Don’t go there.”  Number two.  
  
Number three, I think that determining what happens to Prigozhin and
what happens to Vilnius — I mean — excuse me, what happens when we
discussed this in Vilnius is God only knows what — what he’s likely to
do.  Well, I’m not even sure — we’re not even sure where he is and what
relationship he has.  If I were he, I’d be careful what I ate.  I’d be
keeping my eye on my menu.   
  
But all kidding aside, I — I — who knows?  I don’t know.  I don’t think
any of us know for sure what the future of Prigozhin is in Russia.  And
so, I don’t know how to answer that question beyond that.  
  
Q    And if I could also ask you something about happening back home. 
You’re seeing the GOP grappling with tying abortion rights to defense
issues, including a block on military promotions by Senator Tuberville. 
What does this say about U.S. military readness \[sic\] — readiness? 
And would you be willing to talk with Tuberville to try to work out some
solution?  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  I’d be willing to talk to him if I thought there was
any possibility of him changing this ridiculous position he has.  He’s
jeopardizing U.S. security by what he’s doing.   
  
I expect the Republican Party to stand up — stand up and do something
about it.  They — they — it’s within their power to do that.   
  
The idea that we don’t have a Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; the
idea that we have all these — all these promotions that are in abeyance
right now and we don’t know what’s going to happen; the idea that we’re
injecting into fundamental foreign policy decisions what, in fact, is a
domestic social debate on social issues is bizarre.   
  
I don’t ever recall that happening, ever.  And it’s — it’s just totally
irresponsible, in my view.   
  
And I — I just think that — I mean, I’m confident that the mainstream
Republican Party no longer — does not support what he’s doing.  But they
got to stand up and be counted.  That’s how it ends.  
  
Q    And for President Niinistö, you’ve been working on fortifying the
fence along the border between Finland and Russia.  Is there anything
that you’re seeing recently that concerns you?  And also, as a leader
who shares a border with Russia, what more do you want to see done to
deter Putin?  
  
PRESIDENT NIINISTÖ:  During the beginning of our application process,
surely we had to make sure, first, trying to figure out every possible
negative action we might meet and surely how we response from that.  And
we were very careful on that work.  
  
So, at the moment, the situation is quite calm.  Hope it remains as
such.   
  
But I just want to tell you that Finnish people do feel more secure.  At
the moment, we have 80 percent of our population supporting NATO
membership and more than 80 percent who say that we will also protect
our Allies.  That’s the Finnish position.  
  
MODERATOR:  Thank you.  This concludes the press conference.  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Thank you very much.  
  
6:03 P.M. EEST
