---
date: '2023-11-16'
modified_time: 2023-11-17 15:40:50-05:00
published_time: 2023-11-16 22:49:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/11/16/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-apec-business-advisory-council-meeting-san-francisco-ca/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at APEC Business Advisory Council Meeting\
  \ | San Francisco,\_CA"
---
 
*Moscone Center  
San Francisco, California*

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Dominic, for your leadership and for the
work that you have been doing as the head of the APEC Business Advisory
Council and all you have done throughout your career to lift up so many
communities.   
  
Good afternoon to everyone.  And welcome to all the APEC leaders and the
CEOs who are here.  As Dominic mentioned, in Singapore two years ago, I
had the privilege of announcing that the United States intended to host
APEC in 2023.  And then last year, as I represented the United States in
Bangkok at APEC, I announced that San Francisco would be the host city. 
And today, it is my privilege, then, to warmly welcome all of you to my
home state of California.   
  
As Vice President, it has been my honor to work with many of you across
my four trips to the Indo-Pacific and dozens of bilateral and
multilateral meetings and summits.  And this week, we continue with
these important conversations.   
  
The Indo-Pacific region is critical to the security and prosperity of
the American people, and the United States has an enduring commitment to
the Indo-Pacific, including a vital interest in promoting a region that
is open, interconnected, prosperous, secure, and resilient.   
  
As Joe Pr- — Joe Biden has said and made clear, the Biden-Harris
administration is committed to strengthening our multilateral engagement
in the region, including through APEC.   
  
In addition, APEC economies represent significant opportunities for the
American economy.  These relationships expand our ability to increase
markets for U.S. exports, to create jobs in the United States, and to
build inclusive economic growth.  Of all the goods that the United
States exports, more than 60 percent go to APEC economies, and APEC
economies represent more than 60 percent of the world’s GDP.   
  
APEC also plays an important role to strengthen international economic
rules and norms, to promote free and fair markets, create predictability
and stability for our companies, and to protect workers’ rights.   
  
The Biden-Harris administration has also emphasized public-private
collaboration both domestically and internationally.  When we combine
the expertise and the experience of the private sector with the reach
and capacity of the public sector, we unleash economic growth and
opportunity that far exceeds what either the private or public sector
could achieve on its own.   
  
From Tokyo to Singapore to Silicon Valley, I have convened CEOs on
issues that range from supply chain resilience to the growth of the
semiconductor production facilities.   
  
I have also led partnerships with the private sector focused on economic
opportunity in northern Central America and climate resilience and
digital inclusion on the continent of Africa.  This type of
collaboration between the public and private sectors is essential —
essential to drive our economies forward in a way that invests in
innovation, strengthens economies, and uplifts the human condition.   
  
Since the start of the Biden-Harris administration, we have incentivized
Indo-Pacific companies to invest nearly $200 billion in the United
States.  Under President Joe Biden, we have record job creation, a
revitalized manufacturing industry, resilient consumer spending, and
unprecedented small-business creation.   
  
History has shown that the United States has been an engine of global
economic growth, and this will continue.  And of course, the entire
Indo-Pacific benefits.   
  
In fact, American businesses are the largest source of foreign direct
investment in APEC economies; they invest more than six times the amount
of any other country.   
  
And today, President Biden announced that U.S. companies have committed
an additional $50 billion of investment in the APEC economies, ranging
from digital infrastructure to clean energy.   
  
This week, we will also discuss mutual challenges and opportunities for
our economies, including the climate crisis, the economic empowerment of
women, and artificial intelligence.   
  
The climate crisis is without a doubt an existential crisis that
requires urgent action.  The President and I have worked to execute the
most aggressive climate agenda in American history as part of our global
commitments.  Over the last three years, we have dedicated $1 trillion
to build climate-resilient infrastructure and foster a clean energy
economy.   
  
And to all here I say: Our collective ambition must meet this moment. 
There is much more work for us to all do and for the governments and
companies that are represented here today.   
  
Regarding the economic empowerment of women: When we lift up the
economic status of women, we lift up the economic status of children,
families, and all of society benefits.  The United States proudly
launched APEC’s focus on this issue during our last host year, which was
in 2011.  It remains a priority for us.   
  
To that end, earlier today, I announced more than $900 million of public
and private investments to launch the Women in Sustainable Economy
Initiative.  And in the past eight months, I have partnered with the
private sector and philanthropies to generate more than $2 billion to
economically empower women around the world.   
  
On the issue of artificial intelligence, which has without any question
the potential to do great good and the potential to do harm, it is
important that we work together.   
  
Earlier this month, I met with many leaders in the United Kingdom to lay
the groundwork on the future of AI.  As I outlined there, leaders from
government and the private sector have a moral, ethical, and societal
duty to make sure that AI is adopted and advanced in a way that is in
service of the public interest.   
  
We must address the full spectrum of risks, from bias and discrimination
already being experienced by individuals and communities to the
catastrophic risks that could endanger all of humanity.  The
Biden-Harris administration is taking steps to address all these risks
in a way that will not stifle innovation.  It is my intention that the
approach I laid out in the United Kingdom can help guide the discussions
today.   
  
In each of these areas and across our economic agenda, our commitment to
workers at home and abroad remains a priority.  And today, the United
States launched our first Global Labor Strategy to expand our commitment
to workers and make clear workers’ rights are central to our
international economic strategy.  Building an inclusive economy requires
empowering workers both here in America and abroad.   
  
In conclusion, I thank you all for being here and for your partnership
in our interconnected and interdependent world.  Convenings like these
are critical to ensure prosperity and security for all our economies.   
  
And with that, I will turn it back to Dominic.  Thank you. 
(Applause.)  
  
                          END
