---
date: '2023-11-09'
modified_time: 2023-11-13 10:56:10-05:00
published_time: 2023-11-09 22:00:19-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/11/09/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-campaign-reception-chicago-il-2/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at a Campaign Reception | Chicago,\_IL"
---
 
Ignite Glass Studios  
Chicago, Illinois

5:02 P.M. CST  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, hello, hello.  (Applause.)  Please, take a seat
if you have one.  (Laughs.)  
  
Glen, thanks for that introduction.  And — and, Ben, thanks for
welcoming us into your business.  Ben gave me a — a beautiful piece of
glass that he had molded in — for my wife, and I’m going go home a
hero.   
  
Folks — Governor Pritzker, you’re still here, aren’t you, pal?  My
buddy.  (Applause.)  The governor is as responsible for my being behind
this podium as anybody.  He’s helped me so much.  I didn’t even realize
how much he helped until about a year after I got elected.  But thank
you, Gov.  Appreciate it.  
  
And, look — (applause) — Kamala and I are incredibly grateful to
everyone who’s here.  And we’re — we’re really looking forward to the
convention here in Chicago next year.  (Applause.)  We really are.  
  
Just a few days ago, despite all the predictions, except ours, Democrats
had an incredible night once again, thanks to — (applause) — the help of
Governor Pritzker, who inspired a lot of support across the country.   
  
And in Kentucky — in Kentucky, a Democratic governor was reelected after
telling me on the phone and running on all the programs that were the
Biden initiatives in the White House.  And he’s a good friend.  
  
In Ohio, the right to choose became protected in the Ohio State
Constitution, as it should.  (Applause.)   
  
In Virginia, the Republican governor tried to control the state
legislature, and he lost control of both the House and — and — and the
Senate.  (Applause.)  Well, he got trounced, actually.  (Laughter.)  
  
Look, on top of all that, the big wins in Pennsylvania for the — in —
with the first Black woman elected mayor of Philadelphia. 
(Applause.)   
  
By the way, I know the Bears are playing tonight.  But I got to tell
you, I’m an Eagles fan, and for a simple re- — (laughter) — no, no —
wait, wait — I married a Philly girl.  (Laughter.)  And they are tough
fans.  If I didn’t support the Eagles, I’d be sleeping alone.  So, I
just want you to know.  (Laughter.)    
  
But we also had a big win in Pennsylvania in the state Supreme Court. 
In Rhode Island, a young man, Gabe Amo, who worked in my administration,
became the first Black member of Congress from the state of Rhode
Island.  (Applause.)  
  
And, of course, at the start of the week, everyone was telling me that
Governor Andy Beshear lost and the Republicans were going to win in
Virginia, and the Constitution — the right to choose was going to go
down the drain, and so on.   
  
And, by the way, I put on your seats — the — the press have been talking
about two polls about what great difficulty I’m in and — right now.  If
you take a look at that — and on your seats — and there were — at the
same time, there are 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9,  other polls.  In every
one, we’re winning, except for two we’re tied.   
  
The point is that the CNN and New York Times poll is the only thing you
heard about.  So, your money is not wasted yet.  (Laughter.)  I can
still screw up, but we’re not there yet.  (Laughter.)    
  
Look, here’s what’s funny: Beshear won.  Republicans in Virginia lost
the House and the Senate.  Ohio enshrined its constitutional right to
choose.  This sounds like a pretty good day to me.   
  
But remember, they said the same thing when we said we were going to do
well in the off-year election of 2022.  Best of any — out — best any
president has done in an off-year election.  And we did very well.   
  
But you turn on your TV coverage — the coverage is only of two polls. 
You don’t see that over that same period of time were the eight polls
that we’re winning.  And that’s not just interesting, but it’s, I think,
accurate.   
  
The truth is what happened on Tuesday is not unusual.  It’s a
continuation of what we saw, as I said, in 2020 and in 2022.  The same
pundits said the same thing.  And the American people voted to protect
our fundamental freedoms like the right to choose.  They voted to
protect our democracy.  They voted against extremism of our opponents. 
And they voted for progress we’ve been making.  They supported it.   
  
And all — even the other two polls that they keep quoting with the bad
numbers show that they overwhelmingly support the programs we’ve
initiated — overwhelmingly support it.   
  
And if you just listened to Governor Beshear the other night talking
about the massive investments we’re making in infrastructure, in the
Brent Spence Bridge, the EV battery factories coming to Kentucky and
other red states.

Democrats up and down the ticket ran on lower prescription drug costs,
which I’ve been fighting for for 30 years, taking on Big Pharma to allow
Medicare to negotiate drug prices.  And finally, it got done.  Seniors
on Medicare who paid as much as 400 bucks a month for insulin for
diabetes are now paying $35 a month.  
  
And we’re also — (applause) — and we’re also capping total
<s>out-of-cost</s> \[out-of-pocket\] drugs for seniors on Medicare at
$2,000 a year, no matter how expensive their drugs are for the — for the
year.  They can cost — cancer drugs can cost up to $14,000 a year, but
the most they’re going to have to pay is $2,000 a year, because you
can’t afford anything beyond that.   
  
Semiconductor factories are coming back to America — billions of dollars
being invested in making chips in America again. 

You know, the — this r- — the record job creation. 

We invented the chip, by the way.  Remember when you start- — everybody
started understanding what “supply chain” meant, when, during the
pandemic, you had factories closing in the nation, and you couldn’t get
the facto- — what we needed?  Well, now we don’t have to worry about
that.   
  
And, by the way, that over — there’s billions of dollars being int- — in
— being invested by private sector in these factories.  And they’re
building what they call these “fabs.”  They’re like — look like great
big football fields.   
  
Do you know what the average salary of those — in those fabs are? 
$114,000 a year.  And you don’t need a college degree to have that
job.  
  
There’s historically low unemployment.   
  
Folks, this time — it’s — this time, the Biden-Harris agenda has taken
hold.  And it’s not only popular, people are voting on it.  And people
are winning elections on it over and over and over again.   
  
And the press and pundits keep being surprised.  They can be surprised
as much as they want.  But since I came off the sidelines to go
toe-to-toe with Donald Trump, we haven’t stopped winning and he hasn’t
stopped losing.  (Applause.)  
  
You remember when Trump told us he was going to win so much we’d get
tired of winning?  (Laughter.)  We just got tired of him, not winning. 
(Laughter and applause.)  Let me tell you.  The truth is, this guy can’t
get tired of losing.   
  
Look, folks, the — when a Supreme Court majority that he appointed
overturned Roe v. Wade, they — they — he — they practically dared the
women in America to be heard.  Remember what they said?  And the — but —
the women, if they want to change this in the states, they can.  Well,
the majority — a real quote, “Women are not without electoral polit- —
or political power.”  And I said at the time: They don’t have a clue
about the power of women in America.  Not a clue.  (Applause.)   
  
And I said, “They’re about to find out.”  And they did in Kansas
midterms, in Ohio — the midterms in Ohio, and all across the country.   
  
The only reason abortion bans in America is because of Donald Trump. 
He’s the only reason teenagers in Ohio are being forced to travel out of
state to get their healthcare because they — because of Donald Trump —
where they’ve been raped or — by a family member or by anyone else.   
  
The only person — the only persons out there whose — the reason
fundamental rights have been stripped away because in Amer- — be- — of
the American people is — for the first time in history is because of
Donald Trump.  And, look, just as all his friends have found out about
the power of women in America, he’s about to find out, too, in a big
way.  
  
Folks, I just visited an auto plant down the road in Belvidere that’s
going to stay open and create jobs thanks to the historic agreements
between the UAW and the Big Three automakers.  And they’re going to be
investing several billion dollars, creating thousands of jobs in
Belvidere, where there’s a plant that had been closed.   
  
Trump was one of only two presidents in American history who lost jobs
in the presidency — one of only two.  That’s why every now and then,
remember him as Donald “Hoover” Trump.  (Laughter.)  No, but seriously. 
He lost jobs.   
  
We have a very different record.  We’ve created 14 million jobs since I
took office.  We’ve created more jobs in two years than any president
has created in a four-year term.  
  
Folks, the list of what we’ve gotten done goes on.  But my friend,
Senator Dick Durbin, who really has been incredible helping get judges
through — we have now gotten 150 judges confirmed to the court —
(applause) — two thirds of whom are women and two thirds of whom are
people of color.  (Applause.)  
  
We put the first Black woman on the Supreme Court and appointed more
Black women to the Federal Circuit Courts of Appeal than every other
president in American history combined.  (Applause.)  
  
And, folks, look, it’s about a simple proposition — a simple
proposition.  I promised my administration was going to look like
America — look like America.  And that’s exactly what the case is. 
Because it’s important we are — we are a multicultural country.  It’s
one of the reasons for our strengths.  And we should brag about it, not
run away from it.   
  
We passed the biggest investment in the history of the world to combat
climate change — you know, in the entire world, over billions of
dollars, because it’s the only existential threat to humanity.  And it
really is one.  We need to protect the progress we made.  Most important
of all, we need to protect our democracy.   
  
Folks, look, in 2020, after — it was not long after my son had died,
because of Iraq — being there.  You’re sleeping in a hooch that was only
about 400 yards from the burn pits.  I wasn’t going to run.  And — but
then you remember what happened in Charlottesville, Virginia?  There was
people coming out of — literally, not figuratively — coming out of
fields, carrying torches — torches in their hands with Nazi swastikas
and singing the same antisemitic bile and chants that sang in Germany in
the ‘30s.   
  
And a young woman was killed.  I talked to her mom.  She was a
bystander.  And the President was asked at the time, what did he think —
what did he think about all that?  And he looked into the cameras, and
he said, “Well, there’s some very good people on both sides.”  That’s
when I decided I couldn’t remain silent any longer.  That’s for real —
for real.  Because I really did think our democracy was at stake and
everything we stood for was up for grabs.   
  
And so, what happened was we — I — I but — I thought, “No, it’s going to
be too ugly for my kids and my grandkids.”  I knew what it was going to
be like.  We went through this before.  And so, I wasn’t going to
run.   
  
I got a — we have a tradition in the Biden family — not a joke — only
invoked, in my recollection, 9 ti- — 10 — this was the 10th time.  And
it was during my dad’s life, we started it.  Any kid in the family can
ask for a family meeting.  I’m — I’m being literal now — a family
meeting if they want to talk about something important.   
  
Well, I got a phone call after that invasion by those white supremacists
back in Charlottesville and — from my eldest <s>daughter</s>
\[granddaughter\], who is a lawyer with one of — was then a senior at
Columbia Law School.  And so, she and my daughter — I had two
<s>daughters</s> \[granddaughters\] at the University of Pennsylvania at
the time, and — my two — two kids — my deceased son’s children were also
then still in high school.   
  
And they said, “We want a family meeting, Pop.”  It was on a Thursday. 
So, they came down on Saturday.  We sat in the library in my home with
my wife, and they said, “Pop, you’ve got to run,” making the case.  And
I said, “Well, you know, it’s going to be tough.”   
  
And my youngest, who’s now in high school, about to graduate, his name
is Hunter, named after his — his un- — anyway —

And he said to me — he said, “We know it’s going to be bad.”  And he
took out his cell phone.  And he showed me a — a picture on the cell
phone of me walking out of the Catholic Church where Beau was — the
memorial mass for Beau and a military coffin draped with a flag escorted
by the military, because he had won the Bronze Star, the Conspicuous
Service Medal, and other honors.   
  
And I was holding onto little Hunter, his son, and I had him under the
chin.  I used to hold Beau — when we were in church, I’d put my arm
around him, and I’d cup his chin in my hand.  And that’s how I had
Hunter.  And we were walking — I had my hand on the casket, it was being
wheeled out, and little Hunt on my right.  And the caption said, “Biden
molests another child.”   
  
And he looked at me and he said, “Pop, we know it’s going to be ugly,
but you got to do it.”  You know, that’s why I ran, at the time.   
  
And I got in trouble with my campaign because I said I was running for
three reasons — all seemed improbable.   
  
One was to restore the soul of this country, some decency and honor to
the White House.   
  
The second one was to begin to build the economy from the middle out and
the bottom up, not the top down.  When that occurs, everybody does
well.   
  
And thirdly was to unite the country.  And although I had a reputation
when I was a senator of being a uniter, the press legitimately said —
and the press is here — that Biden doesn’t understand the Senate’s
changed, the Congress changed; you can’t unite the country.  
  
Well, my notion is if you can’t unite the country, how do you keep a
participatory democracy going if you can’t get consensus?  How does that
work?  
  
Well, you know, I reminded people: Every other nation is founded on some
principle, whether it’s ethnicity, whether it’s religion, whatever it
is.  We’re the only nation in the world founded based on an idea — an
idea that Trump and the MAGA Republicans walked away from.

We’ve never fully lived up to it, but we’ve never walked away from it. 
It says, “We hold these truths to be self-evident.  All men and women
are created equal, endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable
rights.” 

That’s the idea we re- — that’s what we ba- — everything in our
Constitution is based upon. 

Well, guess what?  It’s still my goal to make sure people understand
that. 

I’m running again because we made progress, but our democracy is still
at stake. 

I’m very proud of our record, all the things that we got passed.  That’s
true.  And presidential historians are giving us really high marks for
the things we’ve done.  But we still haven’t united the country. 

If you come into my office in the White House and you’re invited to see
the Oval Office, there used to be only one photograph — one — one — not
photograph — one painting above the fireplace.  It was George
Washington. 

I sat under that painting for six years — eight years as Vice President,
Chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee before that many, many
times. 

So, when I asked my brother, I said — and I found out you have to, when
you lose — when you leave, not lose, the presidency, you have to be out
of that office on January 20th by 10 o’clock, and the incoming president
can’t come in until, I think, it’s 3 or 4 o’clock. 

The reason is, it gives you a chance to change everything from the rug
to the paintings to whatever you wanted to do. 

So, I asked my brother Jimmy to do that for me.  And he called an
acquaintance, Jon Meacham, a presidential historian, to help. 

So, I walked in when it was time to take office — by the way, the other
guy — first time in American history he never showed up at all. 
(Laughter.)  Seriously.  I mean — anyway — (laughter). 

I shouldn’t get started.  I’ll get in trouble.  (Laughter.)

But — and I just walked in, and there’s this — now there’s this massive
painting — portrait of Franklin Roosevelt.  And I looked and said, “I
admire Franklin Roosevelt, but why Roosevelt?” 

And Jon Meacham spoke up and said, “It’s unlikely any president since
Roosevelt has inherited a country in the world in such disarray
financially.”  I said, “That’s wonderful.”  (Laughter.)  And then
there’s four other portraits — small ones, the size of the Wa- — George
Washington.  And they had — anyway —

But the one on the bottom left was Abraham Lincoln, a Republican.  And I
said, “Why re- — why Lincoln?”  He said, “Because the country has never
been so divided since the Civil War.” 

Well, you know, there’s some truth to that.  But it’s unnecessary, and
it’s — and it’s really, really damaging.  You know, because — because,
folks, the same man who said we should terminate the rules and
regulations and articles of the Constitution — these are things he said
— is now running on a plan to end democracy as we know it. 

He’s not even hiding the ball.  In recent weeks, the New York Times and
Washington Post ran stories how he intends to use the presidency, quote,
for “revenge” and “retribution.”  And on more than one occasion in
recent weeks, he’s made a joke about the assaults on Speaker Pelosi’s
husband who was smacked in the head with a hammer. 

Now, there are a lot of reasons that Donald Trump shouldn’t be
president, but that one may demonstrate the best reason of all.  If you
can make a joke about that, you really have no business being anywhere
near the presidency.  (Applause.)

And, folks, we’re asking the entire nation to join us in sending the
strongest, clearest, most powerful message that political violence in
America is never, never, never, ever justified or acceptable.  Never. 
Never.  (Applause.)

And, by the way, this is not your father’s Republican Party.  Donald
Trump and the MAGA Republicans are determined to destroy democracy as we
know it. 

Folks, democracy is on the ballot again, and Kamala and I need you. 
Indeed, we need every American who loves democracy to join together in
2024. 

If we do that, we’ll have done something few generations get to do;
we’ll have saved democracy. 

After I became Vi- — after I was Vice President, we stepped down after
we — the eight years was up, what happened was I became a professor at
the University of Pennsylvania and taught — they set up a school of
foreign policy in my name.  And I taught — I taught the Constitution as
well. 

Think about it.  Think about what we mean when we say we are democrats
with a ca- — small “d,” that we support the Constitution. 

Look, I know it sounds like a low bar, but it’s a bar that we have to
get over.  We got to make sure we put — we finally put away this notion
of the extreme MAGA Republican.  It’s — again, it’s not your father’s
Republican Party. 

The vast majority of Republicans are decent, honorable people — people I
dealt with and worked with my whole career.  People I have strong
disagreements with, like Bob Dole and others — Howard Baker — but good,
good men and women. 

We got to bring that back.  Because I’ll tell you one other thing: You
know, every time I hear — when I’m been induced, I hear “Hail to the
Chief,” I turn around and wonder where the hell is she?  Where is he?” 
(Laughter.)  It’s hard to get used to.  For real.

But here’s the deal.  You know, we’re in a situation here where the rest
of the world looks to us.  Madeleine Albright was right; we are the
essential nation. 

I walk into a room with any head of state and — I’m serious — everything
stops.  Not because of me; because I’m President of the United States of
America.  The rest of the world — (applause) — no, I mean it.

The rest of the world looks to us.  They look to us. 

When I — when I first got elected, I went to the first meeting of the G7
I attended — the leading — the heads of state of the European countries
in NATO.  And I sat down and I said, “America is back.”  And Macron
looked at me, and he said, “For how long?”  Not a joke. 

And Scholz looked and said, “What would you think, Mr.  President, if
you picked up the paper tomorrow, in the London Times, and it said 1,000
people had marched to the Parliament, walked and broke down the doors of
the House of Commons to protest the certification of the speaker.  What
would you think?”

I started thinking about it.  What would we think if we read that?  This
the United States of America.  And again, we have enormous opportunities
at this moment in history.  But we cannot — we cannot fail to speak to
our principles. 

The choice facing us is not to be (inaudible).  When Donald Trump gives
his inaugural address, he chose to speak about American carnage.  That’s
what we remem- — remember the Inaugural Address, talking about “American
carnage,” America is weak, in disarray?

He wanted to get out of NATO.  He wanted to move “America First.”  Et
cetera.

When I gave my America — when I gave my Inaugural Address, I spoke about
American possibilities. 

When Donald Trump looks at America, he sees a failing nation.  When I
look at America, I see the strongest economy in the world with — leading
the world again, the ability to set the world standards. 

When Donald Trump talks about what he will do if he returns to the
presidency, he promised to bring revenge and repri- — retribution. 

If you return me to the presidency, I promise you, we’ll lift everyone
in this country.  Everyone.  (Applause.)  Everyone. 

Maybe Donald Trump sees an angry, dark, dismal, divided future for
America, but I don’t.

Folks, I’m taking too much your time. 

And, folks, look, I’ve never been more optimistic about our country’s
future, and I mean that.  Never been more optimistic. 

We just have to remember who in hell we are.  We’re the United States of
America.  And there’s nothing — nothing beyond our capacity when we set
our mind to it. 

Unless you think I’m exaggerating, think of any crisis we’ve gone
through where we come out the other side, we haven’t been stronger than
we went into it.  I’m not joking.  Think of one. 

This the United States of America.  We got to remember who we are.  And
with your help, I’ll do all my — everything in my power to make you
proud of what we’re doing. 

And in the meantime, God bless you all.  And may God protect our
troops.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

5:26 P.M. CST  
