---
date: '2023-11-16'
published_time: 2023-11-16 01:00:47-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/11/16/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-welcome-reception-for-apec-leaders/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Welcome Reception for APEC\_Leaders"
---
 
San Francisco, California

7:31 P.M. PST

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good evening, everyone.  (Applause.)

To our President, Joe Biden, and First Lady, Dr. Jill Biden; to Governor
Newsom, Mayor Breed, Speaker Emerita Pelosi, and the many friends and
leaders who are here, it is an honor, on behalf of Doug and myself, to
welcome APEC to our home state of California.  (Applause.)

So, the United States is a proud Pacific power, and the Indo-Pacific is
critical to the security and prosperity of the American people.  It is
for that reason that President Joe Biden and I have strengthened our
alliances and partnerships, our multilateral relationships in the
region, all to promote a free and open Indo-Pacific.

As Vice President, I have traveled to Indo-Pacific countries at least
four times over the last few years.  I have visited American sailors
deployed to Japan and American soldiers at the Korean DMZ.  I have
worked with CEOs in Singapore and Tokyo to strengthen supply chains and
witnessed the impressive activism of young leaders in Jakarta, Manila,
and Hanoi. 

And I have spent time with many of the world leaders here today in
bilateral meetings and multilateral summits, including at APEC, where I
represented the United States in Bangkok last year. 

All of this has convinced me of the energy and opportunities of the
Indo-Pacific.  And I remain incredibly optimistic about our future as a
region. 

As we shape that future together, I can think of no better place to
convene than San Francisco — (applause) — a city that looks out at the
Pacific.

And as many of you here know —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Welcome home!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  It’s good to be home.  (Laughter and applause.)

On that point, I was born just across the bay in Oakland.  (Applause.) 
And my mother was a scientist at the University of California,
Berkeley.  (Applause.)  And she had two goals in her life: to raise her
two daughters and to end breast cancer.  She was a breast cancer
researcher.

So, at a very early age, I learned about the power of innovation — that
it requires us to question the status quo and think boldly.  Innovation
is about our ability to see what can be, unburdened by what has been;
the ability to not only imagine a better future, but to build it. 

And I have seen the power of innovation to lift communities, whether I
was the district attorney of San Francisco, attorney general of
California, a United States senator, and now as vice president of the
United States.  (Applause.)

And as I represent them, our nation around the world, I have seen how so
many of the new ideas and technologies that started right here in the
Bay Area have moved all of humanity forward. 

So, we gather this week to continue our work together to improve the
human condition.  Under our president, Joe Biden, the United States will
continue to lead on innovation, economic cooperation, and a shared
vision for the future.  Together, through APEC, we can grow our
economies, unlock industries of the future, and ensure that all people
prosper.

I look forward to our productive meetings in the days ahead.  And,
again, to all of our visitors, welcome to San Francisco.

Thank you.  (Applause.)

END                       7:35 P.M. PST
