---
date: '2023-11-01'
modified_time: 2023-11-02 10:54:16-04:00
published_time: 2023-11-01 22:50:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/11/01/remarks-by-president-biden-on-how-bidenomics-and-his-investing-in-america-agenda-are-ensuring-rural-americans-do-not-have-to-leave-their-hometowns-to-find-opportunity-northfield-mn/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on How Bidenomics and His Investing in America\
  \ Agenda are Ensuring Rural Americans Do Not Have to Leave Their Hometowns to Find\
  \ Opportunity | Northfield,\_MN"
---
 
3:09 P.M. CDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, hello, hello!  Well, folks, please take a seat if
you have one.  (Laughter.)  
  
I said that some time ago — “take a seat” — and there weren’t any seats
in the room.  And they said, “See?  That Biden, he doesn’t even know
there’s no seats.”  (Laughter.)  
  
At any rate, before — before I start today, I would like to say a few
words about the latest developments in the Gaza Strip in Israel.   
  
Today, thanks to concerted American leadership, we’re in a situation
where safe passage for wounded Palestinians and foreign nationals to
exit Gaza has started.   
  
American citizens were able to exit today as part of the first group of
probably over a thousand.  We’ll see more of this process going on in
the coming days.   
  
We’re working nonstop to get Americans out of Gaza as soon and as safely
as possible.  This is the result of intense and urgent American
diplomacy with our partners in the region.   
  
I personally spent a lot of time speaking with the Prime Minister,
Netanyahu, of Israel and President Sisi of Egypt and others to make sure
that we could open this access for people to get out.  
  
I want to thank our partners in the region and particularly Qatar, who
have worked so closely with us to support negotiations to fa- — to
facilitate the departure of these citizens.   
  
At the same time, we’re continuing working to significantly step up the
flow of critical humanitarian assistance into Gaza.  The number of
trucks entering Gaza continues to increase significantly, but we still
have a long way to go.  
  
The United States is going to continue to drive humanitarian support for
innocent people in Gaza who need help.  And they do need help.   
  
We’re going to continue to affirm that Israel has the right to re- — and
responsibility to defend its citizens from terror, and it needs to do so
in a manner, though, that’s consistent with international and
humanitarian law that prioritizes the protection of citizens.   
  
We’ve all seen the devastating images from Gaza:  Palestinian children
crying out for lost parents, parents reasoning and writing their
children’s names on their hands and legs to be identified if the worst
happens.   
  
(A child in the audience cries.)  
  
It’s okay.  Kids are allowed to do that with me.  (Laughter and
applause.)  Don’t worry about it.  All right?  I don’t blame her.  Is it
a him or her?  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Her!  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I don’t blame her.  (Laughter.)  
  
Look, the loss of every in- — every innocent life is a tragedy.  
  
We grieve for those deaths and continue to grieve for the Israeli
children and mothers who were brutally slaughtered by Hamas terrorists
and also continue to hold in our hearts the hundreds of families and
loved ones, including small children and elderly grandparents, including
American citizens, being held hostage.   
  
My administration continues to work around the clock to reunite those
families.  We’re not going to give up.  Period.  We’re not going to give
up.  (Applause.)  
  
And I am optimistic.  But then, I am an optimist.  
  
Folks, now I want to thank Brad for that introduction.  Brad said he
wasn’t sure what a good speaker was.  He can speak a hell of a lot
better than I can farm.  (Applause.)  
  
And I’m glad to be accompanied by — I want to talk about my
administration and its investment in rural America.  But I also want to
thank Governor Vilsack — former Governor Vilsack, now the Secretary of
Agriculture.   
  
Look, creating opportunities for family farmers and the Tribal
communities across the country is what we’re trying to do here.  
  
And, Tim — (applause) — and, Governor Walz — Governor, it’s a great —
thank you for the great work and the partnership — what you’re doing
here in Minnesota.  (Applause.)  
  
And — and Mayor Pow- — Rhonda?  Where — where’s Rhonda, the mayor? 
There you are, Mayor.  Thank you for being here as well.  (Applause.)  I
appreciate it.  And thank you for the passport into the city. 
(Laughs.)  I don’t get many passports these days.  (Laughter.)   
  
Over the past 40 years or so, we’ve had a practice in America — an
economic practice called trickle-down economics, and it hit rural
America especially hard.  It hollowed out main street, telling farmers
the only path to success was to get big or get out.   
  
Tax cuts for big corporations encouraged companies to grow bigger and
bigger, move jobs and production overseas for cheaper labor, and
undercut local small businesses.   
  
Meat-producing companies and the retail grocery chains consolidated,
leaving farmers <s>with</s> \[and\] ranchers with few choices about
where to sell their products, reducing their bargaining power. 

Corporations that sell seed, fertilizer, and even farm equipment used
their outsized market power to change farmers and charge them and
ranchers unfair prices.   
  
You know, in part because of these conditions, over the past four
decades, we’ve lost over 400,000 farms in America — 400,000 — over
<s>141</s> \[140\] million acres of farmland.  And that’s an area
roughly equal to the size of Minnesota, North and South Dakota combined
— the three. 

Facing higher costs and earning less, family farms have struggled to
make — to make it work — to make the math work, and the promise of
keeping the farm in the family is slipping out of reach for so many
across America.  And when family farms go by the wayside, small
businesses, hospitals, schools that support them, they suffer as well in
the community.   
  
And as a result, farmers and ranchers and rural business owners,
including scores of young people, have to leave home in search of
good-paying jobs and a chance at the American Dream.   
  
All over rural America, young people are saying to their parents, “I
can’t live here anymore.  I can’t do it because I can’t find a job.  You
gave me an education, but there’s nothing for me here.  I got to
leave.”  
  
I came to office determined to change that.  
  
And, by the way, parenthetically, I come from a state that people think
is all either manufacturing, DuPont — all the — all like those.  But
it’s also a $4 billion industry in agriculture in the Delmarva
Peninsula, almost all chickens and soybeans.  But I watched what
happened in my community.  I watched what happened in — all across
America.  
  
Now, we’re growing an economy from the middle out and bottom up, instead
of the top down.  (Applause.)   
  
And, folks, there’s a practical reason for that.  When the middle class
does well, the poor have a way up, and the wealthy still do very well. 
It’s — everybody does better.   
  
When rural America does well, when Indian Country does well, we all do
well.    
  
And folks — (applause) — folks in the press have been calling my plan
“Bidenomics.”  Well, it’s about investing in all — all of America — all
of America, including rural America.  It’s about making things in rural
America again.  
  
And that’s exactly what the historic legislation we’ve passed has done:
creating new and better markets and new income streams so that
generations of rural Americans can begin to thrive again.   
  
For example, through our clean energy initiatives contained in the
Inflation Reduction Act, we’re investing nearly $20 billion — $20
billion; the money is there — to help farmers and ranchers tackle
climate crisis through climate-smart agriculture and cover crops,
nutrient management, prescribed graz- — (applause) — and storing carbon
in the soil — storing in the soil, reducing greenhouse gas emissions,
while improving overall health of the soil and the water.   
  
And instead of doing — doing what they have to do now, depending on one
income stream and being at the mercy of the commodity markets and the
big corporations, under our plan, farmers can diversify and earn
additional income just — just selling into the local markets.  You know,
it’s — it matters.   
  
Let me give you an example.  When a farmer sells his commodities
normally, you have to go through the grocery store, and the farmers gets
about 18 cents for every federal dollar — or, excuse me, every dollar
they have.  Sometimes, you get less than that.  
  
Some — some — but — but when a farmer sells locally, the farmers can get
anything from 50 to 75 cents for their same exact product, in addition
to producing renewable energy and taking advantage of the
bio-economy.   
  
The result of family farms that were barely making ends meet used these
funds we’ve provided to improve their bottom line after being squeezed
by big corporations for so long.   
  
Look, we’re also promoting competition in agricultural markets.   
  
For too long, farmers like Brad and his brother and his dad and mom have
had to sell their hogs — not just a handful of meat processors — there
was only a handful that existed — outsized control over the industry,
and they set the prices as well.   
  
Let me put this in — this perspective to you.  Just four big
corporations control more than half the market in beef, pork, and
poultry.  And because so few companies control so much of the market, if
one of those processing plants goes offline, it can cause massive supply
chain disruptions, slowing production, and cost farmers big.   
  
It happened to Brad when processing plants shut down during the
pandemic, and he had to rely on social media to sell his hogs.   
  
Folks, look, there’s something wrong when just 7 percent of the American
farms get nearly 90 percent — 7 percent get 90 percent of the farm
income, and most farmers rely on jobs off the farm to be able to make
ends meet on the farm.   
  
When I took office, I decided to invest a billion dollars through the
American Rescue Plan in small and medium-sized independent meat
processors to expand their capacity.  (Applause).  
  
And to folks who don’t understand that like the people here do, that’s —
what happens is it improves competition.  More people are competing for
the products, so farmers get to pri- — a fair price for their
product.   
  
It’s about basic fairness.   
  
Right now, the farmers and ranchers who actually grow the food, only to
see a small percentage of the profit when the food is sold.  So, when —
so, we’re strengthening local food systems so rural communities have
better access to affordable, locally grown food, so the farmers who
provide the food actually benefit from it.  (Applause.)  
  
Through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law — it’s a fancy name, but it’s
about rebuilding America’s bridges, roads, highways, et cetera — we’re
making the most substantial investment since President Eisenhower’s
rural American — since — in rural America since Eisenhower’s highway
plan — roads, bridges, inland waterways, ports, regional airports, clean
water, high-speed Internet.   
  
We’re — we’re building affordable high-speed Internet for every
household.  Over 230,000 Minnesotans’ households are already saving $30
or more per month on their Internet bills through the Affordable
Connectivity Program.  (Applause.) 

But I — we need your help.  That program is running out of funds.  I
sent Congress a request for more funding, and they should act now — act
on it now.

And we’re also investing — (applause) — we’re also investing over $50
million to bring high-speed Internet to Tribal communities here in
Minnesota alone.  (Applause.)    
  
We’re also making — we’re also making the largest investment in rural
electrification since FDR, providing grants and loans to rural electric
co-ops to supply rural communities with affordable, reliable clean
energy (inaudible).    
  
Today, I’m proud to announce new funding that will go directly to rural
communities: $1 billion to fix aging critical rural infrastructure, like
electric water — like electricity, water, waste water systems that
haven’t been replaced in decades.  (Applause.)  
  
We’re investing millions in building new bio-economy and — with
homegrown biofuels, which will contribute nearly $3 billion to
Minnesota’s economy over — every year as it saves a — as an important
market for family farms to be able to (inaudible).  (Applause.)   
  
And, folks, this is just a start.  
  
Today, I’m announcing we’re investing nearly $2 billion to help more
farmers adopt practices to fight climate change and earn new income. 
(Applause.)   
  
We’re investing $145 million for farmers and rural communities to
install clean energy technologies, like solar panels, and lowering
electric bills.  (Applause.)   
  
An additional $274 million will expand rural high-speed Internet even
further.  (Applause.)   
  
Two billion to support communities in our Rural Partners Network, which
puts federal employees on the ground to help rural communities take
advantage of the federal resources — let them know what they are and
where they are.  (Applause.)   
  
We’re also making rural Amer- — we’re also making sure rural America can
compete with clean energy manufacturing jobs of the future.   
  
Earlier this year, I was in Minnesota, where — where — where over —
where over a century, Cummins built diesel engines in heavy-duty trucks
and power generators.  But now, thanks to the legislation I signed, the
tax credit for clean energy, Cummins is converting its facility to make
essential components for producing clean hydrogen used for cleaner
production of everything from cars to trucks to steel to cement to
manufacturing.  (Applause.)  And it’s going to create thousands of
jobs.  (Applause.)   
And in places like Ohio and outside Syracuse, New York, and all over the
country — including in rural America — semiconductor companies are
investing hundreds of billions of dollars — not a joke — hundreds of
billions of dollars to bring chip production back home.  (Applause.)

You know those — those little computer chips about the size of the tip
of your little finger?  We invented them in America.  We made them more
sophisticated.  And we lost the ability to make them because we only
had, now, 10 percent of the production.  
  
I went to South Korea to meet with Samsung and other groups.  And I
said, “Hey, look, why don’t you come and invest in America?”  And guess
what?  The South Korean company came along, and they’re going to invest
$200 million \[sic\].  (Applause.)  We have over — or excuse me, $20
billion.  We’re going to invest over $350 billion in building these
chips.   
  
And everything in our lives from cell phones to automobiles,
refrigerators, the most sophisticated weapons systems rely on these.  
  
I might add, the factory being used to produce these chips — they call
them “fabs” — employ thousands of people.  You know what the average
salary in those factories is going to be?  Over $100,000 a year, and you
don’t need a college degree.  (Applause.)  That’s a — that’s the
truth.   
  
All that means good jobs — good jobs in rural America.   
  
The bottom line is this: Instead of exporting jobs overseas for cheaper
labor, now we’re creating jobs here and expanding American products and
selling them overseas.  (Applause.)  
  
Folks, we’re not only transforming rural communities, we’re transforming
our economy.   
  
A year ago, experts said a recession was almost guaranteed.  
  
Remember (inaudible), “A recession is coming.  A recession is coming.” 
A — well, guess what?  Just last week, we learned the economy grew by
nearly 5 percent the last quarter — (applause) — proving the experts
wrong.   
  
Since I took office, we’ve created 13.9 million jobs since I was
elected.  (Applause.)  
  
We created more jobs in two years than any president has done in
four-year term.  (Applause.)  And nearly 200,000 of those new jobs are
right here in Minnesota — 200,000.  (Applause.)  
  
Remember we were told we’d no longer be the manufacturing capital of the
world?  Well, guess what?  We’ve created 815,000 manufacturing jobs —
(applause) — twice as many as the previous administration.   
  
Where does it say we can’t be the manufacturing capital of the world? 
Where is that written?  
  
The unemployment rate has stayed below 4 percent for 20 months in a row,
the longest stretch in 50 years.  (Applause.)   
  
And inflation is coming down at the same time.  It’s down from 60
percent — it’s down 60 percent since last summer.  Core inflation is the
lowest level in two years, and we have the lowest inflation of any major
economy in the world.   
  
Folks, all of this is no accident.  It’s Bidenomics.

And, by the way, we got more to do.  We got more to do.  (Applause.)  
  
We’re creating good jobs in communities across rural America, including
in places where \[for\] decades factories that were open, that families
worked at, got shut down. Towns were — towns were hollowed out; jobs
moved overseas.   
  
Over the past few decades, these communities lost more than jobs.  They
lost their sense of dignity, opportunity, pride.   
  
My plan is about investing in rural America.  It’s about something else
as well.   
  
It’s about restoring pride in rur- — to rural communities that have been
left behind for far too long.  (Applause.)  No, you really have.  It’s
not hyperbole.    
  
For decades, families like Brad’s sat around the kitchen table with
their kids and grandkids worrying, wondering, “How — how can we keep the
farm in the family?”   
  
Because of these investments we’re making, family farms like this one
will stay in the family, and children and grandchildren like Brad won’t
have to leave home to make a living.  (Applause.)   
  
And when Brad sits around the kitchen table with his 4-year-old son and
20-month-old daughter — she won’t understand at all, right away —
(laughter) — who are here today, he doesn’t have to worry about if the
farm is going to stay in the family if they want it to.   
  
Folks, Bidenomics is just another way of saying “the American Dream.”   
  
Forty years ago, trickle-down economics limited the dream to those at
the top.  But I believe every American willing to work hard should be
able to get a job, no matter where they live — in the heartland, in
small towns — to raise their kids on a good paycheck and keep their
roots where they grew up.   
  
You know, my dad used to an expression.  For real, he’d say — he said,
“Joey…” — I mean it sincerely — “…a job’s more than about a paycheck. 
It’s about your dignity.  It’s about pride.  It’s about respect.  It’s
about being able to look your kid in the eye and say, ‘Honey, it’s going
to be okay,’ and mean it.”   
  
That’s the American Dream.  That’s Bidenomics.   
  
It’s rooted in — it’s rooted in what’s always worked best for the
country: investing in America — (applause) — investing in America and
investing in Americans, no matter where they live — in rural
communities, Tribal communities, suburbs, or cities.  Because I believe
a president is supposed to re- — represent all American people, not just
some Americans.  (Applause.)

Folks, here’s the deal.  It’s never been a good bet to bet against the
American people — never, never, never.  
  
I can honestly say I’ve never been more optimistic about America’s
future than I am today.   
  
We just have to remember who in God’s name we are.  We’re the United
States of America.  (Applause.)  
  
And think about this: We’ve always come out of every conflict we’ve
gotten into –we’ve always — every problem we’ve had stronger than when
we went in.   
  
There is nothing beyond our capacity.  Think about it.  Anything we’ve
ever set our mind to as a nation, we’ve never failed to succeed.  Not a
joke.  Never failed to succeed.  
  
Nothing is beyond our capacity when we do it together.  So, let’s unite
this country.  Let’s do it together.   
  
Let’s make sure that those who want to stay on the farm can stay as long
as they want because they make a good, decent living.  
  
God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.  
  
Thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
3:31 P.M. CDT

\###
