---
date: '2023-11-20'
published_time: 2023-11-20 10:11:03-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/11/20/remarks-by-vice-president-at-i-10-freeway-reopening-announcement-los-angeles-ca/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President at I-10 Freeway Reopening Announcement | Los Angeles,\_\
  CA"
---
 
*I-10 Freeway  
Los Angeles, California*

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Governor.  Well, as one of the first in
a very long time Californians to be associated with the White House and
living in Los Angeles, I was acutely aware of what closure of the 10
would mean for so many people: hardworking people, families, many people
who — when it was shut down, they can’t work from home — their work
requires them to be present.   
  
And so, I want to applaud the leadership of the governor, the mayor, the
senator, and so many others.  Caltrans — we had a chance to visit this
morning the men and women there, the men and women of organized labor,
the unions.   
  
The work that happened here is extraordinary.  And it really is a
function of the will and the ambition of the workers on the ground who
understood what closure of the 10 would mean for folks on a daily basis
and their commitment as public servants, as union members to get this
thing done.   
  
And, you know, we can give the fancy speeches all day long, but we’re
able to stand here and do this because they did this work on the ground
— in many cases, working as many as 14 hours a day out of sheer
commitment and a sense of duty and responsibility to deliver for the
people of Los Angeles.  So, it’s extraordinary work that happened
here.   
  
And yes — Governor, Madam Mayor, the senator — we all talked on a daily
basis, practically, and the estimates were that this was going to take a
long time.  There were some who said that a three- to four-week
estimation was ambitious.  But these folks, these people who work every
day on this — who are experts, who understand the specifics, who
understand the detail — they didn’t listen to all that.  They just did
the work and they saw it through.   
  
And on behalf of President Biden and myself and our administration, we
applaud this work.  And this is the kind of work, frankly, that is
happening around the country — where hardworking men and women,
carpenters, laborers, city workers, county workers, government workers
are rebuilding America.   
  
We have invested billions of dollars in rebuilding America’s roads and
bridges, lead pipes removal, what we are doing to ensure that all
families have access and can afford high-speed Internet — this is all
about rebuilding America’s infrastructure.  And it has been a commitment
of ours from day one.  
  
Many talked about doing it.  You’ll remember “Infrastructure Week.”  By
the way, it never happened.  
  
MAYOR BASS:  (Laughs.)  Every week.   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  But what we have been able to accomplish is, for
California alone, a $33 billion commitment to help build back up the
infrastructure in our home state.  We’re looking at already over 1,100
projects underway in California, because of the work and the commitment
that Joe Biden and I and our administration have had to ensure that
federal dollars come to states like California to do the work that must
be done.   
  
And so, I want to, again, applaud everybody.  
  
And then, to all the Angelenos, I would just say this: Tomorrow, the
commute is back on, and Happy Thanksgiving.   
  
There’s so much to be thankful for.  You know, there’s — we’re living in
a world right now where there’s — it’s heavy and it’s — it’s hard.  And
when we can have these moments to applaud the commitment of people to
folks that they may never meet — these workers, their commitment to the
families and the individuals who need to pass this freeway every day —
it’s a moment to give thanks for the folks who care and to remember that
we’re all in this together.   
  
So, thank you.  And Happy Thanksgiving, everybody.  (Applause.)  
  
                          END                          
