---
date: '2023-11-15'
published_time: 2023-11-15 09:38:07-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/11/15/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-campaign-reception-san-francisco-ca/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at Campaign Reception | San Francisco,\_\
  CA"
---
 
Merchants Exchange Building  
San Francisco, California

6:44 P.M. PST

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hi.  Good evening.  Good evening.  Good evening. 
(Applause.)    
  
Good evening.  Hi.  Oh, it’s good to be home.  (Laughter and applause.) 
It’s good to be — please have a seat.   
  
Thank you.  Thank you, thank you, thank you.  It is indeed good to be
home and to see so many friends.  (Applause.)  Thank you all.  
  
To our Governor, Gavin Newsom, I want to thank you for your kind words
and for your years of friendship.  And thank you to Clint and Janet
Reilly for your longstanding friendship and for hosting us all again
tonight. 

Gavin and I were joking that we could probably close our eyes and g- —
by feel, know every room in this building — (laughter) — over all of the
years that Clint and Janet have been hosting us and so many of us.  
  
So, to all of you, and starting with the two of them, I thank you for
all you have done for so many years.  And around this room, I look
around, I see so many friends.  And we’ve been on this journey for a
long time together.  So, thank you.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank
you.  
  
And thank you for the support you have given me and the President of the
United States, our President, Joe Biden — (applause) — and all you have
done for our nation.  
  
So, I’ve been traveling our country a lot.  And as I travel our country,
it has become abundantly clear that there is a full-on attack on so many
of our hard-fought, hard-won freedoms.   
  
Last year, the highest court of our land took a constitutional right,
that had been recognized, from the people of America — from the women of
America — the court of Thurgood and RBG.  And as a result, in states
across our nation, extremists have passed laws to criminalize doctors
and to punish women, laws that even make it no exception for rape or
incest.   
  
And as many of you know, I started my career as a prosecutor
specializing in crimes against children and women.   
  
It’s immoral.  And let’s be clear, one does not have to abandon their
faith or deeply held beliefs to agree the government should not be
telling a woman what to do with her body.  (Applause.)  
  
In states across our nation, extremists attack the right to vote.  They
pass laws that ban drop boxes and limit early voting.  All the while,
they deny Americans the freedom to live safe from gun violence.   
  
This fall, I gathered over 10,000 students on a college tour I named the
“Fight for Our Freedoms.”  And at each stop, I asked these students —
auditorium full of our young leaders — and I’d ask them, “Raise your
hand if at any time between kindergarten and 12th grade you had to
endure an active shooter drill.”  
  
And every time, almost every hand went up.  It’s bone-chilling to know
that so many of our children are living with extraordinary fear and
trauma.  
  
Meanwhile, so-called leaders refuse to pass reasonable gun safety laws,
refuse to pass an assault weapons ban, and, instead, they passed book
bans in an attempt to erase America’s full history.  
  
Can you imagine book bans in this year of our Lord, 2023?  
  
So, to the friends here, I say the obvious: This election is a fight for
our most fundamental freedoms.  And we are here tonight because we have
a responsibility — dare I say a duty — to preserve and protect our
nation’s most sacred ideals: freedom, liberty, and justice.  
  
As Democrats, that is what sets us apart, borne out of optimism and love
for our country.  We fight not against but for.  And I believe that when
you know what you stand for, you know what to fight for.   
  
So, election day is less than a year out.  And I think we should just
pull up the split screen for a moment.  (Laughter.)  
  
Think about it on an issue like gun violence.  On one side, you’ll see
the last administration, they wanted to arm teachers with guns.  On the
other side, President Biden and I came in and passed the first
significant gun safety law in nearly 30 years.  (Applause.)  
  
On one side of that screen, they gave billions of dollars in tax cuts to
large corporations, many of which paid nothing.  On the other side,
President Biden and I came in and we invested in small-business owners
and entrepreneurs with billions of dollars in access to capital.  
  
On one side, they constructed a Supreme Court to take away reproductive
freedom from the women and people of America.  On the other, when we win
back Congress, our President will sign back into law the reproductive
freedom that was guaranteed in Roe v. Wade.  (Applause.)  
  
So, folks, there are many issues these days that have taken on the
character as though they are binary.  And there are a lot of issues that
are not binary.  
  
But in 2024, in this election, it is binary.  It is binary.  And the
choice is clear.  
  
So, with 11 short months left, I will close with this.  As Vice
President, I have now met with over 100 world leaders — presidents,
prime ministers, chancellors, and kings.  When we walk into those rooms,
representing the United States of America, we walk in those rooms chin
up, shoulders back, with the self-appointed and earned authority to talk
about the importance of democracy and rule of law.  
  
But here’s the thing about being a role model: When you’re a role model,
people watch what you do to see if it matches what you say.  
  
In this very moment, people around the world are watching the United
States of America.  And there is a duality to the nature of democracy.  
  
On the one hand, when it is intact, it is extremely strong in terms of
the strength it gives its people in the protection and the preservation
of individual rights and freedoms.  On the other hand, democracy — well,
it’s very fragile.  It’s only as strong as our willingness to fight for
it.  
  
And so, fight we will.   
  
The months ahead will not be easy, but I am confident, on November 5th,
2024, we will win.  (Applause.)  We will win.  We will win.  
  
We have the record, we have the momentum, and most of all, we have the
leadership.  We have a leader of courage and compassion, a leader of
strength and skill, a leader who is ready to fight and is a fighter.  
  
So, please join me in welcoming the President of the United States, Joe
Biden.  (Applause.)  
  
                          END                 6:53 P.M. PST
