---
date: '2023-11-16'
modified_time: 2023-11-16 19:38:24-05:00
published_time: 2023-11-16 19:38:23-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/11/16/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-the-apec-womens-economic-participation-in-the-industries-of-the-future-meeting-san-francisco-ca/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at the APEC Women\u2019s Economic Participation\
  \ in the Industries of the Future Meeting | San Francisco,\_CA"
---
 
*InterContinental San Francisco  
San Francisco, California*

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hey, everyone.  Please have a seat.  Hi.  I have to
check my watch.  Good afternoon.  (Laughter.)  Good afternoon.  
  
Thank you, Jen.  I have to say, I have the great privilege of working
with Jen at the White House, and we travel the country and the world
together, and I’m looking at her right there.  She really is an
extraordinary fighter.   
  
And I wish that you all could see her in these rooms, because she is so
very kind in terms of her disposition, but she will cut somebody’s
throat — (laughter) — if they’re not doing the right thing.  It’s true. 
(Laughter.)  So, thank you, Jen.  Thank you.   
  
And welcome to everyone.  There are leaders from government, civil
society, philanthropy here.  And together we are doing extraordinary
work.  And I see a lot of friends here as well.   
  
Mayor Breed, thank you for your leadership.  I’ve known you and worked
with you throughout the various positions you and I have held in public
office, and you really are a great fighter for the empowerment of women
everywhere.  Thank you for that.  (Applause.)    
  
So, we are all here because we agree women around the world should be
able to fully participate in economic, political, and social life, and
they must be able to participate equally and in positions of
leadership.   
  
Currently, however, that is not the case.  There are nearly 200
countries in the world.  And of these, 176 maintain legal barriers to
women’s economic participation.  Only six have a national legislature
with 50 percent or more women serving.  And globally, one in five girls
is married before the age of 18.   
  
So, clearly there is a lot more work to be done, including here in the
United States.  And let us all agree that when we lift the economic
status of women, children, their families, and all of society
benefits.   
  
And when it comes to women in the workplace, the President and I know
that organizing is critical to empowerment.  And to that end, I am
pleased to announce that just last week in Las Vegas 35,000 members of
the local culinary union — the vast majority women and women of color
and immigrant women — led by a Latina, successfully negotiated for
better benefits, stronger workforce and workplace safety protections,
and the largest pay raise in their history.  (Applause.)  Yes.  So, yes,
let us applaud their work as an important milestone in the long march
toward progress.   
  
So, the majority of my career has been focused on the health, safety,
and well-being of women and children.  And as Vice President, this work
has now extended abroad. 

On nearly every trip I have taken overseas, from Guatemala to South
Korea to Ghana, I have convened women entrepreneurs, activists, and
students to partner with them to invest in their work and lift the next
generation of women leaders.  
  
This focus led to an announcement that I made in March in Ghana that the
public and private sectors have committed more than $1 billion to
support economic empowerment of women globally with an emphasis on
closing the digital gender divide.  
  
And today, then, as Jen said, to build on those investments, I am
pleased to announce the launch of the women in the sustainable economy
initiative also known as WISE. (Applause.)  Yes.  
  
So, this initiative will invest more than $900 million from the public
and private sectors, including $163 million from the United States
government.  These investments will support women in what is called the
“blue and green economy,” which means supporting women in industries
that contribute to a sustainable future, such as clean energy and
conservation.   
  
And all of this work, of course, will help address the climate crisis
but also with the recognition that the climate crisis has a
disproportionate impact on women and children around the world.  
  
Though this new initiative, we will provide skills and training in areas
such as engineering and the manufacturing of solar panels, we will
increase access to finance for women-owned businesses in these
industries, and we will increase girls’ access to STEM education.  
  
In the past eight months, I have partnered with the private sector and
philanthropies to generate more than $2.4 billion to economically
empower women around the world.  And I want to thank everyone here
because many of you have been partners through that process of doing
what we know is critically important, not only because it is morally
right, ethically right, but it is how we will be on a path to increase
security and prosperity around the world.  
  
It’s just really good for business.  (Laughter.)  And there’s a really
profound return on the investment.  
  
So, it’s smart work, and it’s good work.  And I look around this room,
and there are so many who have been in this fight for so long.  And I
think it’s really important that we have a moment like this to celebrate
the success that we have achieved thus far but to recommit ourselves to
all that we have yet to do in partnership.  
  
And so, for those who have not signed up, I am here to also encourage
you to do what I think is going to be something you will enjoy and will
have a profound impact on generations to come.  
  
And with that, I thank you all.  And, Jen, I’d ask you to come back up
so we continue the program.  
  
Thank you all.  (Applause.)

     END
