---
date: '2023-11-03'
published_time: 2023-11-03 10:18:27-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/11/03/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-a-white-house-historical-association-gala/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden at a White\_House\
  \ Historical Association\_Gala"
---
 
New York, NY

\*\*\*

Thank you, John, for that warm introduction.

And Al – it’s so great to see you and Deborah!

On this day, 223 years ago, President John Adams wrote a letter to his
wife Abigail. The day before, he had officially moved into a new
building made of whitewashed stone in Washington, DC.

While the building was a grand structure, it was unfinished – with a
leaky roof, missing closet doors, and wet paint.

Yet, President Adams still sensed the boundless possibility that lay
ahead – how this house, like his new country, had so much room to grow,
how it would be the stage for so many decisions that would ripple across
history.

In his letter to Mrs. Adams, he wrote a line that’s now etched into the
mantel in the State Dining Room: “I pray heaven to bestow the best of
blessings on this house and all that shall hereafter inhabit it.”

And with that hope in their hearts, President Adams and Mrs. Adams began
the tradition of making the White House a home for the First Family, an
office for the President, and a symbol of democracy for our nation.

My husband and I are honored to carry forward that legacy. And we’re so
grateful to the White House Historical Association for its partnership.

Stewart, John, Teresa, and the entire board – thank you for your
dedication to preserving the White House, and the exquisite and
extraordinary history it traces.

I am so thrilled to join you here to unveil the next frontier of your
work: a remarkable educational experience that will swing open the doors
of the People’s House in a way that’s never been done before.

And tonight, this group is the first to learn its official name: “The
People’s House: A White House Experience” at 1700 Pennsylvania Avenue.

Even though visitors from around the world walk the White House halls
nearly every day, there are so many things that just can’t be
experienced on a tour.

The gravity of being inside the Oval Office. The feeling of walking
through the Rose Garden on a summer day with blazing flowers in full
bloom. The enchantment of stepping into a State Dinner, each table
shimmering with crystal and candlelight.

“The People’s House: A White House Experience” will be an innovative,
immersive, and educational journey – one that transports visitors to
different chapters in time.

As if they were there themselves, they’ll witness moments that shaped
the course of our country, and the world.

And as the People’s House comes alive around them, visitors will feel
the pull of the invisible threads of our democracy that connect us,
stitching us into something greater than we are alone.

At its core, this project is about education – teaching our students
about our country’s origins, bringing to life the countless people who
shaped it and who made the White House into the beating heart of our
democracy.

Most of you know that education is my life’s work. So, when the board
first approached me about this concept, I was excited. I had already
been exploring ways to expand the learning that happens at the White
House.

In partnership with the White House Historical Association, we created a
new White House Visitors’ Guide, an educational resource to enrich and
enhance the public tour experience.

And though the tradition had been to have portraits of Presidents in the
East Wing – which houses the Office of the First Lady – I lined the
halls with portraits of the women who came before me. They all made
their mark on our country, defining the undefined role of the First Lady
in their own way.

And, I’m adding children’s books to the library, so kids who come on
tours can see that this house is for them too.

As an educator, I believe that our present and our future are
inextricably linked to our past. And when we learn from that past, we
come away changed – not just better informed – but with a deeper
understanding of the responsibility we hold as citizens of this country:
a responsibility to each other, to our democracy, and to upholding our
freedoms.

I think that’s needed now more than ever, at a time when our
institutions are increasingly under attack, and some of our leaders seem
intent on burying our history.

The White House is not just a monument to the past, it bears witness to
the present as it becomes our history. And I see it as part of my
responsibility to make sure it holds not only what our children learn
today, but what their children and their grandchildren will learn about
tomorrow.

Together, we can work to bestow the best of blessings on the People’s
House.

Thank you for your support in fulfilling this responsibility. Thank you
for giving your time, your talents, and your resources. Because of your
work and dedication, we’ve created a project that will help us harness
the lessons of history and use them to reach for a brighter future.

That same boundless future President Adams wrote of 223 years ago.

I can’t wait for you to walk through the doors of 1700 Pennsylvania Ave
and see the power of your work.

Thank you.  
 

\###  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
