---
date: '2023-11-06'
modified_time: 2023-11-06 17:38:30-05:00
published_time: 2023-11-06 17:38:29-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/11/06/remarks-by-president-biden-highlighting-how-bidenomics-and-his-investing-america-agenda-are-fixing-longstanding-infrastructure-needs-bear-de/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden Highlighting How Bidenomics and his Investing\
  \ America Agenda are Fixing Longstanding Infrastructure Needs | Bear,\_DE"
---
 
1:14 P.M. EST  
  
THE PRESIDENT: Well, it’s good to be home.  (Applause.)  I’ve been
coming down here a long — please take a seat if you have one.  And if I
say anything you don’t like, don’t jump.  Okay?  (Laughter.)  
  
Thank you all for being here.  And, Sterling, thank you for the
introduction — the whole family.  
  
You know, it’s good to be here with such good friends.  I’ve spent a lot
of my time working with, on, and around Amtrak, and all its employees.  
  
But, you know, one of the reasons why it’s worked so well here in
Delaware is because of John Carney, Tommy Carper, and Chris Coons.  And
I mean that sincerely.  We’ve had overwhelming support from the Delaware
delegation.  That’s because we ride the trains so damn much. 
(Laughter.)  
  
Attorney General Kathy Jennings, who used to work with my son Beau; and
New Castle County Executive Matt Meyer; and my good friend and a hell of
an athlete, Mike Purzycki; and Pete Buttigieg — thanks for doing such a
great job.  
  
Look, guys, we’re announcing a historic investment in America’s
railroads.  I’ve been talking about this for a long time, I know.  But
finally — finally, we’re getting it done.  More than $16 billion — 16 —
with a “B” — billion dollars here in the Northeast Corridor. 
(Applause.)  Twenty-five different projects.  All to build a Northeast
Corridor from Boston to Washington.   
  
It’s part of my agenda to invest in America — and I’ve been fighting for
this for a long time.  To invest in Americans, not just America.    
  
And there’s no better place to make this announcement than in my home
state of Delaware, here at Bear Maintenance Facility.  (Applause.)  
  
And a few miles away at the Wilmington Shops, over 800 — over 800 people
keep trains in the entire Northeast Corridor working in good order.  And
it’s not been easy because some of them are pretty old trains.   
  
Mechan- — machinists, electricians, pipefitters, facility workers — you
know, coach cleaners, boilermakers, laborers, foremen.  They have one
thing in common: They’re all good-paying union jobs.  Union jobs.  Union
jobs.  (Applause.)   
  
I’ve been saying it a long time: The middle class built America, but
unions built the middle class.  Unions built the middle class.  
  
For years, in the Senate and as vice president, I met with the workers
in these shops and then made them a promise.  I said I’d do all I could
and all in my power to fight to keep their jobs and to make our rail
system better and to work on the Northeast Corridor.  I told them I’d
fight for them and with them, and they stuck with me.  And that’s just
what I’ve done.  
  
And when I became president, I made sure that the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law — that’s the law to rebuild our highways and bridges
and rail and the whole inter- — all infrastructure —  
  
By the way, it’s a — it’s tied to the law.  It’s about a trillion 200
billion dollars, you know, with all — everything said and done.  
  
The point is: How can you be the leading country in the world and have a
second-rate infrastructure — second-rate infrastructure?  It’s not
possible.  
  
It included the largest investment in passenger rail since Amtrak was
created 50 years ago: $66 billion for world-class rail right here at
home.  And that includes the largest investment in the Northeast
Corridor since the Pennsylvania Railroad laid down these tracks in 1850
— in 1850.  
  
The fully electrified trains on this corridors e- — emit 83 percent less
greenhouses gases, by the way, than driving your car, 72 percent less
greenhouse gases than taking a plane.  
  
And folks here in Delaware — Delaware know that, as senator, I rode the
train back and forth between Washington and Wilmington virtually every
day for 36 years when I got elected, and then as vice president as
well.   
  
Amtrak wasn’t just a way to get home to family.  The conductors and
engineers became my family.  Not a joke.  I’d have a major event from my
home every year — all the conductors and engineers from New York on down
to Washington.   
  
When I was vice president, I flew over a million miles on Air Force Two,
but I traveled further than that on Amtrak over the years.   
  
I remember one of the conductors, when I was going home — Secret Service
is wonderful.  They really are.  But they’d rather you not tra- — travel
Amtrak — it’s not Amtrak — rail — because it has to stop so damn many
times, and there are so many options for people to do things that they
don’t want to have done.  
  
So, when I was coming home to see my mom and I just — she was living
with us at the time; my dad passed away.   
  
(Laughs.)  And I got on the train on a Friday, and — I won’t get him
into complete trouble; I’ll just tell his first name.  He was number two
in seniority at the time, Angelo. 

And Ang came up to me as I was walking, and he said, “Joey.”  And he
grabbed my cheek and he said, “Joey, baby.”  And he said, “All this st-”
— because I — they had published in the newspaper that I had traveled
1,200,000 miles on Air Force planes as vice president.  They published
that on a regular basis.  
  
He said, “Big” — I won’t quote him exactly, but he said, “Big deal,
Joey.”  (Laughter.)  And I said, “What’s it mean, Ang?”  And he said,
“Look…”  He said, “We just had the retirement dinner up in Newark.”  He
said, “You know how many miles you traveled on Amtrak?”  And I said,
“No.”  He said, “A million — I think it was — 320,000 miles.   
  
And I said, “How did you figure that?  He said, “Well, 118 days a year,
almost 300 miles a day, 36 years, plus as vi-“ –then he went on, the
whole deal.  And I said, “I believe you, Ang.  Let me get on the train,
will you?”  (Laughter.)  
  
But the point is, Tommy and I particularly spent a lot of time on the
train.  So, when I talk about how badly the Northeast Corridor needs
upgrades, you don’t need to tell me. I’ve lived it.  
  
I also know how important this line is to <s>computers</s> \[commuters\]
on the MARC rail between Maryland and Washington and Metro North between
New York and Connecticut, the New York Jers- — New Jersey Transit. 

I know what it feels like to be stuck on the tracks when you’re trying
to get home to see your family or trying to get south to make a vote
because the track is — something went wrong.  I know how much it
matters.    
  
Over 2,200 trains run on this corridor every single day, serving 800,000
passengers.  It’s the busiest rail corridor in the United States and one
of the busiest in the world.  And you guys keep it moving.  You guys
keep it moving.  (Applause.)    
  
But a problem — a problem anywhere along the lines means delays up and
down the East Coast for commuters trying to get to work, for businesses
trying to ship their goods on the shelf, and travelers trying to visit
family.   
  
This region represents 20 percent of the gross domestic product of the
entire United States of America.  If this line were to shut down just
one day, it would cost our economy — the American economy $100 million a
day.   
  
But this line has tunnels and bridges that are over 100 years old — I
know because I’ve walked through two of them; train stations that
haven’t seen a major upgrade for generations; tracks in constant need of
repair.   
  
Look, folks, it has real consequences.  This outdated infrastructure
leads to over 4,000 hours of delays each year on Amtrak — 4,000 hours a
year.   
  
For example, the Hudson River rail tunnel, a critical link in New York
Penn Stat- — to New York Penn Station — the busiest train station in
America, I might add.  It opened for business 113 years ago — that
tunnel.  It was so badly damaged — remember superstorm Sandy?  Well, it
got badly damaged at that time — over 10 years ago.  There still remains
the remnants of seawater in the tunnel eating away at the concrete,
steel, and electrical components.   
  
In 2020, passengers saw over 12,000 minutes of delays getting through
that tunnel.   But last week, thanks to the leadership of Chuck Schumer,
we broke ground to rebuild the Hudson River Tunnel.  The new tunnel will
add capacity to increase the speed, reduce delays in the biggest rail
line in the country.   
  
With today’s announcement, I’m committing 11 — we’re committing $11
billion to this one project — that one project.  It’s critical to
transforming the Northeast Corridor.   
  
People have been working on it for over a decade.  Now we’re finally
getting it done.   
  
And that’s not all.  As anyone who’s traveled through the Baltimore
Tunnel knows, it’s a major checkpoint but it’s also a major chokepoint
for 9 million Amtrak and MARC rail passengers who pass through it each
year.  1.4 miles — that’s how long a stretch it is — with a very tight
curve so trains have to slow down to 30 miles an hour to get through
safely.  On 99 percent of the weekdays, there’s a delay somewhere near
there as a consequence.   
  
I’ve traveled through that tunnel literally thousands — literally
thousands of times.  And trust me, I know.   
  
That tunnel is 150 years old.  It was built 150 years ago.  Ulysses S.
Grant was president when it was built.  The structure is deteriorating. 
And a lot of you know — a lot of workers know — the roof of that tunnel
is leaking.  The floor is literally sinking.   
  
This is the United States of America, for God’s sake.  The United States
of America.  We know we’re better than that.  And now we’re proving
it.   
  
That’s why we’re fully re- — fully replacing the entire Baltimore
tunnel.  We’re not just changing it, we’re replacing the whole tunnel.  
  
As part of the Investing in America Workforce Hubs, we’re working with
leaders in Baltimore — along with the union officials and career and
technical schools — to train the local workforce to help build that new
tunnel, so we have the capacity.   
  
The new tunnel will be all electric and trains will travel through it at
110 miles an hour, not 30 miles an hour.  (Applause.)  
  
The MARC trains will go from Baltimore to Washington in under 30
minutes.  On an average weekday, that’s nearly a 7hours — that
eliminates 7 hours of delay on average.    
  
Look, we’re also investing $9 billion to replace over 1,000 trains and
train cars with state-of-the-art equipment, including electric trains
made in America — made in America.  (Applause.)  And the folks standing
with me here today will help maintain and repair those trains that will
move along this corridor.    
  
Look, just two weeks ago, Mitch Landrieu — the former mayor of New
Orleans and my infrastructure coordinator and senior advisor — was here
in Delaware at the — cutting rib- — to cut ribbons on renovations in the
Wilmington train station to make it more accessible.   
  
The Wilmington train station is a busy station for a small city — a
relatively small city.  But you know what?  If you have an — if you have
any infirment, if you have heavy baggage, you’ve got to go down an
entire flight of stairs.  You can either walk down two flights of
stairs, or you go down an e- — the escalator is not that good.  For
real.  
  
Well, thanks to the upgrades, after all these years, passengers don’t
have to haul their luggage down the stairs anymore.  Every passenger,
regardless of disability, can have an easy time getting on and off the
train as well.   
  
The list goes on, with projects to make life more rational and modern in
our train stations, from Boston to Wa- — from Boston to Washington.    
  
Look, when all this is done, we’ll reduce delays and speed up the trains
along the Northeast Corridor.   
  
This matters for businesses trying to get their goods to market.  It
matters for the parent commuting to work in the morning.  It matters for
folks trying to get home li- — at — for dinner.  It matters to thousands
of people who ride the trains on the Northeast Corridor.  
  
It’s like taking 500,000 automobiles off the road every day.  That’s how
much is — that’s what it’s like.  And this has phenomenal environmental
positive impact.  
  
As we continue to invest in rail across the country, we’re going to make
even more — take even more vehicles off the road, saving millions of
barrels of oil a day.    
  
Folks, meanwhile, our MAGA Republican friends in Congress are proposing
to slash Amtrak’s budget.   
  
We’re trying to make train travel easier, faster, safer, more reliable. 
They’re trying to make it slower, harder, and less safe.  You can’t make
this stuff up.   
  
But that’s okay.  We’re not going to let them stop the progress we’re
making.  And it’s — I promise you that.  
  
And by the way, we’re making all this progress with American workers,
with products made in America, and with union labor.  
  
In fact, Amtrak and the Building Trades have agreed that project labor
agreements will be in place all across the rail construction projects up
and down the Northeast Corridor.  That’s another way of saying it’s
going to create good union jobs.  (Applause.)  It’s going to create over
100,000 of those good union jobs, and that’s on top of the thousands of
good union jobs running the trains and maintaining the safety — system
already.    
  
These are jobs for the folks I thought about as I’d take that train
home.  You know the (inaudible) as you get outside of Baltimore — just
before you get into Baltimore?  You can look out the window and you’re
going through, basically, the neighbor.  
  
And I always used to sit there — I mean it — coming home and look out
and see people sitting at their kitchen tables — literally, you could
see them right along the track — and wondering, “What are they thinking
about?  What — what are they — what’s on their minds?”   
  
When kids put to bed, questions asked, ordinary and profound: Will there
be enough money left over at the end of the month pay- — after we pay
all our bills just to have a little breathing room?  Will we be able to
look my child in the eye and say, “Honey, it’s going to be okay.  We’re
going to do fine”?  
  
Folks, too many people have been left behind in the past or treated like
they’re invisible.  We’re building an economy from the middle out and
the bottom up where no one is left behind.  
  
You know, my dad used to say, “Joey” — and I mean this sincerely —
“Joey, a job is about a lot more than a paycheck.  It’s about your
dignity.  It’s about your dignity.  It’s about respect.  It’s about you
being able to look your kid in the eye and say ‘Honey, it’s going to be
okay’ and mean it.”  That’s what he would say, and he meant it.  That’s
what a decent living is about.  
  
So, let me close with this.  Nearly a century ago, Franklin Roosevelt
came up with the Rural Electrification Act that brought electricity to
millions of Americans.  Nearly 70 years ago, President Ei- — Eisenhower
launched the Interstate Highway System.   
  
The investment we’re making today will be for our kids and grandkids
what those historic programs were for previous generations, only
bigger.   
  
And as a result, I truly believe this country is about to take off. 
Because for the first time in a long time, we’re bringing pride back to
cities and towns all across America that have been left behind.   
  
I can honestly say I’ve never been more optimistic about America’s
future.  
  
And, folks, in my view, the president after I’m — long after I’m
president is going to have more to do.   
  
One of the things I convinced President — led when I was vice president
— I convinced the President to do — is to provide money for high —
high-speed rail.   
  
You know, you can go — when you get in a train in China, you go 210
miles an hour — China.  We can do it here in the United States in this
Northeast Corridor.  If we straightened out three big corridors, it
would cost about a trillion dollars.   
  
But we had the same we — we had the ability to do that for a rail from
Florida to Mississippi and all — all kinds of places we can do it.   
  
But think about: Why, in the United States of America, do we not have
the best rail system in the world?   
  
So, this is a big beginning — $61 billion — to take care of the
Northeast Corridor.  But there’s so much more we can do to better the
environment, the quality of life, and make us more competitive.  And
you’re the guys, at this place, that can just do it.   
  
So, just have to remember one thing though — we sometimes forget — we
sometimes forget: This is the United States of America.  There’s not a
damn thing we can’t do if we set our mind to it.  Not one. 
(Applause.)  
  
Thank you, all.  May God bless you all, and may God protect our troops. 
Thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
1:32 P.M. EST
