---
date: '2023-11-27'
modified_time: 2023-11-28 13:24:42-05:00
published_time: 2023-11-27 23:13:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/11/27/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-reception-houston-tx/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign Reception | Houston,\_TX"
---
 
Private Residence  
Houston, Texas

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hi, everyone.  (Applause.)  The first Second
Gentleman of the United States.  (Applause.)  (Laughs.)  Thank you,
Dougie.  
  
Hi, everyone, and good evening.  Good evening to everyone.  Let me start
by thanking Sima and Masoud and Dara for hosting us this evening.   
  
Sima and I went to the same law school.  And — and we have been working
together most recently on the issue of what we must do to fight for
fundamental freedoms, including the right of people — of women to make
decisions about their own body and not have their government tell them
what to do.   
  
And so, on behalf of so many who you and your family have supported, I
say thank you, because you really make it look easy, and I know it’s
not.  So, can we please applaud our hosts for this evening? 
(Applause.)  
  
And to the entire host committee and to everyone, to the elected leaders
who are here, as Doug said, we were all together at a senior center in
the district represented by Sylvia and — and having a wonderful
community conversation about the issues, the challenges, and the
opportunities of this moment.  And, Congresswoman Barragán, I want to
thank you for hosting us in Texas for that purpose.   
  
And I also just want to give a shout-out to Judge Hidalgo who —
(applause).  We can only cover so many important topics tonight in this
one conversation, but one of the discussions that we had earlier this
afternoon was about the importance of addressing mental health.  And
increasingly, a big, big issue for our young leaders and our young
people — in fact, one out of three young people describe and have
reported they’re concerned about their own mental health.  And that’s
just what — who has reported.  And she’s been a national leader on this
issue.  So, I thank you for that and all that you do.  Thank you. 
(Applause.)    
  
So, there’s a lot to talk about, but let’s start with this.  And I think
it’s part of the theme of the evening.  We love our country.  We love
our country.   
  
And there is so much about this moment and, certainly, the next 11
months that will be about fighting for this country we love and fighting
to make real the promise that we all hold so dear — a promise that is
based on fundamental, foundational ideals, freedoms — the right of
individuals to have a government and a nation protect their individual
rights and their freedoms in such a foundational way.   
  
This election is going to be about a fight for our democracy and all
that we hold dear.  And so, we all come together with, I think, a
collective and a shared spirit of knowing that this is a fight borne out
of love for something, not against anything.   
  
And so, that’s with that spirit that we join together tonight and
understanding that we have to stay vigilant.  And none of us — and I’m
preaching to the choir here — none of us can afford to passively sit by
and watch what we have been witnessing happen without being active and
taking a stand to fight for all that we hold dear.   
  
So, that’s how I think about the moment that we are in.  And it’s not
only about who we are as a nation as it relates to each other.  This is
also about our standing globally around the world.   
  
Doug mentioned that last — was it — it was last week we were in San
Francisco at APEC, the Asia-Pacific Economic Council, and — and then a
couple of weeks before that in the UK.  And at those most recent
meetings, just in the last few weeks, I saw global leaders who I’ve now
come to know quite well as vice president.   
  
I will tell you that, as vice president, I have now met with over 100
world leaders — presidents, prime ministers, chancellors, and kings. 
And one of the things I can tell you is that when we walk in those rooms
representing the United States of America, we walk in those rooms chin
up, shoulders back, with the earned and self-appointed authority to talk
about the importance of rule of law, democracies.   
  
But here’s the thing about being a role model: When you’re a role model
— it’s a group of role models — people watch what you do to see if it
matches what you say.  And on so many of the important issues of the
moment, then, the outcome of this election will be a statement in so
many ways about who we are as a nation and our commitment to
fundamental, foundational principles.   
  
Like Doug said, you know, there’s so many issues right now that are
seeming as though they’re binary when, in fact, they’re anything but. 
But on this election, it’s binary.  There’s a split screen.  And
everyone has got to just see it and understand they’ve got to take a
stand.   
  
Again, I am preaching to a whole group of folks who understand and have
committed themselves to being active on this issue.  So, when I think
about where we are, it is foundation and fundamental principles that are
at stake.   
  
On the stage with the two Congress members, we talked just a couple
hours ago now about a college tour that I started this year.  So, during
the summer, I said, “You know, I really want to get out and hang out
with our Gen Z.”  (Laughter.)  I love Gen Z.  I’m just going to
confess.  I love Gen Z.   
  
And it’s — it will be a very humbling thing for many to acknowledge that
if someone is 18 today, they were born in 2005.  (Laughter.)  But when
you think about who they are — right? — okay, so I told you, it’s kind
of — you know, it’s a little bit humbling, isn’t it?   
  
But what I love about that generation — this generation, for so many of
the foundational, fundamental issues that we’re facing right now, for
them it’s a lived experience.  They’ve only known the climate crisis. 
They have witnessed states, including this very state, take away voting
rights, take away — they saw the highest court take away a woman’s right
to make decisions about their own body.  They witnessed the killing of
George Floyd.  They have endured active-shooter drills.  
  
So, for them — and doing this college tour, what I — where I met over
15,000 young people, it is so clear that these issues are, for them, a
lived experience.  This is not some conceptual issue.  This is not an
academic issue.  And they are prepared to step up in a way that they
believe we also will step up.   
  
And so, thinking, then, about these foundational and fundamental
principles that are at stake, I will tell you: Traveling our country,
I’ve also seen and I do believe there is an intent to — to create a
full-on attack against these rights   — be it, again, the right of a
woman to make decisions about her own body; the freedom to have access
to the ballot, unfettered; the freedom to love who you love openly and
with pride; the freedom to live free of fear, be it gun violence or
bigotry or Islamophobia or antisemitism or xenophobia; the freedom to
just be.  
  
These are the things that are at stake right now in our country.   
  
However, I will also say, as I travel our country and meet with the
friends like those who are here today, I am so clear that we are
prepared to do what is necessary to fight for all that is good and
right.  
  
And I just have to reflect on a few things.  I reflect on 2020 and I
reflect on the midterms.  
  
2020, in the height of a pandemic — where there was extraordinary loss
of life, people lost their jobs, a lo- — loss of normalcy — the people
in this house never gave up and remained optimistic and were as engaged
as you are now and as involved as you are now and talked with friends
and neighbors and family members about why they should care and stay
active, in the midst of an historic pandemic.  
  
And because of the work you did in 2020, born out of optimism and what
is possible, we had record voter turnout — record young voter
turnout.   
  
Because of what you did in 2020, we took on so much, which resulted in
transformative policies for the American people.   
  
And, you know, on that point — I know there’s some press folks here —
I’ll tell you — so, you know — (laughter) — I know I — I believe in the
freedom of the press.  I love the press.  I love the press.
 (Laughter.)  But my point is this — my point is this: that, you know,
the punditry, you know, on media, will — they’ll — they’ll often talk
about, “Oh, you know, there’s — this is going to be a tough race.  This
is going to be a tough election.”  Well, of course, it is.  We’re
talking about president of the United States in a reelection.   
  
Of course, it’s going to be tough, but we’ve got a lot of good
material.  (Applause.)  We’ve got a lot of good material.  
  
And I’ll just rattle off a few things.   
  
Think about the transformative nature of what we did with the
infrastructure bill.  You know, some people talked about “Infrastructure
Week” forever; it never happened.  We are now investing billions of
dollars in upgrading America’s infrastructure.   
  
What we have done with the Inflation Reduction Act is an investment, by
my estimate, of at least $1 trillion over the next 10 years in a clean
energy economy, which will allow us as the United States of America to
be a global leader in what nations can do to address one of the most
existential crises we have ever faced.  
  
What we are doing and what we have done — (applause) — to invest in the
CHIPS and Science Act — to invest in our capacity to engage in research
and development, engage in the brilliance of someone like Dara, who is
working in technology and just moved to San Francisco.  (Applause.)  
  
To create — to create and to — to do the work that is about innovation
to heal people and to improve the quality of life of people around the
world.   
  
This is the work we have been doing as an administration because you all
believed in 2020 in what is possible.  And you showed up, in this house
and many other places, knowing what can be, unburdened by what has
been.   
  
Not to mention what we have accomplished — some people might think it’s
not a big deal, but I’ll tell you a whole lot of people do — we capped
the cost of insulin for seniors at $35 a month.  That’s a big deal. 
(Applause.)  
  
We are on track to get every American family access to an affordable
high-speed Internet, including rural America — I’m saying in Texas. 
(Applause.)  
  
We are on track to get rid of every lead pipe in America — lead pipes
through which toxic water was coming that babies were drinking and
having an impact on their health and their ability to learn. 
(Applause.)  
  
This is the stuff we are doing because you all were so engaged and
believed in what was possible.   
  
And so, I say that to say we’ve got a lot of good material.  And our
challenge is just, then, to remind folks of who brung it to them. 
(Laughter.)  Because people want to talk about the polls — well, let me
tell you: On every aspect of every issue that I have just quickly
outlined — incredibly popular with American people.  These things are
incredibly popular, what we have done.  We just got to let people know
who brung it to them.  
  
And so, that’s part of our challenge.  And we’ve got 11 months, and we
know how to get this done.   
  
And so, I’ll close by saying this.  Again, this is about our nation.  I
mean, Sima, you said it so beautifully.  This is about — we thought 2020
was a fight for the soul of America.  Joe Biden talks about that all the
time — our extraordinary president, who, by the way, because of his
leadership — (applause) — has been able to bring nations together around
some of the chal- — most challenging issues of our time.  This is
fundamentally about a fight for our democracy.   
  
And I’ll close with just a simple point.  You know, there’s a duality to
the nature of democracies.  On the one hand, it is very — it is very
much about strength — the strength that it gives individuals in terms of
the protection of their rights and freedoms and liberties.  When a
democracy is intact, it is very strong in its capacity to lift the
people up.   
  
It is also very fragile.  It is only as strong as our willingness to
fight for it.  
  
And so, fight we will; fight we must.  And when we fight, we win. 
(Applause.)  
  
So, thank you, all.  Thank you, all.  Thank you, all.  Thank you, thank
you.  
  
END
