---
date: '2023-11-17'
published_time: 2023-11-17 15:49:42-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/11/17/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-an-apec-spousal-program-on-mental-health/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden at an APEC Spousal\
  \ Program on Mental\_Health"
---
 
Cupertino, California

Thank you, Tim, for your leadership and friendship. It’s an honor to be
here with you at this magnificent campus.

I’m grateful to you and Lisa, Carolyn, Semonti, Sumbul, and the health
and event teams for helping us host this program today.

Honored guests, friends, it has been a pleasure spending time with you
at this APEC summit.

It’s hard to imagine now, but this splendid space we’re sitting in and
this company, one of the world’s largest, started from humble
beginnings, in Steve Jobs’ small family garage just a 15-minute drive
from here.

When Apple began in 1976, computers weren’t personal, they were
intimidating and unfriendly. The purview of engineers and
mathematicians, not moms and dads and grandparents.

Steve’s vision and insight wasn’t the iPhone or the idea to put a
thousand songs in your pocket.

He believed that at our core, each of us is searching for connection.
And that technology could facilitate that connection.

Steve sought to put the personal in personal computing.

Now, technology, computers, phones, and watches help connect us to the
people who matter most in our lives – their love and friendship at our
fingertips.

We can text our children, wishing them good luck on their big exam.

We can see our husbands and wives on a computer screen, even if they
happen to be on the other side of the world.

We can quickly and easily let our best friends know that we’re thinking
of them.

And, didn’t this all become so much more important during the Covid-19
pandemic?

As first spouses, I believe that all of us in this room have a deep
understanding of that innate desire for human connection.

We see it every day in our own communities, don’t we?

The way a hug can give warmth and love, how a caring shoulder can ease
heavy burdens, how a simple smile can brighten an entire day.

As I’ve traveled across the United States, I’ve seen far too many people
who are missing this connection and struggling with their mental health.

I continue to teach at a community college, and in my own classroom,
I’ve seen how, after the Covid pandemic, so many of my students are
wrestling with anxiety and isolation, and struggling to connect.

Too often, these issues are hidden, swept under the rug and ignored.

But when we bring them into the light, when we talk about them openly,
we can begin to heal.

I saw the power of this honesty earlier this year.

I met with high school students in the midwestern state of Indiana who
had formed a campus club to help with mental health.

The club facilitates peer-to-peer conversations, and encourages students
to talk with the adults in their lives or a professional.

We need to find ways to encourage that type of bravery.

This isn’t only an American issue. It’s a global one. I know many of you
have seen similar challenges.

That’s why I wanted to bring all of us together this morning, to talk
about what we’re seeing, and to share lessons we’ve learned.

Because when people have the tools and resources to support their mental
health and well-being, they thrive, and they help us create stronger
communities and stronger economies.

That’s what this APEC Summit is about – coming together to build a
brighter, more resilient future.

I look forward to hearing from you, but first, it is an honor to
introduce a young woman of incredible talent and courage. A global
superstar who is using her platform as a force for good in the world.

Rosé is a wildly popular solo artist and the lead singer of the Korean
pop group, BLACKPINK.

She is also an outspoken advocate for mental health and has bravely
shared her story in the hopes of helping others.

I am thankful that she accepted my invitation to join us today and
grateful to Mrs. Kim, the First Lady of Korea, for supporting my effort.

Please join me in welcoming, Rosé.

\*\*\*

Thank you, Rosé, for sharing that powerful message.

It’s inspiring how you’re elevating this important issue and helping
others find their way out of the darkness.

I asked the U.S. Surgeon General, Doctor Vivek Murthy, to help
facilitate our conversation on mental health. Doctor Murthy is one of
our leading experts working on how to balance both the benefits and
risks of technology on our mental health, especially the mental health
of our young people. He and I have partnered together on efforts to
reach young Americans.

Vivek, thank you for joining us. I’ll turn it over to you now.

\*\*\*

I just want to say thank you, with all my heart. I’m really honored that
you joined me today for this important dialogue. What a powerful way to
close our time together.

It was so valuable to hear your stories and experiences. Thank you for
sharing, thank you for opening up and talking about a difficult topic.

I’m inspired by your strength and dedication. And I’m optimistic about
our ability to address this urgent issue, to make meaningful change.

I’ve learned so much from you, even in this short time we’ve had
together.

Thank you.

\###
