---
date: '2025-01-04'
modified_time: 2025-01-04 20:38:22-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-04 20:38:21-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/legislation/2025/01/04/press-release-bills-signed-h-r-670-h-r-1318-h-r-2997-h-r-3391-h-r-5103-h-r-5443-h-r-5887-h-r-6062-h-r-6395-h-r-6492-h-r-6852-h-r-7158-h-r-7180-h-r-7365-h-r-7385-h-r-74/
tags: legislation
title: "Press Release: Bills Signed: H.R. 670, H.R. 1318, H.R. 2997, H.R. 3391, H.R.\
  \ 5103, H.R. 5443, H.R. 5887, H.R. 6062, H.R. 6395, H.R. 6492, H.R. 6852, H.R. 7158,\
  \ H.R. 7180, H.R. 7365, H.R. 7385, H.R. 7417, H.R. 7507, H.R.\_7508\u2026"
---
 
On Saturday, January 4, 2025, the President signed into law:

H.R. 670, the “Think Differently Database Act,” which requires HHS to
establish a website to provide information on resources available to
individuals with a disability and their caregivers and families;

Thank you to Representatives Molinaro and Sherrill, and Senators Schmitt
and Ossoff for their leadership.

H.R. 1318, the “Women’s Suffrage National Monument Location Act,” which
authorizes a commemorative work to commemorate the women’s suffrage
movement and the passage of the 19th Amendment to the Constitution;

Thank you to Representatives Neguse and Lesko, and Senators Baldwin and
Blackburn for their leadership.

H.R. 2997, the “Clifton Opportunities Now for Vibrant Economic Yields
Act” or as the “CONVEY Act,” which directs the Secretary of the Interior
to convey to Mesa County, Colorado all rights, title, and interest of
the United States to a specified property;

Thank you to Representatives Boebert, Buck and Lamborn, and Senators
Hickenlooper and Bennet for their leadership.

H.R. 3391, the “Gabriella Miller Kids First Research Act 2.0,” which
reauthorizes the Gabriella Miller Kids First Pediatric Research program
at the National Institutes of Health;

Thank you to Representative Wexton, and Senators Kaine and Warner for
their leadership.

H.R. 5103, the “Fishery Improvement to Streamline untimely regulatory
Hurdles post Emergency Situation Act or the FISHES Act,” which
establishes procedures for the review of spend plans submitted to the
Department of Commerce by requesters seeking fishery resource disaster
assistance funding;

Thank you to Representatives Donalds and Peltola, Senators Rick Scott,
Sullivan, Murkowski, and Rubio, and many others for their leadership.

H.R. 5443, the “Accelerating Appraisals and Conservation Efforts Act” or
the “AACE Act,” which authorizes non-Federal land appraisers to perform
certain services on behalf of the Department of the Interior in any
State;

Thank you to Representatives Susie Lee and Dave Joyce, and Senators
Cortez Masto and Rosen for their leadership.

H.R. 5887, the “Government Service Delivery Improvement Act,” which
requires the designation of OMB and agency officials responsible for
improving government service delivery;

Thank you to Representatives Khanna, Timmons, Donalds and Loudermilk,
and Senators Hassan and Marshall for their leadership.

H.R. 6062, which restores the ability of the people of American Samoa to
approve amendments to the territorial constitution based on majority
rule in a democratic act of self-determination, as authorized pursuant
to an Act of Congress delegating administration of Federal territorial
law in the territory to the President, and to the Secretary of the
Interior under Executive Order 10264, dated June 29, 1951, under which
the Constitution of American Samoa was approved and may be amended
without requirement for further congressional action, subject to the
authority of Congress under the Territorial Clause in article IV,
section 3, clause 2 of the United States Constitution;

Thank you to Representative Radewagen for her leadership.

H.R. 6395, the “Recognizing the Importance of Critical Minerals in
Healthcare Act of 2023,” which amends the Energy Act of 2020 to require
the Secretary of the Interior to include the Secretary of Health and
Human Services in consultations regarding designations of critical
minerals, elements, substances, and materials;

Thank you to Representatives Curtis and DeGette for their leadership.

H.R. 6492, the “Expanding Public Lands Outdoor Recreation Experiences
Act” or the “EXPLORE Act,” which improves recreation opportunities on,
and facilitates greater access to, Federal public lands;

Thank you to Representatives Westerman, Grijalva, Curtis, Neguse,
Lamborn, Barragán, Moylan, Peltola, Carl, Susie Lee, Radewagen, Porter,
Wittman, Sablan, Kiggans, Dingell, Collins, Leger Fernandez, Levin and
Case, and Senators Manchin and Barrasso for their leadership.

H.R. 6852, the “Holcombe Rucker Park National Commemorative Site Act,”
which designates Holcombe Rucker Park as a National Commemorative Site;

Thank you to Representative Espaillat for his leadership.

H.R. 7158, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 201 East Battles Road in Santa Maria, California, as
the “Larry Lavagnino Post Office Building”;

Thank you to Representative Carbajal for his leadership.

H.R. 7180, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 80 1st Street in Kingsland, Arkansas, as the
“Kingsland ‘Johnny Cash’ Post Office”;

Thank you to Representative Westerman for his leadership.

H.R. 7365, the “Veterans Expedited TSA Screening Safe Travel Act” or the
“VETS Safe Travel Act,” which makes certain disabled veterans eligible
for the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) PreCheck Program at
no cost if they meet the program’s background check and security
requirements;

Thank you to Representative Gosar for his leadership.

H.R. 7385, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 29 Franklin Street in Petersburg, Virginia, as the
“John Mercer Langston Post Office Building”;

Thank you to Representative McClellan and Senator Warner for their
leadership.

H.R. 7417, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 135 West Spring Street in Titusville, Pennsylvania,
as the “Edwin L. Drake Post Office Building”;

Thank you to Representative Mike Kelly for his leadership.

H.R. 7507, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 203 East 6th Street in Lexington, Nebraska, as the
William E. and Elsie L. Barrett Post Office Building;

Thank you to Representative Adrian Smith and Senator Ricketts for their
leadership.

H.R. 7508, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 1285 Emancipation Highway in Fredericksburg,
Virginia, as the “Gladys P. Todd Post Office”;

Thank you to Representative Spanberger for her leadership.

H.R. 7606, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 1087 Route 47 South in Rio Grande, New Jersey, as the
“Carlton H. Hand Post Office Building”;

Thank you to Representative Van Drew for his leadership.

H.R. 7607, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at Block 1025, Lots 18 & 19, Northeast Corner of US
Route 9 South and Main Street in the Township of Middle, County of Cape
May, New Jersey, as the “George Henry White Post Office Building”;

Thank you to Representative Van Drew for his leadership.

H.R. 7893, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 306 Pickens Street in Marion, Alabama, as the “Albert
Turner, Sr. Post Office Building”;

Thank you to Representative Sewell for her leadership.

H.R. 7938, the “Klamath Basin Water Agreement Support Act of 2024,”
which amends the Klamath Basin Water Supply Enhancement Act of 2000 to
provide the Secretary of the Interior with certain authorities affecting
the Klamath Basin;

Thank you to Representative Bentz, and Senators Wyden and Merkley for
their leadership.

H.R. 8012, the “Jackie Robinson Ballpark National Commemorative Site
Act,” which designates the Jackie Robinson Ballpark in Daytona Beach,
Florida, as a Commemorative Site and makes the Site a part of the
African American Civil Rights Network;

Thank you to Representatives Waltz and Soto, and Senators Rubio and
Warnock for their leadership.

H.R. 8057, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 9317 Bolsa Avenue in Westminster, California, as the
“Little Saigon Vietnam War Veterans Memorial Post Office”;

Thank you to Representative Steel for her leadership.

H.R. 8641, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 401 Main Street in Brawley, California, as the
“Walter Francis Ulloa Memorial Post Office Building”;

Thank you to Representative Ruiz for his leadership.

H.R. 8666, which amends title 28, United States Code, to authorize
holding court for the Central Division of Utah in Moab and Monticello;

Thank you to Representatives Maloy and Curtis for their leadership.

H.R. 8667, which renames the community-based outpatient clinic of the
Department of Veterans Affairs in Cadillac, Michigan, as the “Duane E.
Dewey VA Clinic”;

Thank you to Representative Moolenaar for his leadership.

H.R. 8717, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 20 West Main Street in Santaquin, Utah, as the “SGT
Bill Hooser Post Office Building”;

Thank you to Representative Owens for his leadership.

H.R. 8841, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 114 Center Street East in Roseau, Minnesota, as the
“Floyd B. Olson Post Office”;

Thank you to Representative Fischbach and Senator Klobuchar for their
leadership.

H.R. 8868, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 609 Portsmouth Avenue in Greenland, New Hampshire, as
the “Chief Michael Maloney Post Office Building”;

Thank you to Representative Pappas for his leadership.

H.R. 8909, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 82–6110 Mamalahoa Highway in Captain Cook, Hawaii, as
the “Army 1st Lt. John Kuulei Kauhaihao Post Office Building”;

Thank you to Representative Tokuda for her leadership.

H.R. 8919, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 151 Highway 74 South in Peachtree City, Georgia, as
the “SFC Shawn McCloskey Post Office”;

Thank you to Representative Ferguson for his leadership.

H.R. 8976, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 20 West White Street in Millstadt, Illinois, as the
“Corporal Matthew A. Wyatt Post Office”;

Thank you to Representative Bost for his leadership.

H.R. 9076, the “Supporting America’s Children and Families Act,” which
reauthorizes and modify child welfare grant programs and child support
enforcement;

Thank you to Representatives LaHood and Danny Davis for their
leadership.

H.R. 9124, which names the Department of Veterans Affairs
community-based outpatient clinic in Auburn, California, as the “Louis
A. Conter VA Clinic”;

Thank you to Representative Kiley for his leadership.

H.R. 9285, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 3913 Leland Avenue Northwest in Comstock Park,
Michigan, as the “Captain Miguel Justin Nava Post Office”;

Thank you to Representative Scholten for her leadership.

H.R. 9322, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 675 Wolf Ledges Parkway in Akron, Ohio, as the “Judge
James R. Williams Post Office Building”;

Thank you to Representative Sykes for her leadership.

H.R. 9421, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 108 North Main Street in Bucoda, Washington, as the
“Mayor Rob Gordon Post Office”;

Thank you to Representative Gluesenkamp Perez for her leadership.

H.R. 9487, the “House Office of Legislative Counsel Modernization Act,”
which authorizes the Legislative Counsel of the House of Representatives
to designate more than one of the attorneys of the Office of the
Legislative Counsel as a Deputy Legislative Counsel;

Thank you to Representatives Steil and Morelle for their leadership.

H.R. 9544, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 340 South Loudon Avenue in Baltimore, Maryland, as
the “United States Representative Elijah E. Cummings Post Office
Building”;

Thank you to Representative Mfume and Senator Cardin for their
leadership.

H.R. 9549, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 125 South 1st Avenue in Hillsboro, Oregon, as the
“Elizabeth Furse Post Office Building”;

Thank you to Representative Bonamici for her leadership.

H.R. 9580, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 2777 Brentwood Road in Raleigh, North Carolina, as
the “Millie Dunn Veasey Post Office”;

Thank you to Representative Ross for her leadership.

H.R. 9592, the “Federal Register Modernization Act of 2024,” which
provides for changes to the Federal Register and the Code of Federal
Regulations;

Thank you to Representatives Clay Higgins and Connolly for their
leadership.

H.R. 9600, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 119 Main Street in Plains, Georgia, as the “Jimmy and
Rosalynn Carter Post Office”;

Thank you to Representative Sanford Bishop for his leadership.

H.R. 9775, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 119 North Anderson Street in Elwood, Indiana, as the
“Officer Noah Jacob Shahnavaz Post Office Building”;

Thank you to Representative Spartz for her leadership.

H.R. 10065, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 802 North Tancahua Street in Corpus Christi, Texas,
as the “Captain Robert E. ‘Bob’ Batterson Post Office”;

Thank you to Representative Cloud for his leadership.

S. 2181, the “Keeping Military Families Together Act of 2024,” which
extends two current Department of Veterans Affairs burial authorities;

Thank you to Senators Peters, Sullivan, Cramer and Brown, and
Representatives Pappas and Moylan for their leadership.

S. 4367, the “Thomas R. Carper Water Resources Development Act of 2024,”
which authorizes construction of Army Corps of Engineers water resources
projects for flood risk management, navigation, hurricane and storm
damage risk reduction, and ecosystem restoration; modifies previously
authorized projects; and contains other water related provisions.

Thank you to Senators Carper, Capito, Kelly and Cramer, and
Representatives Sam Graves, Rick Larsen, Napolitano and Rouzer for their
leadership.

\###
