---
date: '2025-01-02'
published_time: 2025-01-02 22:13:10-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/legislation/2025/01/02/press-release-bills-signed-h-r-1555-h-r-1823-h-r-3354-h-r-4136-h-r-4955-h-r-5867-h-r-6116-h-r-6162-h-r-6188-h-r-6244-h-r-6633-h-r-6750/
tags: legislation
title: "Press Release: Bills Signed: H.R. 1555, H.R. 1823, H.R. 3354, H.R. 4136, H.R.\
  \ 4955, H.R. 5867, H.R. 6116, H.R. 6162, H.R. 6188, H.R. 6244, H.R. 6633, H.R.\_\
  6750"
---
 
On Thursday, January 2, 2025, the President signed into law:

H.R. 1555, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 2300 Sylvan Avenue in Modesto, California, as the
“Corporal Michael D. Anderson Jr. Post Office Building”;

Thank you to Representative McClintock for his leadership.

H.R. 1823, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 207 East Fort Dade Avenue in Brooksville, Florida, as
the “Specialist Justin Dean Coleman Memorial Post Office Building”;

Thank you to Representative Bilirakis for his leadership.

H.R. 3354, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 220 North Hatcher Avenue in Purcellville, Virginia,
as the “Secretary of State Madeleine Albright Post Office Building”;

Thank you to Representative Wexton and Senator Kaine for their
leadership.

H.R. 4136, the U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson Memorial VA Clinic Act;

Thank you to Representative Self and Senator Cornyn for their
leadership.

H.R. 4955, which names the community-based outpatient clinic of the
Department of Veterans Affairs in Monroeville, Pennsylvania, as the
“Henry Parham VA Clinic”;

Thank you to Representative Summer Lee, and Senators Fetterman and Casey
for their leadership.

H.R. 5867, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 109 Live Oaks Boulevard in Casselberry, Florida, as
the “Colonel Joseph William Kittinger II Post Office Building”;

Thank you to Representative Mills for his leadership.

H.R. 6116, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 14280 South Military Trail in Delray Beach, Florida,
as the “Benjamin Berell Ferencz Post Office Building”;

Thank you to Representative Frankel for her leadership.

H.R. 6162, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 379 North Oates Street in Dothan, Alabama, as the
“LaBruce ‘Bruce’ Tidwell Post Office Building”;

Thank you to Representative Barry Moore for his leadership.

H.R. 6188, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 420 Highway 17 North in Surfside Beach, South
Carolina, as the “Nancy Yount Childs Post Office Building”;

Thank you to Representative Fry for his leadership.

H.R. 6244, which to designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 1535 East Los Ebanos Boulevard in Brownsville, Texas,
as the “1st Lieutenant Andres Zermeno Post Office Building”;

Thank you to Representative Vicente Gonzalez for his leadership.

H.R. 6633, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 9355 113th Street in Seminole, Florida, as the “Army
SSG Ryan Christian Knauss Memorial Post Office Building”;

Thank you to Representative Luna for her leadership.

H.R. 6750, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 501 Mercer Street Southwest in Wilson, North
Carolina, as the “Milton F. Fitch, Sr. Post Office Building”;

Thank you to Representative Don Davis for his leadership.

H.R. 6810, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 518 North Ridgewood Drive in Sebring, Florida, as the
“U.S. Army Air Corps Major Thomas B. McGuire Post Office Building”

Thank you to Representative Franklin for his leadership.

H.R. 6983, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 15 South Valdosta Road in Lakeland, Georgia, as the
“Nell Patten Roquemore Post Office”.

Thank you to Representative Austin Scott for his leadership.

\###
