---
date: '2023-11-17'
modified_time: 2023-11-17 17:47:45-05:00
published_time: 2023-11-17 17:47:44-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/11/17/a-proclamation-on-national-family-week-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Family Week,\_2023"
---
 
My father always said that family is the beginning, the middle, and the
end.  Family is everything.  During National Family Week, we celebrate
the love, support, and resilience of the tens of millions of American
families that make our Nation strong and keep the American Dream alive.

     For too long, too many families in this country have lived with the
prospect of an uncertain future.  Too many parents have lain awake at
night staring at the ceiling, wondering how they will make rent, send
their kids to college, retire, or pay for medication.  Too many have had
to move far away from their hometowns to earn a living.  I ran for
President to change all that — to finally rebuild a strong middle class
and grow our economy from the middle out and bottom up, giving
hardworking families across the country a little more breathing room.

     The historic legislation that we have since enacted is delivering,
investing in American families and in America’s future.  The American
Rescue Plan kept millions of families in their homes, food on the table,
and folks on the job through the pandemic.  Thanks to the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, over 40,000 projects are currently underway to
rebuild our Nation’s roads, bridges, and ports, expand access to clean
drinking water, and connect every home to high-speed internet.  We are
also working to revitalize American manufacturing — we have helped
create nearly 800,000 manufacturing jobs, and through the CHIPS and
Science Act, we are making historic investments across the country.  The
Inflation Reduction Act has made health care coverage cheaper for nearly
15 million Americans — it is set to cap out-of-pocket prescription drug
costs for seniors on Medicare at $2,000 per year, and it has already
slashed their insulin costs to $35 per month from as much as $400,
helping families pay their monthly bills.  Through the PACT Act, we are
helping veterans who were exposed to toxic materials while serving get
the health care and benefits that they and their families deserve.  I am
fighting hard to protect children and families from the scourge of gun
violence — last year, I signed our Nation’s most significant gun safety
law in nearly 30 years, strengthening background checks, increasing the
effective use of red flag laws, and expanding access to mental health
services.  I am fighting to ensure that all families have equal rights
and dignity.  That is why I was so proud to sign the Respect for
Marriage Act into law, protecting the right to marriage for same-sex and
interracial couples.  I also signed an Executive Order that calls for
the most comprehensive set of executive actions of any administration in
history to increase high-quality child care, long-term care, and support
for caregivers, ensuring that families have access to the support they
need.

     We have more to do to keep building on all of this progress, to
make sure that every family in America has an equal shot at a better
life of dignity and respect.  During National Family Week, we celebrate
the importance of spending time with loved ones, both the families that
we are born into and the families that we create throughout our lives.
 Families are an essential part of the glue that holds our Nation
together across generations, and we will never stop investing in their
dreams.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
November 19 through November 25, 2023, as National Family Week.  I
invite States, communities, and individuals to join together in
observing this week with appropriate ceremonies and activities to honor
our Nation’s families.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this seventeenth
day of November, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
