---
date: '2023-11-14'
modified_time: 2023-11-14 16:47:51-05:00
published_time: 2023-11-14 16:47:50-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/11/14/a-proclamation-on-america-recycles-day-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on America Recycles Day,\_2023"
---
 
     On America Recycles Day, we recognize the critical role recycling
plays in caring for our environment and addressing the existential
threat of climate change.  We honor the people, communities, and
organizations that are working every day to recycle and responsibly
steward our natural resources.  We recommit to each doing our own part
to secure a greener, cleaner, and more sustainable future for our
communities, country, and planet.  
  
     Over a third of the world’s greenhouse gas emissions — and many of
the toxins and pollutants that harm public health — come from the
production and processing of materials that people use every day.  That
is why recycling and reducing waste as much as possible is so
important.  By recycling, we send less waste to landfills and reduce the
need for raw materials, thereby saving energy and conserving valuable
natural resources.  Still, our country faces too many barriers to
recycling.  Some Americans are unsure about which materials can be
recycled, and municipalities struggle to establish connections with
markets that can use their recycled materials.  Many people, especially
people of color and low-income Americans, have suffered
disproportionately from the damaging effects of pollution, including
landfilled, dumped, or incinerated waste.  
  
     To improve the way our Nation recycles, my Administration made the
largest investment in recycling in nearly three decades through our
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.  These funds have helped launch dozens of
new initiatives, including projects to improve waste management, reduce
harm in communities that have long faced environmental injustice, and
increase public awareness and education about recycling.  We also
released a National Recycling Strategy to highlight the ways government,
industry, and other entities can utilize our recycling and waste
management systems — including best practices for collecting recyclable
products, reaching markets for these materials, and funding the latest
recycling technologies that will protect public health and the
environment.  In pursuit of our goal to reach net-zero greenhouse gas
emissions by 2050, I signed the Inflation Reduction Act, which made the
largest investment in climate action in history.  
  
     There is still more we can do to improve recycling practices across
the country.  I call upon manufacturers and businesses to offer more
sustainable products, to reuse materials and reduce the use of raw
materials, to adopt effective recycling practices, and to design and
build durable projects that are fully recyclable.  I also call upon all
Americans to learn what is recyclable in their cities and towns, sort
waste into the appropriate bins, embrace reusable containers, engage in
food composting, and reduce the use of non-recyclable materials, such as
many single-use plastics.  Everyone has a role to play, and by working
together to recycle, we can improve the health of our environment and
our world for generations to come.      
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
November 15, 2023, as America Recycles Day.  I call upon the people of
the United States of America to observe this day with appropriate
programs and activities, and I encourage all Americans to continue their
environmental efforts by recycling throughout the year.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day
of November, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
 

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
