---
date: '2023-11-22'
published_time: 2023-11-22 15:39:18-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/11/22/a-proclamation-on-thanksgiving-day-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Thanksgiving Day,\_2023"
---
 
 As families, loved ones, and friends across the country come together
to celebrate Thanksgiving, let us be grateful for all the blessings of
this Nation and its limitless possibilities.

     Throughout our country’s history, this season of reflection and
giving thanks comes in good times and tough ones.  Before there was a
United States of America, the Pilgrims celebrated Thanksgiving in honor
of their first successful harvest and the support and generosity of the
Wampanoag people who made it possible.  Amid the fierce battle for our
Nation’s independence, General George Washington and his troops
celebrated Thanksgiving on the way to Valley Forge.  During the Civil
War, President Abraham Lincoln proclaimed Thanksgiving a national
holiday to honor the blessings of our country, even as he fought to
preserve our Union. 

     This week, Americans will gather with their loved ones and
families, celebrating the love they share and the traditions they built
together.  To those who are also enduring hard times or grieving the
loss of a loved one, know that we are thinking of you.

     We are truly a good Nation because we are a good people — the First
Lady and I see it every time we travel the country because we meet so
many incredible people doing the most extraordinary things.  We have met
with service members, veterans, and their families, who have selflessly
served and sacrificed for our country.  We have witnessed the resolve of
firefighters, police officers, and first responders, who risk their
lives every day to protect us.  We have seen the best of our character
in the doctors, nurses, scientists, public servants, union workers, and
teachers, who ensure everyone is taken care of and no one is left
behind.  We have seen all the possibilities this Nation holds in the
mothers, fathers, and caregivers, who work hard to build a future worthy
of their children’s greatest dreams, and in young people across the
country, who are the most talented, engaged, and educated generation in
history.

     This Thanksgiving we are grateful for our Nation and the incredible
soul of America.  May we all remember that we are the United States of
America — there is nothing beyond our capacity if we do it together.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
Thursday, November 23, 2023, as a National Day of Thanksgiving.  I
encourage the people of the United States of America to join together
and give thanks for the friends, neighbors, family members, and
strangers who have supported each other over the past year in a
reflection of goodwill and unity.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-second
day of November, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
