---
date: '2023-11-17'
published_time: 2023-11-17 17:53:58-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/11/17/a-proclamation-on-national-childs-day-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Child\u2019s Day,\_2023"
---
 
Our Nation’s children are the kite strings that keep our national
ambitions aloft — they are the dreamers and doers, who will determine
the course of our future.  From an early age, young people lead the way
by volunteering in their communities, modeling compassion and tolerance,
and pushing us to address the critical issues of our time like climate
change and gun violence.  This generation of young people is the most
gifted, tolerant, talented, and educated in American history.  They are
the reason I am so optimistic about the future.  On National Child’s
Day, we recommit to ensuring that every child has the resources and
opportunities they need to reach their full potential. 

     That is why my Administration has invested billions of dollars in
America’s schools.  These funds are putting more teachers in our
classrooms, supporting tutoring programs, financing building
renovations, replacing lead pipes, and more.  Our Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law is expanding access to reliable high-speed internet
so every student can log on at any time, regardless of their zip code.

     We are also prioritizing the health and safety of our children.  By
expanding the Child Tax Credit, my Administration cut the child poverty
rate nearly in half, and I continue to call on the Congress to reinstate
this expansion because no child should grow up in poverty.  We are also
working to lower the cost of health care and expand access to
affordable, nutritious meals for millions of families.  My
Administration released a national strategy to end hunger and reduce
diet-related diseases in America by 2030 — including advancing a pathway
to provide free, healthy school meals for all children.  New vaccines
are rolling out that protect children against COVID-19, RSV, and the
flu, which you can learn more about at www.vaccines.gov.  We are also
supporting LGBTQI+ children and families by safeguarding access to
health care and preventing harmful so-called “conversion therapy.” 
Further, we are working with State child welfare agencies to make sure
LGBTQI+ youth are placed in safe and loving homes.  To curb the epidemic
of gun violence in America — now the leading cause of death of children
in the United States — I was proud to sign into law the most significant
gun safety legislation in nearly 30 years.  This law will save
children’s lives, but we cannot stop until we finally pass an assault
weapons ban.

     Mental health is just as important as physical health, which is why
I am addressing the youth mental health crisis head-on.  My
Administration has advanced measures to increase the number of school
psychologists and counselors available to our kids and to make it easier
for schools to use Medicaid to deliver mental health care, including
services under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act.  We also
proposed a rule that would require insurers to finally cover mental
health care just as they do physical care.  Further, we must do more to
make the Internet a safe place for children.  I have called on the
Congress to limit the personal data that tech companies collect, ban
targeted advertising directed at minors, and strengthen protections that
safeguard children’s health and safety online.

     Finally, all this progress means little if our children do not
inherit a healthy planet.  That is why I fought so hard to pass the
Inflation Reduction Act, a landmark bill that contains the largest
investment to tackle climate change in history.  The Act will help our
children breathe cleaner air and drink cleaner water.  It is also
creating the jobs of the future so our kids can graduate into a strong
clean energy economy.

     Every child deserves the opportunity to thrive because when they
dream big, our whole Nation is opened to new possibilities.  The
children of today are the global leaders of tomorrow.  That is why this
National Child’s Day, we recommit to fulfilling the promise of America
for every child and building a future worthy of their dreams.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
November 20, 2023, as National Child’s Day.  I call upon all government
officials, educators, volunteers, and all the people of the United
States of America to observe this day with appropriate programs,
ceremonies, and activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this seventeenth
day of November, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
