---
date: '2023-11-30'
modified_time: 2023-11-30 17:15:23-05:00
published_time: 2023-11-30 17:15:15-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/11/30/a-proclamation-on-world-aids-day-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on World AIDS Day,\_2023"
---
 
On World AIDS Day, my message is simple:  Let us finish the fight.

Since recognizing the first World AIDS Day 35 years ago, we have made
enormous progress in preventing, detecting, and treating HIV — greatly
reducing annual HIV diagnoses and transmission.  But despite these
advancements, about 39 million people continue to live with HIV,
including more than one million people in the United States.  Far too
often, people living with HIV face discrimination that prevents them
from accessing the care they need.  So, as we reflect on our progress
today, we must also come together to renew our promise to end the
HIV/AIDS epidemic.

At home, my Administration has taken historic steps to achieve this
goal.  During my first year in office, I reestablished the White House
Office of National AIDS Policy and launched a new National HIV/AIDS
Strategy — a roadmap for using innovative community-driven solutions to
end the HIV/AIDS epidemic in the United States by 2030.  This year, my
Administration also ended the disgraceful practice of banning gay and
bisexual men from donating blood.  We continue to work with State and
community leaders to repeal or reform so-called HIV criminalization
laws, which wrongly punish people for exposing others to HIV.  I have
asked the Congress for $850 million for the Department of Health and
Human Services’ Ending the HIV Epidemic Initiative to aggressively
reduce new HIV cases, fight the stigma that stops many people from
getting care, and increase access to pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) — a
critical drug that can help prevent the spread of HIV*.* 

We are also focused on ending HIV/AIDS as a public health threat
worldwide by 2030 under the bipartisan President’s Emergency Plan for
AIDS Relief (PEPFAR).  PEPFAR has reduced transmissions, expanded
testing, and saved more than 25 million lives in over 50 partner
countries over the last two decades.  Further, PEPFAR is focusing on
forging a future where every HIV infection is prevented, every person
has access to treatment, and every generation can live free from the
stigma that too often surrounds HIV.  My Administration is committed to
working with the Congress to pass a clean PEPFAR reauthorization bill to
extend this lifesaving bipartisan program for 5 years and end HIV/AIDS
by 2030.

We are within striking distance of eliminating HIV-transmission.  We
have the science.  We have the treatments.  Most of all, we have each
other.  On this 35th World AIDS Day — let us honor all the families who
have lost a loved one to this disease and all the people currently
living with HIV/AIDS.  Let us remember the activists, scientists,
doctors, and caregivers who have never given up in the fight against the
HIV/AIDS epidemic.  Let us recommit to finishing this fight — together.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim December 1, 2023,
as World AIDS Day.  I urge the Governors of the United States and its
Commonwealths and Territories, the appropriate officials of all units of
government, and the American people to join the HIV community in
activities to remember those who have lost their lives to AIDS and to
provide support, dignity, and compassion to people with HIV.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day
of November, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
