---
date: '2023-11-09'
modified_time: 2023-11-09 13:46:40-05:00
published_time: 2023-11-09 13:46:39-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/11/09/a-proclamation-on-national-apprenticeship-week-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Apprenticeship Week,\_2023"
---
 
     I have always believed that the middle class built America and
unions built the middle class, and Registered Apprenticeship programs
across our country have produced some of the best-trained workers in the
world.  During National Apprenticeship Week, we recommit to supporting
Registered Apprenticeship programs, which offer America’s workers direct
pathways to good-paying jobs with dignity and respect.

     I ran for office to build an economy from the middle out and bottom
up — one in which every American willing to work hard can get a job
wherever they call home.  Registered Apprenticeships make that possible
for so many by honing their skills, paying them while they learn, and
putting them on a path to get a good-paying job.  Apprenticeships not
only strengthen our workforce today, they give workers the skills needed
for industries of the future — whether it is modernizing our
infrastructure and building clean energy technologies or addressing
cybersecurity threats. 

     That is why we have invested more in Registered Apprenticeships and
career technology education programs than any previous administration in
American history.  Our American Rescue Plan and Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law have invested billions of dollars in workforce
training for good jobs, including significant investments to help
States, employers, labor organizations, educational institutions, and
workforce intermediaries develop and expand Registered Apprenticeship
and pre-apprenticeship programs.  My Administration’s efforts have
already helped develop over 4,000 new Registered Apprenticeship programs
and led to the hiring of more than one million new apprentices.  Through
enhanced tax credits our Inflation Reduction Act provides strong
incentives for employers to connect Registered Apprentices with clean
energy projects that are essential in our work to build a clean energy
future in America.  

     Last year, my Administration launched programs designed to
strengthen and diversify Registered Apprenticeships across industries.
 Our Apprenticeship Ambassador Initiative assembles a national network
of more than 200 organizations committed to increasing the number of
apprentices across many industries while recruiting people from
historically underrepresented communities to join the American workforce
and participate in industries of the future.  These organizations have
already committed to hiring over 10,000 new apprentices.  This
initiative includes creating clean energy apprenticeships and jobs in
communities that have suffered legacy pollution.  Additionally, these
Registered Apprenticeships help employers build a more diverse workforce
while empowering workers with the resources they need to thrive,
including on-the-job learning experience, job-related instruction with a
mentor, and a clear pathway to a good-paying job.  Through the
Department of Labor’s Women in Apprenticeship and Nontraditional
Occupations grant program, my Administration is also continuing to
invest in training women to enter the skilled trades and other
occupations where they have long been underrepresented.

     In addition, we are working within industries to address workforce
needs in critical sectors.  Through my Administration’s Advanced
Manufacturing Sprint and Workforce Hubs Initiative, we are working to
secure private-sector, union, State, and local commitments to expand
pre-apprenticeship and Registered Apprenticeship programs.  The
Department of Education and the Department of Labor have helped expand
K-12 teacher Registered Apprenticeship programs to 27 States with over
1,500 teacher apprentices to ensure our schools have enough educators to
teach the next generation of leaders.  Through the Department of Labor’s
Scaling Apprenticeship Readiness Across the Building Trades Initiative,
we are enrolling at least 7,000 people in construction industry
apprenticeships to build roads, bridges, and highways, so that America
can have the best infrastructure in the world once again.  Our 90-day
Trucking Apprenticeship Challenge has helped get more truck drivers on
the road, keeping our supply chains moving.  And our 120-day
Cybersecurity Apprenticeship Sprint has resulted in thousands of
apprentices getting hired, who will learn the skills needed to protect
our personal information and national interests from cyberthreats.

     I have often said that America can be defined in one word: 
possibilities.  That is what Registered Apprenticeships are all about —
giving workers the skills and opportunity to support their families
while building the industries of the future.  During National
Apprenticeship Week, we celebrate the apprentices across our country who
lift our workforce to new heights and the apprenticeship programs that
make their success possible.   We recommit to doing what has always
worked best for our Nation:  investing in America and American workers.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
November 12 through November 18, 2023, as National Apprenticeship Week. 
I urge the Congress, State and local governments, educational
institutions, industry and labor leaders, apprentices, and all Americans
to support Registered Apprenticeship programs in the United States of
America and to raise awareness of their importance in building a diverse
and robust workforce to strengthen our national economy.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this ninth day of
November, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
   
   
                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
