---
date: '2023-11-16'
published_time: 2023-11-16 11:00:53-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/11/16/memorandum-on-advancing-worker-empowerment-rights-and-high-labor-standards-globally/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Memorandum on Advancing Worker Empowerment, Rights, and High Labor Standards\_\
  Globally"
---
 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE HEADS OF EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES  
  
SUBJECT:       Advancing Worker Empowerment, Rights, and High  
               Labor Standards Globally  
  
  
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, and in order to enhance United
States policy and our Nation’s approach to protecting and promoting
worker rights at home and around the world, it is hereby ordered as
follows:  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section 1.  Policy.</span> 
Worker empowerment is essential to the advancement of sustainable
economic growth, inclusive international development, human rights,
democratic resilience, fair competition, and growing a strong middle
class in the United States and abroad.  Labor rights are also key to our
national and economic security and to an effective foreign policy.
 Accordingly, my Administration is committed to ensuring high labor
standards, bringing workers’ voices to the decision-making table, and
enforcing rules against unfair labor practices, including forced labor
and denial of the right to organize.  These efforts will contribute to
our aim of bolstering a fair and open international economic system that
allows our companies to remain competitive and also protects our working
families.  Through the Task Force on Worker Organizing and Empowerment
established by Executive Order 14025 of April 26, 2021 (Worker
Organizing and Empowerment), and other initiatives, my Administration
has taken significant measures to restore American workers’ voices and
power in the workplace, including within executive departments and
agencies (agencies).  To fully realize the objectives of advancing
worker empowerment, rights, and high labor standards, the United States
must extend its efforts globally.   
  
     It is the policy of my Administration to pursue a
whole-of-government approach to advancing worker empowerment and
organizing, workers’ rights, and labor standards globally.  My
Administration will undertake an ambitious and comprehensive Federal
Government policy on global labor rights and standards, elevating the
United States’ global leadership on labor rights and standards.    
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 2.  Approach.</span>  In
support of workers and our national security interests, my
Administration will consider actions to integrate and elevate workers’
rights and the promotion of high labor standards in our foreign,
international development, trade, climate, and global economic policy
priorities.  When taking actions under section 3 of this memorandum,
agencies shall, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law,
consider ways to:  
  
     (a)  promote Government-wide coherence on the policies set forth in
section 1 of this memorandum;  
  
     (b)  draw from expertise across the executive branch to implement
actions consistent with the policy set forth in section 1 of this
memorandum;  
  
     (c)  build internal capacity within the executive branch, respond
quickly to emerging challenges, highlight innovations and evidence-based
best practices for furthering worker rights and empowerment, and
actively monitor and evaluate the Federal Government’s progress in
implementing this memorandum;  
  
     (d)  promote inclusive labor markets and the rights of all workers,
including temporary workers, gig and platform workers, workers in
non-standard forms of employment, and workers in the informal economy
that is unregulated by governments and leaves workers outside of the
coverage of labor law and social policies;  
  
     (e)  strengthen the rights of migrant workers and promote the fair
recruitment of workers seeking employment-based visas overseas;  
  
     (f)  account for the particular needs of women; persons with
disabilities; lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, and intersex
individuals; other members of underserved communities, as that term is
defined in Executive Order 14091 of February 16, 2023 (Further Advancing
Racial Equity and Support for Underserved Communities Through the
Federal Government); and other persons who are historically
underrepresented or vulnerable to labor abuses; and  
  
     (g)  engage external stakeholders, including workers, labor
organizations, trade unions, and other civil society groups, as well as
employers and government officials, to guide the effective
implementation of this memorandum.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 3. Execution.</span>  The
policy set forth in section 1 of this memorandum shall be implemented
through the following actions, consistent with agency missions and
applicable law:  
  
     (a)  Agencies engaged abroad, as that term is defined in section
4(b) of this memorandum, shall engage with governments, workers, labor
organizations and trade unions, civil society, and the private sector,
at home and abroad and as appropriate, to protect and promote respect
for internationally recognized labor rights, including the prevention of
forced labor, child labor, and related abuses.  Specifically, and as
appropriate:  
  
          (i)    Agencies engaged abroad shall conduct regular and
robust engagement on labor issues, worker empowerment, and worker rights
with labor stakeholders at home and abroad prior to, during, and after
pursuing high-level missions and negotiations abroad.  Such engagement
shall include meetings with democratically elected trade union leaders,
workers, defenders of labor rights, and other labor advocates as a part
of high-level engagements and consultative processes.  
  
          (ii)   Agencies engaged abroad shall use a variety of
diplomatic channels, including at high levels, to elevate key labor
issues; advance internationally recognized labor rights; prevent labor
abuses; strategically address challenges to the exercise of labor
rights, including efforts to impede union registration, abuse migrant
workers, close space for labor defenders, derogate labor laws, or
restrict fundamental freedoms of association, peaceful assembly, and
expression; and raise cases of concern in support of meaningful
remediation of labor violations.  
  
          (iii)  Agencies engaged abroad shall develop contingency plans
for strikes and employer actions against workers that may affect the
conduct of official Federal Government business abroad, consistent with
this memorandum.  
  
          (iv)   Agencies engaged abroad shall consider actions to
promote, including within the private sector, high labor standards;
high-road investment that leads to well-paying, safe, healthy, decent
jobs with respect for labor rights; and innovative joint
worker-management labor compliance initiatives that advance robust
monitoring of and compliance with labor rights both domestically and
abroad.  Agencies engaged abroad shall also invite labor experts and
external labor stakeholders to events and conferences related to
international trade, commerce, climate and energy, and financing when
possible.  
  
          (v)    The Secretary of State shall direct Chiefs of Mission,
with guidance from the Special Representative for International Labor
Affairs and input from the Secretary of Labor, to directly engage in
labor diplomacy, enhance programming and public diplomacy on workers and
internationally recognized labor rights, and integrate labor rights
promotion and decent work outcomes into country strategy development.
 The Secretary of State shall instruct Chiefs of Mission to encourage
foreign companies and investors to uphold high labor standards in their
economic and commercial engagement so that their investment leads to
well-paying, safe, healthy, decent jobs with respect for labor rights,
consistent with United States domestic policy to create quality jobs. 
The Administrator of the United States Agency for International
Development (USAID) shall direct USAID Missions to assess their
programming for ways to strengthen and advance internationally
recognized labor rights, prevent labor abuses, and integrate labor
rights promotion and decent work across development assistance and
country strategy development.  
  
          (vi)   The Secretary of Energy, in coordination with the
Secretary of Labor, the Administrator of USAID, and the heads of other
relevant agencies, shall elevate the role of workers and unions in just
energy transition initiatives; emphasize the importance of social
dialogue and engagement with workers, employers, and governments in
developing industrial and energy policy; and work with partners to make
sure labor organizations, trade unions, and worker advocates
meaningfully participate in energy investment and transition
planning.    
  
     (b)  To combat repression and targeting of labor leaders and worker
advocates, agencies engaged abroad shall, as appropriate, publicly
express concern for the risks faced by these individuals, highlight
cases of labor rights defenders on the front lines and under threat, and
support their protection.  Wherever possible, agencies engaged abroad
should seek opportunities to coordinate similar actions and messaging
with like-minded partners.  In addition:  
  
          (i)    Agencies engaged abroad shall consider appropriate
responses to international anti-worker and anti-union harassment from
government, private, and extralegal actors, including the use of
spurious lawsuits; and violence, including deploying the full range of
diplomatic and assistance tools and, as appropriate, financial
sanctions, trade penalties, visa restrictions, and other actions,
consistent with agency missions.    
  
          (ii)   Agencies engaged abroad shall, as appropriate, use
their participation in international economic, human rights, security,
and related fora and negotiations to advance proposals that address
violence and threats of violence against workers and worker
organizations, including proposals that address threats, intimidation,
blacklisting, gender-based violence, and discrimination against labor
union leaders and members.   
  
          (iii)  The Secretary of State, in consultation with the heads
of relevant agencies, shall explore enhanced protection mechanisms for
labor rights defenders and frontline organizations at risk.  
  
     (c)  To ensure a whole-of-government approach to the policies set
forth in section 1 of this memorandum, agencies engaged abroad shall
increase their capacity to understand, report, and engage on critical
labor issues around the world, and shall enhance high-level staffing on
labor issues.  Agencies engaged abroad shall enhance interagency
coordination on labor-related development and technical assistance,
including through the following actions, as appropriate:    
  
          (i)    The Secretary of Labor, in consultation with relevant
agencies, shall assist with training of Federal employees on promoting
internationally recognized labor rights; strengthening democratic labor
movements; and preventing forced labor, child labor, and related
abuses.  
  
          (ii)   The Secretary of Commerce shall coordinate labor rights
training for foreign commercial service officers with the Secretary of
State and the Secretary of Labor.  
  
          (iii)  The Secretary of State shall prioritize increasing job
opportunities for individuals with expertise in labor issues and
increasing training and awareness of worker rights and labor issues at
all levels within the Department of State, including through the Special
Representative for International Labor Affairs.  
  
          (iv)   The Administrator of USAID shall seek to expand labor
technical knowledge among USAID staff, including in USAID Missions, and
shall consider ways to develop and implement appropriate labor
safeguards and accountability mechanisms related to USAID foreign
assistance programming.  
  
          (v)    The Secretary of Energy and other relevant agencies
shall coordinate on a whole-of-government approach to the global
transition to clean energy that, as appropriate, involves worker and
labor union participation in energy policy and planning discussions.  
  
     (d)  To maintain and improve strong international labor standards
through cooperation with allies and like-minded partners, both
bilaterally and within multilateral organizations, the heads of relevant
agencies shall take the following steps:  
  
          (i)     Agencies engaged abroad, as appropriate and consistent
with agency missions, shall work within multilateral organizations,
including the International Labour Organization (ILO) and other United
Nations (UN) agencies, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and
Development, the G7, the G20, and regional bodies, to elevate specific
labor issues and advance worker empowerment and organizing, workers’
rights, and labor standards globally.  In carrying out this action,
agencies engaged abroad should coordinate these multilateral engagements
with other agencies engaged abroad and should develop joint or
complementary approaches to addressing labor abuses, including forced
labor, child labor, anticompetitive labor practices — such as wage
fixing or other labor market collusion — employment discrimination,
unsafe working conditions, and other violations of internationally
recognized labor rights.  
  
          (ii)    The Secretary of State shall update guidance for
instructing United States delegations to advance worker empowerment and
organizing, workers’ rights, and labor standards, consistent with this
memorandum.  
  
          (iii)   The Secretary of State, the Secretary of Labor, the
Administrator of USAID, and the heads of other relevant agencies shall
seek additional resources for the Presidential Initiative for Democratic
Renewal’s Multilateral Partnership for Organizing, Worker Empowerment,
and Rights, and shall actively recruit additional partners for this
initiative.  
  
          (iv)    The Secretary of the Treasury, in coordination with
the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Labor, and the heads of other
relevant agencies, shall encourage the multilateral development banks
(MDBs) to better address labor issues in MDB projects and country
strategies.  The Secretary of the Treasury, in coordination with the
Secretary of State, the Secretary of Labor, and the heads of other
relevant agencies, shall encourage MDBs to improve labor standards as
part of MDB safeguard policy reviews.  
  
          (v)     The Secretary of the Treasury, in coordination with
the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Labor, shall consult with
unions, workers’ organizations, and civil society organizations to
inform the development of Federal Government recommendations on labor
performance standards in preparation for the International Finance
Corporation’s Sustainability Framework review.  
  
          (vi)    The Secretary of the Treasury, in coordination with
the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Labor, and the heads of other
relevant agencies, shall advocate for strong implementation of labor
safeguards requirements in MDB financing, with a focus on freedom of
association and collective bargaining, occupational health and safety,
combating forced labor and child labor, and supply chains.  
  
          (vii)   The Secretary of Energy, in coordination with the
Secretary of Labor and the heads of other relevant agencies, shall
promote workers’ role in a just transition to clean energy in bilateral
and multilateral engagements, including with the ILO, the International
Renewable Energy Agency, the International Energy Agency, other UN
agencies, the Net Zero World Initiative, and the Clean Energy
Ministerial.  
  
          (viii)  The Administrator of USAID shall work with counterpart
development agencies abroad to reinforce the importance of decent work
and labor rights in sustainable development, and shall collaborate on
accelerating action for the creation of jobs and social protection for a
just transition to clean energy.    
  
     (e)  To protect the rights of workers at home and abroad, the heads
of agencies engaged abroad shall, as appropriate, advance a trade policy
that contributes to inclusive economic growth at every level of the
supply chain.  As described in subsections (e)(i) through (ix) of this
section, the heads of relevant agencies shall expand ongoing efforts to
promote initiatives that advance labor rights protections with partners,
allies, and stakeholders, including pursuant to a trade, economic, or
preference program, or other economic framework between our partners:  
  
          (i)     The United States Trade Representative, in
consultation with the heads of other relevant agencies, shall explore
opportunities to maximize use of existing authorities to promote
internationally recognized labor rights and to pursue effective and
meaningful remediation of labor rights violations or to address gaps in
labor rights protections.  The Secretary of Labor, the United States
Trade Representative, and the heads of other relevant agencies shall
work to develop new tools and strategies to address such gaps and shall
work with allies and partners to take similar actions.  
  
          (ii)    The Secretary of Homeland Security and the United
States Trade Representative, in consultation with the Secretary of Labor
and the heads of other relevant agencies, shall continue to prioritize,
build upon, and increase initiatives to improve labor-related compliance
with United States trade laws, including those related to preference
programs and general enforcement, United States customs laws, and trade
agreements or the labor provisions of other economic frameworks or
agreements in which the United States participates.  
  
          (iii)   The heads of agencies engaged abroad shall, as
appropriate, exchange with allies and partners recommendations for best
practices to enhance protection of internationally recognized labor
rights and the elimination of anticompetitive labor market practices,
such as wage fixing or other anticompetitive agreements that suppress
wages.  
  
          (iv)    The Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury,
the Attorney General, the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Homeland
Security, and the United States Trade Representative, in consultation
with the heads of other relevant agencies, shall consider developing a
comprehensive effort to eradicate forced labor from global business
operations and supply chains through increased collaboration with
critical stakeholders including workers, industry, non-governmental
organizations, and like-minded international partners.  
  
          (v)     The Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury,
the Attorney General, the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Energy,
the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the United States Trade
Representative, in consultation with the heads of other relevant
agencies, shall identify innovative approaches to promote adherence to
internationally recognized labor rights throughout the supply chain,
including efforts that support worker-led monitoring of labor rights
compliance.   
  
          (vi)    The Secretary of State and the Secretary of the
Treasury shall, as appropriate, consider efforts to use available
authorities, including authorities to combat serious human rights abuses
and actions undermining democracy, as applicable, to address violations
of internationally recognized worker rights, such as forced labor, child
labor, and related abuses in global supply chains.  These Secretaries
shall consider, as appropriate, whether to exchange information with
allies and partners to facilitate similar actions.  
  
          (vii)   The Secretary of Homeland Security shall utilize
available customs authorities, as applicable, to address forced labor
and related abuses in global supply chains.  The Secretary of Homeland
Security, in coordination with the Forced Labor Enforcement Task Force
(FLETF) established pursuant to section 741 of the United
States-Mexico-Canada Agreement Implementation Act (Public Law 116-113,
codified at 19 U.S.C. 4681), shall consider whether to exchange
information with allies and partners to facilitate similar actions, as
appropriate and consistent with legal authority.  
  
          (viii)  Consistent with the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act
(Public Law 117-78) (UFLPA), FLETF shall update the strategy for
supporting the enforcement of section 307 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as
amended (19 U.S.C. 1307), to prevent the importation into the United
States of goods mined, produced, or manufactured wholly or in part with
forced labor in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region.  
  
          (ix)    The FLETF and its member and observer agencies shall
continue efforts to develop, manage, and review recommendations for
additions to the UFLPA Entity List and shall consider requests for
removals and technical corrections, as appropriate.  The Secretary of
Homeland Security, as Chair of FLETF, shall work with the heads of all
FLETF member and observer agencies to assess resource requirements to
further support robust UFLPA implementation.  
  
     (f)  As appropriate, agencies’ activities to implement this
memorandum should be carried out through or in coordination with FLETF;
the Interagency Task Force to Monitor and Combat Trafficking established
pursuant to section 105 of the Victims of Trafficking and Violence
Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7103); the Interagency Working Group
on Maritime Security and IUU (Illegal, Unreported, or Unregulated)
Fishing established pursuant to section 3551 of the Maritime Security
and Fisheries Enforcement Act (16 U.S.C. 8031); the Trade Policy
Committee established pursuant to section 242 of the Trade Expansion Act
of 1962 (19 U.S.C. 1872); the President’s Committee on the International
Labor Organization established by Executive Order 12216 of June 18, 1980
(President’s Committee on the International Labor Organization); and the
Task Force on Worker Organizing and Empowerment established by
Executive Order 14025 of April 26, 2021 (Worker Organizing and
Empowerment).  
  
     (g)  The Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
(APNSA), in coordination with the heads of relevant agencies, shall
convene a semi-annual meeting to review and monitor progress on the
actions set forth in this memorandum based on implementation plans to be
submitted by heads of relevant agencies to the APNSA, at times to be
determined by the APNSA, and shall identify additional opportunities to
advance internationally recognized labor rights and high labor standards
around the world.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 4. Definitions.</span>
 For purposes of this memorandum:  
  
     (a)  The term “agency” means any authority of the United States
that is an “agency” under 44 U.S.C. 3502(1), other than one considered
to be an independent regulatory agency, as defined in 44 U.S.C. 3502(5).
 “Agency” also means any component of the Executive Office of the
President.  
  
     (b)  The term “agencies engaged abroad” means the Department of
State, the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Defense, the
Department of Justice, the Department of Agriculture, the Department of
Commerce, the Department of Labor, the Department of Energy, the
Department of Homeland Security, the International Development Finance
Corporation, the Office of the United States Trade Representative, and
USAID.  
  
     (c)  The term “internationally recognized labor rights” means those
internationally recognized labor principles incorporated into United
States trade agreements, including freedom of association and the
effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; the
elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor; the effective
abolition of child labor, a prohibition on the worst forms of child
labor, and other labor protections for children and minors; the
elimination of discrimination with respect to employment and occupation;
and acceptable conditions of work with respect to minimum wages, hours
of work, and occupational safety and health.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 5. General
Provisions.</span>  (a)  Nothing in this memorandum shall be construed
to impair or otherwise affect:  
  
          (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department,
agency, or the head thereof; or  
  
          (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or
legislative proposals.  
  
     (b)  This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with
applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.  
  
     (c)  This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any
right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in
equity by any party against the United States, its departments,
agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other
person.  
  
     (d)  The Secretary of State is authorized and directed to publish
this memorandum in the *Federal Register*.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
