---
date: '2023-11-07'
modified_time: 2023-11-07 11:34:51-05:00
published_time: 2023-11-07 11:34:50-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/11/07/a-proclamation-on-veterans-day-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Veterans Day,\_2023"
---
 
     This Veterans Day, we honor the generations of women and men who
have served and sacrificed — not for a person, a place, or a President —
but for an idea unlike any other:  the idea of the United States of
America.  For nearly 250 years, our veterans have defended the values
that make us strong so that our Nation could stand as a citadel of
liberty, a beacon of freedom, and a wellspring of possibilities.   
  
     Today, I am thinking of all our Nation’s veterans, who put their
lives on the line to protect our democracy, values, and freedom around
the world.  We honor our wounded warriors, so many of whom the First
Lady and I have met over the years, who are bound by a common sense of
duty, courage, and optimism, and we remember those who are still missing
in action or prisoners of war and renew my pledge to bring them home.
 Our military families, caregivers, and survivors also answer the call
to serve.  I remember so clearly the pride I felt in our son Beau during
his service in Iraq as well as those mornings I saw the First Lady
saying a prayer for his safe return.  Our veterans and their families
give so much to our Nation, and we owe them a debt we can never fully
repay.  
  
     As a Nation, we have many obligations, but we only have one truly
sacred obligation:  to prepare and equip the brave women and men we send
into harm’s way and to care for them and their loved ones when they
return home.  Since the beginning of my Administration, we have worked
to make good on that promise, passing nearly 30 bipartisan laws to
support our veterans and service members and their families, caregivers,
and survivors.  That includes the PACT Act — the most significant effort
in our Nation’s history to help millions of veterans exposed to toxic
substances during their military service.  Since I signed the PACT Act
into law last year, more than 478,000 veterans and survivors are already
receiving benefits — ensuring that veterans exposed to burn pits and
other harmful substances and their loved ones get access to the care and
support they need.   
  
     My Administration is also committed to ending veteran suicide and
homelessness and ensuring that our veterans have the resources they need
to live full lives and thrive in their communities.  We released a
national strategy to reduce military and veteran suicide by improving
lethal means safety and enhancing crisis care as well as by addressing
the economic, legal, and mental health issues that impact veterans.  The
Department of Veterans Affairs is also funding community-led suicide
prevention programs, which help connect veterans and their families to
needed services.  Every veteran deserves a roof over their head, which
is why we have taken bold actions to end veteran homelessness,
permanently housing more than 40,000 veterans last year and investing $1
billion to provide supportive services to help homeless and at-risk
veterans and their families.  My Budget also proposes tripling the
number of rental-assistance vouchers for extremely low-income veterans
to prevent homelessness.  Further, we have taken steps to improve the
economic security of veterans and their families by expanding job
training programs for transitioning veterans and their spouses and
issuing rules to protect them from predatory educational institutions. 
We are also working to ensure every veteran has access to the benefits
and services they have earned.  
  
     Earlier this year, I signed an Executive Order directing more than
50 actions to improve access to child care and long-term care for
Americans, including military and veteran families, and to support
family caregivers, especially those who care for our veterans.
 Recognizing the talents and contributions of veteran and military
spouses, caregivers, and survivors to our workforce, I signed an
Executive Order establishing the most comprehensive set of
administrative actions in our Nation’s history to support their economic
security — increasing training and employment opportunities for military
spouses in the workforce throughout the transition to veteran spouses
status and encouraging all Federal agencies to do more to retain
military and veteran spouses through flexible policies.  The First
Lady’s Joining Forces initiative is further supporting military and
veteran families, caregivers, and survivors by improving economic
opportunities and expanding resources to promote health and well-being
for this community.  
  
     As we mark the 50th anniversary of an all-volunteer force and the
75th anniversary of the full integration of women in the Armed Forces
and the desegregation of the troops, my Administration reaffirms our
commitment to supporting everyone who serves in our Armed Forces.  We
have taken steps to ensure that the more than 918,000 women veterans
enrolled in the Department of Veterans Affairs health care have
equitable access to benefits and health services, in part by expanding
access to reproductive health care.  We have worked to proactively
review the military records of veterans discharged under “Don’t Ask,
Don’t Tell” and to modernize the process of upgrading discharges to help
all veterans access their earned benefits.  We will continue to support
our LGBTQI+ veterans and veterans of color who have made innumerable
contributions to our Nation and have truly made our military stronger,
tougher, and more capable.  
  
     This Veterans Day, may we honor the incredible faith that our
veterans hold, not just in our country but in all of us.  They are the
solid-steel backbone of our Nation, and we must endeavor to continue
being worthy of their sacrifices by working toward a more perfect Union
and protecting the freedoms that they have fought to defend.  
  
     In respect and recognition of the contributions our veterans and
their families, caregivers, and survivors have made to the cause of
peace and freedom around the world, the Congress has provided (5 U.S.C.
6103(a)) that November 11 of each year shall be set aside as a legal
public holiday to honor our Nation’s veterans.  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, do hereby proclaim November 11, 2023, as Veterans
Day.  I encourage all Americans to recognize the valor, courage, and
sacrifice of these patriots through appropriate ceremonies and private
prayers and by observing two minutes of silence for our Nation’s
veterans.  I also call upon Federal, State, and local officials to
display the flag of the United States of America and to participate in
patriotic activities in their communities.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this seventh day of
November, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
   
 

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
