---
date: '2023-11-13'
modified_time: 2023-11-13 13:57:11-05:00
published_time: 2023-11-13 13:57:10-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/11/13/memorandum-on-modernizing-united-states-spectrum-policy-and-establishing-a-national-spectrum-strategy/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Memorandum on Modernizing United\_States Spectrum Policy and Establishing\
  \ a National Spectrum\_Strategy"
---
 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE HEADS OF EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES  
  
SUBJECT:       Modernizing United States Spectrum Policy and  
               Establishing a National Spectrum Strategy  
  
  
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, and in order to meet the growing
requirements of United States radio frequency spectrum users, it is
hereby ordered as follows:  
  
     Section 1.  Policy.  Radio frequency spectrum is among our Nation’s
most important national resources.  The United States has long advanced
our global technological leadership by striking an appropriate balance
between promoting private-sector innovation and furthering the missions
of executive departments and agencies (agencies).  In recent years,
however, rising demand for always-connected devices and other factors,
such as the development of cooperative and automated vehicles, the
commercialization of space, and the growing complexity and increased
requirements of Federal missions, have all led to increased competition
for scarce spectrum resources.  Managing these diverse, and at times
competing, spectrum demands requires careful planning and coordination. 
Agencies and private-sector users must address these challenges by
working together in the best interests of the American people.  
  
     This memorandum directs my Administration to build on prior
innovation by promoting efficient and effective spectrum use by both
agencies and non-Federal users.  My Administration’s goal is to
accelerate United States leadership in wireless communications and other
spectrum-based technologies and to unlock innovations that benefit the
American people, while ensuring necessary access to spectrum for
agencies and private-sector users, such as for scientific, public
safety, critical infrastructure, and national security uses, now and
into the future.  
  
     The policy of my Administration is to ensure that spectrum
management, usage, and allocation decisions are coordinated, consistent,
and reflect the needs and diverse missions of agencies and non-Federal
users.  This memorandum reaffirms the policies and authorities stated in
Executive Order 12046 of March 27, 1978 (Relating to the Transfer of
Telecommunications Functions), regarding the duties and powers of the
Department of Commerce, and recognizes the role of the National
Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) within the
Department of Commerce, as laid out in its organic statute, as “the
executive branch agency principally responsible for advising the
President on telecommunications and information policies” (47
U.S.C. 901(b)(6)).  This policy recognizes the discrete mission needs
and associated statutory oversight that agencies must fulfill as they
develop and implement operating requirements that rely on spectrum.   
  
     The Congress has charged NTIA and the Federal Communications
Commission (FCC) with jointly managing the Nation’s radio spectrum
resources.  The NTIA and FCC perform their functions consistent with the
August 1, 2022, Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the two
agencies; the Presidential Memorandum of January 27, 2021 (Restoring
Trust in Government Through Scientific Integrity and Evidence-Based
Policymaking); the November 23, 2022, MOU among NTIA, FCC, and the
Department of the Interior; and Executive Order 13175 of November 6,
2000 (Consultation and Coordination With Indian Tribal Governments),
honoring the Federal trust relationship with Tribal Nations.  
  
     Accordingly, I direct the following actions to modernize the usage
of spectrum in the United States:  
  
     Sec*.* 2.  Coordination.  To ensure that the United States manages
its spectrum resources in a manner that benefits all Americans, the
executive branch must work cooperatively to arrive at consensus
positions reflecting my Administration’s spectrum policy goals.  
  
     There is hereby established the Interagency Spectrum Advisory
Council (Council) to serve as the principal interagency forum for heads
of agencies to advise NTIA on spectrum policy matters and to ensure that
all decisions made by NTIA take into consideration the diverse missions
of the Federal Government.  Within 90 days of the date of this
memorandum, NTIA shall publish a charter for the Council.  The Council
shall be led by the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications
and Information and shall be composed of Assistant Secretary-level
representatives or their designees with spectrum management oversight
from agencies holding Federal spectrum assignments or otherwise having
spectrum-related statutory authorities within their respective agencies.
 The Executive Office of the President shall participate in the work of
the Council, and NTIA shall request that FCC participate in the work of
the Council.  
  
     The NTIA’s Interdepartment Radio Advisory Committee (IRAC) shall
continue to advise NTIA with respect to NTIA’s statutory role to develop
and execute policies, programs, procedures, and technical criteria
pertaining to the allocation, management, and Federal use of the
electromagnetic spectrum.  
  
     Sec. 3.  National Spectrum Strategy.  By December 31, 2023, the
Secretary of Commerce, acting through NTIA, shall develop a National
Spectrum Strategy (Strategy), and the Secretary shall submit it to the
President, through the Assistant to the President for National Security
Affairs, the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, and the
Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy.  The NTIA shall
seek to collaborate with FCC and coordinate with the Council in the
development of the Strategy, which shall include, at a minimum:  
  
     (a)  a roadmap to make spectrum resources available to continue
United States leadership in advanced wireless technologies and services,
which shall provide a “pipeline” of spectrum bands to support commercial
innovation and agencies’ needs now and into the future by identifying at
least 1500 megahertz for in-depth study to determine suitability for
repurposing, which may include spectrum bands currently allocated for
Federal operations, non-Federal operations, or shared Federal and
non-Federal operations;    
  
     (b)  data-driven processes for long-term spectrum planning that
increase transparency into current and future Federal and non-Federal
spectrum use; anticipate and enable technological advances in order to
facilitate spectrum access; and fully account for essential Federal
missions, including national defense and homeland security, safeguarding
the national airspace, securing the Nation’s critical infrastructure,
climate monitoring and forecasting, and other scientific endeavors;  
  
     (c)  plans to optimize United States spectrum management and use by
considering different types of spectrum governance models, including
exclusive licensing, unlicensed use, shared use, and combinations of
these approaches;  
  
     (d)  plans for investing in and promoting the development of
emerging technological advancements in spectrum management, including
spectrum sharing and improving understanding of electromagnetic spectrum
science; and  
  
     (e)  recommendations for developing an enduring, scalable mechanism
for managing shared spectrum access for the Federal Government, with the
goal of increasing the efficiency of spectrum use.  
  
     Sec. 4.  Implementation Plan.  Within 120 days of the submission of
the Strategy, the Secretary of Commerce, acting through NTIA, in
coordination with the Council, and after seeking to collaborate with
FCC, shall publish an Implementation Plan for the Strategy.  The
Implementation Plan shall include a schedule for detailed studies of the
pipeline bands identified in the Strategy to be completed within 2 years
of the submission of the Strategy or, in the case of proposals by
agencies to conduct studies under the Spectrum Pipeline Act of 2015
(Public Law 114-74), within 2 years of the date of receipt of
funding.   
  
     Sec. 5.  Responsibilities of the Department of Commerce and NTIA.
 The Secretary of Commerce, acting through NTIA, has “\[t\]he
responsibility to promote the best possible and most efficient use of
electromagnetic spectrum resources across the Federal Government,
subject to and consistent with the needs and missions of Federal
agencies.” (47 U.S.C. 902(b)(2)(U)).  In order to properly fulfill this
responsibility, NTIA, consistent with its “authority . . . as the
executive branch agency principally responsible for advising the
President on telecommunications and information policies,” shall, in
coordination with the Council and the IRAC as appropriate, ensure that
the views of the executive branch on spectrum matters are properly
developed, documented, and, if necessary, presented to FCC and, in
appropriate circumstances, in coordination with the Director of the
Office of Management and Budget, to the Congress, as required by statute
(47 U.S.C. 901(b)(6), 902(b)(2)(J)).  This duty shall extend to all
Federal spectrum matters, both where agencies hold NTIA-issued frequency
assignments and where non-Federal spectrum use may have a substantial
impact on agency missions.   
  
     (a)  In undertaking these duties, NTIA shall:

          (i)    adhere to the terms of the August 1, 2022, MOU between
NTIA and FCC and any successor arrangement, so long as the arrangement
remains in effect;

          (ii)   solicit views of stakeholder agencies in a timely
fashion and provide sufficient time and procedures for such agencies to
present their views and supporting technical information to NTIA;  
  
          (iii) provide agencies with timely written feedback
articulating why and how agency views will be incorporated into the
position that NTIA communicates to FCC;  
  
          (iv)   facilitate the presentation by agencies of classified
or otherwise sensitive views to FCC;  
  
          (v)    develop the position of the executive branch on
spectrum-related issues, including any supporting technical and
operational information to facilitate FCC decision-making, and provide
that position to FCC; and  
  
          (vi) endeavor to provide such views and information within
FCC’s applicable timelines and request additional time when needed.  
  
     (b)  In matters where NTIA and an agency or agencies cannot reach a
consensus on the views to be presented to FCC, NTIA shall:

          (i)    notify FCC of the lack of consensus and anticipated
next steps and timing to resolve it;  
  
          (ii)   request the joint assistance of the Secretary of
Commerce and the head of any agency objecting to NTIA’s proposed
submission to FCC to find a mutually agreeable resolution; and  
  
          (iii)  keep FCC informed, as appropriate, regarding
anticipated next steps and timing of resolution.  
  
     (c)  If a resolution is not reached, NTIA shall within 90 days
submit, or the disputing agency or agencies may submit, the disagreement
to the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs and the
Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, who shall, in
consultation with the Director of the Office of Science and Technology
Policy and the National Space Council, resolve the dispute through the
interagency process described in National Security Memorandum 2 of
February 4, 2021 (Renewing the National Security Council System), or the
process described in any successor Presidential directive.  The NTIA
shall advise FCC on the executive branch position following adjudication
and decision.  
  
     Sec. 6.  Post-FCC Action Procedures.  Since agencies are directed
to participate fully and actively in NTIA’s development of positions on
spectrum matters, disputes following FCC action should be rare.When FCC
has acted to make spectrum available for non-Federal use and an agency
believes that, for a reason unforeseen before FCC action, the new use is
causing or potentially will cause harmful interference to existing
Federal operations or non-Federal operations that are regulated by an
agency, the following procedures shall be adhered to:  
  
(a)  The complainant agency, no later than 45 days after learning of the
unforeseen risk of harmful interference, shall formally request that
NTIA address the matter with FCC for an appropriate remedy, and in that
request shall:  
  
          (i)    clearly indicate the manner in which the public
interest will be implicated or harmed or an agency’s mission will be
adversely affected;  
  
          (ii)   present evidence to NTIA that such new use is causing
or potentially will cause harmful interference or potential harm to the
public interest, including any technical or scientific data that
supports that position; and  
  
          (iii)  explain why the complainant agency cannot take steps to
ensure mission continuity that are consistent with FCC’s decision.

     (b)  If NTIA believes that the complainant agency has produced
sufficient evidence that the new use will risk harmful interference that
cannot be reasonably mitigated without FCC action, it shall, within 60
days of the complainant agency’s request, address FCC under established
processes for seeking appropriate relief.  If NTIA does not believe that
there is sufficient evidence to seek relief from FCC, the complainant
agency may invoke the process set forth in sections 5(b) and 5(c) of
this memorandum.  
  
     (c)  Before any significant regulatory action directly related to
the spectrum subject to license is taken by the complainant agency
pursuant to its statutory authorities, the regulatory action shall be
submitted to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (OIRA)
within the Office of Management and Budget, as required by sections 3(f)
and 6(a)(3) of Executive Order 12866 of September 30, 1993 (Regulatory
Planning and Review).    
  
     Sec. 7.  Other Responsibilities of Agencies.  Consistent with
NTIA’s statutory authorities and to ensure the coordination and
consistency called for in this memorandum:  
  
     (a)  Agencies shall expeditiously, and no later than 45 days
subsequent to any NTIA request outside of the time frames set by
section IV(3) of the August 1, 2022, MOU between NTIA and FCC, respond
to and, to the extent possible, share with NTIA any technical and
operational information needed to facilitate spectrum coordination and
policy development.  
  
     (b)  Agencies shall furnish NTIA “with such information, support,
and assistance, not inconsistent with law, as it may require in the
performance of its functions,” (47 U.S.C. 904(c)(2)), including
coordinating with NTIA on:  
  
          (i)   all relevant information to be considered for filing
with FCC; and  
  
          (ii)  any significant regulatory actions to be taken by the
agency pursuant to its statutory authorities directly relating to
spectrum issues, prior to its submission to OIRA as required by
Executive Order 12866.  
  
     (c)  Agencies shall collaborate with NTIA to facilitate long-term
spectrum planning, including by sharing information about their current
spectrum use and long-term spectrum needs as requested by NTIA.  
  
     (d)  Agencies shall coordinate with NTIA prior to carrying out any
electromagnetic compatibility study or testing plan that the agency
seeks to be considered in formulating the views of the executive branch
regarding spectrum regulatory matters.  Coordination with NTIA will
ensure the use of consistent methods across the executive branch,
promoting reliable findings as well as evidence-based decision-making. 
Nothing herein is intended to prevent agencies from conducting
spectrum-related studies for internal purposes unrelated to formulating
executive branch views on spectrum regulatory matters.  Agencies are
strongly encouraged to conduct spectrum-related testing and research in
cooperation with NTIA’s Institute for Telecommunication Sciences.  
  
     (e)  Agencies shall favor the development and procurement of
systems that enable coexistence with other spectrum users.  Accordingly,
agencies shall ensure that their acquisition processes properly consider
spectrum coexistence and access prior to milestone investment
decisions.  The NTIA shall, in turn, improve its criteria and processes
for certification regarding spectrum availability to facilitate spectrum
access.  
  
     Sec. 8.  Spectrum Management Principles and Methods.  By May 14,
2025, the Secretary of Commerce, working in partnership with the
Council, shall publish a report identifying spectrum management
principles and methods that will guide the Federal Government in
spectrum studies and science.  The report shall identify the
coordination guidelines for spectrum studies and identify processes for
determining types of studies, criteria, assumptions, and timelines that
will be acceptable in decision-making involving the use of Federal
spectrum and the use of non-Federal spectrum by agencies.   
  
     Sec. 9.  Revocation.  The Presidential Memorandum of October 25,
2018 (Developing a Sustainable Spectrum Strategy for America’s Future),
is hereby revoked.  
  
     Sec. 10.  Protection of Information.  Nothing in this memorandum
shall be construed to require the disclosure of classified information,
law enforcement sensitive information, or other information that must be
protected in the interests of national security.  
  
     Sec*.* 11.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this memorandum
shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:  
  
          (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department
or agency, or the head thereof; or  
  
          (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or
legislative proposals.  
  
     (b)  This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with
applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.  
  
     (c)  This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any
right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in
equity by any party against the United States, its departments,
agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other
person.  
  
     (d)  The Secretary of Commerce is authorized and directed to
publish this memorandum in the *Federal Register*.  
  

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
