---
date: '2023-11-30'
published_time: 2023-11-30 17:27:05-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/11/30/a-proclamation-on-national-impaired-driving-prevention-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Impaired Driving Prevention Month,\_2023"
---
 
This holiday season, too many American families will have an empty seat
at their table after losing a loved one in a drunk or drug-impaired
driving accident.  More than 10,000 Americans die every year in these
preventable crashes.  During National Impaired Driving Prevention Month,
we call on everyone to help save a life by planning ahead, calling for a
ride, only driving when sober, and helping friends and loved ones do the
same every time.  
  
     Nearly a third of deadly car wrecks in America involve alcohol, and
some 26 million people drove under the influence in 2020, endangering
themselves, passengers and passersby, and the law enforcement officers
who work to keep our roads safe.  Just one drink or pill can destroy a
cascade of lives.

     The best way to reduce the deadly cost of impaired driving is
prevention, which starts by raising awareness of its risks and
consequences and by working to treat substance misuse in the first
place.  The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration has invested
in media campaigns like “If You Feel Different, You Drive Different”;
“Drive Sober or Get Pulled Over”; and “Drive High, Get a DUI,” but it is
on all of us to help spread the word, offer to be a designated driver
for others when we can, and call a ride or ask for help when we need it.
 Meanwhile, for Fiscal Year 2024, my Administration asked the Congress
for $26 billion more to fund prevention, treatment, and recovery support
services for substance misuse and $20 billion to reduce the supply of
illicit substances entering our country to help keep communities safe.
 Since taking office, my Administration has committed to provide over
$169 billion in drug control funding to end the overdose crisis.

     My Administration is advancing new tools that can help prevent
driving under the influence and improve road safety.  Our Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law invests in technologies that can detect and prevent
impaired driving, and it requires all new passenger cars to include
features like collision warnings and automatic emergency braking, which
can help to avoid accidents.  The Department of Transportation’s
National Roadway Safety Strategy works to eliminate traffic deaths and
make crashes less destructive.  For example, their Safe Streets and
Roads for All program offers more than $800 million in grants to help
cities, counties, Tribes, and other organizations plan and implement
measures improve the safety of our Nation’s roadways.

     As we head into the holiday seasons, we urge Americans everywhere
to do the right thing.  If you plan on drinking, arrange a sober ride
home in advance; ride-sharing apps have made getting home safely easier
than ever.  If you have used any substance, never get behind the wheel.
 If you see someone — a friend, loved one, colleague, or anyone else —
putting themselves or others at risk, offer to help.  It matters.  You
could save a life.  

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
December 2023 as National Impaired Driving Prevention Month.  I urge all
Americans to make responsible decisions and take appropriate measures to
prevent impaired driving.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
thirtieth day of November, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-three, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-eighth.  
  
  
                                                                       
                            JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
