---
date: '2023-11-15'
published_time: 2023-11-15 16:41:08-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/11/15/a-proclamation-on-national-rural-health-day-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Rural Health Day,\_2023"
---
 
     America’s rural communities are indispensable to who we are as a
Nation, where over 60 million people who live in rural America fuel our
economy and help forge our future.  On National Rural Health Day, we
recommit to investing in rural communities and delivering affordable,
quality health care so that generations of rural Americans can thrive.  
  
     No one should have to lie awake at night wondering if they can
afford or access health care for their family, but that is the reality
for so many in rural America.  Rural Americans are more likely to live
in poverty, be older, and have disabilities while also having fewer
health care providers within reach.  We know that when rural Americans
do not have the chance to thrive in their local economy, they leave home
in search of opportunity elsewhere.  When they do, small businesses,
schools, and rural hospitals suffer, and the services and support
systems people need to succeed disappear.  Since 2010, over 150 rural
hospitals have either closed down or stopped providing in-patient care,
damaging rural economies where hospitals are often one of the largest
employers and leaving families scrambling for health care.   
  
     When I came into office, I was committed to investing in rural
America, starting with the health and well-being of its residents.  Our
American Rescue Plan directed $8.5 billion to rural providers so they
could keep hospitals and clinics open during the pandemic.  We also
supported the establishment of a new Rural Emergency Hospital
designation, which provides struggling rural hospitals with a new option
for maintaining a presence within the community.  We have provided
$1.5 billion in scholarships and student loan assistance for rural
clinicians and nurses so that medical personnel can fill these critical
roles.   
  
     My Administration has also worked to modernize and support rural
health care facilities by providing millions of dollars to provide
direct health services, expand infrastructure, and supply technical
assistance to rural hospitals facing financial distress.  Further, we
have made historic investments in the expansion of rural broadband and
services that can be delivered via telehealth to Medicare beneficiaries.
   
  
     We are also tackling some of the health crises that impact rural
communities by working to improve maternal health, address the mental
health crisis, and beat the opioid epidemic.  My Administration’s
Blueprint for Addressing the Maternal Health Crisis lays out our vision
for making America the best country in the world to have a baby. 
Expanding mental health and substance use disorder services remains a
core pillar of my Unity Agenda.  That is why we are recruiting,
training, and supporting more providers across the country as part of
the largest-ever investment in these types of programs.   
  
     Additionally, we are investing in the next generation of rural
Americans, fighting for a future where all children have the resources
they need to live full and healthy lives.  That is why my Administration
released a national strategy to end hunger and reduce diet-related
diseases in America by 2030 — including advancing a pathway to provide
free, healthy school meals for all children.  We are also working to
support schools in sourcing more local food for on-campus meals,
bringing new revenue to farms and increased economic development in
rural communities.  
  
     At the same time, we are lowering health care costs for every
American, no matter their zip code.  We expanded health care coverage
through the Affordable Care Act, saving millions of families up to $800
a year on their health care premiums.  I also signed the Inflation
Reduction Act, which capped the cost of insulin at $35 per month for
people with Medicare.  The Inflation Reduction Act also empowered
Medicare to negotiate lower drug prices for the first time in American
history.  The first ten drugs Medicare selected for negotiation treat
everything from blood clots to cancer and are used by nine million
people.  Building on this progress, we are also requiring prescription
drug companies to reimburse Medicare if they raise prices for seniors at
a higher rate than inflation, which will save some seniors as much as
$618 on every dose of their medication.    
  
     Finally, my Administration is implementing historic legislation
that will help rural Americans find more opportunities in their
hometowns.  Through my Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, rural Americans
are being hired to rebuild safer bridges, roads, and highways in their
own communities and to bring clean water, clean energy, and high-speed
Internet to their neighbors.  Companies are investing hundreds of
billions of dollars to create thousands of jobs across America —
including rural America — and are manufacturing more products in rural
communities.  
  
     I have often said that health care is a right, not a privilege.  On
National Rural Health Day, we recommit to this principle and to putting
affordable, quality health care within reach of all rural Americans.  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
November 16, 2023, as National Rural Health Day.  I call upon the people
of the United States to reaffirm our dedication to the health and
well-being of rural America.  
      
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fifteenth day
of November, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
 

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
