---
date: '2023-11-08'
published_time: 2023-11-08 14:28:11-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/11/08/a-proclamation-on-world-freedom-day-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on World Freedom Day,\_2023"
---
 
     On World Freedom Day, we remember that the hammer blow that brought
down the Berlin Wall and the might that lifted the Iron Curtain were not
sparked by the words of any single leader — it was the people of Europe
who spent decades fighting to free themselves and defend democracy.
 Together, we recommit ourselves to this cause — knowing that the
darkness that drives autocracy is no match for the flame of liberty that
lights the souls of free people everywhere.  
  
     Around the globe, we are seeing a revival of the forces of
autocracy, which are once again demonstrating contempt for the rule of
law, democratic freedom, and the truth itself.  Russia’s ongoing
aggression against Ukraine is another battle in the long struggle
between liberty and authoritarianism, one that compels us to remember
that the fight for democracy is perennial and that we must stand up for
our values each and every day.  
  
     That is exactly what the United States is doing.  Together with our
partners and allies, the United States will continue to defend the
fundamental freedoms and human rights entitled to every person around
the world.  We will continue working toward a future where women and
girls can enjoy equal rights and equal participation in their societies;
where Indigenous groups, people with disabilities, and racial, ethnic,
and religious minorities do not have their potential stifled by systemic
discrimination; and where LGBTQI+ people are not persecuted or targeted
with violence because of who they are.  We will continue to stand with
people around the world striving for a brighter future in the face of
autocratic attempts to forge a darker path.  As we support democracy
abroad, we are mindful that our own democracy is still at risk.  My
Administration is working tirelessly to show that democracies can
deliver on the challenges that matter most in peoples’ lives, and I call
on the American people to remain vigilant in the defense of our
democratic values and institutions.  
  
     As we honor the hope felt around the world 34 years ago today when
Berliners finally crossed from East to West and ushered in a new future,
we remember that when we choose to stand together and recognize the
common hopes that bind all humanity, we hold in our hands the power to
bend the arc of history.  Together, may we continue to live up to the
promises we have made to ourselves, to the vulnerable, and to all those
who will inherit the world we create.  May we work side-by-side to bend
the arc of history for the good of the world.  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, do hereby proclaim November 9, 2023, as World Freedom
Day.  I call upon the people of the United States of America to remember
the hope symbolized by the fall of the Berlin Wall and reaffirm our
dedication to freedom and democracy.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of
November, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
 

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
