---
date: '2023-11-13'
modified_time: 2023-11-13 16:56:46-05:00
published_time: 2023-11-13 16:56:45-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/11/13/memorandum-on-the-white-house-initiative-on-womens-health-research/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Memorandum on the White\_House Initiative on Women\u2019s Health\_Research"
---
 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE HEADS OF EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES

SUBJECT:       White House Initiative on Women’s Health Research  
  
  
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:  
  
Section 1.  Policy.  Women make up half of the United States population,
but for too long, a lack of timely research and data on women’s health
has left health care providers without important tools to diagnose and
treat millions of women with debilitating conditions, including
cardiovascular disease, Alzheimer’s disease, autoimmune disorders,
mental health conditions, and conditions specific to women such as
endometriosis and fibroids.    
  
Beyond the immediate health consequences, underinvesting in women’s
health research can decrease women’s well-being and quality of life,
hold women back in the workplace, and affect their families’ economic
security.  By contrast, increasing investments in women’s health
research can yield broad societal gains, including lower health care
costs and a more productive and inclusive workforce.  
  
To address pervasive gaps in our knowledge of women’s health, we must
accelerate research on the unique health needs of women across their
lifespans.  Research gaps are especially acute for diseases and
conditions that are more prevalent among women and for health conditions
associated with women’s midlife and later years, including perimenopause
and menopause.  Gaps are often even more significant for those who have
been historically underrepresented in, or excluded from, research.  
  
We can — and must — increase our efforts to invest in research that
maximizes our ability to prevent, diagnose, and treat health conditions
in women across the United States.  Meaningful progress requires robust,
dedicated research infrastructure — including a strong, diverse research
workforce — and investment within and beyond the Federal Government.  We
all have a part to play in galvanizing women’s health research,
developing innovative and cutting-edge interventions that promote
women’s health, and ensuring that women across the United States have
access to high-quality health care.  
  
Accordingly, I hereby direct the following actions:  
  
Sec*.* 2.  Establishment.  There is established, within the Office of
the First Lady, a White House Initiative on Women’s Health Research
(Initiative).  
  
Sec. 3.  Membership.  (a)  The Initiative shall be led by a Chair
designated by the President who shall hold a dual role in the Office of
the First Lady and on the staff of the White House Gender Policy
Council.  
  
(b)  In addition to the Chair, the members of the Initiative shall
consist of the heads of the following executive departments and agencies
(agencies) and offices, or their designees:  
  
(i)      the Office of the Vice President;  
  
(ii)     the Department of Defense;  
  
(iii)    the Department of Agriculture;  
  
(iv)     the Department of Health and Human Services;  
  
(v)      the Department of Veterans Affairs;  
  
(vi)     the Environmental Protection Agency;  
  
(vii)    the Office of Management and Budget;  
  
(viii)   the Domestic Policy Council;  
  
(ix)     the Office of Science and Technology Policy;  
  
(x)      the National Science Foundation;  
  
(xi)     the National Institutes of Health;  
  
(xii)    the Food and Drug Administration;  
  
(xiii)   the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention;  
  
(xiv)    the Indian Health Service;  
  
(xv)     the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services;  
  
(xvi)    the Health Resources and Services Administration;  
  
(xvii)   the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services
Administration;  
  
(xviii)  the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality;  
  
(xix)    the Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health;  
  
(xx)     the National Institutes of Health Office of Research on Women’s
Health; and  
  
(xxi)    the heads of such other agencies and offices as the Chair may,
from time to time, designate.  
  
(c)  The Department of Health and Human Services shall provide funding
and administrative support as may be necessary for the performance and
functions of the Initiative, to the extent permitted by law and within
existing appropriations.  
  
(d)  At the direction of the Chair, the Initiative may establish
subgroups consisting exclusively of Initiative members or their
designees, as appropriate, including to coordinate across agency offices
dedicated to women’s health.  
  
Sec. 4.  Mission and Functions.  (a)  The mission of the Initiative is
to advance women’s health research in the United States.  The functions
of the Initiative are advisory only and shall include, consistent with
applicable law, the following actions with the goal of advancing women’s
health research:  
  
(i)     assessing the Federal research landscape to identify
opportunities for additional investments that could catalyze significant
progress in addressing women’s health needs;  
  
(ii)    setting Initiative-wide priorities to help guide strategic
Federal research investments;  
  
(iii)   improving coordination among agencies and offices pursuing
women’s health research, including by better integrating research
efforts and facilitating interdisciplinary research;  
  
(iv)    developing policy recommendations to better ensure that the
health needs of women are considered, assessed, and reported for Federal
research and data collection efforts, where feasible and in accordance
with current research and data collection and analysis guidelines;  
  
(v)     forming targeted recommendations to address health disparities
and inequities affecting women, including those related to race,
ethnicity, age, socioeconomic status, disability, and exposure to
environmental factors and contaminants that can directly affect
health;  
  
(vi)    developing recommendations to support the translation of
research advancements into practical benefits for patients and
providers;  
  
(vii)   identifying opportunities to develop public-private partnerships
and to increase coordination of Federal efforts with the private and
philanthropic sectors in order to drive innovation;  
  
(viii)  engaging the scientific and research communities, including by
helping promote the publication and dissemination of actionable research
and data on women’s health and by making Federal datasets available to
support research;  
  
(ix)    assessing opportunities to recruit, train, and support women
pursuing health and biomedical research careers to help strengthen and
diversify the research workforce; and  
  
(x)     identifying ways to increase public awareness of the need for
greater investment in and attention to women’s health research, as well
as women’s health outcomes.  
  
(b)  Consistent with the objectives of this memorandum and applicable
law, the Initiative may gather relevant information from external
stakeholders, including Federal, State, local, Tribal, and territorial
government officials; researchers and academics; women’s health
organizations; philanthropic leaders; industry stakeholders; and other
entities and persons that may assist the Initiative in accomplishing the
objectives of this memorandum.  
  
Sec. 5.  Recommendations to the President.  (a)  Within 45 days of the
date of this memorandum, the members of the Initiative or their
designees shall provide recommendations to the President, through the
Chair, on concrete actions that agencies and offices can take to advance
women’s health research.  
  
(b)  The heads of agencies and offices participating in the Initiative
shall assist and provide information to the Chair, consistent with
applicable law, as may be necessary to carry out the functions of the
Initiative.  Each participating agency and office shall bear its own
expense for participating in the Initiative.  
  
(c)  The heads of agencies and offices participating in the Initiative,
or their designees, shall inform the President, through the Chair, on
progress implementing this memorandum at least twice each year.  
  
Sec. 6.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this memorandum shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:  
  
(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or  
  
(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.  
  
(c)  This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.  
  
(d)  The Secretary of Health and Human Services is authorized and
directed to publish this memorandum in the *Federal Register*.

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:  
  
Section 1.  Policy.  Women make up half of the United States population,
but for too long, a lack of timely research and data on women’s health
has left health care providers without important tools to diagnose and
treat millions of women with debilitating conditions, including
cardiovascular disease, Alzheimer’s disease, autoimmune disorders,
mental health conditions, and conditions specific to women such as
endometriosis and fibroids.    
  
Beyond the immediate health consequences, underinvesting in women’s
health research can decrease women’s well-being and quality of life,
hold women back in the workplace, and affect their families’ economic
security.  By contrast, increasing investments in women’s health
research can yield broad societal gains, including lower health care
costs and a more productive and inclusive workforce.  
  
To address pervasive gaps in our knowledge of women’s health, we must
accelerate research on the unique health needs of women across their
lifespans.  Research gaps are especially acute for diseases and
conditions that are more prevalent among women and for health conditions
associated with women’s midlife and later years, including perimenopause
and menopause.  Gaps are often even more significant for those who have
been historically underrepresented in, or excluded from, research.  
  
We can — and must — increase our efforts to invest in research that
maximizes our ability to prevent, diagnose, and treat health conditions
in women across the United States.  Meaningful progress requires robust,
dedicated research infrastructure — including a strong, diverse research
workforce — and investment within and beyond the Federal Government.  We
all have a part to play in galvanizing women’s health research,
developing innovative and cutting-edge interventions that promote
women’s health, and ensuring that women across the United States have
access to high-quality health care.  
  
Accordingly, I hereby direct the following actions:  
  
Sec*.* 2.  Establishment.  There is established, within the Office of
the First Lady, a White House Initiative on Women’s Health Research
(Initiative).  
  
Sec. 3.  Membership.  (a)  The Initiative shall be led by a Chair
designated by the President who shall hold a dual role in the Office of
the First Lady and on the staff of the White House Gender Policy
Council.  
  
(b)  In addition to the Chair, the members of the Initiative shall
consist of the heads of the following executive departments and agencies
(agencies) and offices, or their designees:  
  
(i)      the Office of the Vice President;  
  
(ii)     the Department of Defense;  
  
(iii)    the Department of Agriculture;  
  
(iv)     the Department of Health and Human Services;  
  
(v)      the Department of Veterans Affairs;  
  
(vi)     the Environmental Protection Agency;  
  
(vii)    the Office of Management and Budget;  
  
(viii)   the Domestic Policy Council;  
  
(ix)     the Office of Science and Technology Policy;  
  
(x)      the National Science Foundation;  
  
(xi)     the National Institutes of Health;  
  
(xii)    the Food and Drug Administration;  
  
(xiii)   the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention;  
  
(xiv)    the Indian Health Service;  
  
(xv)     the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services;  
  
(xvi)    the Health Resources and Services Administration;  
  
(xvii)   the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services
Administration;  
  
(xviii)  the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality;  
  
(xix)    the Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health;  
  
(xx)     the National Institutes of Health Office of Research on Women’s
Health; and  
  
(xxi)    the heads of such other agencies and offices as the Chair may,
from time to time, designate.  
  
(c)  The Department of Health and Human Services shall provide funding
and administrative support as may be necessary for the performance and
functions of the Initiative, to the extent permitted by law and within
existing appropriations.  
  
(d)  At the direction of the Chair, the Initiative may establish
subgroups consisting exclusively of Initiative members or their
designees, as appropriate, including to coordinate across agency offices
dedicated to women’s health.  
  
Sec. 4.  Mission and Functions.  (a)  The mission of the Initiative is
to advance women’s health research in the United States.  The functions
of the Initiative are advisory only and shall include, consistent with
applicable law, the following actions with the goal of advancing women’s
health research:  
  
(i)     assessing the Federal research landscape to identify
opportunities for additional investments that could catalyze significant
progress in addressing women’s health needs;  
  
(ii)    setting Initiative-wide priorities to help guide strategic
Federal research investments;  
  
(iii)   improving coordination among agencies and offices pursuing
women’s health research, including by better integrating research
efforts and facilitating interdisciplinary research;  
  
(iv)    developing policy recommendations to better ensure that the
health needs of women are considered, assessed, and reported for Federal
research and data collection efforts, where feasible and in accordance
with current research and data collection and analysis guidelines;  
  
(v)     forming targeted recommendations to address health disparities
and inequities affecting women, including those related to race,
ethnicity, age, socioeconomic status, disability, and exposure to
environmental factors and contaminants that can directly affect
health;  
  
(vi)    developing recommendations to support the translation of
research advancements into practical benefits for patients and
providers;  
  
(vii)   identifying opportunities to develop public-private partnerships
and to increase coordination of Federal efforts with the private and
philanthropic sectors in order to drive innovation;  
  
(viii)  engaging the scientific and research communities, including by
helping promote the publication and dissemination of actionable research
and data on women’s health and by making Federal datasets available to
support research;  
  
(ix)    assessing opportunities to recruit, train, and support women
pursuing health and biomedical research careers to help strengthen and
diversify the research workforce; and  
  
(x)     identifying ways to increase public awareness of the need for
greater investment in and attention to women’s health research, as well
as women’s health outcomes.  
  
(b)  Consistent with the objectives of this memorandum and applicable
law, the Initiative may gather relevant information from external
stakeholders, including Federal, State, local, Tribal, and territorial
government officials; researchers and academics; women’s health
organizations; philanthropic leaders; industry stakeholders; and other
entities and persons that may assist the Initiative in accomplishing the
objectives of this memorandum.  
  
Sec. 5.  Recommendations to the President.  (a)  Within 45 days of the
date of this memorandum, the members of the Initiative or their
designees shall provide recommendations to the President, through the
Chair, on concrete actions that agencies and offices can take to advance
women’s health research.  
  
(b)  The heads of agencies and offices participating in the Initiative
shall assist and provide information to the Chair, consistent with
applicable law, as may be necessary to carry out the functions of the
Initiative.  Each participating agency and office shall bear its own
expense for participating in the Initiative.  
  
(c)  The heads of agencies and offices participating in the Initiative,
or their designees, shall inform the President, through the Chair, on
progress implementing this memorandum at least twice each year.  
  
Sec. 6.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this memorandum shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:  
  
(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or  
  
(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.  
  
(c)  This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.  
  
(d)  The Secretary of Health and Human Services is authorized and
directed to publish this memorandum in the *Federal Register*.  
  
  
                                                                       
                            JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
