---
date: '2023-11-30'
modified_time: 2023-11-30 12:50:41-05:00
published_time: 2023-11-30 12:50:40-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/11/30/message-to-the-congress-on-the-agreement-for-cooperation-between-the-government-of-the-united-states-of-america-and-the-government-of-the-republic-of-the-philippines-concerning-peaceful-uses-of-nuclea/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Message to the Congress on the Agreement for Cooperation between the Government\
  \ of the United\_States of America and the Government of the Republic of the Philippines\
  \ Concerning Peaceful Uses of Nuclear\_Energy"
---
 
TO THE CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES:  
   
   
     I am pleased to transmit to the Congress, pursuant to subsections
123 b. and 123 d. of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42
U.S.C. 2153(b), (d)) (the “Act”), the text of an Agreement for
Cooperation between the Government of the United States of America and
the Government of the Republic of the Philippines Concerning Peaceful
Uses of Nuclear Energy (the “Agreement”).

     I am also pleased to transmit my written approval, authorization,
and determination concerning the Agreement and an unclassified Nuclear
Proliferation Assessment Statement (NPAS) concerning the Agreement.  In
accordance with section 123 of the Act, a classified annex to the NPAS,
prepared by the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Director of
National Intelligence, summarizing relevant classified information, will
be submitted to the Congress separately.  The joint memorandum submitted
to me by the Secretaries of State and Energy and a letter from the Chair
of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission stating the views of the Commission
are also enclosed.  An addendum to the NPAS containing a comprehensive
analysis of the export control system of the Republic of the Philippines
with respect to nuclear-related matters, including interactions with
other countries of proliferation concern and the actual or suspected
nuclear, dual­use, or missile-related transfers to such countries,
pursuant to section 102A(w) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50
U.S.C. 3024(w)), is being submitted separately by the Director of
National Intelligence.

     The Agreement has been negotiated in accordance with the Act and
other applicable law.  In my judgment, it meets all applicable statutory
requirements and will advance the nonproliferation and other foreign
policy interests of the United States of America.

     The Agreement contains all of the provisions required by subsection
123 a. of the Act.  It provides a comprehensive framework for peaceful
nuclear cooperation with the Republic of the Philippines based on a
mutual commitment to nuclear nonproliferation.  It would permit the
transfer of material, equipment (including reactors), components, and
information for peaceful nuclear purposes.  It would not permit the
transfer of Restricted Data or sensitive nuclear technology.  Any
special fissionable material transferred could only be in the form of
low enriched uranium, with the exception of small quantities of material
for use as samples, standards, detectors, or targets, or for such other
purposes as the parties may agree.

     Through the Agreement, the Republic of the Philippines would affirm
its intent to rely on existing international markets for nuclear fuel
services rather than acquiring sensitive nuclear technology (i.e., for
enrichment and reprocessing), and the United States would affirm its
intent to support the supply of reactors, material, and equipment in
order to ensure a reliable supply of low enriched uranium fuel to the
Republic of the Philippines.

     The Agreement has a term of 30 years, although it can be terminated
by either party upon providing 1 year’s advance written notice.  In the
event of termination or expiration of the Agreement, key
nonproliferation conditions and controls will continue in effect as long
as any material, equipment, or components subject to the Agreement
remain in the territory of the party concerned or under its jurisdiction
or control anywhere, or until such time as the parties agree that such
material, equipment, or components are no longer usable for any nuclear
activity relevant from the point of view of safeguards.

     The Republic of the Philippines has an excellent track record on
nonproliferation and has consistently reiterated its commitment to
nonproliferation.  Through its constitution, the Republic of the
Philippines has adopted and pursued a policy of freedom from nuclear
weapons in its territory.  It is a party to the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and has concluded a Comprehensive
Safeguards Agreement and Additional Protocol with the International
Atomic Energy Agency.  The Republic of the Philippines was also among
the early sponsors of and is a State Party to the Treaty on the
Southeast Asia Nuclear Weapon-Free Zone.  A more detailed discussion of
the Republic of the Philippines’ domestic civil nuclear activities and
its nuclear nonproliferation policies and practices is provided in the
NPAS and its classified annex.

     I have considered the views and recommendations of the interested
departments and agencies in reviewing the Agreement and have determined
that its performance will promote, and will not constitute an
unreasonable risk to, the common defense and security.  Accordingly, I
have approved the Agreement and authorized its execution and urge that
the Congress give it favorable consideration.

     This transmission shall constitute a submittal for purposes of both
subsections 123 b. and 123 d. of the Act.  My Administration is prepared
to begin immediately consultations with the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee and the House Foreign Affairs Committee, as provided in
subsection 123 b.  Upon completion of the 30 days of continuous session
review provided for in subsection 123 b., the 60 days of continuous
session review provided for in subsection 123 d. shall commence.  
   
                                         JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.  
   
THE WHITE HOUSE,  
November 30, 2023.
