---
date: '2023-11-03'
published_time: 2023-11-03 16:20:03-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/11/03/message-to-the-congress-notification-to-the-congress-consistent-with-section-8-of-the-fishermens-protective-act-of-1967-as-amended-22-u-s-c-197/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Message to the Congress \u2014 Notification to the Congress Consistent With\
  \ Section 8 of the Fishermen\u2019s Protective Act of 1967, as amended (22 U.S.C.\_\
  197)"
---
 
TO THE CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES:

On August 24, 2023, the Secretary of the Interior certified under
section 8 of the Fishermen’s Protective Act of 1967, as amended (the
“Pelly Amendment”) (22 U.S.C. 1978), that nationals of the People’s
Republic of China (PRC) are engaging in trade or taking of eight species
of pangolin that diminishes the effectiveness of the Convention on
International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora
(CITES).  This letter constitutes my notification to the Congress
consistent with subsection (b) of the Pelly Amendment.

Pangolins, the world’s only scaly mammal, are captured and trafficked at
a higher rate annually than rhinoceroses, elephants, and tigers
combined.  Consumer demand for pangolin scales for traditional medicinal
practices has pushed all eight pangolin species, originating from across
Africa and Asia, toward extinction.  Effective January 2, 2017, all
species of pangolin were included in CITES Appendix I, which prohibits
international trade for primarily commercial purposes.  Despite this
prohibition, the PRC remains the largest destination country for
pangolin scales.

The PRC has taken some steps to curtail pangolin trafficking at its
international ports and has uplisted pangolins under its Wildlife
Protection Law.  Yet the PRC maintains a system that allows for the
legal commercial trade of pangolin scales for medicinal use from its
national stockpiles, thereby indirectly providing commercial avenues for
selling illegal pangolin specimens through its domestic pangolin market.
 Provincial governments within the PRC are allowed to issue permits to
designated pharmaceutical companies and other entities to acquire
pangolin specimens from the PRC’s national stockpiles for medicinal use.

According to the United Nations, pangolin seizures have increased
tenfold since 2014; moreover, based on data collected between 2007 and
2018, 71 percent of seizures were destined for the PRC.  The size of
individual seizures has also increased; for example, in 2019 Malaysian
authorities reported seizing a record-setting 30 tons of pangolin
products.  My Administration therefore remains concerned that, despite
assurances from the PRC regarding its anti-trafficking efforts, demand
for pangolin scales appears to be growing.  The PRC must do more to
close domestic markets for pangolins and pangolin specimens that provide
cover for the illegal market.  Without these actions, it is likely that
pangolin populations will continue to decline, bringing the species
closer to extinction.

Since the Secretary of the Interior’s certification on August 24, 2023,
executive departments and agencies have outlined conservation and
anti-trafficking conditions that must be met by the PRC to ameliorate
United States concerns that the PRC is undermining pangolin conservation
under CITES.  Necessary actions by the PRC that would demonstrate its
commitment to pangolin conservation and compliance with CITES directives
include completely closing its domestic market for pangolins and
pangolin parts, transparent accounting of domestic stockpiles, and fully
removing pangolins and pangolin parts from the national list of approved
medicines.  The PRC has made some progress towards its international
commitments, but given the complexity of the PRC’s domestic pangolin
market and its overlapping jurisdictions, more time is needed to ensure
that the appropriate agencies from the PRC are implementing the
necessary steps to protect pangolin species from possible extinction.

That is why I have directed the Department of State and the Department
of the Interior to continue their ongoing efforts and to report back to
me on the outcome of the ongoing negotiations at the CITES Standing
Committee meeting taking place in Geneva from November 6-10, 2023.  If
significant commitments by the PRC to implement CITES-directed measures
to protect pangolin species have not been made by December 31, 2023, I
plan to direct certain prohibitions on the importation of, and impose
trade measures on, certain products from the PRC.

The United States will take the steps necessary to end illegal trade in
order to save pangolins from extinction, with the goal of demonstrating
progress by the end of this year.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
November 3, 2023.
