---
date: '2023-04-21'
modified_time: 2023-04-21 23:17:37-04:00
published_time: 2023-04-21 23:17:36-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/04/21/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-27/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine\_Jean-Pierre"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:31 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, good afternoon, everybody.  I just have a few
things at the top.  So once again, please bear with me.

President Biden has done more than any prior President to tackle the
climate crisis, and today he’s making clear that he’s not done yet.

In the Rose Garden this afternoon, with environmental justice leaders
and climate advocates, President Biden will sign an executive order
making environmental justice part of the DNA of every federal agency. 
His order will mean cleaner air and water, reduced risk of asthma and
cancer, and better access to safe and affordable housing, and clean
transportation for communities across the country.

The President’s bold climate and environmental justice agenda could not
stand in starker contrast to the dangerous proposals MAGA House
Republicans are putting forward. 

As you can see from the slide behind me — here you go — while President
Biden is fighting to clean up toxic pollution and lower costs through
clean energy tax credit, Speaker McCarthy unveiled a ransom note holding
our economy hostage.  It’s a 320-page plan to kill jobs, fill our cities
with smog, and give asthma to our children.

The proposal would repeal the Inflation Reduction Act’s green energy tax
credits, sending thousands of jobs back to China.  It would make it
easier for oil companies to use toxic chemicals that cause severe burns,
damage people’s eyes, and quite literally melt bones.

It would severely weaken the Clean Air Act, sending us back to the times
when cities across the country filled with heavy smog that dirties our
air and poisons the lungs of our children.

It’s no surprise that over a dozen health and medical organizations,
including the American Lung Association and the Children’s Environmental
Health Network, oppose these dangerous proposals.

Speaker McCarthy extreme MAGA proposals would be a climate and health
disaster that President Biden won’t allow on his watch.

Speaking of — speaking of, earlier this week, Speaker McCarthy redoubled
his threat to default and hold the American economy hostage unless he
can slash programs that the American people, including our nation’s
veterans, rely on every single day.

While the President’s budget honors our country’s sacred obligation for
care for America’s veterans, their families, caregivers, and survivors,
Speaker McCarthy’s proposal would cut these critical programs by 22
percent and threaten critical services for veterans.

Today, the Department of Veterans Affair has put out analysis of the
impact Speaker McCarthy’s 22 percent cuts would have on those who have
bravely served our nation.  The extreme MAGA cuts he has put forward
would mean 30 million fewer veteran outpatient visits, meaning veterans
who need cancer screenings or mental health services would be unable to
get an appointment; eliminate 50,000 veterans’ housing vouchers, putting
veterans at greater risk of homelessness; take away vital food
assistance from older veterans, the VA’s ability to care for the final
resting place of veterans who lost their life serving this country.

The congressional Republican plan is to threaten veterans’ health, food,
housing, and even gravesites for brinksmanship over the debt ceiling. 

Speaker McCarthy and House Republicans should take those threats off the
table, just as they did three times in the last administration.

Now, changing gears just a bit as we move on, I also want to take a
moment to wish the millions of Muslim Americans across the country a
blessed and happy Eid Mubarak.  This is a special day when many gather
with family and friends, cherish those special bonds, celebrate a month
of charity and spiritual reflection, and rejoice over the morning cup of
coffee they longed for the last 30 days.

Here in the Biden administration, for the first time ever, we’ve got
over 100 Muslim American appointees joining in the celebration.  These
are public servants who are tackling the climate crisis, building on the
economy from the bottom up and the middle out, protecting health,
combatting hate in all its forms, restoring our alliances, and so much
more. 

It’s a testament to the commitment that the President ran on to unite
the nation.  An administration that reflects the diversity of this
nation, the beauty of this nation is a core part of that, and it helps
ensure that our government truly, truly serves all Americans.

The President and First Lady look forward to continuing the tradition of
hosting the Eid celebration here at the White House on May 1st.

Now — and now for the week ahead.  A couple of things.

On Sunday, the President and the First Lady will return to the White
House from Camp David.

On Monday, the President and First Lady and the U.S. Secretary of
Education, Miguel Cardona, will honor the Council of Chief State School
Officers 2023 Teachers of the Year at the White House.  Teachers from
each state and territory will be honored for their excellence in
teaching and commitment to students’ learning.

Later, the President will welcome Tennessee State Representative Jus- —
Jus- — Justin Jones, Justin Pearson, and Gloria Johnson to the White
House.  They will continue their discussion on their efforts to ban
assault weapons and stand for the — for democratic values.

On Tuesday, the President will deliver remarks at the North American
Building Trade Unions Legislative Conference held at the Washington
Hilton.  The President will discuss how this investing — how his
Investing in America agenda is bringing manufacturing jobs back — or
manufacturing, more broadly, back — rebuilding the middle class,
creating good-paying jobs, and union jobs.

On Wednesday, the President and the First Lady will host President —
President Yoon — <s>Oon</s> \[Yoon\] — pardon me — and Mrs. Kim for a
state visit to the United States, which would include a state dinner. 

As part of the visit, the President and the First Lady will participate
in a visit with President <s>Oon</s> \[Yoon\] and Mrs. Kim to the Korean
War Memorial on Tuesday evening. 

On Wednesday morning, the President and the First Lady, the Vice
President and the Second Gentleman will greet President <s>Oon</s>
\[Yoon\] and Mrs. Kim for the official arrival ceremony on Wednesday
morning. 

Then the President will hold a bilateral meeting with President
<s>Oon</s> \[Yoon\].  In the afternoon, the President will host a joint
press conference with President <s>Oon</s> \[Yoon\].  In the evening,
the President and the First Lady will greet President <s>Oon</s>
\[Yoon\] and Mrs. Kim on arriv- — on arrival for the state dinner. 

After, the President and the First Lady will participate in a photo
opportunity with President <s>Oon</s> \[Yoon\] and Mrs. Kim at the grand
staircase on the occasion of the state dinner.  Then the President and
the First Lady will host President <s>Oon</s> \[Yoon\] and Mrs. Kim for
a state dinner. 

As you may have seen this morning, Korean American chef Edward Lee will
be the guest chef for the state dinner.  He was selected by the First
Lady because of his experience with the intersection of American cuisine
with Korean influence. 

For entertainment, guests will enjoy a musical selection by Broadway
stars Norm Lewis, Le- — Lea <s>Salonger</s> \[Salonga\], and Jessica
Vosk.

On Friday, the President will present the Commander-in-Chief’s Trophy to
the Air Force Falcons during a cer- — ceremony at the White House. 

On Saturday, the President and the First Lady, the Vice President and
the Second Gentleman will attend the White House Correspondents’
Association Dinner at the Washington Hilton where the President will
also deliver remarks. 

Now, finally, I just want to say one last thing.  And I know there’s a
lot of interest in this.  Obviously, I totally understand this.  A lot
of questions about all — all of this — the press reports that we have
seen in the last 24 hours, when it comes to the President’s plans for
2024.  I just want to say, and I know all of you in this room know this
— I understand that you all know this, but there might be some folks who
are watching at home who may not know, and so I just want to lay this
out for all of them: 

As a government employee, federal law prohibits me from discussing
campaign-related topics from this podium.  So I will be following that
law and not discussing anything regarding the 2024 race.  The President
has been very clear.  I know you all have reported this many times, and
he has said this in many — in multiple interviews over the past several
months, with multiple outlets and — on his attentions to — to — to —
what his intentions are when it comes to 2024. 

But beyond that, I will not be able to comment on anything, again,
related to the 2024 elections. 

And with that — and thank you so much for your patience with me today
with our toppers.  With that, Darlene, please take us away. 

Q    Thank you.  I wanted to follow up — one housekeeping question on
your topper.  The Tennessee lawmakers, when they come on Monday, do you
expect that to be an open event with the President and those lawmakers? 
Or what can you take — what can you tell us about what that visit will
look like?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, first, look, we’ll have more to share.  But I do
want to say that the President looks — very much looks forward to
meeting with the three legislators who, as you know, he spoke with, had
a very important, critical — we thought — conversation with them about
how to move forward with gun reform, about them doing their democratic
duty, and — and peacefully protesting for assault weapons ban. 

And what we saw, and what we saw happen to the three of them — as you
heard the President say, as you have heard me say — it was undemocratic
when they were expelled and essentially ousted out of their — out of
their seats.  And it was also an attack on our democracy. 

And so what you’ll see is the President sitting down with — with these
three legislators, having a conversation on how to move forward — on how
to move forward with commonsense gun reform; how to move forward on
protecting our communities, our kids, our churches.  And he will hear
them out, and he looks forward to having that conversation. 

And we’ll have more on what that will look like and if there will be any
availability for all of you to — to — to kind of experience or see that
— that meeting.  I just don’t have anything at this time. 

Q    And on Sudan, I wanted to follow up on something that John Kirby
said —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.

Q    — when he was here yesterday and also this morning in his virtual
gaggle, which was that “Americans should have no expectation of a U.S.
government-coordinated evacuation at this time, and we expect that’s
going to remain the case.” 

Now, obviously, the U.S. government has warned Americans about the
security situation in Sudan, but can you explain why this is the
government’s position?  Like, shouldn’t Americans abroad expect some
help from their government getting —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look —

Q    — out of a trouble spot?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Totally hear your question.  And just to be clear,
like, Americans in Sudan have been warned since this past — since this —
since last year. 

And it’s been a Level 4.  The State Department, as you know, they tend
to give the warnings to Americans abroad on what’s happening on the
situation. 

And so it is not our standard procedure to evacumate \[sic\] — evacuate
American citizens living abroad.  Afghanistan was a unique situation for
many reasons, including already hosting a significant military presence
and ending a 20-year conflict.  The Afghanistan evacuation was not — was
not the norm, as you all know, and many of you have reported that. 

So, for example, in Libya, Yemen, and Syria, we do not provide
large-scale evacuations for American citizens and LPRs even as those
government collapsed.  Instead, we urged Americans to use commercial
options to leave the country while those options were still readily
available.  We also offered financial assistance to those who needed
help departing the country, in accordance with our standard consular
services for American citizens in these sorts of extraordinary
situations. 

But again, it is not our standard procedure.  And the State Department
does its best to provide information to citizens who are abroad and —
and giving them the warning when necessary. 

And this is something that — when it comes to Sudan, this is a warning —
a Level 4 warning that we provided to them many months ago, basically
telling Americans who were there to leave if they could and also not to
travel — Americans not to travel to Sudan.  So we’ve been very clear on
that.  Again, it’s not our standard pro- — procedure.

Go ahead, Mary.

Q    Thank you.  You mentioned Speaker McCarthy’s proposals, and I know
that you discussed this yesterday, but I just want to make sure that I’m
clear on your position: The President is not going to sit down with the
Speaker until he agrees to a clean plan to raise the debt limit?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So we have been very clear that the Speaker, without —
without delay, should put forth a clean bill on the — on the floor to —
to avoid default.  We have been very clear about that, and that stance —
that stance continues. 

We are — we are always happy to have a conversation about the budget —
we’ve been very clear about that — about the spending that they
propose.  We already have a sense of what they value with their 22
percent spending cuts.  As I mentioned, veterans — when it comes to
veterans’ education, Wheels — Wheels on — Meals on Wheels, and a host of
extensive other programs that will really hurt Americans.  Americans
really rely on these programs to make their ends meet.

And so we’ve — we’re going to continue to analyze that, and we’ll have
more to share.  But clearly, as I — as I laid out at the top, we are
clearly doing a deep dive on these different programs.  But we need to
see them put this — raise — raise the debt ceiling, avoid — avoid a
default, and not put our economy or take our — the American economy
hostage.  And we’ve been very clear about that.

Q    I’m just trying to get a sense of what you need to see to have this
conversation between the President and the Speaker, because you’ve said
you’re happy to talk about the budget; the President — or the Speaker
has now put out what appears to be the closest thing he’s going to get
to putting out a budget.  So what are you waiting for?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, what we’re waiting for is for them to avoid
default.  What we’re waiting for th- — for House Republicans is to put
that on the floor so that they — we can avoid default.  That’s what we
want —

Q    So then you won’t have a conversation until they put out that clean
debt plan?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’ve been very clear about that.  We do not want to
negotiate on this.  We want to make sure that they do what they did the
last three times and avoid default.

They need to put that bill — put a clean bill on the floor so that we do
not cont- — they do not continue to hold the American economy hostage. 
And that’s what they’re doing, which has — will have dangerous
consequences for not just our economy, for the American people.

So that’s what we want them to do.

Q    And no talking until then?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, they need to do that, and then we can go ahead
and have a conversation about the budget.

Q    And just one quick one, since you did the week ahead: Does the
President have any plans to mark the fourth anniversary of his
announcement of his 2020 campaign?  (Laughter.)

Q    That’s a good one.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s a — yeah, that is very good. 

Q    Had to try.  Had to try.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You had to try.

I don’t have anything else beyond the week ahead that I just laid out,
but I really appreciate the effort.  That was very good.

Q    Karine —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes?

Q    — who will be able to address questions about 2024?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, you know, I don’t have anything to say about
2024 either way.  It’s not going to come from here, from this podium, as
I have stated.  And so I’m just going to leave it there.

Q    And has the President now ordered the evacuation of American
diplomatic personnel from Sudan?  What’s the status of that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I know that the Admiral took some questions on this
earlier.  And so, when it comes to the diplomats and the embassy, we
have — as you all know, and you’ve heard me say this, we have no higher
priority than the safety of our U.S. government personnel and their
families overseas.  And we have made very clear to both sides that any
attacks, threats, or dangers posed to our diplomats are totally
unacceptable.

As you heard from the Department of Defense, U.S. Africa Command is
monitoring the situation and conducting prudent planning for various
contingencies.  As part of this planning, the U.S. is deploying
additional capabilities to the region for contingency purposes related
to securing and potentially falis- — fascis- — facilitating departure of
U.S. embassy personnel from Sudan if circumstances require it.

So any other questions, we would refer you to the State Department.  But
I just laid out what the Department of Defense and U.S. Africa Command
is — is monitoring and putting into place just in case.

Go ahead.

Q    I have a question about the actual Hatch Act.  In the past,
presidents, when they’re preparing to run for re-election, have tried to
separate their job as president from the job as candidate.  For example,
they’ll commit to only holding political meetings in the Residence, only
phoning donors from the Residence, and, in fact, I think there’s a
special phone line on Air Force One, when President Obama was in office,
to talk to donors.  Is President Biden going to take similar steps?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to share on — on anything that’s
related to 2024.

Q    Okay.  And at Camp David this weekend, what’s — what is the
President planning to do while he’s up there?  Do you have a list of
staff that’s going?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I do not have a list of staff that’s attending.  Well,
I think usually when he leaves, we put out a little pool note on who’s
traveling, so you’ll have that.  You all will have that.  So that is a
common practice. 

But I don’t have anything specific to — to lay out when he’s at Camp
David.  You know, that’s kind of private time with his family.  Just
don’t have anything more.

Q    So it’ll be family time?  He’s not expecting to meet with —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean family — with the First Lady or with whomever
else is — is with him.  I just don’t have any specifics with him, for —
to share.

Go ahead, Nancy.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Can you give us some details on what the White
House is doing to try to win over this group of moderate Senate
Democrats — Senate — Senator Tester, Senator Sinema, Senator Kelly,
Senator Manchin — who are still on the fence about the Labor Secretary
nominee Julie Su?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we have complete confidence in Julie Sh- —
Julie Su’s nomination and for her to be confirmed.  That is something
that we are confident about.  I think I’ve said this many times before,
or at least a couple times at this podium this past week: that when she
was deputy secretary, going for deputy secretary for her confirmation,
she got all — all Democratic senators to vote for her and to make — for
confirmation.  And so, we expect that.

The Office of Leg Affairs and other folks here are in constant
communication on all of our nominees on this parti- — on their
confirmation process and procedure.  Again, we’re very confident, and
we’re going to continue to have those conversations with those
Democratic senators.

I just don’t have anything further to share on that. 

Q    Is the President himself getting involved in the effort to seal
this nomination?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any calls to preview, but this is indeed
a priority for this President and will continue to be a priority — Julie
Su’s confirmation.

Again, we have confidence that we will get her through.  And we’ll
continue to have those conversations with them, those Democratic
senators, and others — not just Democratic senators, but also Republican
senators as well.

Q    You’ve had a few high-profile nominees who had to withdraw their
nominations lately.  There was the FAA administrator, there was the FCC
commissioner.  Those nominations held out there for months and months
and then had to, you know — basically, the White House had to go back to
square one.  Is the White House doing enough to run these nominations by
moderate Senate Democrats ahead of time to make sure that they’re on
board?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We ha- — we’re having regular conversations with
Democratic senators — and Republicans as well — to shore up support for
our nominees.  That is something that is important.  We understand how
this process work.  If anything, this is a President that understands
how the process works in the Senate when it comes to confirmation, when
it comes to putting forth your nominees, when it comes to what you need
to do to get support, shore up that support for — for that — that
particular nominee. 

So that is not unusual.  You — you’re speaking — you’re speaking about
an administra- — an administration, or you’re looking at administration
that is well — very well versed and experienced in that process.  So,
we’ll continue to have those conversations.

We’ve also had a lot of nominees that have made it through.  And so,
look, we’re going to be — we’re going to be optimistic about this. 
We’re going to continue to have — continue to do that outreach to
senators on the Hill. 

We think Julie Su is — is the right person for this job.  As you know,
she’s — she worked alongside the former Labor Secretary, and they were
part of creating record — record jobs — right? — that we’ve seen in the
first two years of this administration.  Two- — more than 2.5 million
jobs.  And so, we are going to do the work to get her through.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  New York City Mayor Eric Adams said he was
visiting the White House today to meet with White House officials.  He’s
been vocal in wanting more support from the administration on migrants
who’ve been transported to New York City.  Do you know if that came up
in his meetings or any more details about what he was here for today?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t have details on what came up in the
meetings.  I could tell you that he met with our Chief of Staff, Jeff
Zients, and he also met with Julie Rodriguez today.  And he is going to
be having a meeting, if it hasn’t occurred yet, with Secretary Yellen
this afternoon.  And as you know, it coincides with the meeting of
mayors here at the White House, followed by a meeting with FEMA
Administrator.

So he’s going to be — FEMA Administrator, Chief of Staff, Julie
Rodriguez, Secretary Yellen.  So he has a host of meetings with certain
members of the President’s White House and administration.  I just don’t
have anything further to read out. 

And I’m sure there — a range of issues will come up, and he is a partner
on many issues that are important to this President.

Q    And then, I have another one that’s a bit off the beaten path —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, my goodness.

Q    — but it’s on the —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.

Q    — the Washington Commanders sale. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh.

Q    You do have a role here, so let me lay it out.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, my goodness.  (Laughter.)

Q    The team has long wanted a new stadium at the RFK site, which is on
federally owned land, but there’s been an obstacle to — for that to
happen because of the scandal-plagued ownership of Daniel Snyder. 

So now that that is coming to a close, is the White House supportive of
transferring that land to the city to open the door for a new stadium?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I honestly — I would have to take that back to the
team.  I was not tracking — tracking the use of federal land, so I would
have to track — get back with the team and get an answer to you.

Q    Thanks.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Thanks.

Go ahead, Tam.

Q    Yeah.  Can you say what this environmental justice announcement
will mean, if anything, for the people in East Palestine, Ohio?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s a very good question.  Look, I think what’s
important to note about this environmental justice EO is the President’s
continued support in his climate agenda — his ambitious climate agenda. 
He has the most ambitious climate age- — agenda than any other President
in history.

And one way that you can look at this today is that he’s continuing to
deliver on that ambitio- — ambitious agenda.  And he’s not done yet. 
Right?  This is a continuing — continuation of what he’s promised the
American people.  Again, when the President walked into the
administration, climate — climate change was one of the crises that he
felt that he needed to deal with.

So he’ll be standing together, as I mentioned, with environmental
justice leaders, climate advocates, and community leaders.  And he’s
going to sign a new executive order making environmental justice the
mission of every federal agency.  When you think about that being the
DNA of the administration, I think that’s an important — important piece
here.

And so, again, this is just delivering again on his — on how he sees
moving forward with dealing with climate change, his promise that he
made in 2020, and — as he continues to deliver throughout his — his
tenure here. 

And so, that is — that is going to be our focus.  What — he’s going to
continue to do more work to make sure that we deal with an issue that’s
incredibly important.

Q    Additionally, we’re — I think everyone is watching the Supreme
Court to see what they do on mifepristone.  Is the President also
watching?  And is there a scenario under which he would — he would make
public remarks about the decision?  And under what scenario would he?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we’re all watching, as all of you.  This is
an unprecedented time. 

When it comes to mifepristone, a — as I’ve mentioned before, it is a
drug that’s been around for more than 20 years that’s been used in 6- —
more than 60 countries. 

It is a — it is a — it is — has been approved by the F- — at FDA, which
is an evidat- — an evidence-based approval and we should not forget
that, alongside of a wide range of other — of other prescription drugs
that FDA get the — has the right to approve.  Again, an independent
agency. 

All I can tell you at this time is we’re all waiting, we’re all watching
— is that we are prepared.  We are prepared for whatever announcement
comes out of the Supreme Court.

And — and if — if need be, we are prepared also for a long legal
battle.  That is our commitment and our promise to the millions of women
across the country. 

The President has been very clear, this administration has been very
clear: We are going to continue to fight for women’s — women’s
reproductive rights. 

Q    Are we likely to see the President speak on this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just don’t have anything to share.  We’re waiting to
see what — what — what the announcement is going to be, what the outcome
of the Supreme Court decision will be.  And so I don’t want to get ahead
of that. 

I just don’t have anything to share for this weekend.  And —

Q    Follow-up please, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  I’d like to ask you about a report from earlier
this week about Canada informing NATO officials that it will never meet
its — the Alliance 2 percent defense target.  Has the President — is the
President worried for the security in the Arctic in a reality where
Canada obviously cannot fill up its obligations?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So let me first say that the United States and Canada
have a close defense partnership.  You saw — you saw the two — the two
leaders together just recently in Canada.  So we’re committed partners
in NORAD, the only bi- — binational military command in the world.  And
we are closely — and we are closely working together to meet the threats
and challenges that we face. 

And so, during that meeting in Canada between the two leaders in Ottawa
just last month, both leaders committed to invest in the modernization
of NORAD, including enhanced domain awareness in the Arctic to protect
our citizens and sovereign territory. 

The joint statement that was released with Canada during the visit
contained a number of specific investments Canada is making in its
defense infrastructure.  So certainly I would point you to that joint
sta- — statement. 

The two leaders also underscored the importance of investment in modern,
ready, and capable forces under the 2014 Wales Summit Defense Investment
Pledge in the face of global threats. 

So, again, they have a close defense partnership, and they are both
committed.

Q    And has the President lost hope though, Karine, of a strong
Canadian involvement in Haiti to bring some sort of stability — to take
a more active role to bring some sort of ste- — stability to Haiti?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, as you know, that conversation came up
during — during the meeting as well.  This is a — this is something that
the President addressed as well in Ottawa when he — when they did their
— at their conference.  We’ve made it clear that we believe the security
and humanitarian situation in Haiti is worsening and the situation on
the ground will not improve without armed security assistance from
international partners. 

And any decisions about that — about any type of military force would be
done in consultation with the U.N., with the Haitian government.  And
those discussions are still going on.  I just don’t have anything else
to add. 

As you know, the United States has been a strong — a strong supporter of
making sure and providing assistance to — to the Haitian people.  And
so, we’ll continue — continue to do that. 

Go ahead, April.  Go ahead.

Q    Karine, on — one question.  When it comes to Tennessee lawmakers
and the possibility — I’m hearing there’s a strong possibility of a
special session in May that could deal with firearms, et cetera — what
would be the President’s hope if they go back into special session to
discuss this very passionate issue, not just in Tennessee, but around
the — around the nation?  And do you think Tennessee now could possibly
lead if they do change?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So we’ve seen — yesterday, I laid out a few states —
Washington State and Michigan, I believe, if I’m — if I’m remembering
the states correctly — who are leading — who are leading and making sure
that we’re moving forward with protecting our communities, protecting
our schools, and making sure that we’re dealing with this epidemic of
gun violence that we’re seeing across the country.  And they’re taking
leadership. 

And so, that is something that we certainly welcome.  That is something
that we want to see from statehouses, from state governments to make
sure that we’re doing everything that we can to protect our kids, to
protect our communities. 

And so, of course, the President would welcome any efforts to come — for
state legislators to come together with commonsense gun laws, to come
together to ban assault weapons. 

What we have been calling for — so that is something certainly that
we’re for.  What we’ve been calling for is for Congress, the legislative
branch of the federal government, to take action as well — for
Republicans to come together with Democrats to take action. 

And so, the President is going to continue to use the bully pulpit to do
just that, because we also need to see action from the other side of
Pennsylvania Avenue. 

So, that’s what we’ve been calling for in a very — in a very consistent
way over this past year.

Q    And as your waiting for Congress, Tennessee State has some of the
weakest gun laws in the nation for gun manufacturers in the state, and
it’s very passionate. 

Do you believe that if Tennessee does change anything when it comes to
guns after the Covenant School deadly shooting — do you believe, though,
for the states that are holding out, it could make a difference?  The
states — yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think so, yeah.  I think any state leadership on
this issue — on gun violence, on dealing with this epidemic, on moving
forward and protecting communities — I think is important. 

Yesterday, I laid out — I talked about a few states who were doing just
that.  And we lifted them up because it was important for the American
people and for — I know you all cover this — for us — for — for us to
say it from the podium and to list out the other states that are
actually taking action. 

And so, yes, of course, if Tennessee were to take action and move
forward in, again, dealing with gun reform in a real way that’s going to
protect and save lives, of course we would commend them.

Let me go around.  Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  The President will be the second sitting President
to visit Hiroshima, when he goes to Japan.  I know when Obama went, that
there was a lot of pressure from some quarters on him to apologize for
the — you know, for dropping the atomic bomb.  Is that something that
President Biden is going to talk about when he’s there?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just not going to get ahead of what we’re going to
be doing next month.  We’ll have more to share when we get closer to —
to the dates, but I just don’t have anything to share at this time.

Q    And other quick one, if I can.  It’s not a 2024 — not a Hatch
Act-type question, let’s put it that way.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s what you think.  (Laughter.)

Q    I’m tel- — telling you it’s (inaudible).

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know, I love how you’re setting it up.  (Laughter.)

Q    I’m getting that out of the way first.  (Laughter.)

But, you know — but Donald Trump is the frontrunner at the moment —
clear frontrunner of the Republican Party.  He is — he is — he wants to
be President, and he’s the frontrunner of his party (inaudible). 

This is somebody that President Biden has described as, you know, a
danger — literally a danger to the country, and his movement, an
existential threat to democracy, et cetera.

So, candidate or not, is President — current President Biden — is — is
he following the words and actions of Donald Trump on a fairly regular
basis, considering he’s a danger, in his view?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I appreciate the question, Sebastian.  As
you just laid out yourself, he is a candidate for 2024.  And you’re
specifically talking about a result or — or what could potentially
happening in that — happen in that race.  And I’m just not going to
speak to it. 

What I can’t speak to is how the President is focusing on the American
people and delivering for the American people. 

Here’s what we know to be a threat: What we know to be a threat is the
MAGA wing of the Republican Party and Speaker McCarthy who are — put
forward a — you know, a plan, a blueprint, that’s holding the American
economy hostage.  That’s a threat.  That’s a threat to the — our
economy.  That’s a threat to Americans across the country.  When we
think about the 22 percent spending cut that they put forward, that’s a
threat to veterans, that’s a threat to our education, and that’s a
threat to the American people who need these different programs to make
ends meet. 

And so that’s what we’re going to focus on right now.  That’s what —
feel free to ask me a million questions about that, and I’ll do my best
to answer them. 

And so, the President, when he makes his decision, he’ll make his
decision.  It will not come from here.  I will not be talking about
2024.  I made that very clear: As a government official, it’s not
something that I can do from here. 

But I’m happy to talk about how we’re delivering here at the White House
for the American people. 

Oh, boy.  Okay.  All right, Michael.

Q    Why have you been willing to talk about President Trump before? 
And have you — were you in violation of the Hatch Act —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Absolutely not.

Q    — when you did so?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Because we were talking about what the President has
done in — in the —

Q    No, no, no —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — the administration.

Q    — not your President. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I know.  I’m just —

Q    Yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m answering your question —

Q    Oh, okay.  I’m sorry.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — because I’m saying President Trump —

Q    Yes.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — we were talking about what he did in the last
administration.  We were talking about policies that were harmful in the
—

Q    That’s what he just —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — past administration. 

Q    That’s what he just asked about.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, no, no.  He asked me does the President still
believe that — that Donald Trump is a threat if he wins.  Right? 
Because he’s going to be — he’s a candidate. 

Q    No.  He didn’t ask that. 

Q    No, I (inaudible).

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s something different.

Q    No, no, no, he didn’t ask that.  

Q    Can I — can I just say what I said?  (Laughter.)  I — I — was
asking: Is the President — is President Biden — does he follow the words
and actions of this person — 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes. 

Q    — Donald Trump —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  As a candidate.  Right?  As a candidate.

Q    Today — he follows it? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, yes, I’m not — I’m not —

Q    He switches on the TV and says, “There’s Trump”?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I’m saying I’m not talking about 2024. 

Q    But —   

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not talking about 20-

Q    But that’s not 2024. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I have talked about — what I have talked about —

Q    Donald Trump has been a candidate for re-election or for election —
or however you want to call it —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I understand that.

Q    — for, like, a year.  And you’ve talked — but — I mean, you’ve
talked about him a lot — 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes, about —

Q    — and what he’s done a lot.  And he — and so you didn’t —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  As — as I have talked about his policies when he was
President.  That’s what I have talked about.  That’s what I’ve talked
about.  We’ve talked about immigration, his immigration policies,
right?  We’ve talked about how he separated babies from their parents. 
We’ve talked about that and how — how those policies were incredibly
dangerous when he was President.  That’s what I have talked about. 

I’ve not talked about him as a candidate, and I’m not going to do that
from here.  I’m just not.  I’m not going to talk about the polling.  I’m
not going to talk about what 2024 is going to look like.  I’m not going
to talk about that from here.

Go ahead.  Go ahead.  

Q    Thanks, Karine.  There was news this morning from Bloomberg that
the G7 countries, including the U.S., are considering a near-total ban
on exports to Russia.  I’m just wondering if you could talk a little bit
about that idea, whether it’s one that the administration is embracing,
pushing for.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, so we’re — we’re going to — we’re committed to
holding Russia accountable.  That’s something that we are committed to
doing here.  And in coordination with our G7 partners, have put in place
the largest set of sanctions and export control actions ever imposed on
a major economy. 

These actions have had a significant impact, undercutting Russia’s
ability to find and fight its unjust war. 

Don’t have any new measures to announce today at this time. 

But you can see from many of the — our G- — G7 statements that we are
committed to continuing to hold Russia accountable and supporting
Ukraine as long as it takes.  And that’s going to continue to be our
commitment.

Go ahead, Michael.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Yesterday, Secretary Mayorkas said that the
administration, next week, will announce a new border security policy in
anticipation of a surge in migrants into May.  So I’m wondering what you
can tell us about that, what we can expect.  And specifically, does the
administration plan to resume the detention of parents and children who
cross the border as — together as a family?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So the State Department and the Department of Homeland
Security will have more to share on this soon.  So — don’t have timing
on that or detail to provide at this time.

As you know, earlier this year, back in January, the Department of
Homeland Security did put forth what their continuing implementation
plan was going to be.  And they announced it, again, earlier this year. 

And the way that we see it is the plan is working; we see the data of
making sure unlawful immigration goes down.  And again, we’ve seen that
in the numbers.  But as far as any — any plans, future plans, that
should be out soon.

Q    And in terms of the detention of families, is that something that
is on the table.  Is it something —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I — they’ll have more to share later on.  I
just don’t have anything to announce at this time.

Go ahead, Karen .

Q    Thanks, Karine.  You had talked earlier this week about the
President’s call to Ralph Yarl and his family.  Has the President
reached out to any of the other families of the victims of some of these
shootings that have happened recently for these seemingly innocent
mistakes that they have made?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes.  So, the President, as you mentioned, called
Ralph — Ralph Yarl and spoke to him directly, spoke to his — to his
mother.  And they had a — a good conversation, talked to him — talked
about how — his success in school and talked about — the President re- —
recommitted to him how his focus is going to be on really, truly
continuing to deal with gun violence. 

Don’t have any other calls to read out at this time.  The President, as
you know, has talked to multiple families, sadly, in the last two years
who have been — who have been victims to these gun — gun — gun violence
tragedies — and so that’s — not something that is easy to do — and
certainly has visited communities over the past two years that have been
struck by these — by this type of violence.  I just don’t have any other
conversations to lay out.

Q    Broadly, just kind of with this string of these examples this week
of, you know, pulling into the wrong driveway, a basketball rolling into
the wrong yard, what does the President make of this — of these
reactions by people, that they have gone and shot people for something
that is innocent, just a wrong mistake?  What does he make of that —
that that was what people did?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, the President thinks that it’s time that we —
that — that Congress, Republicans in Congress take action on these types
of gun violence that we’re seeing in our communities, in our school. 
That doesn’t change it.  That doesn’t change the President continuing to
use his bully pulpit to call — to call out Congress or — or really call
Congress to take action.  And that’s what we need to see: We need to see
commonsense gun laws and we need Congress to legislate.

The President has taken more than two dozen executive action on this
issue, on this gun violence, to deal with gun violence epidemic. 

And now we need to see Congress take action.  We need Republicans to
step in.  We need Republicans to show some courage in Congress.  And
we’re just not seeing that at this time.  And it is important to do that
to save lives across the country.

And I’ll leave it at that.  I’ll see you guys on Monday.  Thanks,
everybody.

Q    Thank you.

2:09 P.M. EDT
