---
date: '2023-04-10'
modified_time: 2023-04-10 18:47:50-04:00
published_time: 2023-04-10 18:47:49-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/04/10/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-national-security-council-coordinator-for-strategic-communications-john-kirby-10/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security\
  \ Council Coordinator for Strategic Communications John\_Kirby"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:15 P.M. EDT  
  
(White House Easter Bunny enters Press Briefing Room to greet press.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right, hop on out of here.  Hop on out of here. 
(Laughs.)  
  
Q    Bye!  Bye Easter Bunny!  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  So — so for the second year in a row —  
  
Thank you, Easter Bunny.  
  
Q    Thank you!  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  For the second year in a wa- — row, we’ve turned the
South Lawn of the White House into a school community where 30,000
people from across the country will participate in one of the White
House most cherished traditions.  This year’s theme is EGGucation.  And
we’re remain — and we’re reminding families that education can be fun
and that it never stops.  
  
So I hope that some of you had the opportunity to get out there and hop
on it — sorry, my team wrote that, apologies — (laughter) — hop on it
with your families and enjoy the beautiful, beautiful day outside.  
  
With that — so we’d like to thank our Easter Bunny here.  
  
On a more serious note, today we saw another senseless act of gun
violence — killed at least four Americans and injured at least eight
others — this time in Louisville, Kentucky.  
  
The President and the First Lady are praying for those killed and
injured in the tragic shooting in Louisville and for the survivors who
will carry the trauma for the rest of their lives.   
  
They are grateful for the LMPD offi- — officers who quickly and
courageously stepped into the line of fire to save others.  
  
Once again, today, the President has called on Republicans in Congress
to work together with Democrats to take action to ban assault weapons
and high-capacity magazines, to require safe storage of firearms, to
require background checks for all gun sales, to eliminate gun
manufacturers’ immunity from liability.  
  
These are commonsense actions we can — we can ask for and should be
getting right now.  And it’s what Americans want.  We know that a
majority of the American people support this.  
  
Instead, we’ve watched Republican official after Republican official
after Republican official double down on dangerous bills that make our
schools, that makes our places — places of worship, that makes our
communities less safe while too many Americans are paying with their
lives.  
  
So again, we need to act, and we need Republicans to show some courage —
Republicans in Congress.  
  
Over the weekend, a single court in Texas has taken the dangerous steps
of rejecting FDA’s scientific approval of mifepristone, a medication
that has been on the market for more than 20 years and is used safely in
more than 60 countries, providing critical care for women.  
  
This court decision threatens access to this medication, which is used
not only for abortion but also for other critical purs- — purposes, like
helping women manage miscarriages.  
  
If the decision stands, it will put women’s health at risk and undermine
the FDA’s ability to ensure patients have access to safe and effective
medications when they need them the most.  
  
This decision further <s>stripes</s> \[strips\] away Americans’
fundamental freedoms and interferes with a woman’s ability to make
decisions about her own body.  And it’s another step towards the
ultimate goal that we’ve heard over and over again from anti-choice
officials that both the state and — at the both the state and national
level: eliminating access to abortion for all women in every state.  
  
It is also an attack on FDA’s authority to review and approve a wide
range of safe and effective medication for Americans and could open the
floodgates for other medications to be targeted and denied to people who
need them.  
  
So, we were prepared for this outcome.  And as you all saw, the
Department of Justice appealed the court’s decision and is seeking a
stay, standing — stay pending appeal.   
  
But I want to be clear because there is a lot of bad misinformation out
there: Mifepristone continues to be available and approved for the time
being.  Again, mifepristone continues to be approved and available for
the time being.  
  
This administration stands by the FDA and is prepared to — for this
legal fight.  And we will continue our work to protect reproductive
rights to ensure that women can make their own decisions about their own
bodies without government interfering.  
  
With that, I have some more guests that are supposed to come through
that door any moment now.  Timing?  Okay.  (Laughter.)   
  
(Admiral John Kirby enters the Press Briefing Room.)  
  
And so, finally, today —  
  
Q    (Inaudible.)  
  
Q    You look better in a rabbit suit!  
  
Q    Was it hard to take off?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He was — he was actually in the suit.  No, just
kidding.  (Laughs.)  Just kidding, Admiral.   
  
Q    Interesting timing.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He was not in a suit.  Right.  (Laughs.)  
  
Okay.  So, finally, today, as you can see, Admiral John Kirby, my
colleague from NSC, is here to join us to talk about — to give a preview
of the President’s trip abroad, where the President is going to leave
tomorrow morning for the United Kingdom and also Northern Irela- —
Ireland, a trip that the President is definitely looking forward to.  
  
And, with that, Admiral, the floor is yours.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Thank you, Karine.   
  
Afternoon, everybody.  So, as Karine just mentioned, the President is
traveling to the United Kingdom and Ireland this week.  And as I think
you all also know, he’s very excited for this trip and has been now for
quite some time.   
  
Tomorrow he will depart for Belfast, where he’ll be greeted upon arrival
at the airport by Prime Minister Sunak, who he also just saw last month
in San Diego at the AUKUS announcement.   
  
On Wednesday, President Biden will meet with Prime Minister Sunak
bilaterally.  From there, President Biden will head to Ulster University
to deliver remarks marking the tremendous progress since the signing of
the Belfast/Good Friday Agreement 25 years ago.  And he’ll underscore
the readiness of the United States to preserve those gains and support
Northern Ireland’s vast economic potential to the benefit of all
communities.   
  
Today, I think you all know, is actually the — is the 25th anniversary
since the Belfast/Good Friday Agreement was signed, ending decades of
violence and bringing peace and stability to Northern Ireland.   
  
President Biden cares deeply about Northern Ireland and has a long
history of supporting peace and prosperity there.  As a U.S. senator,
Joe Biden was an advocate for how the United States can play a
constructive role supporting peace.   
  
Following his speech at Ulster University, the President will travel to
Ireland on Wednesday afternoon.  He will visit County Louth, where his
great grandfather James Finnegan was born and the Finnegan family lived
before they crossed the sea to begin a new life in America.  And he’ll
tour Carlingford Castle.   
  
On Wednesday night, the President will spend the night in Dublin.  
  
On Thursday, he will meet with President Higgins of Ireland and
participate in a tree planting ceremony and ringing of the Peace Bell. 
Following that ceremony, he will meet again with the Taoiseach, Leo
Varadkar, whom the President just hosted here for St. Patrick’s Day, as
I think you all remember.  In both meetings, the President will discuss
our close cooperation on the full range of shared global challenges.   
  
He will then address a joint session of Irish parliament about
U.S.-Irish cooperation to advance democracy, peace, security, and
prosperity, as well as the shared deep history between the United States
and Ireland.   
  
Today, 1 in 10 Americans claim Irish ancestry, and Irish Americans are
proudly represented in every facet of American life.  Ireland is a key
economic partner of the United States, and the United States and Ireland
are working closely together to make the global economy more fair.   
  
Ireland has been a key partner for 21st century challenges as well.  And
the Irish government has been strong supporters of Ukraine, providing
vital non-lethal assistance, including medical supplies, body armor, and
support for Ukraine’s electric grid, as well as their agriculture.   
  
They have supported EU sanctions on Russia, and the people of Ireland
have generously welcomed nearly 80,000 Ukrainians, offering refuge to
those who were forced to flee their homes in search of safety.   
  
On Thursday night, President Biden will attend a banquet dinner at
Dublin Castle.  
  
And on Friday, the President will travel to County Mayo, where he will
tour the sanctuary of Our Lady of Knock and visit the North Mayo
Heritage and Genealogical Center’s Family History Research Unit.   
  
He will then deliver remarks at St. Muredach’s Cathedral, which his
great-great-grandfather — great-great-great-grandfather — sorry — Edward
Blewitt sold 27,000 bricks to in 1827.  Those bricks were used to
construct and support the great cathedral and helped Edward afford to
buy tickets for himself and for his family to sail together to America
decades later in 1851.  
  
The President is very much looking forward to that trip, again, and to
celebrating the deep, historic ties that our two countries and our two
people continue to share.   
  
With that, I’ll take some questions.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.   
  
Q    Thanks, John.  If we could start on the — the classified document
leaks.  Has the President been briefed on this breach?  And does the
U.S. government, at this point, have any sense of who was behind it?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  The President has been briefed.  He was first briefed late
last week, when — when we all got word that there were some documents
out there.  And he has been — stayed briefed and in contact with
national security officials throughout the weekend.  So he has been
briefed.   
  
And as for the source, as you know, the Department of Defense has
referred this to the Department of Justice for a criminal investigation,
and I certainly would refer you to them.  But I’m not aware that they’ve
come to any conclusions at this point about where they’re coming from.  
  
Q    And just a follow-up on that.  At this point, do you believe the
leak is contained?  Are there more documents out there that have not
been released publicly?  Is this an ongoing threat?   
  
MR. KIRBY:  We don’t know.  We truly don’t know.   
  
Q    Moving to the tension between China and Taiwan, we know the
President can pick up the phone anytime and call President Xi.  We’ve
been told that this call is coming for months.  Why hasn’t he just
picked up the phone and called President Xi to say knock it off?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  The President looks forward to having another conversation
with President Xi.  And we’ll do that at the appropriate time, and we’ll
certainly keep you apprised of that.  It’s important that those lines of
communication stay open.   
  
The tensions are certainly high right now.  We’d like to see this
relationship get onto a better footing.  And when it’s appropriate for
the two leaders to talk, then — then that’ll happen.   
  
I want to stress — that said — that we are and have been able to
maintain lines of communication between our two countries, even
throughout all these tensions.  And in fact, we’re still working to get
Secretary Blinken back on a plane over to Beijing, as he was planning to
do a couple of months ago, and we’re in talks with the PRC about
potential visits of Secretary Yellen and Secretary Raimondo — at their
invitation, by the way — to talk about economic issues.   
  
Q    And while it’s not popular, would the President ever speak directly
to President Tsai?  I mean, would — would there be a conversation there
perhaps?  What is his take on this meeting between House Speaker
McCarthy and President Tsai?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Not uncommon for presidents in Taiwan to transit the United
States, as President Tsai did.  It’s also not uncommon for Taiwan
officials, certainly at the president level, to meet with members of
Congress, as President Tsai did.  This is — it’s very typical.  There’s,
again, no reason for any overreaction here.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Sebastian.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Hello, Admiral — over here.  Still on Taiwan: What —
how does the U.S. see the latest Chinese military exercises?  And is the
U.S. confident that Taiwan and help from the U.S. could continue to
deter China from military solutions, as they would see it?  Because what
they’ve been — you know, that saber-rattling, we call it, was a lot more
than sabers and it’s more than rattling at this point.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, so we’re monitoring the exercises closely, as I think
you might imagine.  They appear to be a reaction to something that
didn’t need to be reacted to, in my previous answer.  This is not
uncommon for presidents of Taiwan — and this one in particular — to
transit the United States.  
  
So there was no reason to react in any way, militarily or otherwise. 
They also reacted rhetorically.  
  
But we’re very comfortable and confident that we have in place, in the
region, sufficient resources and capabilities to protect our national
security interests in the Indo-Pacific.  
  
I would add to your — more specifically, to your second question:
There’s no reason for tensions across the Taiwan Strait to devolve into
any kind of conflict.  Nothing has changed about our One China policy. 
Nothing has changed about the fact that we don’t support Taiwan
independence.  And nothing has changed about the fact that we don’t want
to see the status quo change unilaterally and certainly not by force.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Just a quick one, if I may.  On Macron’s visit to China, how did
you react to his comments about, you know, wanting to create a third
superpower and so on?  Do you — do you wish him luck?  Is it just
rhetoric?  Or is it kind of annoying to the — to the U.S. administration
(inaudible) allies?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’ll let the — I’ll let the Élysée speak to President
Macron’s comments.  
  
We are, again, comfortable and confident in the terrific bilateral
relationship we have with France and the relationship that the President
has with President Macron and the fact that we’re working together on so
many different issues.   
  
And the French are stepping up in the Indo-Pacific.  I mean, they’re
conducting naval operations, even as you and I are speaking right now,
in the Indo-Pacific, all in keeping with a concerted effort by all of us
— this vast alliance or network of alliances and partnerships that we
have — to continue to make sure that we’re standing up for stability,
security, prosperity, and a free and open Indo-Pacific.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Weijia.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  And thank you, Kirby.  In light of the
classified documents, I wonder if you could tell us when was the last
time the protocol to grant security clearances was updated or revised in
the — in the government.  And in light of the leaks, does the President
believe you should take another look at that?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I think the Department of Defense has already started to
take a look at distribution, for instance, at the — at the Pentagon. 
I’ll let them speak to that.  
  
I don’t know the answer to your question on protocols for who is or who
is not granted security clearances.  There is already in place and
remains in place a very diligent, deliberate effort to manage security
clearances.  And sometimes we get knocked because it takes a little too
long for people’s clearances to get approved because the process is so
careful and deliberate.  
  
I think — to your question, I think we just need to be careful right now
speculating or guessing what might be behind – what might be behind or
who might be behind what looks like a potential leak here of classified
information.  So we’re going to — we need to let the process sort of
bear itself out.  
  
Q    So are you saying there’s a question over whether this was a leak
by someone who had access to the materials?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’m saying we don’t know, which is why I’m going to — you
know, I think you’re getting to remedies, and I understand that.  We’re
only a couple of days into this.  We need to let the Department of
Justice do their job, investigate this, see what they learn.  
  
Now, again, that said, the Department of Defense has already said that
they’re taking a look at distribution and looking at if there’s — if
there’s changes they need to make administratively there, at the
Pentagon, since it appears that they are — that they have the locus of
most of the documents.  
  
But again, before we start making major muscle movements, we really need
to know what we got here and have a better sense from the Justice
Department.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Terry.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Just a couple — just a couple of quick follow-ups.  Do
you have a sense of the number of people who would have had access to
these documents apparently prepared for the Joint Staff?   
  
MR. KIRBY:  I do not.  
  
Q    Is it hundreds?  Thousands?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I do not.  I’d refer you to the Defense Department.  
  
Q    And then, given this leak and previous leaks, should the American
people think that the administration is losing the battle against
whoever wants to steal our secrets, whether it’s foreign adversaries or
hackers or whomever?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I think the American people need to know and deserve to know
that we’re taking this very, very seriously.  The President —  
  
Q    But it happens —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  The President —  
  
Q    — again and again.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  The President has been briefed on this.  He will stay
briefed on this.  The Department of Defense is looking into this.  They
are leading an interagency effort here to review whatever national
security implications might come out of all this.  And the Department of
Justice is leading a criminal investigation.  So we’re taking this very,
very seriously.  
  
There is no excuse for these kinds of documents to be in the public
domain.  They don’t deserve to be in the public domain.  They deserve to
be protected.  
  
So we’re going to get to the bottom of this.  And then, if there’s
actions that need to be taken, as we learn more about the extent of what
happened here, we’ll obviously take those.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Monica.  And then I’ll go to the back.  
  
Q    Are there plans for President Biden to speak with President
Zelenskyy over the leak?  Or is the White House offering any kind of
reassurance to Ukrainian officials about the safety of some of their
most sensitive information?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  U.S. officials have been in touch with relevant allies and
partners over the last couple of days at very high levels.  I’ll leave
it at that.  
  
Q    And can you speak to not just the potential leak here, but what
appears to be some doctoring of the information?  Is this something
where it’s possible that there may have been a leak, but then a
different actor came in, manipulated the information, and posted it
online?  What’s the working theory in terms of the actual altering of
this information?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I don’t know that we’ve arrived at a working theory.  It
does appear that at least in some cases, the information posted online
had been altered from what we think would be the original source.   
  
But there’s just no way I can tell you with any granularity right now
how that came to be.  We’re — again, we’re diving into this as
strenuously as we can to try to understand that.   
  
And in keeping with your point, I mean, we urge all of you to be very
careful about — about how you report on this story since we know, at
least in some cases, that information was — was doctored.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Two questions, John.  First on — on China, you
said that was a reaction that didn’t need to be made.  Some would call
that an overreaction.  But how confident are you that there won’t be
further overreaction leading to actual conflict if — if this reaction
was an overreaction?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Well, we certainly don’t seek any conflict.  And again,
there’s no reason, Brian, for there to be any conflict over this — or
confrontation, quite frankly — since, really, this is all very status
quo.  Nothing has changed, and certainly not about our policies, and
it’s not uncommon for a president of Taiwan to transit the United
States.   
  
But to the exact question you asked, that’s a question that needs to be
asked in Beijing — about what next.  What we hope is next is that,
again, tensions de-escalate and that we can continue to communicate with
the Chinese, that we can continue to work on getting Secretary Blinken
over there.   
  
The whole purpose of that trip was to restore some of those additional
lines of communication that are still closed after Speaker Pelosi’s
visit — the mil-to-mil lines, the climate change lines.  That was what
Secretary Blinken was heading over there to do, and we’d like to see him
get back on that plane and head over to do that.   
  
Q    And the second question, on the classified documents: Has any of
that leak led to a direct compromise of efforts to support Ukraine from
this administration?  
  
And secondly, those who are in that business say that the biggest
problem we have is that we need software and hardware upgrades to
guarantee that we don’t get hacked.  Is there any indication that the
government is going to invest in the infrastructure to make sure they
can block that in the future?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  So, on your first question: No.  We continue to support
Ukraine.  That’s not going to change.  The President has been —  
  
Q    But has it compromised it?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going to talk about the specific documents that are
out there or speak to intelligence.  I think you can understand why I
wouldn’t do that.   
  
Your question was: Has there been any effect on support to Ukraine?  The
answer is no.  We’re going to continue to support Ukraine, as the
President has said, for as long as it takes.  
  
On technological upgrades, again, I don’t have anything to speak to
today.  And I don’t know that even if we did, that we would talk about
that in a public setting.   
  
But, again, we’re only a few days into this.  We’ve got an investigation
going on at Justice.  We got DOD looking at their processes over there. 
I think we need to let those two agencies do their job, do that work.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Naomi, in the back.  
  
Q    Thanks.  Just a follow-up on the documents.  Is the White House
concerned about the period of time that elapsed from when they were
posted to when they sort of gained traction?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We’re worried that these documents are out there, ma’am. 
They shouldn’t be out there, period.  That’s the big worry.  And then
trying to figure out how that happened.   
  
And I’m sure, as a part of that, the timeline will be looked at as
well.  But the main concern is that they’re out there, period.  They
don’t need to — they shouldn’t be — absolutely shouldn’t be in the
public domain.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  John, has the U.S. changed its timeline for
getting the necessary weapons to the Ukraine military in any way?  
MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going to — I wouldn’t — even in the wake of — even
before this story, I would not sit here and talk about specific
timelines of equipment deliveries.  You guys know that.   
  
What I — I’ll go back to what I said to Brian.  We’re going to continue
to support Ukraine.  That hasn’t changed.  It’s not going to change.   
  
Q    And then, a second question, separately.  On NATO expansion, now
that Finland is officially a member of NATO, what’s the timetable for
Sweden being a part of the defense Alliance?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We would like to see Sweden join the Alliance as soon as
possible, but that is going to be a discussion between Sweden and the
Alliance.  And as you know, there’s still some work being done in that
regard.   
  
But we think they’re ready now, and we’re excited to have them as new
members.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Owen in the back.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  As a new member.  Sorry.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  John, hi.  Back here.  Thank you.  Good
afternoon.  Thank you.  
  
I don’t know if you’re familiar with this, but this is making a lot of
headlines today, this story.  Walter Reed, up the road in Bethesda — a
leading Catholic Bishop says Walter Reed Medical Center is violating the
religious freedom of service members who are at the facility.  And they
say that because Walter Reed just ended its contract with the
archdiocese for the military services for providing pastoral care.   
  
The archdiocese calls the move, quote, “incomprehensible.”  Are you
familiar with the story?  And can you expand on it —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  No —  
  
Q    — and why the contract was ended?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  — I’m afraid I’m not.  And even — even if I was, really,
this is a better question for the Department of Defense.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Steve.  
  
Q    John, is it true that China refused to open their channel of
communications with the Pentagon over the Taiwan issue the last several
days?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I don’t — I can’t confirm that reporting, Steve.  I don’t
know.   
  
Q    And on the documents, have you been contacting any of the doc- —
the governments mentioned in the documents to talk about it, to try to
smooth things over?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  As I said, U.S. officials have over the last couple of days,
certainly throughout the weekend, communicated with relevant nations,
relevant allies and partners as appropriate at very high levels to
communicate with them about this.  
  
Q    Will he bring this up when he speaks to the British Prime Minister
later this week?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I won’t get ahead of — of specific items on the on the
agenda and that bilat.  But we’ll certainly be able to communicate with
you after the fact.  
  
Q    Thanks, John.  Is the President concerned about recent threats of
violence in Belfast?  And then, more broadly, can you just walk us
through the decision to visit Northern Ireland at a time in which their
assembly isn’t functioning?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  So, on the — on the recent violence, certainly we’ve seen
that, over the last couple of days, there have been some, and the
President is grateful for the work that Northern Ireland security forces
have done and continue to do to protect all communities and certainly
the people in Northern Ireland.  And he’s, again, very much looking
forward to going to Belfast.  
  
The timing of this is really timed around the 25th anniversary of the
Belfast/Good Friday Agreement, an agreement that the — that the
President has a personal connection to and obviously is very — very
proud to see has — has really changed lives and livelihoods in Northern
Ireland.  And again, that’s really what’s — what’s driving this.   
  
Q    And I just have to try again on President Macron.  Do you have a
response to him saying that, essentially, Europe doesn’t want to be seen
as following the United States’ lead on China?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Again, I’ll let President Macron speak to his comments. 
We’re very comfortable and confident in the strong alliance, in the
strong friendship that exists between our two countries.   
  
And the fact that we have been working together on the continent —
excuse me — and elsewhere around the world with France, whether it’s — I
mentioned the Indo-Pacific, certainly on Ukraine, in Africa, in the
Sahel going after terrorist threats there.  I mean, there’s a lot of
terrific bilateral cooperation just alone between the United States and
France.  We’re focused on that.  We’re focused on making sure that
together we’re — we’re meeting the national security requirements of
both our peoples.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Jeremy.  
  
Q    Thanks.  Hey, John.  These leaked documents show that the U.S. has
pretty in-depth contemporaneous information about Russia’s military
operations inside of Ukraine.  Have you — has there been any impact on
U.S. intelligence-gathering efforts in Russia as a result of this
leak?  
  
And then in terms of the impact on allies who may be concerned that the
U.S. simply can’t keep this kind of classified information — which is
shared among allies — safe, what’s the reassurance to them?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I won’t — Jeremy, I won’t speak to intelligence collection
one way or another, on any given day, about any other — around any
topic.  So I’m just not going to go there.   
  
And as I said, U.S. officials have been in touch with relevant allies
and partners, given some of these disclosures over the last few days. 
And we’ll continue to have those conversations as appropriate.   
  
Q    And then, quickly, it’s been nearly two weeks now since Evan
Gershkovich was arrested in Russia.  Why has he not yet been officially
deemed “wrongfully detained” by the State Department?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  State Department has a process that, you know, can take a
matter of days and sometimes weeks as they work through that.  And I
would refer you to the State Department to speak to that in any
event.   
  
That said, you already heard Secretary Blinken say that, in his mind,
he’s wrongfully detained.  
  
Q    So why is it taking so long since he’s already said that?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Again, I’d have to refer you to the State Department. 
They’ve got a process here that they run through, Jeremy, to make these
determinations.  And we need to let that process bear out.   
  
But setting aside for a second that he hasn’t been declared wrongfully
detained, at least not as of yet, doesn’t mean that we haven’t condemned
his detention.  We have.  It doesn’t mean that we haven’t been in touch
with his family.  We have.  It doesn’t mean that we aren’t also working
as strenuously as we can with Russian officials to get him released.   
  
He doesn’t belong there.  He needs to be released.  He’s a journalist,
not a criminal.   
  
And it doesn’t mean that we aren’t going to continue to follow this case
as closely as we can.  We still don’t have consular access.  And we’re —
we’re also trying to get that, too.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Zolan.   
  
Q    Just — just a quick follow.  I know you’ve said a couple of times
that the administration has been in touch with allies.  Does that
include specifically South Korea and Israel, given the described
sensitive material as it pertains to those two allies?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We’ve been in touch with allies and partners — relevant
allies and partners.  I’ll leave it at that.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, John.  I understand that you’re saying some of these
documents might have been altered, but is it your assessment that at
least some of them are authentic?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We know that some of them have been doctored.  I won’t speak
to the validity of all the documents — the ones that — you know, that
don’t immediately appear to be doctored.  We’re still working through
the validity of all the documents that we know are out there.  The
Department of Defense —  
  
Q    But you’re working under the assumption that —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  The Department of Defense — the Department of Defense has
stood up an interagency effort to try to look at the national security
implications, which includes taking a look at these documents to
determine whether they’re actually valid or not.  And I’m just not in a
position to speak to that work which is ongoing.   
  
Q    But you’re assuming some are valid at this point?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We’re — we’re saying we — we cannot speak to the veracity
and the validity of any of those documents at this point.  We’re
studying that.  We’re — DOD is leading an effort to study that to figure
that out.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right, a couple more.   
  
Go ahead, Emily.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Thanks, Kirby.  I had a couple of questions about the
Ireland trip.  I didn’t hear you mention a meeting with King Charles in
the President’s schedule.  Is that not happening?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  The President had a terrific conversation with the King last
week to talk about, certainly, his upcoming trip here, but also to let
the King know that the First Lady would be representing the
administration at the coronation.  It was a terrific conversation, and
the King was very grateful for it.  And the President was grateful for
the time that the King afforded him.  These are two leaders that have
known each other a long time and have a very good relationship.  
  
Q    And then I wanted to follow up again about the warnings of violence
in Northern Ireland, especially these reports there’s threats of
terrorist attacks.  Is there concerns about the President going there
now?  
  
And then also, I’m curious why he is making the trip when he’s making
it, instead of going to the official celebration, which is around April
17th and it’s going to see President Clinton and all those leaders
there.  Why is President Biden making a separate trip from that?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I think I already answered that one.  I mean, this is really
timed closer to the actual anniversary of the Belfast/Good Friday
Agreement.  
  
And as for security concerns, you know we don’t ever talk about security
requirements of protecting the President.  But the President is more
than comfortable making this trip, and he’s very excited to do it.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    We’re just finishing up the cherry blossom season in Washington,
and it’s 111 years since the — Prince Tokugawa planted them.  And it was
— much of it was to prese- — prevent a war.  
Is there a role that Japan can be playing, especially China’s next-door,
in some of these different crisises \[sic\]?  His grandson just took
over.  Is there some role that Japan can be playing in some of — helping
the U.S. with some of these crisises \[sic\], especially in terms of
China?

MR. KIRBY:  I would argue that Japan already is and has been for quite
some time.  I mean, they just rewrote their national security strategy
that gives them — allows them to be on a more assertive footing in the
Indo-Pacific in terms of exporting security. 

And Japan has been a strong supporter of Ukraine.  They have
participated and will — and we hope will continue to participate in both
bilateral operations and exercises with the Republic of Korea, but also
trilateral with the United States, South Korea, and Japan.

So they’ve been really stepping up in a big way.  We’re grateful for
that.

Q    And then just a follow-up.  For those of us that were embedded
during the wars, Iraq and Afghanistan, a lot of this is really
personal.  Some of our friends, people we know are — haven’t been able
to come back.  What’s — is there an update on what’s going to happen to
all those that trusted us and are left — left behind?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not sure I understand.  What —

Q    Some of those that are still in Afghanistan that assisted us and —

MR. KIRBY:  Afghan allies that are — yeah.  They — I’m sorry, I didn’t
understand the question.  As I mentioned last week, there are Afghan
allies still arriving back here in the United States and able to leave
the country on a fairly routine basis.  That — that mission, that work
has not stopped, and it’s going to continue.  Yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    I had one more on the documents leak, specifically about the
allies.  Some of them have already said that they were eagerly awaiting
a sort of assessment of what happened from the United States.  Is that
something that the U.S. will do down the line when you guys have more
information — is to brief those allies who were involved in those leaks?

MR. KIRBY:  We will keep — we will keep relevant allies and partners as
informed as we can.

Q    And just a quick follow-up on Taiwan.  You said that this was a
reaction that didn’t need to happen.  Is the U.S. sort of considering
changing its posture in the Indo-Pacific?  Looking to what happened over
the past three days, over these military drills, is that changing in any
way the U.S.’s posture in the region?

MR. KIRBY:  No.  As a matter of fact, today there are naval exercises in
the Philippine Sea that the United States Navy is conducting.  We’re
going to continue to fly and sail and operate in international waters,
in international airspace as required to protect our national security
commitments.

Again, I’d remind: Five of our seven treaty alliances are in the
Indo-Pacific region.  We take those commitments very seriously.

Q    Can you lay out what the consequences will be for the people or the
person responsible for the leaks of these classified information? And
secondly, have you been able to gauge what their motive is, just based
on how they’ve released this information?

MR. KIRBY:  The answer to both questions is: No, I can’t.

There’s a Justice Department investigation going on right now — a
criminal investigation.  I am certainly not going to say anything that
would prejudice that.  And that work is just starting.

So, we don’t know who’s behind this.  We don’t know what the motive is. 
And I think — I can’t remember who asked before — but we don’t know what
else might be out there.

So we’ve got to let the Department of Defense run their process with the
interagency, and I’m taking a look at the national security implications
of it.  And we got to let the Justice Department be able to pursue their
investigation, again, completely unfettered and let the facts and the
evidence take them where they may, and we’ll deal with it on the — on
the back end.

Q    What is your message to them or anybody else who’s considering
leaking information?

MR. KIRBY:  This is — again, without confirming the validity of the
documents, this is information that has no business in the public
domain.  It has no business, if you don’t mind me saying, on the pages
of — frontpages of newspapers or on television.  It is not intended for
public consumption, and it should not be out there.

What we’re going to try to do is do the best we can to figure out how
this happened.  And again, the Justice Department will take it from a
criminal investigative procedure.  And if — if the Defense Department
has to change processes, you know, they’ll — they’ll do that.

But I think every American can understand — at least I would hope every
American can understand — that in order to protect this country every
day the way we do, one of the things we have to protect is information,
not only the information itself, but the manner in which we glean that
information. 

And so, I think you can understand why everybody is taking this
particular set of disclosures very, very seriously.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Ken.

Q    John, the U.S. and the UK started negotiations on a trade deal
nearly three years ago.  What is the status of those talks?  And do you
expect that to be on the table at all this week when the President meets
with the Prime Minister?

MR. KIRBY:  We’re not in active discussions with the UK about a free
trade agreement.  That said, even out at San Diego when the President
had a bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Sunak, they talked about
trade issues and they talked about the — you know, trying to find ways
to increase and to improve the economic exchanges between the United
States and the UK.  And that kind of discussion will continue.  But
there’s no active discussions about an FTA.

Q    Do you expect a news conference on this trip?  I’m sure the press
corps would be interested in one.

MR. KIRBY:  (Laughs.)  I don’t expect there’ll be a news conference on
this trip.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, James.

Q    Thank you very much, Karine.  Thank you, Admiral.  A couple on the
documents and then one on Taiwan, if I may. I don’t think that you would
be telling us that this information has no business being publicly
shared if you weren’t prepared to confirm the authenticity of it.  If
they were completely spurious documents, I think you would say so and
you wouldn’t be very concerned about it.

MR. KIRBY:  I didn’t say they were spurious documents; I said we’re
still determining the validity of them.  They certainly appear to be
directly related to national security concerns and intelligence.  That’s
— that’s pretty obvious.

Q    Is there a gap between the number of documents that have turned up
online and the number of documents that you know have been compromised?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going to get into a process, James.  The Department
of Defense has taken a look here at the national security implications
of what has been out there to date.  And they’re — they’re doing the
forensics.  I’m not going to get into that process.

Q    Last on the documents, before we hit Taiwan —

MR. KIRBY:  Can’t wait. (Laughter.)

Q    — because you tell us that you simply don’t know what’s coming
next.  Are you in — is the U.S. government effectively in the position
of crouching and waiting for the next bombshell to hit on telegram or
Twitter, you’re in a position where you simply don’t know how long this
is going to go on or how many documents are going to be published?

MR. KIRBY:  We don’t — we don’t know what’s out there, James.  We don’t
know who’s responsible for this.  And we don’t know if they have more
that they intend to post.  So we’re watching this and monitoring it as
best we can.

But the truth and the honest answer to your question is: We don’t know. 
And is that a matter of concern to us?  You’re darn right it is.

Q    On Taiwan: In different respects, you have been candid in saying
what you are able to discern about intentions of other countries.  For
example, you — you have told us that you discern no immediate plans by
China to aid materially in the Russian war effort in Ukraine.  You’ve
told us that you discern no immediate plans by or movements by President
Putin to install tactical nuclear weapons in Belarus.  
Along those lines, with respect to Taiwan right now, do you discern any
movements by China that would indicate an imminent plan to launch
military actions against Taiwan?

MR. KIRBY: President Xi has said he wants his military ready by 2027. 
But the — but saying you want to be ready by a certain time doesn’t mean
that you have an intent.  President Xi would have to speak to that
specific intent himself.  We’re not seeing any overt indications that
that kind of movement militarily is either imminent or inevitable.

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right, two questions left.  We’ll go to you, and
then you’ll have the last question.

Q    Thank you.  Thank you, Karine.  Mr. Kirby, talking about
Afghanistan, when the U.S. was withdrawing, one of the closest ally of
the U.S. was Pakistan.  And the President did not call either the Prime
Minister of Pakistan at that time.  Neither the weapons that — many
claim that around 6 billion weapons were left — neither they moved to
Pakistan to be moved out. Why Pakistan — one of the strongest ally,
which sacrificed many lives — was not taken on board and why their
services were not required?

MR. KIRBY:  Taken on board for what?  I’m not sure I follow you.

Q    For removing the U.S. citizens, for removing the Afghans who were
coming to the U.S.

MR. KIRBY:  Well, I mean, we set up a vast network of what we call “lily
pads” to help get those evacuees to safety.  And we were grateful for
many countries’ assistance.  And without that assistance, we wouldn’t
have been able to do it.

As for Pakistan, they — they — I think it’s important to remember they
also suffered from the threats, and still do, from terrorist groups that
occupy that spine between the two countries.  And we continue to talk to
Pakistan about those ongoing threats, about what they’re facing.

But there was — Pakistan was helpful in — in the withdrawal and when we
had to use — well, with their permission, they were able — they — they
allowed us to — to move some helicopters over — over to Pakistan so that
they could be out of harm’s way.   
  
Q    Okay one other question, please.  Former Prime Minister of
Pakistan, Imran Khan, has been shot — four bullets.  And President Biden
has had kind relations with international leaders for decades.  He’s one
of the U.S. politicians who has been known for kindness among
international leaders.  He did not call the Prime Minister, and now the
country is in a lot of turmoil as well.  Is there any chance the
President can bring at least all the parties — the military, the
judiciary, the politicians — on board so the country can be stopped from
further deterioration of (inaudible)?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Now, look, we firmly believe, and have for some time, that a
— that a strong, stable, and secure Pakistan is good for the region.  So
—  
  
Q    Just one on South Korea?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  Last question.  
  
Q    Could you just clarify: Is the First Lady going on the Ireland
trip?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  You know, I don’t — I don’t have the actual traveling party
here complete for you.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right, that’s —  
  
Q    One on South Korea?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s it.  That’s it.  Thank you.  Next time.  
  
Q    Thank you, John.   
  
MR. KIRBY:  Thank you, guys.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right, let’s get going.   
  
Go ahead, Zeke.   
  
Q    To start on the Kentucky shooting, in the statement at the top of
the briefing, you were pretty critical of Republicans, but you didn’t
mention anything that the President wants to do — is doing himself about
this.  Is he at the end of his ability to do anything when it comes to
gun violence in the U.S.?  Is he effectively, at this point,
powerless?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, Zeke, as you know — and as I’ve talked about,
the President has talked about many times — the President, in his first
two years of the administration, has done more histor- — has done more
executive action than any other president when it comes to gun violence,
when it comes to stemming gun violence, when it comes to protecting our
communities or schools.   
  
And so, he’s taken action.  He has taken action over and over again.  
  
Just last month, he was in the west on — the West Coast, announcing
another executive action.  And we are seeing from these executive
actions that he’s signed — more than a dozen — that — that the
Department of Justice has taken some actions in pushing forward some of
the some of the — some of the kind of provisions in those actions. 
Especially as you look at — as you look at red flag laws and those types
of programs, more than 300 million — million dollars went to about 49
states and territories to put that into place in those states.  So there
is actions that we have taken.   
  
The thing is the President cannot do it alone.  You know this.  This is
a leg- — there is a legislative process that needs to happen, and
Congress needs to act.  
  
And I listed out: Ban assault weapons?  Yes.  The President mentions
that over and over again.  And high-capacity magazines.  Require safe
storage of firearms, require background checks for all gun safeties,
eliminate gun manufacturers’ immunity from liability.  Those are the
things that need legislative action.  And so he cannot do it alone, and
so we need Congress to act.   
  
And if you think about assault — an assault weapons ban, we know, when
we saw — when the President was involved in 1994 to get that done, we
saw — we saw gun violence go down.  And when it sunset 10 years later,
it went back up.   
  
So we know what could work.  And that’s why you continue to hear the
President calling on Congress to take action.  
  
Q    So — but you’re not announcing new actions now?  
  
And is the, though, that the President has done everything he can
himself?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, the President is always going to find ways; so
is his team.  So, here, we have the Domestic Policy Council.  You have
other offices here at the White House.  You have the Department of Jus-
—  
  
We’re always going to find and figure out ways that we can take another
step, outside of all of the historic steps that this President has
taken, to announce another way to protect communities.   
  
But the President has done the work.  Now we need Congress to act.   
  
Q    And just to follow up to Ken’s question to Kirby before about the
press conference on this trip.  It’s a four-day trip to two countries. 
You know, why can’t the President take questions from the press?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Right now, we just don’t have anything on the books
for a press conference at this moment.  The President always loves to
take your questions — shouted questions.  
  
Q    Apparently not.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No — but no.  Look, when it comes to these types of
events, as you know, being the President of — of — at one point — of the
association, there are — these are relationships that we have — right? —
with — with these countries.  So when it comes to two-plus-twos or
anything like that, clearly that is not just on us, that is also on the
country that we’re visiting.   
  
But as far as a standalone press conference, I just don’t have anything
to share at this time.  
  
Go ahead, Steve.  
  
Q    Beyond seeking a stay, how do you plan to respond to the abortion
ruling?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I don’t want to get ahead of the courts
here.  As you know, that’s something that we’re very mindful of.  The
Department of Justice were quick to act — as you know, as you mentioned,
the stay.  And — and we’re going to continue to move forward in that
fashion.  It probably is going to go up to the Supreme Court, which we
feel pretty confident that we’re going to win.   
  
But we’re going to be very clear here.  And I talked about this at the
beginning — the disinformation, misinformation that’s out there. 
Mifepristone is still very much available, still very much available
right now for women who need it or providers who need it at this
time.   
  
And so, look, this is a President and an administration that’s going to
continue to fight — continue to fight to make sure that women have the
healthcare that they need to make sure that they make their own decision
when it comes to their — when it comes to their own body.   
  
And I also mentioned this too: This is — what we’re seeing currently,
right now, is part of — is part of the plan, right?  It’s part of what
we’ve been hearing from extreme MAGA Republicans in these different
state — statehouses and, of course, national Republicans saying that
they want a national abortion ban.  This is part of this.   
  
And so, they’re — they’re going to continue to take those actions.  I
think we’ve seen more than 300 pieces of legislation coming out of
statehouses to take away a woman’s freedom, a woman’s right to make her
own decision — a decision that should be between herself and her
doctor.   
  
And so, look, the President is going to continue to fight for — for
people’s freedoms.  It’s been — in this particular, women’s freedom.   
  
And we saw — we saw what — what the American people said during the
midterms.  Like, they want us to continue to do that, continue to fight
for their freedom.  
  
Q    Can I just confirm on that?  So the administration is going to
comply with this federal judge’s order?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, we are going to always follow the law.  Always. 
But doesn’t mean that we’re not going to fight.  It doesn’t mean that
we’re not going to — you know, as you know, DOJ has continued to — has
appealed this and will continue to fight in the courts.   
  
Q    And so will the administration then move to expedite reapproval of
mifepristone?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I — look, what I can say is that, right now, DOJ
has already stayed, as — as Steve mentioned, and is fighting — is
fighting to maintain the stay and ultimately win the case, as we
believe, in the Supreme Court.   
  
And so we’re going to let DOJ do their work — the Department of Justice
do their work.   
  
Q    But can the FDA reapprove this quickly?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, what I can say is that we stand by the FDA’s
approval of mifepristone.  And we are prepared for a long, legal fight. 
That’s what I can say from here.  That’s what we are committed to do —
to doing for the providers who are making sure that this is available to
women and also for women out there.   
  
But again, it’s still available.  And as we know, this is a decision —
is stayed for seven days, from — starting from this past Friday.  And so
the status quo remains.  But again, we are ready to fight.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  AOC suggests that the administration should
just ignore the ruling.  And she said that, quote, “We know that the
executive branch has an enforcement discretion.”  Is that true?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So this is similar, I think, to what Terry was asking
me.  Look, we understand the frustration, right?  We get the frustration
regarding this decision.  Absolutely.  And that’s why we were quick to
act.  That’s why you saw DOJ take action.   
  
We — basically what I said to Terry: We stand by FDA’s approval of mi- —
mifepristone.  And we are prepared to have a legal — a long legal fight
here.  That is our commitment to women out there.  That is our
commitment to Americans across the country.   
  
But I’ll say this: You know, it is dangero- — it — but as a precedent —
as a dangerous precedent is set for court to set aside FDA’s expert
judgment regarding a drug safe — safety and efficiency, it would also
set a dangerous precedent for this administration to disregard — right?
— a binding decision.  So that’s what I’m getting to.   
  
But again, we are ready to fight.  This is going to be a long fight.  We
understand this.  We stand by FDA’s approval of mifepristone, something
— this is a pill that’s been around for more than 20 years — I believe
22 years.   
  
It’s — it’s — it is — it has been used in 60 countries.  So, of course,
this is something that we are — we approve.  And we stand by FDA.  
  
Q    But just to be clear, for people watching at home, who are
listening to progressives saying, you know, the administration actually
has an enforcement discretion and they could ignore this — you disagree
with that?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So what I’m saying is there is a process in place for
appealing this type of decision, and we will pursue that process
vigorously — that’s what the American people can count on from the
Biden-Harris administration — and do everything that we can to prevail
in the courts.  That’s the commitment that we have.   
  
Q    Okay.  And to follow up on Zeke, you mentioned that the decision
whether to hold a two-by-two here at the White House is made by both the
administration as well as the visiting party.  But is the decision
whether to have a press conference abroad, in Ireland, a unilateral
decision, or are the Irish weighing in on that too?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I think I was very clear.  I said, when to comes
to a press conference — a standalone press conference, which is — does
not include the country.  We just — that is — we just don’t have a
decision.  Well, we — just not going to happen.  It’s not in the books
to happen on this trip.  
  
Q    But it’s your decision alone, right?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s a — it’s —  
  
Q    The Irish aren’t weighing in?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, if it’s the press conference that the
President is leading on his own, yes, it’s a standalone — that’s why I
said a standalone press conference that is not happening on this trip.  
  
Q    I — I’m just not hearing a reason why you’re not having one then,
because —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look —  
  
Q    — to not have one here, you’re saying it’s because it’s not just up
to us?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I didn’t say that.  I said, when it comes to a
two-plus-two —  
  
Q    Right.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — regardless if we’re away or regardless if the
country is coming here, we do have — that is a discussion that we have
with the country, right?  That is a — a conversation that’s had.  And we
do not do that unilaterally.   
  
So I was making a comparison.  I was laying out that process, which — I
know every time a head of state visits or even if we go to another
country, this question comes up of the two-plus-two.  And so I was just
laying out the process, as I’ve done many times at this podium.   
  
I’m just saying, at this time, we do not have a press conference — a
standalone press conference for this President.  I know — I know that it
is of interest.  I’m just giving you the answer on that.   
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
Q    And, Karine, did the White House ask HHS Secretary Becerra to
clarify his comments on possibly ignoring the Texas order and saying
everything is on the table when he was on the Sunday shows yesterday?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I believe they put — I believe they put out a
statement.  HHS put out a statement making — making that clear that the
administration is not going to ignore a ruling.  So I’m going to just
point you to the statement from HHS.  
  
Q    And then, to be clear, you also mentioned you expect this could go
up to the Supreme Court.  Are you suggesting that the White House
supports the Department of Justice seeking an emergency appeal with the
Supreme Court now while it is still trying to get it blocked?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just not — I’m not suggesting that.  
  
Q    (Inaudible.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just saying, ultimately, we believe we can win if
— this case in the Supreme Court if necessary.   
  
But this is something that the Department of Justice certainly is going
to go through their process.  What we’re saying is we’re prepared for a
long legal fight, and that’s the promise that we can make to women —
millions of women across the country right now.  
  
Q    And can you share what, if anything, Vice President Harris is doing
on this issue today or in the coming days, given her work on abortion
access?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think you’ll continue to hear from the Vice
President on this issue.  This is an issue that’s very important to
her.  She has been very vocal on what’s currently happening on —
especially when you see extreme Republicans taking — continuing to want
to take away the rights of women when they make this important decision,
you know, about their own body.  I’ve mentioned the 3- — 300-plus pieces
of legislation in state — that has come out of statehouses.   
  
She’s been very vocal.  She’s been steadfast on this, and I am pretty
sure you’ll be hearing from her in the near future.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Karine, we’re expecting the EPA to issue new tailpipe emission
rules this week.  How do you expect those to go beyond some of the
targets the President has made for getting new electric vehicles out in
the open?   
  
And also just, how does he balance this need of having tougher emissions
on one hand while, you know, the possibility this will raise costs for
consumers?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I’m certainly not going to get ahead of an
ongoing policy process.  Want to be careful here.   
  
But look, when it comes to climate crisis, it requires ambitious
actions.  And the President has been delivering on those ambitious
actions.  As you know, when he walked into this administration, he said
climate change was one of the four crises that he believed his
administration needed to deal with.   
  
So, his Investing in America agenda has already sparked over $100
billion in private sector investment in elec- — in electric vehicle
charging and manufacturing.  Since 2020, the number of electric vehicle
models has doubled, EV sales have tripled, and the number of EV charging
posts is up 40 percent.   
  
So, look, this wouldn’t be the first time that someone has bet against
this President, as you hear us say many times — or you hear him say
about himself — and it certainly won’t be the last time.  He’ll continue
to prove them all wrong.  
  
When it comes to lowering costs for the American people, this is, as you
know, something that the President — when you look at his economic
agenda, when you look at his economic policy — lowering costs for the
American people is something that is at the — at the — you know, at the
center of that.  It is a priority for him.  And he’ll continue to
certainly do that.  
  
Go ahead, Brian.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Just — as we sit here, we just now have another
notice that there was another shooting in Louisville with one injured
and one dead — unrelated.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    These two — let me drill down a little bit on what you’ve said.  I
know the administration has taken action — the most that it can.  But
has the action this administration has taken regarding gun violence in
this country — including speaking to members of the GOP, inviting them
up here to discuss the issue with other legislative leaders — what
exactly has –because the, as you well know, the President has a great
reputation for making deals.  He did it with the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Deal.  So what has he done specifically?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, Brian, first of all, as you know, I have not
seen those reportings.   
  
Q    Yeah, it just came out.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I know — if that certainly is the case, certainly I
want to say our hearts go out to the injured or — and their families. 
And so, again, a devastating — another devastating day of shootings that
we’re seeing in our communities.   
  
And this is why we continue to call on Congr- — Congress — Republicans
in Congress to take action.  This is not okay.  Our communities need to
be safer.   
  
I’m going to get to your question.   
  
Q    Yeah.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Our communities need to be safer.  Our schools need to
be safe.  There’s no reason that kids should be going to school and
teachers should be teaching at schools and be worried about their
safety, be worried about an active shooter coming into their school. 
There should be no reason why places of worship should be concerned
about that as they’re praying, as they’re — as they’re in their, again,
place of worship.   
  
And so, this is devastating.  This is devastating to hear.  And we need
to see some courage.  I’m going to keep saying that, because that’s what
we need to see from Republicans in Congress.   
  
Now, to your question, there was a bipartisan piece of legislation that
was passed just this — this past summer on gun violence, and it was
called the Safer Communities Act, as you know.  And so that was
something — because of this President, because of this administration —
was able to bring both sides together — the other side, in particular —
to come up with this piece of legislation that is now into law,
clearly.   
  
And it was the first major piece of legislation on this issue that we
had seen in 30 years.  And so that is something that the President was
able to do.   
  
But as — as grateful as he was to both Democrats and Republicans for
that piece of legislation, we need to do more.  And he’s going to
continue to do that.   
  
Q    So —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And to your other part of your question.  
  
Q    Yeah.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, we have our White House offices here, including
the Leg Affairs Office, who’s in continued — who’s continuing to have
conversations with members of Congress.  I don’t have anything to read
out on particular conversations on any issues.  But there are tons of
issues, as you know, that we are always having conversations about when
it comes to Congress.   
  
But, look, we’ve taken action.  This is a President who has taken
historic actions on this issue.  He’s not sat back.  He’s not put his
feet on the table and let the issue pass him by.  
  
Q    And — but is he calling them?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He’s taken action.  
  
Q    Is he inviting them up here?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But he — but he has.  He has.  We were able to do a
bipartisan piece of leg- — piece —  
  
Q    I mean recently.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, we have done the work.  There’s been a — there
is a bipartisan piece of legislation that was signed into law by this
President this past summer.  And he has done a historic amount of work
even recently — just when he was — the last time he visited the West
Coast — to deal with this issue, to deal with this very issue.   
  
Q    Oh, and —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m going to keep going.  
  
Q    — finally, anytime he’d like to show up here in this room, I’m sure
all of us — I can speak for all of us saying, we’d welcome here — him
here at any time.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I understand.    
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  There have been —  
  
Q    (Inaudible.)  (Laughs.)  
  
Q    There have been several questions about presidential travel.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    About five weeks ago, President Biden said that he would be going
to East Palestine, Ohio, at some point.  Does the President still feel
the need to visit Ohio, and when will he go?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, the President — I mean, once — the President
said it, so I will keep — keep that — he keeps to his word.  I don’t
have a trip to — to lay out or preview for you at this time.  But I’m
going to just let the President’s word stand.   
  
Q    So we should expect him there at some point?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  If he says — if the President said he’s — he’s
expecting to at some time, the President means what he says.  I just
don’t have a trip to preview at this time.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  I wanted to follow up on electric vehicles.  You
mentioned the investments.  Some of the companies investing in EV
battery plants here in the U.S. are Chinese companies.  Is the
administration doing anything to stop China from cashing in on green
energy goals?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to share on China, specifically
as it relates to electric vehicles.   
  
As you know, the President is committed to this.  You see that in his
Inflation Reduction Act.  You see that in the bipartisan — the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, which — which is very — very keyed in on
making sure that his gen- — his agenda, dealing with cima- — climate
crisis is dealt with.  So, don’t have anything on China.   
  
You know our — where we stand on China.  We want competition, not
conflict.  That’s where we have always moved with China.  You heard my
colleague speak specifically on where that — those relation — that
relationship is.  
  
Just don’t have anything specifically on the elec- — electric
vehicles.  
  
Q    Do you support Chinese companies coming in and building EV plants
in Michigan?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I just don’t have anything specific as it
relates to China and electric vehicles.  
  
Go ahead, Jon.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  Two questions, two different issues.  First of
all, on the abortion pill case, you said earlier in the briefing that
you believe that this particular case will get to the U.S. Supreme
Court.  And you also expressed confidence that you’d win at the U.S.
Supreme Court.  What gives you that level of confidence?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Because this is — let’s not forget, we’re talking
about mifepristone, which has been around for 20-plus years, which is —
has — is also around in 60 different countries.  And it is something
that FDA is allowed to approve.  They have approved this.  And we stand
by the FDA when it comes — when it comes to this.   
  
And I said, if necessary — right? — we believe we will win — we will win
this long fight if it goes to the Supreme Court, if necessary — if
that’s what indeed occurs — because we are committed — we are committed
to — to this issue.  We are committed to making sure that women have
access to — to — to — to mifepristone, but also can make their own
decision when it comes — when it comes to their own body, when it comes
to this type of — of important reproductive healthcare decision that
women should have.  It is their freedom.  It should be their freedom to
have this.  
  
Q    And then the second question has to do with the lack of a press
conference during the President’s upcoming trip and the lack of press
conference that we see in general from this White House.   
  
I represent a news organization that owns 113 television stations.  And
a question that I’m often asked — and I don’t know the answer to, so
I’ll ask you that question: Is the administration trying to protect the
President from our questions?  Please answer that question if you
could.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Absolutely not.  Absolutely not.  
  
Q    Then why the lack of any interaction in a formal setting to have a
press conference?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, the President takes shouted questions.  I —  
  
Q    In a formal — in a formal setting.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I understand.  Jon, I understand.  
  
Q    Yeah.  Okay.  Yeah.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I understand.  I have dealt with this question about
three times already.  I understand it is — it is — it is the job of you
all to ask this question to me.  Totally get that.  And that’s not a
problem at all.  
  
But certainly, the President many times has — has stan- — has stood in
front of all of you, has taken questions on his own, because he wanted
to see what was on — on your minds, he wanted to see what the questions
you all were going to ask him, and he wanted to answer them directly.   
  
That has happened multiple times — many times during this
administration.  And that will certainly continue to be.  When it comes
to a formal press conference, I don’t have anything to share with you at
this time.  
  
Q    You recognize — just one last thing.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, sure.  
  
Q    Just to button it up.  You recognize that as it relates to prior
administrations, the President’s predecessor, President Obama, President
George W. Bush — I’ve been here long enough to have covered President
Bill Clinton — this is not the norm.  
  
The norm is we do get an opportunity, ask the questions to the President
about domestic and foreign policy issues in a formal setting at some
point, and you choose that point.  But we haven’t had that opportunity
in quite some time.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I’ll say this: It is also unprecedented that a
President takes as many shouted questions as this President has.  And he
has.  
  
Q    No.  
  
Q    No, no, no, no.  
  
Q    I covered the last administration, and I’ll tell you: Almost every
day, up until —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, well, we’ll get —  
  
Q    — the November 2020 election, Donald Trump took questions
practically every day.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’ll certainly — we’ll certainly get the data and
share that with all of you.  
  
I hear — Jon —  
  
Q    Yes.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — I hear your question.  I heard Zeke’s question.  I
hear you.  I hear you on the press conference — on a formal press
conference.  We get this probably every couple of months when you guys
ask us about a formal press conference.  I don’t have anything to share
with all of you at this time.  And — and I’ll just — I’ll just leave it
there.  
  
Go ahead, Jeremy.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  A few moments ago, you reiterated the President’s
support for an assault weapons ban.  But in his statement this
afternoon, the President called for safe storage of firearms, universal
background checks, and eliminating liability protections for gun
manufacturers.  Was that an intentional omission —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — of the assault weapons ban, or is that a shift in strategy that
we should be —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Not a shift in strategy at all.  We were just being
mindful to the incoming information that was currently coming in from
Louisville.  And so, at the time, we didn’t know what was exactly — we
didn’t have all the information.  
  
So we just wanted to be mindful to that specific — to that specific
event, if you will, in Louisville.  But that — our — our commitment and
our calling out for the ban of assault weapons has not changed.  
  
Q    And in that statement, the President lays out the pretty dire
consequences of inaction, talking in particular about Republicans.  We
hear from the President when these shootings happen, obviously, but does
the President feel that he has made full use of the bully pulpit to
match the dire consequences that he’s warning of?  I mean, is there not
more than he could be doing to lobby Republicans to bring this issue to
the floor every day?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would say this, Jeremy: Any time the President uses
the bully pulpit, he is talking directly to the American people and, I
would say, directly to Congress as well.  
  
This is a President that has been committed to this issue not just as
President, but as Vice President and also as senator.  He talked about
the 1994 — the assault weapons ban that he led on, and what we saw — the
data that came from there and what we saw in those 10 years before it —
before it — it sunset.  
  
And so, I’ve said this many times before today in this briefing room,
and I’ll say it again: This is a President that has taken historic
actions when it comes to gun violence and protecting communities and
really dealing with an issue that is an epidemic — an epidemic.  
  
Sadly, when we saw the shooting in Nashville, he spoke on it about three
times, on that issue.  And I would — I would easily argue: When the
President speaks, people listen and want to hear what he has to say.  
  
Q    Does he feel he’s doing the most he possibly can?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think when you’ve made historic — taken historic
action on — on this — on an issue from the bull- — from — from the
executive — from the executive — this executive branch, and trying to
find — telling your — telling your teams to do everything that you can
to figure out what else can be done, that is a President that is active,
that is taking action.   
  
And — and, you know, it is — there’s a legislative process to this.  We
need Congress to take action.  And that’s where we are.  
  
Charlotte.  I forgot about you, Charlotte.  I’m so sorry.  
  
Q    Can I just jump in on the abortion ruling real quick first?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  Yeah, really quickly, and then we have a
guest.  
  
Q    So what kind of guidance has the White House been providing to
states and to medical providers in the wake of this ruling on
mifepristone?  And — and what is your message generally to women around
the country, to medical providers who may not be sure what the future of
this drug is and may have concerns?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, what we have said — taking your last question
first — is — what we have said is: Reproductive rights is a fundamental
freedom.  It is a fundamental right, and it is a medical decision that
should be made between a man — a woman, pardon me, and her doctor
without government interference — again, without government
interference.  
  
And so, we’ve been clear about that.  A vast majority of Americans agree
with us.  We saw the outcomes of the midterms.   
  
But, again, Republican officials — I’ve said this over and over again —
in the statehouse across the country have — have introduced more than 30
— 300 bills restricting abortion so far this year alone.   
  
So what we have done is we’re coordinating with state leaders who are
fighting to protect reproductive rights.  And we’ll continue to do that
as we’re going through this fight.  
  
Go ahead, Charlotte.  We have Charlotte in the room here from Kids- —
KidScope Media.  Welcome, Charlotte.  
  
Q    Hi.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know you have a question for me.  
  
Q    First off, thank you for hearing my question.  And recently, the
number of children with mental health issues is on the rise.  How is the
White House positioned to help specifically kids?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, mental health issues affect so many people,
including children, as you just laid out, and kids across the nation. 
And the COVID-19 pandemic, sadly, disrupted routines and — and
relationships and led to increases in social isolation, anxiety, and
learning challenges.   
  
And so, you know, this is something that the President and the First
Lady certainly has led on this issue.  And — and we’ve — they’ve done
that — we’ve done that by making sure that schools have the ability to
have extra resources to hire social workers, to hire psychologists, to
hire what is needed — experts — so that children in schools, in
particular, have an opportunity to talk to someone.  
  
And so, this is — certainly has been — when it comes to national mental
health, this is a strategy that the — that this administration has taken
very, very seriously.  And he believes that, you know, making sure that
a kid’s mental health and they have the services that they need is
important.   
  
And it’s okay to ask for help.  It is okay.  It doesn’t — it is not
weakness to ask for help.  
  
And so, that’s why we’ve put together this help hotline.  Call 988.  And
we are telling — you know, we’re telling people: If you are having a
hard time and you need someone to talk to, call 988.  You can call
them.  You can text them.  And there are experts who are going to be
there to help you.  And so, it is — this is a — and it’s 24 hours, seven
days a week.  
  
This is such a critical question, an important issue.  So thank you so
much for asking the question, Charlotte.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Picking up on what Jeremy was asking, a couple
questions.  One, when did the President find out about the Louisville
shooting?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He found out this — this afternoon or this morn- —
late — late morning.  
  
Q    So before or after the Easter Egg Roll?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t remember the exact timing, but he was
certainly briefed on this by his senior staff.  I can’t tell you exactly
the timing because it’s been a wild day.  
  
Q    And has he reached out today to Mitch McConnell or Rand Paul or any
other members of the Kentucky delegation?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  As you know, this is a President that regularly
reaches out to leaders and elected officials in the state.  I just don’t
have anything to read out to you as far as any calls that have been
made.   
  
But certainly, the President was briefed earlier today.  I just don’t
have a specific time to outline.  
  
Q    And you’re not aware of whether he’s spoken to any other Republican
lawmakers, consider- — considering he also  
raised the issue of Republicans and Congress need to act?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, totally understand the question.  I just don’t
have anything to read out to you at this time.  
  
Q    And then, lastly, do you have an update on when the President might
visit Nashville, where another mass shooting recently occurred?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, as you know, the First Lady went to Nashville
for the vigil, and she clearly represented the administration and
offered her condolences and support from the administration to the
community and to the families that lost their three kids and — and three
administrators.  A very, very sad, horrific day.  
  
And as you know, this is a President that has visited many communities. 
Think about Uvalde and those 19 kids and 2 adults that were murdered. 
You think about Buffalo and the — at the grocery store, when everyday
people, just on a Saturday — doing things that many of us do on a
Saturday, go shopping — and they were gunned down.  And he visited there
with the First Lady.  
  
And so, don’t have a — don’t have a trip to read out to you.  But again,
the First Lady was there just days after the shooting and offered her
condolences and prayed with the family and supported the community while
she was there on behalf of the administration.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right, everybody.  Gosh, I’ll see you on the road.
Thank you, everyone.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
3:27 P.M. EDT
