---
date: '2023-04-13'
modified_time: 2023-04-13 08:04:07-04:00
published_time: 2023-04-13 08:04:05-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/04/13/press-gaggle-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-nsc-senior-director-for-europe-amanda-sloat-on-the-presidents-trip-to-ireland/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and NSC Senior Director\
  \ for Europe Amanda Sloat on the President\u2019s Trip to\_Ireland"
---
 
The Westin  
Dublin, Ireland

9:30 A.M. IST

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Good morning, everybody.

Q    Good morning.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  President Biden had a packed day meeting with
Prime Minister Sunak, speaking — speaking about the importance of the
Good Friday Agreement and the peace and stability it has brought, and
our readiness to build on those gains by supporting Northern Ireland’s
vast economic potential so that peace leads to prosperity for all
communities.

President Biden then flew to Ireland and, as you all saw, had the time
of his life in County Louth last night, where he had the chance to meet
so many Irishmen and speak about the close ties between American and the
Irish peoples.

Today, the President will have several engagements focused on
strengthening those close bonds between America and Ireland, meeting
with President Michael Higgins of Ireland and participating in a tree
planting ceremony and ringing of the Peace Bell.

After that the President will meet with Taoiseach Leo *Varad-kar* —
Varadkar, pardon me — of Ireland and attend a youth Gaelic sports
demonstration.

In the afternoon, the President will address a joint session of the
Irish parliament about the U.S.-Irish cooperation to advance democracy,
peace, security, and prosperity, as well as the deep shared history
between the U.S. and Ireland.

And then, tonight, President Biden will attend a banquet dinner hosted
by Taoiseach at the historic Dublin Castle.

With that, I’d like to open it up to questions, and I’m joined by Amanda
Sloat, our Senior Director for Europe, who can take any trip-related
questions at the top.  And when she is done, I’m happy to stay a little
longer and take any domestic questions that you may have.

Amanda?

MS. SLOAT:  All right.  Thanks, Karine.  And good to see everybody
again.  As she said, happy to talk about anything related to the trip,
and then we’ll leave all of the hard stuff to her.

After I saw all of you yesterday, the President had a great day in
Northern Ireland, and everyone is feeling really good about that stop. 
In addition to the meeting with the Prime Minister, he, of course, gave
a major address at Ulster University.  And I think all of you were
there.  It was a very positive reception.  We’ve gotten incredibly
positive feedback from all communities and political sides there.  I
think a really important message for the President to be able to deliver
to the people of Northern Ireland.

And then also, as we had talked about yesterday, he had the opportunity
to engage with the political leaders and some of the other dignitaries,
as well as the actor, James Martin, who was there as well before the
speech.

So, happy to answer any other questions about the trip, and then we’ll
turn it back to Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Any questions?

Go ahead, Colleen.

Q    Has there been any indication on how the President’s “get back to
work” message went down with the DUP?  He met with them before and then
gave his speech.

MS. SLOAT:  So, I — like I said, all of the feedback that that we’ve
heard from all channels in response to the President’s message yesterday
was incredibly positive.  So he had the opportunity to speak with
Jeffrey Donaldson, with the other leaders of the political parties in
advance of the speech, and then deliver his message publicly, where I
think, as we talked about yesterday, he was very clear on where he saw
things going. 

And like I said, everything that we have heard back through various
government channels and also directly has been very positive and
receptive to the messages he laid out.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Catherine.

Q    Any new policy announcements we should expect today in the meetings
with the Taoiseach or the — or in the speech today?  Is there anything
we should expect?

MS. SLOAT:  So, I — you know, I think the President obviously had a good
conversation with Taoiseach Varadkar when he was in Washington a couple
weeks ago for St. Patrick’s Day.  It’ll be a good opportunity for him to
connect with him again.

He’s met with President Higgins twice: 2016 when he was here as Vice
President, again in 2017 when he was here on a private trip.

I think — in the meetings, I am sure they will have a good discussion
about the situation in Northern Ireland.  I’m sure they’ll both be
interested in hearing what the President’s impressions were based on his
visit yesterday.  The President will be very interested in hearing from
both of them how they see the situation and developments there.

Ukraine is something I expect will be high on the agenda in both of
those meetings, as we talked about a bit yesterday, given Ireland’s
participation in various aspects of U.S. support for Ukraine on the
humanitarian side — assistance side, on the imposition of sanctions, as
well as what Ukraine is doing on the security assistance piece.

And then, in the President’s speech to Parliament, I think he’ll be
doing a couple of things.  One, I’m sure he’ll be reflecting on the
long, close, and shared history between the United States and Ireland. 
Second, he’ll be discussing the areas in which we partner closely today,
including Ukraine.  Ireland, for example, is very active in peacekeeping
missions around the world.  Both of our countries have a very vested
interest in what’s happening in Northern Ireland.  And then also setting
out a shared vision for the future.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Go ahead, Rob.

Q    We heard (inaudible) his English roots yesterday, and also
mentioned the contribution of Ulster Scots to American life.  Was that —
was that adlibbed?  Was it part of the script?  And to what extent was
that a deliberate attempt to placate some of his critics in Northern
Ireland who see him as anti-British?

MS. SLOAT:  So, this is something that the President has spoken about
before.  If you look at his St. Patrick’s Day remarks from a month ago,
he made similar reference to Ulster Scots.   
  
I think the President is very aware, when we are talking about
immigration from the island of Ireland, that includes people from coming
both from the north end and the south.  And so, this is something that
he has spoken about before, including very recently, as recently as a
couple of weeks ago, and then also, more broadly, in speaking about his
heritage, which, as he said, includes both English and Irish elements.

Q    But you were peppered yesterday morning with questions about
whether he was anti-British, hated British, and then it came up in his
speech.  It looked like that might have been a specific response to the
conditions in Northern Ireland that he encountered.

MS. SLOAT:  I think, like I said yesterday, we were coming with a very
even-handed and balanced message.  And I think if you look at the
President’s own track record, he has a history of engaging with unionist
and nationalist leaders of British and Irish leaders.  And so I think
that’s what the President’s track record reflects, and I think that’s
what his remarks yesterday in his speech reflected.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Anybody on the Zoom have a question?  I see a few
folks on.   
  
Okay.  Antonello.  
  
Q    Yes, hi.  Antonello Guerrera from La Repubblica.  Thanks.  Thanks
very much for this.  I just activated my (inaudible) as well.  Hi.  
  
Just, I have a question on what’s been going on with the leaks.  Because
are you — is the President and the United States concerned about — that
some European countries may be concerned about these leaks as well?  And
do you think that this might have an impact on the relations with these
nations?  I’m talking about European nations, especially in terms of the
challenges the coalition has had.  Thank you very much.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, so we’re going to see if there’s any other trip
questions, and then we’ll get to that.  I  
know there’s —  
  
MS. SLOAT:  So I don’t know that — for those that couldn’t hear, it was
Antonello asking about leaks and how European governments were
perceiving those.  So I will save that one for Karine after we’re done
with the trip.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But anybody have questions about the trip specifically
before we move on — online?  And then we’ll see if there’s any more in
the room.  Okay, I don’t see anybody from the Zoom.  
  
Go ahead, Emel.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  Thank you, Amanda.  During the meeting with
Prime Minister Sunak, was there any discussion about Taiwan and how both
countries will work together to lessen tensions over the over the
island, given its strategic importance to both countries?  
  
MS. SLOAT:  So, the meeting yesterday between the two leaders was
one-on-one, so I don’t have a full readout.  But I know they had a
broad, general discussion about a number of global challenges, but don’t
have the specifics of their conversation yesterday.  
  
Q    Do you have any comment to make about the planned boycott of the
President’s speech today by certain left-wing Irish lawmakers and the
protests planned for today and tomorrow?  
  
MS. SLOAT:  So what I can speak to is how the President is approaching
today’s events.  I think, as Karine said at the top, he has received an
incredibly warm welcome here in Ireland.  He is very much appreciative
of the invitation to address the Houses of Parliament today, is looking
forward to touching base with the leaders of Ireland’s main political
parties ahead of his address, and is looking forward to what really is a
historic opportunity for him to set out his views to the Irish people
and to the Irish legislature.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  JJ, go ahead.  
  
Q    I know you said you didn’t get a full readout on the Sunak meeting,
but do you know if anything about the security of classified
intelligence came up in the — in that meeting?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ll take that, JJ, when she’s done.  
  
Q    And then also, the biggest Northern Ireland unionist party was
pretty emphatic in dismissing the President’s remarks.  Two things: Can
you say whether you think his remarks at the university did make any
sort of progress in the impact — impasse?  And if not, why not?  
  
MS. SLOAT:  I don’t — who from the largest unionist party was emphatic
in dismissing?  Because the feedback that we have gotten, like I said,
from political parties, from political leadership, and from government
was universally positive across the board.   
  
You know, like I said yesterday, the President was coming as a friend,
as a supporter, as an encourager, and came in very much wanting to set
out some top messages: setting out the support of the United States, a
recognition of the progress, and then really a reminder, especially for
the young people in the business community, about what a very positive,
forward-looking vision could be.  
  
And I think the feedback we have heard from everybody, including the
students in the audience to the political leaders who were there, was
that the President’s remarks really hit the — hit the mark.  
  
And so, I think he achieved what he — what he set out to do.  
  
Q    Okay.  And then, on the comment about Black and Tan — the rugby
comments that have gotten some attention in Europe — was he aware that
he misspoke there when he was —  
  
MS. SLOAT:  I think for everyone in Ireland who is a rugby fan, it was
incredibly clear that the President was talking about the All Blacks and
Ireland’s defeat of the New Zealand team in 2016.  
  
Q    Did he realize that right after he said it, do you know?  
  
MS. SLOAT:  You know, I think it was — it was clear what the President
was referring to.  It was certainly clear to his cousin sitting next to
him who had played in that match.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Okay.  Anybody else?  Oh, go ahead, in the
back.  And then we’re going to wrap it up.  
  
Q    Hi.  Dominic Waghorn, Sky News.  As soon as he got south of the
border, the President has been out shaking hands amongst the people,
meeting people.  And yet, in Northern Ireland, people waiting to do the
same didn’t really get a glimpse of him.  Why that contrast?  Why was he
kept away, it seems, from ordinary people in Northern Ireland?  
  
MS. SLOAT:  I don’t think it was that he was kept away from people.  It
was just a briefer stop.  I mean, the President had the opportunity to
engage with the leaders of the parties and others ahead of the speech. 
And I can say as one who sat in the motorcade for about an hour before
we left after the speech, the President was on the rope line in Belfast
for, I think, almost an hour engaging with virtually everybody, it
seemed, who was sitting there.  And we had very intentionally invited a
broad cross-section of people, from civil society to youth groups to
business leaders.  
  
And so the President, I think, really enjoyed his time in Belfast and
was able to engage with a broad variety of people in that setting.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right, one last time — anybody on the Zoom, before
we let our guest go?  Okay.  All right.  
  
MS. SLOAT:  Over to Karine for the hard stuff.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thanks, Amanda.  
  
Okay, let me start off with the question on leaks.  And I know you had
asked specifically about the Prime Minister and the President’s meeting
yesterday.  It did not come up, the leaks — the leaked document, in that
conversation.  So I can confirm that for all of you.  
  
As far as our relationship with — that came from Antonello — on our
relationship with allies — and we have said this before.  My NSC
colleague has — was asked this question, and I believe my DOD colleagues
— Department of Defense colleagues also answered this question as well
throughout the week — is that we have U.S. officials who are engaging
with allies and partners at high levels on — having these
conversations.  
  
I’m just — we’re just not going to read out any private conversations. 
So I’ll leave it there.  
  
Go ahead, Mary.  
  
Q    I’m sure you’ve seen the Washington Post reporting about the
alleged leaker.  What does it say about the security of our nation’s top
secrets if they’re able to be posted online like this, in a chat room,
apparently for years, undetected?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I’ll first say this: As you know, there’s an
ongoing investigation that’s being led by the Department of Justice. 
That’s something that the Department of Defense quickly asked for once
they learned about these documents.  And I will also say the Department
of Defense has said they have taken steps to further restrict access to
sensitive information.  
  
Look, we are — we are certainly reviewing the national security
implications of the disclosure, and I can add that, you know, to
mitigate the impact the release of these documents have on our U.S. —
U.S. national security and also on our allies and partners as well.  
  
And so this is something that we are taking very seriously.  There is an
ongoing investigation.  DOD has taken steps to restrict access to these
documents, and I definitely don’t want to get ahead of what’s currently
happening.  
  
Q    And just one more.  Does the President feel the Pentagon needs to
reassess how it monitors social media, these kinds of platforms, or
maybe even the activities of its own employees on these platforms?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So — and I think we’ve mentioned this before — you
know, this is something for the intelligence community; they have
conversations, clearly, at that — at that level.  Don’t want to get
ahead of that.   
  
And, you know, just want to be very careful here.  We do believe that
social media companies have a responsibility to their users and to the
country to manage the private sector infrastructure that they create and
now operate.  So we do believe that they have a responsibility.   
  
But I’m just not going to — and we urge — right? — we normally urge
companies to avoid facilitating those circulation of material determina-
— detrimental to public safety and national security.   
  
But any further conversations or how changes are going to happen as it
relates to that, I’m certainly not going to speak to that here.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    An appeals court ruled overnight on the abortion pill matter.  They
blocked part of the ruling from Texas, but they kept other parts in
place, including restrictions on receiving it by mail and a requirement
to visit a doctor in person.  
  
Can you comment specifically on those elements that will remain in place
and perhaps say how the White House and the administration will
respond?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So it goes back to what I said earlier this week,
which is that we are going to continue to fight in the courts.  We
believe that the law is on our side, and we will prevail.   
  
So, that — that, I can reassure the American people that that is our
commitment to women — millions of women across the country — and also
providers who are, you know, at the frontlines working every day to make
sure that women are able to make decisions for themselves about their
own body.  
  
So what we can say is we’re going to continue to fight.  We’re going to
promise to do that for Americans across the country.  And we believe we
will prevail because we believe that the law is on our side.  
  
Go ahead, Ed.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Just following up on that and then one other. 
You’ve been asked this before but worth asking again: Is the White House
aware of any contingency planning that’s taking place in the event that
these court rulings go against the administration’s wishes?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I mean, a couple of things.  We have said, when
the ruling came out on Friday, DOJ moved swiftly.  And they are doing —
going through the process that you would go through when there is a
legal process just like this one.  And we believe, again, the law is on
our side, we’re going to prevail, we’re going to continue to fight. 
That is the commitment that we’re going to make.  
  
Yesterday, there was an announcement that you all may have heard.  I
know some of you have been busy here on our side, dealing with this
trip.  But there was an announcement that was made that — from the Biden
administration that I can lay down for you a little bit, which are new
actions that’s going to safeguard reproductive health privacy for women
across the country.  And so — and we also held our third taskforce that
was led by the Vice President yesterday.   
  
And these — the important thing about this is that HIPAA, as you know,
currently provides important privacy protections for patients receiving
reproductive healthcare.  But we’ve — we’re seeing efforts across the
country — and many of you have asked this of me the last several months
— to criminalize doctors and other healthcare providers in the wake of
Dobbs, making it more likely than before that patients’ sensitive
reproductive health information will be disclosed.  
  
So what these new actions will do: It will propose a rule from HHS that
ensures patients’ medical records cannot be used against them and their
doctor or their loved one, that just because they receive law- — lawful
reproductive healthcare and new guidance from the Department of
Education that protects students’ private health information as well.   
  
I would refer you to HHS for any specifics.  But these are new actions
that we took yesterday that was announced by the administration.  And
clearly, we also held our third taskforce.   
  
So we are taking this very seriously.  We’re laying out how we’re going
to move forward.  When the Dobbs decision came out in June, as you saw
and you all remember, the President came out with two executive actions
to show our commitment, again, to protecting women’s reproductive
healthcare.  
  
Q    One other.  Overnight, Senator Feinstein asked that the Democratic
Caucus temporarily appoint somebody else to the judiciary committee in
order to help with the backlog of judicial nominees.  And there are
increasing calls for her to resign, from members of the California
delegation — other Democrats.  
  
First to her decision to temporarily step down — what does the White
House make of that — and the broader calls for her to step down.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as it relates to the committee, I will say that
the President, you know, is deeply appreciative of her support for his
extra- — extraordinary qualified and diverse nominees.  So that is
something that he — that he is thankful to her for.  
  
What — and what I will repeat is that the President and the First Lady
wish Senator Feinstein the very best and a speedy recovery.  
  
And, look, I’ll go back to what the President said when the senator
announced her upcoming retirement very recently, not too long ago.  And
he talked about her late husband, Richard, and how he became very close
friends with her late husband, Richard, and clearly the senator, and
really appreciated how they’ve worked together very closely.  During his
time as senator, they worked closely on the 1994 crime bill and — and
other — clearly, other important issues that matter to the American
people.  
  
And he truly, truly respects and appreciate her — her commitment to
public service.  I just don’t have anything else to add to that.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    About the leaks.  How bad is it?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, as I mentioned, there’s a DOJ review right now,
so I’m not going to get ahead of that review.  Again, when DOD learned
about this, they quickly asked the Department of Justice to step in and
to review and to look into the process.  I’m just not going to get ahead
of it.  
  
But we also have said that, of course, we are concerned about the
potential national — national security risks.  We’ve been very clear
about that from the White House, from the Department of Defense.  But
again, there’s a review going on, so I just don’t want to get ahead of
that.  
  
Q    But — so this Afghanistan report last week found that the intel was
bad there.  And now some more reliable intel is leaking out.  Is
President Biden satisfied with the people who are handling American
intelligence?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So what I’ll say is, again, DOJ is reviewing these
documents.  We cannot speak to the validity of these documents.  So I
want to be careful that we don’t get ahead, because the way that you’re
asking me the question is asking about the kind of — goes into the
specifics of the documents, which I cannot do from here.  
  
The DOD is certainly — has — they’ve announced that they’re taking steps
to further restrict access to these sensitive information.  And we’re
going to let DOJ do — move forward with their process.  
  
Q    And you said that social media companies have a responsibility to
prevent this kind of stuff from circulating.  Would President Biden meet
with Elon Musk to talk about social media company responsibilities?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have a — I don’t have any meetings to read out
to you.  Obviously, this is something that the intelligence community is
going to — is — you know, they’re the ones who are — can speak to this
more.  But I’m just not going to speak to that as it relates to
classified information.  
  
Q    And one more.  The Federal Reserve economists are now predicting a
recession starting this year.  Is President Biden going to do anything
differently to try to head that off?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, as you know, and you’ve heard me talk about
this, our economy, because of what the President has put forth — his
economic policy that makes sure that we don’t do trickle-down economics,
that we do — we have an economy — economic — economy, pardon me — that
grows for everyone from the bottom up, middle out, that does not leave
anyone behind.  
  
And we’re seeing the success of that — of his plans.  And recent
economic indicators are not consistent with a recession or even a
pre-recession.  And you can just look at the data: 12.5 million jobs
have been created since he took office.  12.5 million jobs.  We’ve
gained all the jobs lost during the pandemic and created 3 million more
jobs.  
  
And so, unemployment is a near 50-year low, and Black unemployment is at
a record low.  Annual inflation has fallen over the last nine months. 
Wages are higher than they were nine months ago.  Incomes are up, and
consumer spending is strong.  
  
Those are the indicators that show us that we are not headed to a
recession or a pre-recession.  That is because of the work that this
President has done over the last two years.  
  
I’m going to also see — but go ahead.  
  
Q    NPR said yesterday that it’s going to be quitting Twitter, Karine,
over this label that they are state-affiliated media.  Wondering if the
White House has any comment on both the label that was put on them and
their decision to leave the platform.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, media outlets and social media companies are
going to make their own independent decisions about where to share their
content moderation and where to share that content.  So that is up to
them.  We’re certainly not going to comment on that.  And so I’ll just
leave it there.  
  
Q    But how about the characterization of them as, you know,
state-affiliated media?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I’m not going to comment on Twitter’s content
moderation, but I will say this: As it relates to NPR, it is an
independent news organization.  That is clear.  If anyone were to follow
their coverage, it is clear that they are indeed an independent news
organization.  So I’ll leave it there.  
  
I want to — I can’t tell if anybody is on.  (Looks at Zoom screen.)  It
went dark.  
  
AIDE:  Karine —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, we got to wrap it up?  Okay.  
  
Oh, go ahead.  
  
Q    I know you say you don’t want to speak to the validity of any of
these documents that have been leaked, but the New York Times has new
reporting about a level of dissent and infighting among Russian
officials over the conflict in Ukraine.  I wonder if you can speak to
whether that assessment is one that is viewed as accurate within the
administration or what that potential disunity within — just broadly
speaking, what this kind of dissent within the government might mean
towards the future of the Ukraine conflict.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, these — these slides contain sensitive
information.  We are aware of that, and we have said that.  And because
of that, I’m just not going to speculate, get ahead of the review or the
investigation that’s currently ongoing, or even potential outcomes on
the battlefield.  I want to be very, very careful.  And so, I just have
to leave it there.  
  
Q    And then, part of the reporting about how these documents have
become public speaks to the fact that they were appearing in more
obscure corners of the Internet on, you know, channels of discord that
were reserved for gaming and the like.   
  
Is part of the review that is going on in the administration an
assessment of whether there were enough of a scope in terms of the kind
of sites that intelligence officials monitor for the leak of
documents?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, again, there’s a review happening.  We are
certainly reviewing the national security implications of the disclosure
and the mitigation of the impact the release of these documents could
have on the U.S. national security and also our partners and allies. 
That is something that is being reviewed and looked into.  So I’m going
to allow the review by the Department of Justice to move forward.  
  
DOD is — clearly has spoken to how they’re moving forward with their
process now in restricting access to these — to these sensitive
documents.  Just not going to get into it.  But of course — of course,
we’re going to look into it because we think this is incredibly
important.  
  
Q    And if I can, one last question.  I mean, the Post reporting about
the individual and the sort of conversations within this channel is
quite extensive.  Can you say whether the review that’s going on within
the administration knows as much as the Post seems to know about this
individual?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just not going to comment on that, on the Post
story.  
  
Okay, I think we have to — do we have anybody online?  Okay.  So we have
to wrap.  
  
Q    Last one?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:   We have to wrap up.  I’m sorry.  
  
Q    Sorry, just last one about the incident between a British aircraft
and a Russian aircraft in September.  One of the leaks seems to reveal
that it was much more serious than we think: that if the Russian missile
had not malfunctioned, the British plane would have been shot down. 
What does that say, do you think, about the risk of escalation in this
conflict?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The risk with escalation with us and Russia or in
general?  
  
Q    Well, this could have been a British plane, a NATO member plane
being shot down by a Russian plane.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh.  So, look, I’ll say this: As we know, Russia is
the aggressor here.  They’re the ones who — they’re the ones who are —
you know, are — started this war, right?  Started this war with
Ukraine.  And this war can end today.  It can end today if Russia would
just leave.  
  
And what we have seen over the last year is the Ukrainian people
fighting bravely to protect their democracy, to protect their
sovereignty.  And what you have seen from NATO, what you have seen from
the West is a — is a — you know, is a strong — a strong collaboration, a
commitment to making sure that Ukraine gets what they need when it comes
to security assistance, when it comes to making sure that they’re able
to fight on the ground.  And that’s what we have seen.  
  
And so that is our commitment.  And the U.S. is going to continue to
commit to the Ukrainian people to do everything that we can to make sure
that they have the assistance on the ground to fight for their freedom. 
I won’t say more than that.  
  
Thank you.  
  
9:59 A.M. IST
