---
date: '2023-04-25'
modified_time: 2023-04-25 18:14:52-04:00
published_time: 2023-04-25 18:14:51-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/04/25/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-the-cast-of-the-l-word-and-the-l-word-generation-q/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and the Cast of \u201C\
  The L Word\u201D and \u201CThe L Word: Generation\_Q\u201D"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:22 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everybody.  
  
Q    Good afternoon.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What’s going on?  (Laughs.)   
  
All right, happy Tuesday.  So, this week is Lesbian Visibility Week. 
And as the first openly queer person to hold the position of Press
Secretary for the President of the United States, I see every day how
important visibility and representation are.  
  
Today I’m honored to welcome the cast of “The L Word” and “Generation
Q,” two Showtime series that chronicle the friendship, the love, the
challenges, and the triumphs of strong, funny, and resilient queer
women.  
  
Up here with me are the amazing, talented actresses who play those very
roles — Jennifer Beals, Leisha Hailey, and Katherine Moennig — and the
show’s co-creator, writer, and executive producer, Ilene Chaiken.  
  
After hearing from them briefly at the podium today, the cast will meet
with LGBTQI+ staffers of the Biden-Harris administration to talk about
our administration’s work to advance full equality for our community.  
  
Last year, I had the personal privilege of attending the filming of an
episode showcasing the marriage of two characters, Bette and Tina, a
moment — (laughs) — that meant so much to queer women across the
country.  
  
Even though I grew up in one of the most diverse cities in the world —
as some of you know, I grew up in New York City — as a young queer woman
of color, I felt alone and sometimes invisible.  
  
For so many people in our community, “The L Word”’s impact cannot be
understated.  Being able to see diverse narratives that reflect our
lives is incredibly important.  It is important that young people see
characters on television and in the books who they can relate to, whose
life stories and identities inspire them to reach their highest — their
highest potential.  
  
It’s important that LGBTQI+ people are represented in government, in
shows, in institutions across the country.  
  
And this work is more important than ever as the LGBTQI+ community
continues to face relentless attacks from some Republicans across the
country.  From books bans to “Don’t Say Gay” laws, MAGA extremists want
to roll back the visibility and progress we fought so hard to achieve.  
  
But LGBTQI+ youth are resilient — and you’ve heard me say this before,
you’ve heard the President say this before.  They are fierce.  They
fight back.  They aren’t going anywhere.  
  
And there are people from the White House, from the President to the
Vice President to this administration and beyond, who have their back.  
  
This week is a testament to how far we’ve come and the work that remains
to advance equality to all people.  
  
And with that, I just want to give a special thanks again to the team
behind me, the amazing actresses who — again, who have played these
historic roles over the past several years.  And a warm, huge thanks to
Ilene, who created a show that only told our stories and — but also —
and this is, I believe, very, very true — saved precious lives.  And
also, one last thing is change hearts and minds.  
  
So thank you so much, Ilene, for your creative brilliance in putting
this to life.  
  
And so, with that, I believe you’re up next, Ilene.  
  
MS. CHAIKEN:  All right.  Thank you, Karine.  We are honored to have the
opportunity to be here today standing beside the first out lesbian press
secretary in our history, who serves the most pro-LGBTQI President in
our history.  
  
When “The L Word” debuted in 2004, we too accomplished a few firsts by
bringing our stories into homes and communities across the country and
around the world.  We learned by the beautiful response to our show how
profoundly important it is for people, particularly young people, to see
themselves reflected in our entertainment culture and to know that
they’re embraced, valued, and not alone.  
  
We’re delighted that “The L Word” lives on and speaks to a new
generation.  But we’re painfully aware that our struggles are far from
over.  We face new threats against our community, from online harassment
to legislative acts of violence to actual physical violence —
astonishing, backward, mean-spirited attacks by groups and individuals
who in trying to deny our humanity only diminish their own.  
  
We’ve been fighting this fight for generations, and we’ll never stand
down.  They may try to erase our stories from classrooms and libraries,
but we’re here.  We’re here today at the White House.   
  
And we won’t be erased.  We will continue to be visible, powerful,
engaged, contributive, creative, loving American citizens.   
  
We’re galvanized by President Biden’s leadership, from strengthening
non-discrimination protections for our communities to signing the
Respect for Marriage Act into law, to supporting LGBTQI kids and their
parents.  
  
And we’re thankful to this President for giving us the first out lesbian
press secretary, who represents hope and possibility for so many people,
young and a bit older.  
  
My colleagues and I want to wish President and Dr. Biden, Press Sec- —
Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and her family, and each and every one of
you an enlightened Lesbian Visibility Week, month, year, decade,
century, and so on, and on and on.  
  
Thank you so much.  And here’s my colleague, Leisha Hailey.  
MS. HAILEY:  Good afternoon.  Thank you, Karine.  First, let me say it’s
a privilege to be sharing the stage with you today.  
  
I’m standing here today because, as a young gay girl in Nebraska who
raced Soap Box Derby cars and wore rainbow suspenders, I was seen by my
family.  Their love and support gave me the courage and confidence to
live my life openly.  
  
As an actor on “The L Word,” I have had the enormous honor and
responsibility of being visible for over 20 years.  But visibility is
not just the act of being seen, it is the ability to see.  
  
So to the librarian in Texas advocating to keep books with LGBTQIA
themes on the shelves, we see you.  To the LGBTQIA people leading their
communities as rabbis, pastors, and ministers, we see you.  To the
LGBTQIA community in Missouri about to lose their gender-affirming care,
we see you.  To the LGBTQIA community affected by the Dobbs decision in
Idaho, Wisconsin, Alabama, and Tennessee, we see you.  And to the first
openly LGBTQIA press secretary, we see you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you.  
  
MS. HAILEY:  Visibility starts in our homes and our communities.  And
even if it feels like you’re under attack, know that we see you.  
  
Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you so much.  Okay, thank you, guys.  Thank
you.  
  
MS. HAILEY:  Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you, thank you.  All right, thank you.  
  
All right, thanks, everybody.  This is like the quietest I’ve heard you
guys.  (Laughs.)  
  
Okay, now let’s continue.  I have a couple of things at the top, and
then we’ll open it up for questions and answer, per usual.  
  
So, speaking of the MAGA proposal that we have talked about many times
over the past week, we’ve learned some important details in the last 24
hours.  
  
First, we learned Speaker McCarthy’s bill would cut the American economy
off at the knees.  In a new analysis, Moody’s Analytics finds that the
Speaker’s legislation would increase the odds of a recession, cost
780,000 jobs, weaken the economy, and increase the unemployment rate.  
  
Second, the Department of Hom- — of Health and Huma- — Human Services
released new analysis showing how Speaker McCarthy’s proposal would
jeopardize healthcare for 21 million Americans who are enrolled in
Medicaid.  It would reduce access to health centers across the country. 
An estimated 630,000 patients in rural areas could lose access to health
centers.  
  
And third, the Department of Education shared how the Speaker’s bill
would remove up to 60,000 teachers from — from classrooms, reduce
support for as many as 7.5 million children with disabilities, gut
funding for schools serving low-income students, slash mental health and
violence prevention services, eliminate student debt relief for more
than 40 million Americans, and make college more expensive by reducing
Pell grants for millions.  
  
It’s clear that the Speaker’s bill breaks House Republicans’ commitment
to America.  
  
In the run-up to the 2022 election, House Republicans promised to put
cops on the beat.  Instead, they’re fighting to put fentanyl on the
street by defend- — defunding Border Patrol.  
  
Their proposal makes clear that only things House Republicans are
committed to giving to Americans are increased crime, lower economic
growth, and more manufacturing jobs sent back to China.  
  
The Speaker’s position is that unless the President and the Senate agree
to that job-killing, cost-increasing, anti-farm, anti-healthcare,
anti-education agenda, they’re going to default and crash the economy. 
That’s not just unreasonable, but it’s also incredibly dangerous.  
  
Instead of playing these games, they should avoid default, take it off
the table, and have a conversation with the President, his
administration, and other congressional leaders about the budget, about
spending.  
  
Now, moving on to the next topic: Today, Washington State has become the
10th state in the nation, alongside Washington, D.C., to ban assault
weapons and get weapons of war off America’s streets.  
  
President Biden commends the leadership of Washington Governor Jay
Inslee and legislative leaders, as well as the advocates, survivors, and
elected officials who fought for years to make today a reality.  
  
In so doing so — in so doing this, they have made every community in the
state, from Seattle to Spok- — Spokane and everywhere in between, safer
and more secure.  
  
Despite President Biden’s historic actions to reduce gun violence
through the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act and two dozen executive
actions, too many Americans continue to lose their lives to gun
violence.  
  
The President has continued to press for more action to keep our homes
and schools, communities safe, including federal laws requiring
background checks for all gun sales and a ban on assault weapons and
high-capacity magazines.  
  
In the meantime, he continues to urge other states to join Washington
State, along with California, New Jersey, Connecticut, Hawaii, Maryland,
Massachusetts, New York, Delaware, Washington, D.C., and Illinois to ban
assault weapons at the state level to save lives.  
  
And finally, I know you heard from the President already on this, but I
ask for a point of — a point of personal privilege to acknowledge the
passing of a true — a incredible legend, a barrier-breaker, and a
remarkable talent.  Of course, I am speaking of Mr. Harry Belafonte.  
  
He enriched our world.  He inspired generations.  And he was a role
model to ten mil- — tens of millions of young people just across the
country, dare I say across the world, including myself.   
  
I got to know him a bit, and we have stayed in touch over the years.  He
called me, in — in a jokingly fun way, a “Haitian tsunami.”  That was
his nickname for me.  I can tell you why later.  
  
Like so many whose life he touched, I am a better person because of Mr.
Belafonte, because of his influence, because of his guidance, his
kindness, and his wisdom, and his such incredible talent.   
  
The world lost a true one-of-a-kind today.  We will always cherish his
memory and celebrate his amazing, incredible accomplishments.  
  
With that, Josh, the floor is yours.  
  
Q    Wonderful.  Thanks so much, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Absolutely.  
  
Q    Two subjects.  First, now that the President has announced, is the
White House doing any additional, like, seminars or guidance internally
on how to comply with the Hatch Act?  And what are your guidelines and
the contours of where you’re able to go and where you’re not able to go
so that we understand how you’re thinking about this issue?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, it’s a great question and I appreciate you asking
it.   
  
Look, this is an administration that is — that — and a President — that
believes in the rule of law.  Certainly, you’ve heard me over the past
couple of weeks and months, probably painfully so, trying to make sure
that we respect the rule of law and not to — not to break the Hatch
Act.  That is something that we’re going to continue to do and do our
best to do that.  
  
As you know, we have the White House Counsel’s Office here, who
certainly is going to give guidance to — to the team here and also to
White House staffers to make sure that we understand the protocol and
the process.  
  
As far as White House staff — you know, as you know from covering past
reelection, Josh — reelection campaigns — the law does provide for
limited involvement from some select officials.   
  
And so, I don’t have any announcement to make on — on those selective —
chosen folks, but those people would be — who those people would be, but
our approach would be consistent with past norms.   
  
But again, you know, now that — now there has been an announcement, I
will very often, if not always, refer you to the 2024 presidential
reelection campaign.  
  
Q    Gotcha.  And then, secondly, the Discord leaks contain details
about South Korea and its potential role of supplying arms to Ukraine. 
What should the public know about what President Biden intends to tell
President Yoon about these leaks?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you know, the President and the First Lady are
very much looking forward to welcoming the President of South Korea and
also the First lady of South Korea, obviously, which we — we will see. 
We will be seeing them later — later this evening.  And certainly,
there’ll be many opportunities tomorrow.  
  
So, as to your question, U.S. officials, as we have said many times, are
engaging more broadly with our allies and partners at hal- — at high
levels to reassure them of our commitment to safeguarding intelligence
and — and fidelity to our security — security partnerships.   
  
Our commitment to the ROK is ironclad.  And that has been and will
continue to be so.  
  
We have engaged, again, at high levels with allies, including the ROK,
on the subject of the unauthorized disclosures, and we take this very
seriously.  And — and — and it is consistent with being close and
enduring allies.   
  
Again, it is ironclad — our commitment to them.  
  
Q    I want to circle back to something I asked last week, because
clearly the President did have plans to mark the anniversary of his 2020
campaign launch.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes.  Yes, and I — and I — and I congratulated you for
being incredibly clever with the question.  Yes, I remember.  
  
Q    Thank you.  We tried.  I’m going to try it again.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs)  Okay.  Here we go.  
  
Q    When did the President make this personal decision that now was the
time to announce?  And, you know, what was the factor that tipped the
scale here?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, again, going to be very careful here. 2024
election.  I actually don’t have anything to share,  
like behind the scenes, on his decision-making.   
  
I think the President spoke to this himself when he was asked before
today about his intention to run and his plans to run.  And so, I will
refer you back to what he has said more explicitly when he had those
interviews.   
  
So I don’t — again, don’t want to say — say much more than that from
here.  But — but, again, you know, want to be really mindful.  There’s
now a presidential campaign — reelection campaign.  And so those type of
questions, I would refer you to them.  
  
Q    Sure.  But this is a question about, like, his personal decision,
not — not politics.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  No, I totally understand.  I don’t have anything
to share on that.  I would refer you to — totally understand, like,
“What was his decision?  What was his thinking process?”  I would
certainly refer you to the 2024 campaign.  
  
Q    And can you just tell us when was Julie Chávez Rodriguez’s final
day here at the White House as a senior advisor?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Don’t have anything to announce or share on — and on a
timeline from here.  
  
Q    So, on Sudan, Karine, what diplomacy are you engaging in to try to
get the ceasefire extended?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a couple of things, Steve, that I want to lay out
for you.   
  
So, the President’s senior national security team has been in direct
const- — contact with the SAF and RSF leadership — you heard directly
from the Nat- — our National Security Advisor, Jake Sullivan, on this
yesterday — to — to urge the generals — to urge them to end hostilities
immediately without preconditions.  And we are consulting very closely
with regional and other partners as well.  
  
And I know many of you have been reporting this, but following the
intense negotiation over the past 48 hours, the SAF and the RSF have
agreed to implement a na- — na- — nationwide, 72-hour ceasefire that
started at midnight just last night, on April 24th.   
  
And during this period, we urge — we’re going to continue to urge SAF
and RSF to fully uphold the ceasefire, and, you know, to support a
durable end to the fighting.  
  
The United States is coordinating with regional and international
partners and Sudanese civilian stakeholders to assist in the creation of
a committee to oversee the negotiation, conclusion, and implementation
of a permanent ceasefire of hostilities and humanitarian arrangements in
Sudan.  We will continue to work toward the shared goal of a return to
civilian government in Sudan.   
  
Look — and you’ve hear- — you’ve heard us say before: There is no
military solution to Sudan’s political crisis.  The ongoing violence
threatens the safety of all civilians, jeopardizes the progress made to
date in negotiations to restore Sudan’s democratic transition, and
undermines the aspiration of the Sudanese people.   
  
And so, I’ll leave it there.  
  
Q    And secondly, on the debt ceiling, what’s your best estimate on
when the extraordinary measures you’ve taken will run out and the debt
ceiling will be reached?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, that is something that Secretary Yellen has
spoken to.  That is something that, clearly, the Treasury Department is
overseeing and keeping a close eye on.  
  
I’m not going to go into timelines from here.  I will let the Treasury
Department answer that specifically.   
  
Q    Can I ask you just one follow-up on Sudan and then a —  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — a Congress question?  Has the ceasefire created any new
opportunities in terms of what Jake was talking about yesterday:
Americans getting into convoys being able to reach naval assets at the
port?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I know you guys asked about –Jake about, as
you just mentioned, the naval — kind of, the naval assets.  
  
Look, we’re — and Jake said this; I’m just going to repeat what he said
— we’re moving naval assets within the region to assist with potential
contingency off the coast of Port of Sudan — Sudan.   
  
I don’t have anything else to share beyond what — what our National
Security Advisor shared.  But, clearly, this is — this is important to
us and important to the President.   
  
Q    And then, on Senator Manchin: Granting that you guys always say you
have a close and respectful working relationship with him, he said last
night that the administration broke their word to the American public
and threatened to vote against — to repeal his own legislation.  Do you
have any response to that threat?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  As you just said, we have a strong relationship with
Senator Manchin.  We have, in the — in the two years or more so — two
years of this President’s tenure here, we’ve been able to pass some
incredibly historic pieces of legislation that’s going to change the
lives of many Americans — millions of Americans across the country —
that the President is very proud of.  And so, we look forward to
continue to working with Senator Manchin.   
  
Look, as it comes to the Inflation Reduction Act, we are — we are proud
of this.  This is something that the President is proud of.   
  
The goals that it’s going to achieve are lowering the deficit by more
than $200 billion, ensuring American energy security, bringing supply
chains and manufacturing home, creating good-paying manufacturing and
energy jobs, reducing costs for hardworking families, and investing in
energy communities and towns across America that have been left
behind.   
  
So, look, again, as I just stated, we’re going to continue working with
Senator Manchin on other shared priorities, including reducing the
deficit, as the President was able to do this first two years and has
stated that he’ll do in — in his budget for fisca- — fiscal year
2024.   
  
He’s going to — if you look at his budget, he’s going to reduce — it’s
going to reduce the budget — the deficit by an additional $3 trillion
over the next 10 years.   
  
And that is the commitment.  That is the commitment that this President
has.  
  
Q    Do you dispute, though, the characterization that you broke your
word, or this administration has broken its word to the American
people?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we are — I know he was speaking to the
implementation of the Inflation Reduction Act.  Look, we are faithfully
implementing all the parts of the Inflation Reduction Act, including
parts that we don’t like.  Right?  And that’s what you do as President
and as an administration.  That includes components of the Inflation
Reduction Act that don’t have anything to do with clean energy.   
  
So, we’ll still faithfully implement — implement the law and implement,
again, the piece — pieces that we — like I said, we don’t even — we
don’t even like as well.   
  
And so, that is going to be our commitment to follow the law.  And
that’s what you’ll see from this administration.   
  
Go ahead, Steven.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  As a matter of housekeeping, to whom should we
direct our questions about the campaign?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would — I would — I would direct them to the 2024
campaign, the reelection campaign.   
  
Q    Is there a particular individual that is taking questions at the
moment?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I don’t have a specific individual, but I’m sure
we can figure that out and make sure you have contact with the right
people.  Yeah.  
  
Q    Thank you.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And I would probably just go to the generic email —
right? — that’s connected with the — for now — that’s connected with the
campaign.   
  
But again, that’s who you should go directly to, as it relates to
anything that’s related to 2024.   
  
Q    Okay.  I want to ask you broadly about the theme that the President
has been speaking of not just today but since — really since the start
of the year: this idea of “finishing the job.”  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Can you explain what it means?  I mean, you know, the President’s
powers are limited.  His term in office is limited.  What is “the job”? 
How could any President finish it?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, while — the President talked — has talked
about this many times, including members of his administration.  You
heard him talk about it during the State of the Union — finishing —
finishing the job.   
  
Look, he ran and won on his agenda in 2020.  And so he has, of course,
used similar language to update the American people as he works to
fulfill his promises.   
  
The President believes that he needs to continuing deliver — to deliver
for the American people.  You hear us talk about his economic policy and
how it has, because of the historic pieces of legislation that have gone
through, has — how that has en- — been able — enabled him to build an
economy from the bottom up, middle out.   
  
So, when you think about that, you think about Medicare — Medicare being
able to negotiate for lower drug — drug costs.  You think about the
infrastructure — bipartisan infrastructure legislation.  
  
Let’s not forget: In the last administration, “Infrastructure Week” was
a joke.  It was a tagline to make fun of.  
  
And this is a President that’s been able to make that happen.   
  
So that is, you know, getting the job done and also finishing that up by
making sure that we’re implementing those — those laws, implementing
those — those important policies.  Again, that’s going to change the
lives of millions of Americans.  
  
And so, you’re al- — you’re going to continue to hear him say this.  He
say — he said this the past — the past year or the past several months. 
And he believes it’s a way to communicate with the American people, is
to communicate to let them know that we are — we are — we are going to
do the job and finishing up the agenda that he laid out in 2020.  
  
Q    One more question about that.  The issue of the President is 80
years old — oldest man ever elected, would be 86 at the end of his
second term.  Our CBS News poll this morning shows that only 22 percent
of Democratic-leaning voters are excited about the prospect of President
Biden running for reelection.  
  
I want to ask you this: As a young man, when he was coming of age, a
President who was inaugurated in 1961 said it was time to — that a torch
had been passed to a new generation.  Why has President Biden not
decided to pass the torch at this point?  Why does he still want to hold
it?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, a couple of things.  I want to be very
careful.  Again, this is the 2024 — related to the 2024 reelection, so I
want to be very careful on — on that piece.  
  
But what I can say more broadly is that, you know, as it relates to your
first part of the question, you know, when it comes to age, it’s the
same thing that we heard in 2020.  Right?  We heard that over and over
in 2020.   
  
And — and if you look at what the President has done this past two
years, he’s been able to deliver and get things done — right? — where
Republicans are trying to — Republicans in Congress, Republicans on the
other side of Pennsylvania are trying to pull us back, not move us
forward.  
  
And again, I talked about negotiating — Medicare being able to
negotiate.  I talked about the infrastructure legislation.  I — you
know, the CHIPS and Science Act, making sure that we’re competitive
against China and bringing manufacturing jobs here, which we have seen. 
Eight hundred thousand manufacturing jobs have been created under this
President.  
  
So there is a whole host of accomplishments that this President has been
able to do and that, you know — you know,  
Republicans in Congress have not.  They literally have not been able to
get things done.  And so, I want to be very clear about that.  
  
As it relates to the polls — again, mindful of the 2024 election — and
we understand what the polls are saying — I will say this: In 2022,
let’s not forget, more Americans voted for this President than any other
President in history.  
  
And — and, let’s not forget, in 2022, the midterms election, against all
odds — right? — against everything that we were being told, that this
President had one of the most successful midterm elections for a
Democratic President in 60 years.  And we were able to stop that red
wave; that did not happen.  And we were able to hold on to the
Senate.   
  
And so that’s what I lay out, and that’s how we’ll deal with the
question that you just asked me.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Karine, on the reelect specifically, can you tell us when and how
you learned that the President was going to announce he was seeking
another term?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Just like all of you.   
  
Q    You learned about it from the video this morning?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Just like all of you.  I am — I am not — from this
perch, from being a government official, I cannot talk about 2024.  I’m
not involved in the reelect.  And I learned just like all of you this
morning, at 6:00 a.m.  
  
Q    And specifically on Senator Klobuchar’s comments on Sunday about
her position on what the President should do with respect to meeting
with Speaker McCarthy, she said he should negotiate on the budget. 
“That is the place to negotiate, and they should start those
negotiations now, not using the American people and their mortgages as
hostage, because right now \[you’ve\] got to simply make clear we’re
going to avoid default and get this behind us.”  
  
Is that something the President would be open to?  Is that something
that he is ready, from that specific suggestion, to start at?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, here’s what — and I said this at the top —
here’s what House Republicans are saying to us, along with the Speaker. 
They’re saying to us that — that they want us to agree or to support —
they — “us,” meaning the Senate — the Senate and the President — to
agree with every agenda that they put forth in this bill.  The entire
agenda.   
  
And I said this at the top: That is not negotiable, and that is — that
is a devastating ask of us, especially what it’s going to do to the
American people.  
  
We’ve talked about the 22 percent ta- — cuts that it’s going to make to
programs that matters to veterans, seniors, our children.  I mean,
that’s what they put forward.  
  
And to say to us that the only way you want to move forward here is to —
for us to agree on everything that they laid out in this bill is just
ridiculous.  
  
And so that’s what we’re talking about, right?  We’re not going to
negotiate on — on something that they should be doing, which is avoiding
default.  And we’ve been very clear we’re just not going to negotiate on
that.  
  
But when it comes to the budget, when it comes to how they want to see
spending cuts for the American people, we’ll have that discussion.  But
right now, that’s not what we’re seeing.  That’s not what they’re
doing.  That’s not what this bill is.  It has linked those two things
together.  
  
And we’ve been very clear that we’re not going to negotiate on
default.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Can I just follow up on that question?  Doesn’t the President risk
rattling financial markets if he does not agree to speak with the
Speaker?  Speaker McCarthy says he wants to meet with Biden.  Why has
that happened yet?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s the Speaker McCarthy and the MAGA wing of the
Republican Party that is doing this.  We’re not doing.  They’re the ones
who are saying they want to hold the American economy hostage.  They’re
doing this.   
  
And what the President is saying is, “You need to do your job.”  He’s
saying to House Republicans, “You need to do your job, your
constitutional duty, and avoid default.”  That’s it.  Something that
they were able to do — Speaker McCarthy and other Republicans — when
Democrats joined them in the last administration three times — three
times to make sure that they did their constitutional duty.   
  
This is something that the Speaker is doing.  This is something that —
that he has sided and aligned himself with MAGA — MAGA wing of the
party.  So that question, honestly, is for them, not for us.  
  
Q    But investors don’t really care who’s to blame.  They just want to
know that there’s a plan to avoid default.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, but you’re asking me a question, and I’m answering
it.  This is — this is — I — honestly, this is a question for Speaker
McCarthy and the MAGA wing of Republicans to answer.  They are the ones
who are holding the — the American economy hostage.  Literally, that’s
what they’re doing.  That is exactly what they’re doing.   
  
What we’re doing is calling them out and telling them to do their
constitutional duty.  
  
Go ahead, Toluse.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  You just talked about the MAGA wing of the
Republican Party.  Kevin McCarthy is trying to rally votes for the
Limit, Save, Grow Act, which the White House has threatened to veto.  If
he’s able to get 218 votes for this bill, does this become a mainstream
Republican position as opposed to just a wing of the party?   
  
And if this is the mainstream position —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, let’s —  
  
Q    — what’s your — what’s your —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Appreciate the question, but I’m not going to jump
into hypotheticals from here.  I’m not a House whip.  He has to do his
job as Speaker and see if he can get the votes for this bill that is,
again, detrimental and dangerous.  It is dangerous to American
families.   
  
If you look at the bill, as I’ve said many times, it is going to hurt
families who are trying to make ends meet.  That’s what this bill does. 
So that’s up to the Speaker to see if he can whip the votes.   
  
We have been very clear: This President does not support this bill.  I
think Leader Schumer has been very clear about this bill, and I’ll let
the Leader speak for himself.  We have spoken — we — we read out a
conversation that the President had with Leaders Schumer and Jeffries,
agree that we won’t negotiate over avoiding default.  We’re just not
going to do that.  And we’ve been very clear.  
  
I’m going to try and go to the back because I know I haven’t called on
some folks.   
  
Go ahead, Chris.  And then I’ll continue.  
  
Q    National Republicans released this AI-generated video looking out
into the future under President <s>Obama</s> \[Biden\].  Does the
administration have a position about official groups using AI to put
videos out?  Is this something that the White House would consider
doing?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I haven’t seen this — this AI video, so I have to
take a look at it and talk to our team.  What I can say more broadly: We
have a comprehensive process, which is underway, to ensure a cohesive
federal government approach to AI-related risks and opportunities.   
  
But we’ve said this many times before, which is tech companies have a
responsibility to make sure their products are safe before making them
public.   
  
As it relates to this specific video, the AI video, and asking us if we
will do the same or how we — how we see this video, I just don’t have
anything to share at this time.  
  
Q    And just one more.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Does the President plan to serve all eight years?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  I’m not — I’m just not going to get ahead
of the President.  That’s something for him to decide.  I’m just not
going to get ahead of it.  And we’re — there’s a 2024 campaign. 
Anything related to that, I would refer you to that.  
  
Go ahead, Gerren.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  First, on President Biden and Vice President
Harris’s trip — meeting with the Tennessee Three yesterday: One of my
colleagues asked Representative Justin Jones if he raised up the issue
of declaring gun violence a public health emergency.  Did that come up
in that conversation?  And is that something the President would
consider doing?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I will say this: I don’t have anything to share
about if that came up in the conversation, but I’ll say that the
President has been calling gun violence a public health epidemic.  He’s
been doing that for several years now, before even he became President. 
And he’ll continue to do so.  
  
You’ve heard many of us in this administration call the gun violence
that we’re seeing an epidemic — that we’re seeing in this country.   
  
But with respect to a legal declaration of a public health emergency,
the President’s team has looked into this and have done a little bit of
a dive in into this issue.  And based on their current analysis and ho-
— what they’ve been able to come up with, the legal grounds for
declaring gun violence a public health emergency is questionable, and it
would not actually provide any meaningful funds or authorities.   
  
So what we need — and we’ve been very clear about this — is we need more
funding for AF- — for AF- — ATF.  But we’re — but we don’t sec- — but we
don’t secure those funds through a public health declaration.  It just
doesn’t work that way.   
  
So we secure funds through the budget the President proposed.  He needs
more authority to ban assault weapons and require safer storage for
firearms.  And again, a public health emergency does not give them the —
that authority, and new le- — new legislation would — would be the way
to go here.   
  
Q    One other question.  On Uganda: Despite pressure from the
international community and often even global businesses, it seems like
President Museveni still intends to sign this bill into law.  He sent
the bill back to Parliament to make adjustments related to
rehabilitation.  Activists say it’s — it’s essentially conversion
therapy.  What is the White Hou- — how concerned is the White House on
these latest developments?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We ha- — we have grave concerns, and I think I’ve
spoken to — to this particular — particular act a couple of weeks
ago.   
  
Look, this bill is one of the most extreme anti-LGBTQ+ laws in the
world.  Human rights are universal.  You heard the President say this,
and he brings that up when he has meetings with world leaders just
across — across the globe.   
  
No one should be attacked, imprisoned, or killed simply because of who
they are or whom they love.  
  
So the U.S. is engaged with the Ugandan government at the highest level
on this issue.   
  
But to your question of if we have — if we have concerns, yes, we do
have grave concerns.  
  
Go ahead, Marek.  
  
Q    Thank you very much.  I have two questions.  First, on South Korea:
Is President Biden going to ask President Yoon to send weapons and
ammunition to Ukraine?  South Korea is a major producer of weapons and
has large stockpiles of ammunition.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I’m not going to get ahead of the discussions that
the two leaders are going to have.  We — so just to give you a little
bit of — of — of — of what — what the visit is going to look like, a
preview — I know there’s going to be a call tonight at 4:30 with NSC
directors, so certainly I would refer you to that call.   
  
But we appreciate the ROK’s actions in support of Ukraine, ranging from
backing san- — sanctions and export controls against Russia to providing
Ukraine with humanitarian and non-lethal assistance.  The ROK has also
taken steps to backfill U.S. supplies of key — key munitions to
Ukraine.  And we welcome any further support the ROK can give to
Ukraine.   
  
But certainly not going to get ahead of the two leaders and their
discussions that they will have in —  
  
Q    And one on —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — the next 36 hours.  
  
Q    — President Biden’s decision to run for reelection.  I’m not sure
if you can answer this question, but I’m wondering if the war in Ukraine
was a factor in his decision to run for reelection, and if so, in what
way it influenced his decision.  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I’m not going to get into the per- — the
President’s personal decision-making that he made.  Again, anything like
that, I would refer you to the 2024 campaign.  So I want to be very
mindful there.  But again, I’m not going to get into —  
  
Q    It’s a presidential decision though, and you keep calling it a
campaign decision.  The President has to decide to enter the campaign. 
That’s a presidential decision.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I would refer you to 2024 campaign.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  The Israeli Knesset is coming back into session
early next month.  What has, if anything, the White House done, given
the President’s stated concerns over the judicial overhaul proposal, to
use these past couple of weeks to try and push a compromise?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Can you say that one more time?  Sorry.  
  
Q    Yeah.  The Israeli Knesset is coming back into session at the
beginning of May.  And, obviously, the President has stated concern with
the judicial overhaul proposal that they’ll take up when they come back
into session.  Has the White House taken advantage of these past couple
weeks to push a compromise?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I think we’ve been, publicly and privately, pretty
consistent on — and you heard from the President as well — on what we —
on our concerns that — about the recent developments in Israel.  And —
and we’ve been very clear about calling for a compromise before moving
with these — with these reforms.   
  
And — and so, again, we’re going to continue to have those
conversations, again, privately and be pretty vocal publicly.  I just
don’t have anything to share on — on any private conversations that have
had — that have been — have had here at the White House or in the
administration more broadly.   
  
But again, we’ve been — we’ve been very clear about our concerns, and
we’ll continue to do so privately.  
  
Q    (Inaudible) please.  What it means “unfinished” when it comes to
(inaudible)?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hold on.  I’m just going to get around, guys.  Go
ahead.  Go ahead, Ed.  I’ll come to the back.  
  
Q    Thanks.  Thanks, Karine.  So Americans are seeing — when we talk
about the economy —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — in general, Americans are seeing energy prices up 24 percent,
including electricity, since President Biden took office.  Food prices
are up 18 percent in the last two years.  Manufacturing lost jobs for
the last two months in a row.  And inflation is outpacing wages for 26
months in a row.  How does the President then sell to the American
people to keep going with these economic policies?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, again, I’m going to be careful about 2024,
anything that’s related.   
  
Q    (Inaudible) —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I’m going to answer the question.  
  
Q    How about in the next year?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m going to — I’m going to answer your question. 
Just want to be — because you said “moving forward,” so I just want to
be very careful here.  
  
Look, the President always is very clear: When he talks about the
economy, he always says — one of the things that he says very frequently
is that when it comes to inflation, when it comes to lowering costs,
that is a priority for him.  And he has shown to do that.   
  
And if — you talked about inflation.  Annual inflation has fallen over
the last nine months.  It is moderating.  That is something that we have
seen from the data that — that has come out.   
  
Wages are higher than they were nine months ago, incomes are up, and
consumer spending is strong.  But he understands that American people
are still feeling, you know, some — some of what of the — of this
inflation — right? — still feeling some of the higher cost.   
  
But again, we’re doing the work.  We have laid out the President’s
economic policy, and you’ve seen it.  You’ve seen 12.6 million jobs have
been created since the President took office.  We’ve gained all the jobs
lost during the pandemic and created 3 million — 3 million more.  You
always ask me that question, so there goes your answer.  And
unemployment is nearly 50-year low, and Black unemployment is at a
record low.   
  
So we see that in the data that comes out pretty regularly — right? —
monthly.  And — and the President is going to continue doing the work. 
Again, understanding — understanding that some of — some Americans, many
Americans, are still feeling some of the high costs, which is why the
President has made this a priority.  
  
Q    So in his event this afternoon, with the union event, he says that
there’s more that can be done.  What is he doing right now?  What is
that “more” that he could be doing right now?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, look, he’s always going to make sure to take
action when it comes to — I don’t have any — I don’t have anything to
announce at this time of any actions that’s being taken.  But if you
look at the bipartisan infrastructure legislation, you look at the
Infla- — Inflation Reduction Act, you look at the CHIPS and Science Act,
these are pieces of legislation — historic legislation — that has
touched on the very things that you just laid out, right?  
  
We think about the CHIPS and Science Act bringing back manufacturing
jobs here; 800,000 manufacturing jobs have been brought ba- — brought
back under this administration.  You think about creating good-paying
jobs; the President talked about that.  He talked about 12.6 million
jobs being created.   
  
That’s going to — that’s going to continue under the bipartisan
infrastructure legislation.  That’s going to continue under the
Inflation Reduction Act.  That’s going to continue under the CHIPS and
Science — Science Act.  
  
So, again, there are — there are things that this President has done
that is going to have long-lasting effect.  And that’s going to be
important to millions and millions of Americans and American families
across the country.   
  
I’m going to go to the person behind you.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Thank you.  Senator Tester a couple of hours ago
announced he’s going to be blocking the slate of nominees for the Board
of Directors of Amtrak, which is, I know, the Pre- — one of the
President’s very favorite agencies.  Does the White House have any
comment on that and his concerns about there not being nominees for the
Board who are from more rural states?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I actually have not seen Senator Tester’s — that
story on Senator Tester.  
  
Look, we’re going to continue — the commitment that we have here is
going to continue.  Our Office of Leg Affairs and other offices here at
the White House have those conversations with members of the Senate when
it comes to nomination, when it comes to pushing important, key roles in
nominations.   
  
And so, don’t have anything to read out on how we’re going to move
forward.  But we have those discussions all the time and try to garner
support for things that really matter not just to the President but to
the American people as well.  
  
Q    And are you — and would you say the same about the Secretary of
Labor nominee?  Since the President was just at a — giving a speech to a
labor group earlier, is the same — does the same apply to the status of
the Labor —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, absolutely.  We are — we are confident in — in —
in her nomination as well.  She’s gotten a lot of — many labor — labor
organization has supported her nomination.  This is something that the
President is — is proud to have nominated her and is going to continue
to do the work that we need to do to get her to — to be the Secretary of
Department of Labor.  
  
And let’s not forget, as Deputy — as Deputy Secretary, she was able to
get all Democratic senators to — to move forward her nomination.  And
she stood alongside Secretary Walsh during these last two years to do
the incredible work; I just laid out the job creation that we were able
to do.  That was also because of the work that she was able to do with
the Sec- — with then Secretary Walsh.  
  
And so, look, we’re confident, and we’re going to continue to have those
conversation to make sure that happen.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  On foreign policy, when the President looks at
his foreign policy victories, does he want to see Ukraine becoming a
NATO member before the end of his first term?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, we’ve had con- — I’ve — I’ve answered this
question many times.  And so — look, that is going to be up to NATO and
the NATO Allies to decide.  The U.S. position, when it comes to NATO
accession, has been clear for decades.  We support an open-door policy
for NATO.  And any decision, again, has to be made by the membership
between NATO Allies and countries aspiring to join NATO.  
  
And what our focus is right now — we’ve been very clear on that — is to
make sure that the brave people of Ukraine who are fighting for their
freedom, fighting to defend their country have the economic assistance,
the humanitarian assistance that they need to push back against Russian
aggression.  
  
And we’ve been very consistent on that, being one of the leaders of that
this past — this past year.  
  
Q    Just to be clear, is it the President’s view that Ukraine belongs
to NATO?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just answered the question.  Our position as — our
U.S. position has been very clear.  When it comes to NATO accession, we
support an open-door policy, and that is a decision that is between NATO
Allies and the countries aspiring to be — to join NATO.  So I will not
get ahead of that.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Senate Democrats are preparing a vote this week on
the Equal Rights Amendment.  Senator Schumer makes the argument that the
Supreme Court’s ruling on abortion and on some various actions by the
states have left women with an uncertain future.  And he said that’s why
you really need to try to resurrect this amendment.  I just wanted to
hear the White House position on this.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.  The administration supports the Equal Rights
Amendment and has called on Congress to act swiftly.  In the United
States of America, no one’s rights should be denied on account of their
sex.  It is long past time to def- — definitively enshrine the principle
of gender equality in the Constitution.   
  
The President and this administration believe that gender equality is
not only a moral issue; the full participation of women and girls across
all aspects of our society is essential to our economic prosperity and
security and the health of our democracy.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    To the back, Karine?  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I’ll come to the back in a second.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    What’s — what’s the White House’s reaction to the police detective
who shot and killed Breonna Taylor getting hired by a sheriff’s office
that’s actually fairly close to Louisville, where the tragedy
occurred?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  So, look, I — I’m not able to speak about this
specific individual, but I want to reiterate what the President has said
himself when it comes to Breonna Taylor’s death.  It was a tragedy and a
blow to her family, her community, and also America more broadly.   
  
And the President has said repeatedly he believes that a key part of
building trust between law enforcement and the communities they serve is
ensuring that there’s accountability when we see an officer violate the
public trust.  That’s why he signed, as you know, the executive order to
enhance accountability at the federal level and why he continues to call
for Congress to pass the George Floyd Justice Policing Act to increase
accountability at all levels of policing.  
  
What he was able to sign, as you know, in his executive order, dealt
with the federal level, but we need legislation here so — to make sure
that this is, again, across all levels.  
  
Q    It seemed like the police misconduct database, which was in that
executive order, was put in for — for something like this, so that the
public would be able to —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — track where officers, you know, are — are moving various
departments, what have you, that have been accused of misconduct. 
What’s the status of that database?  Is it (inaudible)?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I know you — and I know, Zolan, you’ve asked me
this question before.  I just don’t have anything to share at this
time.  We’ll — we’ll let you know when there’s more information.  I just
don’t have anything at — at this time.  
  
All right, I’m going to go to the back.  Go ahead.  Go ahead.  Yeah.  
  
Q    Oh, thank you so much.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, wait.  Oh, okay.   
  
Q    Thank you.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  Go ahead, and then I’ll — go — go ahead. 
Whoever wants to go, go ahead.  
  
Q    Sorry.  I’ll — I’ll be quick.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, no, go ahead.  And then I’ll — go ahead.  Go
ahead.  Whoever wants to go, go ahead.  
  
Q    Sorry.  I’ll — I’ll be quick.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, no, go ahead.  
  
Q    Let me just ask you about the state visit tomorrow.  Are President
Yoon and President Biden going to discuss the $7 billion in frozen
assets held by Korea that belong to Iranian sources?  And what would the
U.S. like to see in exchange for those — those funds being unfrozen?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I’m just basically going to — to say what the
National Security Advisor said here yesterday.  I’m not going to get
ahead of the two leaders having a discussion.  There’s going to be a
backgrounder just to give a little bit more color of what we’re going to
see the next 24, 36 hours with the two leaders, but not going to get
ahead of what’s going to be discussed or what specifically the leaders
are going to lay out in front of each other.  
  
So we’re just going to be really mindful there and not get ahead of the
President.  
  
Q    Cool.  So we think that Putin might be going to South Africa in
August for the BRICS Summit.  Suddenly, South Africa’s president wants
out of the ICC and ostensibly out of the obligation to arrest him.  Has
the White House been in communication with Pretoria about this?  What do
you think that South Africa should do?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I’m not going to get into any — don’t have any
conversations to preview.  Certainly not going to get involved in or lay
out any private conversations that we have had — had or not had.  
  
Go ahead, Brian.  
  
Q    Thanks.  Thanks a lot, Karine.  Was the timing of Domestic Policy
Advisor Susan Rice’s departure at all related to the New York Times
article that came out last week with — that described marginalia that
she wrote on a memo about Title 42 impacting family separations —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No.  
  
Q    — where she wrote, “This is BS.”  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, not at all.   
  
Q    Was it accelerated by the — or that report coming out?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So let me just say: Her — her departure has been in
the works for some time.  She has said that she was going to do the
first two years of this administration.  She extended her stay here to
do this job.  
  
And I’ll just add that the suggestion that Ambassador Rice was aware of
concerns about migrant child labor is — is categorically false, and it
is not connected.  Again, she had always planned to — to do two years,
and she extended her stay here.  And we truly appreciate her service to
the American people.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    As you know, Japan is holding the G7 Summit next month.  And
there’s a concern over Korea’s coming — the President of Korea is coming
tomorrow.  There is a grow- — there is a concern of a growing number of
countries that are using — not using the dollar for transactions and a
concern that the U.S. dollar as the reserve currency is beginning to be
weakened.  Is there an understanding of that and some efforts to either
prevent that or at least address it?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any —  
  
Q    For example, Japan —     
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah?  
  
Q    — holds 1.1 trillion, the largest U.S. debt.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I totally understand the question.  I don’t want
to get ahead — I know you were talking about G7.  We haven’t really
announced at this time yet if the President is going to be attending, so
don’t want to get ahead of that.  
  
And just — well, I’ll just leave it there for now.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  I wanted to ask you: There was a story this
morning out in Politico about a law firm head buying property from
Justice Gorsuch a couple of days after he was confirmed for the Supreme
Court.  I wanted to ask if the President’s position on ethics or Supreme
Court ethics being mandatory has changed at all —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So —  
  
Q    — especially what we saw with Justice Thomas.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, we have not commented on Justice Thomas or — or
will not be commenting on Justice Gorsuch.  I’m just going to leave it
there and let the Supreme Court deal.  
  
Q    If I can also ask you about Title 42 lifting in a couple weeks. 
Where are you on preparing for that specifically for migrants coming
from Central America?  I know we’ve talked in here about the four
countries (inaudible).  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So the State Department and the Department of Homeland
Security will have more to share soon.  
  
As you know, the Department of Homeland Security shared their plan back
in January.  And we have seen from the data — we have seen the — that
the unlawful immigration is down.  And so, what they have put forth —
forth in their protocol and their processes is working.  But they will
have more to share in the upcoming days or weeks.  I just don’t want to
get ahead of — of what the two agencies are going to share.  
  
Q    One more question.  Who is running the Intergovernmental Affairs
now?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to share at this time.  
  
Okay.  Naomi, go ahead.  And then I’ll need to wrap it up.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Senator Elizabeth Warren is foreshadowing action to
confirm Pentagon nominees despite Senator Tommy Tuberville’s
abortion-related holds.  Is she liaising — liaising with the White House
about that at all?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, Senator Tuberville, as you know, is blocking
all Defense Department nominations, including promotions for more than
180 military leaders and nominees.  This political showmanship could
have a serious impact on our military readiness, on our military forces,
and our national security.   
  
And as the Secretary of Defense said, and I’ll quote, “a rip- — a ripple
effect through the force that makes us far less ready when we need to
be.”  It prevents officers from taking on their new commands and
deprives our force of leadership.  
  
It also affects military families and the kids of military officers and
what schools they go — go to because they won’t be able to change their
duty station.   
  
So, I know that Senate Republicans have also urged Senator Tuberville to
drop his hold.  We agree and would urge him to do so without delay.  
  
And I’ll leave it there.  I’ll see you guys on Thursday.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thanks, everybody.  
  
3:15 P.M. EDT
