---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-11-30'
modified_time: 2021-11-30 13:48:56-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/11/30/remarks-by-president-biden-at-signing-of-veterans-bills/
published_time: 2021-11-30 13:48:55-05:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at Signing of Veterans\_Bills"
---
 
South Court Auditorium

11:25 A.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I think it’s still morning.  Good morning,
everyone.  Please —  
  
AUDIENCE:  Good morning.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  — please be seated.  I feel like we have a quorum in the
House.  (Laughter.)  I miss the quorums.   
  
Vice President Harris, honored guests: I want to thank you all for being
here.  
  
Secretary McDonough, thank you for your work to ensure that the VA
provides world-class care and support for those who bore the battle.  
  
In a moment, I’m going to have the honor of signing into law four bills
that the women and men in this room had — have written and gotten passed
— bipartisan bills to honor one truly sacred obligation we have as a
nation.  We have many obligations, but we only have one truly sacred
obligation, in my view, and that is prepare those we send into harm’s
way, care for their families when they’re gone, and care for them and
their families when they’re home.   
  
And that’s a — that’s a lifetime commitment — a lifetime commitment the
nation owes to every one of our veterans, and it’s one that I embrace as
Commander-in-Chief.  For me, for Jill, and for the entire Biden family,
it’s also personal.  And it’s a commitment that we are helping to keep
today because of the leadership of the women and men in this room.  
  
The first bill I will sign requires the Government <s>Accounting</s>
\[Accountability\] Office to assess whether there are disparities
associated with race and ethnicity when it comes to VA benefits and
disability ratings.  
  
The weapons of war and the nature of the injuries they inflict don’t
differentiate based on race.  And the types of disabilities our veterans
carry with them don’t differentiate based on race.  So, the claims
approved and the benefits delivered should not differentiate either.  
  
We’ve heard from veterans of color who, upon returning home from their
service, are treated differently from white veterans.   
  
This bill will help us understand how this happened, keep better
records, expose the facts to the light of day, and allow us to do the
necessary work of making sure that all of our nation’s veterans — all of
them — are treated with equal dignity and equal equality throughout
their entire time, with the consideration being no different for — based
on race.  
  
And I want to thank and congratulate Senator Warnock, who is here in the
room, who has such a — has been a moral leader in the U.S. Senate since
he got here and leading on this issue; as well as Representative Takano,
who has done a yeoman’s work in the House.  
  
The second bill I’ll sign is the Hire Veterans Health Heroes Act.  
  
I want to thank Senator Hassan and Senator Braun, and Representatives
Rice and Latta for their work to help veterans find a way to continue to
serve their country.  
  
In 2019, the Inspector General of the VA reported that staff shortages
are one of the causes of the many problems we face in veterans’ care.  
  
And at the same time, with our military, there are nearly 200,000
dedicated, well-trained workers in nearly every area of healthcare —
doctors, nurses, pharmacists, technicians, and physical therapists.  
  
They understand the health challenges our women and men in uniform
face.  One thousand — actually, 13,000 of them are separated from active
duty every single year.  And we can do more by helping the separated
service members with backgrounds in healthcare continue their work in
healthcare in the federal government at places like the VA.  
  
This bill directs the Department of Veterans Affairs to create a program
to recruit military medical personnel who have less than a year left in
their service to work in federal healthcare occupations.  
  
This new program will build upon existing efforts to create a pipeline
for former military health professionals.  For both our veterans and our
military medical personnel, service isn’t just what they do, it’s who
they are.  
  
This bill is going to allow those professionals to continue their
service to each other and to our nation.   
  
And the third bill I will sign is the Colonel John M. McHugh Tuition
Fairness <s>and</s> \[for\] Survivors Act.  
  
For so many of our service members, their service to us is also about
building a better life for themselves and for their families.  And part
of keeping our commitment to them means helping survivors get the
education they need and to fulfill their dreams.  
  
This law — this law ensures that surviving spouses and children of
veterans who access the Survivors’ and Dependents’ Education Assistance
program are eligible for in-state tuition wherever they choose to go to
school, whether they live in that state or not.  
  
I want to recognize Senator Tester and Moran, Representatives Trone and
Moore for their work they’ve done on this bill.  
  
I also want to recognize a very special guest, Kelly McHugh Stewart. 
Kelly, where are you?  Kelly, thank you for being here.  Thank you for
being here.  And the — she is the daughter of Colonel John M. McHugh. 
For being here today, I want to thank her.   
  
Kelly, your dad was an American hero, but he wasn’t the only one in the
family who is a hero.  Your work — your work to share your story, to
advocate for other surviving families, and to turn loss into progress
and understanding is heroic as well.  So, we thank you for it.  Really,
thank you, personally.  
  
The final bill I’ll sign today is the Protecting Moms Who Served Act. 
The Senate was — and this — and in the Senate, it was championed by
Senator Tammy Duckworth — a mom, a veteran, a senator — and Senator
Susan Collins.  
  
And it also was one of the pet projects that the Vice President had when
she was a United States senator, and it sticks with her.  I don’t know
how many times I’ve heard about what we have to do — and she’s right.   
  
In the House, it was championed by a former nurse, Representative Lauren
Underwood, and Representative Bil- — Bilirakis.  
  
And our — and our country continues to have the highest maternal
mortality rates in the developed world, which is hard — it’s just —
especially among Black and Native American women.  
  
For many years, President — Vice President Harris has led the fight to
address this tragedy of maternal morali- — mor- — maternal mortality in
our nation.  
  
Her efforts in the Senate are reflected in our Build Back Better
framework and our investments in maternal health.  
  
We’re going to help expand and diversify the maternal health workforce,
improve mental — improve maternal mental health, and bolster
community-based programs, train providers, enhance research, and ensure
— ensure maternal care is coordinated.  
  
As we continue that work, we recognize that women veterans — and there
are more than half a million women veterans in this country under the
age of 40 — they face additional maternal health challenges.  
  
They frequently have other health risks that can complicate pregnancy. 
For example, expecting moms with physical disabilities or with mental
illness are much more likely to experience pregnancy-related
complications and have their children prematurely.  
  
This bill will commission a comprehensive study of maternal health
challenges facing veterans and will invest in maternal care coordination
programs at the VA.  
  
It’s an important step in making sure we meet the needs of American
mothers who have served.  
  
Earlier this month, I commemorated Veterans Day at Arlington National
Cemetery.  On that solemn day, we lay a wreath and renew our oath.  
  
But keeping faith with American veterans requires much more than laying
wreaths or making more oaths.  It requires acts.  That’s what you’ve
done today — all of you — acts.  That’s why I’m so proud to sign these
bills.  
  
May God bless you.  And may God protect our troops and their families.  
  
And now I’d like to invite the folks to the stage as I sign the first
bill.  Thank you very much.  Thank you.  
  
(The bills are signed.)  
  
11:38 A.M. EST 
