---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-11-22'
modified_time: 2021-11-22 22:07:25-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/11/22/remarks-by-president-biden-celebrating-friendsgiving-as-part-of-the-joining-forces-initiative/
published_time: 2021-11-22 22:30:00-05:00
title: Remarks by President Biden Celebrating Friendsgiving as Part of the Joining
  Forces Initiative
---
 
West Bay, Hangar 741  
Fort Bragg, North Carolina

6:05 P.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  I’m Jill Biden’s husband, Joe Biden, as you can see.  I
continue to follow her.

I just want you to know: When we first were elected Vice President,
there was a moment where on — her favorite day of the year is
Valentine’s Day, Doc.  And on Valentine’s Day — there is the Old
Executive Office Building; it’s directly across from the White House and
the Vice — the West Wing and the Vice President’s Office.  And you can
look in the windows there, and the press comes down those stairs all the
time. 

And so, she went and got a ladder.  My schoolteacher wife, my professor
— got a ladder.  And the windows are 16-feet high with all these panes. 
And at every pane, she put a — she got that stuff you use — the kids use
when they’re making posters in school, and she put on a heart.  And it
said, “Joe loves Jill.”  She did it on all five windows — four windows
across.

So, the press called and said — would I do Valentine’s Day with the — on
ABC.  And I said, “Okay.” 

And I got on, and we’re getting ready to do the event.  And what
happened was — they had the lights out, and we were knee to knee with
the reporter who was asking the questions.  And at the (inaudible), she
says — while we’re getting ready, she said, “Everybody says you and your
wife have a great love affair going.”  I said, “I think so.” 

And she looked at me.  I said — jokingly, said, “But everybody knows
that I love her more than she loves me.” 

And I swear to God, she looked at me and said, “That’s what everybody
says.”

So, you know, they also serve who only “stand and wait.”  Folks, I want
to thank not only you warriors, I want to thank your families because
they “stand and wait.”  And I know how hard it is to have someone who is
not at the table on a holiday — that are in harm’s way, that find
themselves out of the country.  And — because that’s what every time my
— our son was in Iraq for a year and, before that, in Kosovo. 

And you do so much, and your families give so much.  I really mean it,
from the bottom of my heart.

And you’re the finest — you’re the finest military that the world has
ever seen.  That’s not hyperbole.  You literally are.  You’re the finest
the world has ever seen.  And I’m so damn proud to be associated with
you. 

And it’s hard for me to even say it, but I’m — the thing that’s amazing
to me is how proud I am to be your Commander-in-Chief.  You are the most
incredible group of women and men — warriors — that we’ve ever seen.

And so, I just — we came because we wanted to thank you and tell you how
much we care.  And we wanted you to hear the engine of Air Force One, so
you couldn’t hear anything.  But — (laughter) — that was the main reason
we did that. 

But all kidding aside — thank you, thank you, thank you for all that you
do.  You’re the very best.  (Applause.)  You really are.  You are the
very, very best.  We owe you big.  Thank you.  (Applause.) 

Now where am I supposed to go?  I’m supposed to go back and — see how
she points?  Look at this: “Get back here.”  You can tell she’s a
professor, can’t you?  Well, I’m heading back, Jill.  I promise.  I’m
coming.  I’m coming.

Oh, I got to introduce the chaplain.  The chaplain is going to say a
prayer before we eat.

6:09 P.M. EST
