---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-11-30'
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/11/30/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-build-back-better-virtual-rally/
published_time: 2021-11-30 13:31:42-05:00
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Build Back Better Virtual\_Rally"
---
 
*Via Teleconference*

10:10 A.M. EST

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good morning, everyone.  Obviously, this has
been a year and a half, if not two years, of this phrase we rarely used
before: “You’re muted.  Unmute.”  So, take two. 

It is good to be with all of you this morning.  It’s good to be with
you.  So many friends and leaders.  And I can’t thank you enough for the
work you do every day and have done for years and years and years.

     You know, this group is a group of leaders who never give up in
believing in who we are as a people and believing in the capacity of our
country.

I want to just start by thanking all of you and for being true partners
to the President and me and our administration and for everything that
we have been doing this year.

Since the start of our administration, it has truly been an honor to
work alongside each of you, building on the years of work that we have
done before; and to meet with you and your members out in the state; and
to welcome you to meet with me in my Ceremonial Office.

But to all of you, again: Thank you for your leadership, for your
partnership, for all of the personal sacrifice that comes with it.

So, of course, we’re in the middle of the holiday season, and it’s a
time to take pride in the work we have done and to take stock in the
work that we have left to do, which I think is a large part of why we
are gathered this morning.

And I don’t need to tell you that this is a pivotal moment in our
nation’s history.  In many ways, the actions we are taking now
demonstrate who we are and embody our character as a nation.

In the United States, we are believers.  We are as bold as we are
determined to do big things.

Working together earlier this month — as has been mentioned, as we all
know — we passed a once-in-a-generation Bipartisan Infrastructure Law. 
This law will soon fix our roads and bridges and replace lead pipes, has
a huge impact on the children of our country, and will connect families
in urban and rural areas with affordable and accessible high-speed
Internet. And we will do all of this while creating good union jobs.

And as you all know, I lead the White House Task Force on Worker
Organizing and Empowerment.  As you’ve heard Joe Biden say many times,
our administration is determined to be the most pro-union administration
in our nation’s history.  And this law — this infrastructure law —
brings us one step closer.

At the same time, as significant as it is, as historic as it is, our
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is part one of two.  We must lower the
cost of living for working people in America.  And to do that, Congress
must pass our Build Back Better Act.

Our Build Back Better Act will lower childcare and healthcare costs,
housing costs, prescription drug costs, all for working families, for
folks who need — who need to be able to afford to live with dignity and
cover the basic and essential needs of themselves and their families.

It will strengthen registered apprenticeship programs so that more
workers can access good union jobs.  It will tackle the climate crisis
at its core.

The President and I are grateful to members of Congress who led its
passage on the House floor.  Now we call on the Senate to do the same. 

So, thank you for all the work you have done and the work you will do to
get our Build Better Act signed into law. 

And, you know, we all know there’s so much at stake.  And when we get
this done, it’s going to have an impact on our country — a positive
impact on our country for generations.

So, I will end where I began: The United States, we are believers.  We
have faith in one another.  We have faith in our nation.  We have faith
in our future.  And we believe a better future is possible.  So, we are
determined to build that future.

In this pivotal moment, let us believe in what we can do together. 

Thank you all, again.  May God bless you.  And may God bless America.

Take care, everybody.  See you soon.

                             END                10:15 A.M. EST
