---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-11-06'
modified_time: 2021-11-06 14:11:06-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/11/06/remarks-by-president-biden-on-passage-of-the-bipartisan-infrastructure-deal/
published_time: 2021-11-06 14:15:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Passage of the Bipartisan Infrastructure\_\
  Deal"
---
 
State Dining Room

9:59 A.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Good morning, folks.  Well, finally: Infrastructure
Week.  (Laughter.)  I’m so happy to say that: Infrastructure Week. 
(Laughs.)

Folks, yesterday — I don’t think it’s an exaggeration to suggest that we
took a monumental step forward as a nation.

We learned that our economy created 5.6 million jobs since we took
office on January 20th, reached an unemployment rate of 4.6 percent —
two full years earlier than the vast majority of economists projected
that would happen.  And we’re just — we’re just getting started.

We did something that’s long overdue, that long has been talked about in
Washington but never actually been done.

The House of Representatives passed an Infrastructure Investment and
Jobs Act.  That’s a fancy way of saying a bipartisan infrastructure bill
— a once-in-a-generation investment that’s going to create millions of
jobs modernizing our infrastructure — our roads, our bridges, our
broadband, a whole range of things — to turn the climate crisis into an
opportunity.  And it puts us on a path to win the economic competition
of the 21st century that we face with China and other large countries
and the rest of the world.

It’s going to create more jobs –- good-paying jobs, union jobs that
can’t be outsourced –- and they’re going to transform our transportation
system with the most significant investments in passenger rail — the
most significant investment in 50 years; in roads and bridges — the most
significant investment in 70 years; and more investment in public
transit than we’ve ever, ever made.  Period.

It’s going to modernize our ports and our airports — and I’m going to be
going to some of our ports next week — and to freight rail, increasing
that as a re- — I mean, look, we have a — we have bottlenecks across the
country.  We’re doing so much with this legislation.

It’s going to make it easier for companies to get goods to market more
quickly and reduce supply chains’ bottlenecks and now — and now and for
decades to come.

You know, and according to the economists, this is going to be — ease
inflationary pressure — not increase it, ease inflationary pressures by
lowering costs for working families.

It’s going to create jobs replacing lead and — lead water pipes so every
American, every child can drink clean water, improving their health and
putting plumbers and pipefitters to work.  How long have we been talking
about that?  It’s a gigantic issue. 

Jobs making high-speed Internet affordable and available everywhere in
America.  And you heard me say this before, and I apologize for
repeating myself, but no parent should have to sit in a parking lot of a
fast food restaurant so their child can do their homework because they
have no Internet connection except to go off of what’s going on at —
with — with that Internet connect from the fast food restaurant.

It’s going to make significant, historic strides to take on the climate
crisis.  Some of you were with me when I was recently in Scotland at the
COP26.  What did people keep asking me?  “Are you going to fund this? 
Are you going to fund it?  Are you really going to do what you’re
saying?  Are you…”  Well, this will go steps — get to along — a big step
along the way of doing it.

We’re going to build out the first-ever national network of charging
stations all across the country — over 500,000 of them — so that you can
make real au- – and, you know, auto companies made a commitment they
were going to make 50 percent of vehicles electric by 2030. 

So, you’ll be able to go across the whole darn country, from East Coast
to West Coast, just like you’d stop at a gas station now.  These
charging stations will be available.

It will get America off the sidelines on manufacturing — manufacturing
of solar panels, wind turbines, battery storage, energy and power for
electric vehicles from school buses to automobiles.

And it will reward companies for paying good wages and for getting
materials for their products from right from here in America and America
exporting and providing the rest of the world with these technologies
that are generated here in the United States as we go green around the
world.

It also makes historic investments in environmental clean-up and
remediation.  It builds up our resil- — our resilience against
superstorms and droughts and wildfires, hurricanes.  You know, you’ve
heard me say it — again, I apologize for repeating myself — but $99
billion in losses last year because of climate crises.  In America — $99
billion it costs the taxpayers of America.  It represents a blinking red
code out there for our nation.

Vice President Harris and I look forward to having a formal signing
ceremony for this bipartisan infrastructure soon.  Because — but
everybody is not — I’m not doing it this weekend because I want people
who worked so hard to get this done — Democrats and Republicans — to be
here when we sign it.

But we’re looking more forward to having shovels in the ground to begin
rebuilding America.

And for all of you at home who feel left behind and forgotten in an
economy that’s changing so rapidly, this bill is for you.

The vast majority of the thousands of jobs that will be created don’t
require a college degree.  They’ll be jobs in every part of the country
–- red states, blue states, cities, small towns, rural communities,
Tribal communities.

This is a blue-collar blueprint to rebuild America.  And it’s long
overdue.

I’m also proud that the House took a big step toward — forward to pass
my Build Better — my Build Back Better Act, which for the week of
November 15th, they’re going to be taking up.  They went through the
procedural mechanisms to assure that occurs.

Let me be clear: We will pass this in the House, and we’ll pass it in
the Senate. 

The Build Back Better Act will be a once-in-a-generation investment in
our people — getting America back to work by reducing the costs of
childcare and eldercare and getting millions of women back on the job
who have to stay home because they cannot afford the childcare or the
healthcare for their parents; providing universal pre-K for every three-
and four-year-old child in America and increasing their academic
achievement potential significantly — significantly; making healthcare
more affordable; lowering prescription drugs costs; and tax cuts for
working people and the middle class so that folks have just a little —
as my — I know you’re tired of hearing me saying — my dad used to always
say, as a middle-class guy, “We just need a little breathing room — a
little breathing room.” 

It’s going to reduce child poverty in this country, by the way, by 50
percent.  We’re already on track to do that with the Child Tax Credit we
passed in our last piece of legislation.

And this bill is fiscally responsible.  That’s a fancy way of saying
it’s fully paid for.

It doesn’t raise the deficit by a single penny.  And it actually reduces
the deficit, according to leading economists in this country, over the
long-term.  And it’s paid for by making sure that the wealthiest
Americans, the biggest corporations begin to pay their fair share.

Again, you’ve heard me say it a hundred times: Why should 40 — 55
corporations who made over $40 billion in the last couple years — why
should they pay zero in taxes?  I said I’m a capitalist, I’m not a
socialist.  But the bottom line is everybody should pay their fair
share.  Zero in taxes?  Come on.  
  
And so — and keep my campaign commitment: It does not raise a single
penny in tax for anyone making less than $400,000 a year.  Say it again:
Folks, no matter what they tell you, you’re going to find out this will
not affect your taxes one little bit in having to pay a penny more if
you make less than $400,000 a year.

Independent experts have concluded that these bills are the highest
value investments that we can make to grow the economy.

It’s going to create millions of jobs, increase productivity and wages,
and reduce cost, and generate significant and historic economic growth.

Again, the press is here — the poor people who have to follow me all the
time, they’ve heard me say this a lot: We got, out of the blue, a couple
week ago, a letter from 17 Nobel Prize winners in economics.  And they
determined that it will ease inflationary pressures — not create them,
ease them — ease those pressures.

And for the economy, it recognizes that we — we face an inflection
point.  For most of the 20th century, we led the world by a significant
margin because we invested in our people.  We invested in ourselves.

You’ve heard me say it a thousand times: Jill would say — my wife says,
“Any — any country that out-educates us is going to outcompete us.”  We
invested in education.  We invested in health.  We invested in things
that affect people’s opportunities to succeed.  
  
We built an Interstate Highway System, which led to the best roads,
bridges, airports, and transit systems in the world.

These are the arteries of commerce that have moved goods from coast to
coast quickly; that’s why people decide to build facilities here in the
United States.  We empowered our companies to outcompete the world.  And
we created jobs and untold opportunities for our people to travel, to
live, and to work.

But somewhere along the way, we stopped investing in ourselves.  We
stopped investing in our people.  And we’ve risked losing our edge as a
nation.  I don’t even think it was conscious, but that’s just what’s
happened.  And China and the rest of the world are moving to catch up
and, in some cases, in certain areas, move ahead.

Our infrastructure used to be rated the best in the world. 

Today — today, according to the World Economic Forum, we rank 13th in
the world.  The United States of America ranks 13th in the world in
infrastructure.  Come on.

We used to lead the world in educational achievement. 

Now the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development — the OECD
— ranks America 35th out of 37 major companies when it comes to
investing in early education for childhood education and care.  Think
about that.

Those you who are parents know: You start kids early.  You give them the
basics.  You give them the material to be able to go on. 

It’s simply unacceptable that we rank 35.

We’re now turning it around in a big way.  Any single element of this
plan would be a fundamental change in America, but taken together
they’re truly consequential. 

Again, I have — I’ll have more to say this — about this soon.  But when
we have the bill singing, I’ll be able to thank everyone in the Senate
and the House for their leadership.  I hesitate to start now; I’ll leave
somebody out and I want to make sure everyone who was a part of this
gets credit for it. 

But, for now, I want to quickly thank members of the House who worked so
hard to get some of this done: Speaker Pelosi, Steny Hoyer, Jim Clyburn,
progressive leaders, moderate leaders, Democrats, Republicans — they, in
fact, worked together. 

It was like — as I saw — someone told me on my staff this morning that
on one of the programs this morning they said, “Well, we finally — the
sausage is made.”  You know — well, you know, it is a process.  You all
know it.  You’re all pros.  You cover it. 

The American people have made clear one overwhelming thing, I think —
and I really mean it — all the talk about the elections and what do they
mean and everything: They want us to deliver.  They want us to deliver. 
Democrats, they want us to deliver. 

Last night, we proved we can.  On one big item, we delivered. 

I want to close with this: For much too long, working people in the
middle class of this country have been dealt out of the promise of
America.  That sounds like hyperbole, but I really mean it. 

Some of you may remember, when I ran, I was legitimately — I mean, it’s
appropriate to be criticized.  I don’t mean — I’m not complaining about
being criticized.  But when I said I was running for three reasons: one,
to restore the soul of America, bring back some decency and honor in the
way in which we dealt with one another. 

The second reason was to rebuild the backbone of the country: the middle
class.  The — the wealthy are value added to the country, but they
didn’t build the country.  Hardworking middle-class folks are the ones
that built this country.  They’re the ones that built — the middle class
— they’re the ones that built the backbone of the country. 

And what I decided to do was I said we have to begin to build an economy
from the bottom up and the middle out.  Well, folks, that hadn’t been
the case.  I’m so tired about trickle-down economic theory that I’m
trickled out. 

The idea that — and I asked the rhetorical question: When the middle
class has done well, when have the wealthy have — never have — when
during any time have the wealthy not done extremely well as well? 

I mean, come on.  We got to give working folks a real chance — a
chance. 

And so, folks, there’s an awful lot more to say about this.  But today,
I think, is a — it’s just been a good day.  You know, it’s time to deal
folks back in. 

You know, as you’ve heard me say it again — I make no apologies for it:
These bills — these bills, in fact, are — the two bills we’re talking
about — Build Back and — the Build Back Better bill, which we’re going
to be working on now, and this bill are all designed to give ordinary
people a fighting chance to begin to sort of level the playing field
just a little bit, not punish anybody. 

I’ve long said it’s never ever been a good bet to bet against the
American people.  Never.

And that — what it really means is: Bet on the American people.  Give
them a shot.  Give them a shot.  That’s what these plans do.  They bet
on average Americans.  They believe in America.  They believe in the
limitless capacity of the American people. 

If you look at the history of the journey of this nation, what becomes
crystal clear — not a joke: Given half a chance, the American people
have never ever, ever, ever, ever, ever let their country down. 

We’re about giving them a full chance this time.  And when we do,
there’s going to be no stopping us. 

I truly believe that 50 years from now, folks are going to look back and
say, “This was the moment, this was the period, this year and the next
couple years, when America decided to win the competition of the 21st
century, to get in the game full bore.”

So, my message to all the American folks is: Let’s get to work.  Let’s
get this done. 

God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.

And I’ll take a few questions.

Q    Mr. President, to what extent did the election results help propel
this bill to the finish line?  And how did — how were you able to bridge
the gap last night between moderates and progressives?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, you know, I’m not being facetious with the answer
I’m about to give you, but I don’t — I’m not going to be a
prognosticator and make a judgment on what — how the election could or
would have been different.  Each state is different.  And I don’t know. 

But I think the one message that came across was: Get something done. 
It’s time to get something done.  Stop — you all stop talking.  Get
something done. 

And so, I think, again, that’s what the American people are looking
for.  And I think it’s a legitimate — and when you ask how we were able
to bring things together — (laughs) — well, you know.  (Laughs.)  (Makes
the sign of the cross.) 

Look, all kidding aside, I have — I believe everybody in the process is
entitled to be treated with respect.  And I’ve been doing this kind of
thing my — doesn’t mean — it’s not all me, but I’ve been doing this
thing my whole life.  I’ve been able, in the Senate, to put things
together when people said they couldn’t be put together just by making
the overwhelming point that — that you can’t have all you want.  It’s a
process.  There’s no one piece of legislation that’s going to solve
everybody’s problems. 

So, I spent a lot of time, as you probably heard, with a lot of people —
both political parties and within my party — saying, “Look, let’s — if
we move on what’s here in this bill — that is the infrastructure bill —
it is a game changer in a half a dozen ways.  The fact that it has too
much of what you don’t want or more than you — and not enough where you
don’t want — just, let’s — let’s be reasonable.  Let’s take a look at
this.  Let’s do what we all agree, at a minimum, is in the interests of
the American people.  And if you want to add more, we can fight about it
later, or you want to subtract some of it.” 

I have never voted for a major piece of legislation — an omnibus bill —
that I was for every piece of it.  People say, “Well, how do I explain
this?”  I said, “Well, you explain to the American — your constituency —
and I’m not telling you how to do it.  But you go home and say, ‘This is
what it did.  It had one piece in here.  There’s not enough money for
this, or there’s too much money for that.  But, overall, this has been a
gigantic benefit to my con- — to my congressional district.'” 

And so, I spent a lot of time taking questions from both. 

And, by the way, everybody, at the end of the day — I have to admit —
dealt with me fairly.  I mean, they were — they were — we — and part of
the process — and this is probably more than you need to know — but part
of the process is getting to know all of the people personally again. 
I’ve been out of government for four years.  I used to do this every
day.  I used to know about everybody’s district I was working with when
I was Vice President.  I know — I know them and call up and say, “Hey,
Charlie or Harry or Mary.”  Right? 

And so, it’s getting to know a lot of these people, to build trust. 
Because everything I say I’m going to try to do, I will try to do.  And
I think that’s also part of the process.  And so, hopefully it can
continue.

Q    Mr. President — you just alluded to it there, Mr. President.  Two
questions.  You are arguably the most legislatively experienced
President we have ever seen.  But to get this first agenda item over the
finish line, you needed Republican votes. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Sure. 

Q    You are not going to have Republican votes, though, for your Build
Back Better Agenda.  Isn’t it doomed?

And then my second question, Mr. President.  OPEC Plus has snubbed your
call to pump more oil.  When will you respond with an SPR release? 

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, first of all, I’m not anticipating that OPEC would
respond, that Russia and/or Saudi Arabia would respond.  They’re going
to pump some more oil, whether they pump enough oil is a different
thing. 

There are other — are — there other tools in the arsenal that we have to
deal — and I’m dealing with other countries; at an appropriate time, I
will talk about it — that we can get more energy in the — in the
pipeline, figuratively and literally speaking. 

And I don’t start off with any assumption that I can’t get anybody to
vote for anything.  And so, I don’t — I mean that sincerely. 

I think what’s going to happen is, we’re going to see what happens in
the Senate, and whether or not I need only Democratic votes, which is
likely — which is the likely outcome.  And the question is: Can I get
all of those votes?  This is a process. 

And all along, you told me I can’t do any of it anyway.  From the very
beginning.  No, no, come on, be honest.  Okay?  You didn’t believe we
could do any of it.  And I don’t blame you.  Because you look at the
facts, you wonder, “How is this going to get done?” 

But I think — I think there’s a — I think there’s a dawning on the part
of a lot of people — a whole elective office that if you get some of
this done, things are better for them as well as everybody else. 

And I’m sure there’s some calculations saying, “Well, if Biden gets this
other bill, then he’s going to be moving too fast and it’s going to hurt
— you know, the Democrats are going to be doing too well.”  That’s why I
think we have to try to figure out how to make the case across the
board, as to — there’s a lot of things we have to tackle yet.  So.

Q    Have you gotten assurances from moderate Democrats in the House and
Senate that they are going to vote for your Build Back Better plan now
that what they really wanted — the infrastructure bill — has passed? 

THE PRESIDENT:  You know I’m not going to answer that question for you,
because I’m not going to get into who — what made what commitments to
me.  I don’t negotiate in public.

But I feel confident — I feel confident that we will have enough votes
to pass the Build Back Better plan.

Q    What gives you that confidence?

THE PRESIDENT:  Me.  (Laughter.)

Q    Mr. President, you were forced to scrub paid family leave from your
framework a couple of weeks ago —

THE PRESIDENT:  I’m sorry?

Q    You were forced to pull paid family leave from the framework you
released a couple of weeks ago.  The House is putting it back in.  Can
you keep it in this bill when it makes its way to the Senate?

THE PRESIDENT:  Time will tell.

Q    I’d like to ask you, real quick, sir: Where do you stand?  You said
last week that this report about migrant families at the border getting
payments was “garbage.”

THE PRESIDENT:  No, I didn’t say that. 

Q    You said —

THE PRESIDENT:  Let’s get it straight.  You said everybody coming across
the border gets $500- — $450,000.

Q    So, the number was what you had a problem with.

THE PRESIDENT:  The number is what I was referring to.

Q    Okay.

THE PRESIDENT:  Now, here’s the thing —

Q    Sure.

THE PRESIDENT:  If in fact, because of the outrageous behavior of the
last administration, you were coming across the border, whether it was
legal or illegal, and you lost your child — you lost your child — it’s
gone — you deserve some kind of compensation, no matter what the
circumstance.

What that will be, I have no idea.  I have no idea.

Yes.

Q    You’re okay with DOJ negotiating a settlement?

Q    Mr. President, two questions.  You referred to China twice in your
comments, and yet we haven’t heard anything about the China bill, which
is really the third element of what you’re hoping to do here.

It’s been through the Senate but has not yet come up to the House.  And
it would seem that that is the one that is more key to our
competitiveness.  So I was wondering if you would talk a little bit
about that. 

And then also tell us how you’re feeling right now about the Iran deal,
since it looks like you’re going to go back to discussion at the end of
the month. 

But the Iranians have made it pretty clear at this point: They don’t —
they plan to rip up most of what was done so far.  So, are you into your
plan B at this point?

THE PRESIDENT:  I’m not going to comment on Iran now. 

And — and the China bill you’re referring to — everything in good time. 
We got to get this through.  We got to get this through.  The next thing
is Build Back Better.

Q    So, when do you plan to do that?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, in order.

I’m going to take one more question, and then —

Q    Mr. President — can I follow up on paid leave, Mr. President?  Sir,
may I follow up on paid leave?

Q    (Cross-talk.) 

THE PRESIDEN:  (Laughs.) (The President covers his eyes and points
towards the press.)  (Laughter.)

Q    Mr. President, Democratic Congresswoman Abigail Spanberger said of
your presidency this week: “Nobody elected him to be FDR.  They elected
him to be normal and stop the chaos.”  How do you view your mandate
after Tuesday’s election losses for Democrats?  And is she wrong?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, Abigail is a friend.  We had a long talk.  She
joked and said that I have a picture — she said I have a picture of
Roosevelt hanging in my office — her office, okay?

I don’t intend to anybody but Joe Biden.  That’s who I am.  And what I’m
trying to do is do the things that I ran on to do.  And, look, people
out there are — ordinary, hardworking Americans are really, really —
been put through the wringer the last couple years, starting with COVID.

COVID has disrupted almost every family one way or another, whether it’s
wearing a mask or losing a family member.  You know, 750,000-plus
Americans dead — 750,000.

And so, people are worried.  People are also worried about, you know,
coming up — they don’t — understandably.  “Why is the price of — of
agricultural products — and when I go to the store, why is it higher?”

What — like, for example, if I had — if we were all going out and having
lunch together and I said, “Let’s ask whoever the — whoever is at the
next table, no matter how — what restaurant we’re in — have them explain
the supply chain to us.”  You think they’d understand what we’re talking
about?

They’re smart people.  But supply chain — “Well, why is everything
backed up?”  Well, it’s backed up because the people who supply the
materials that end up being on our kitchen table or in our — in our fam-
— our life — guess what?  They’re closing those plants because they have
COVID.  They’re not —

And so, it’s a complicated world that people are facing.  We’ve never
faced anything like this before.  I mean, I’m not saying it’s the worst
of every time in American history, but we never faced anything this —
this, sort of, defiant of understanding of what’s going on. 

And you can understand why people are upset.  And I — whether you have a
PhD or you’re — or you’re working, you know, in a restaurant, it’s
confusing.  And so, people are understandably worried.  They’re
worried. 

And so, all I can say is: What I’m going to try to do is explain to the
American people, as best I can —

And, by the way, you all write for a living.  I haven’t seen any one of
you explain the supply chain very well.  No, no, I’m not being
critical.  I’m being deadly earnest.  When your editor says, “Explain
the supply chain.”  Okay?  “Lots of luck in your senior year,” as my
coach used to say.  (Laughter.)

But — but I sincerely mean it.  This is a confusing time — a confusing
time.  Think of all those children — all those children who may have
lost more than a year of education by only being out one semester. 

Think of all that’s going on, in terms of access to everything from —
when you go back to college, if you’re in college — you go back to
college — wear — you have to wear your mask or who’s your roommate. 
What — I mean, this is a confusing moment.

And it seems to me that my job as the President of the United States is
to try to figure out — myself, as well — what is most needed to put
people at ease and let them know there’s a way through this.  There’s a
way through this.

The world has never been here before.  That sounds like hyperbole, but
think about it.  Think about it.  This truly is one of those inflection
points in history.  All the pieces on the board are moving, both in
terms of the — the relationships among and between nations, as well as
the pieces about what employment future people have.  How do we do this?

And so, this is a confusing time.  But I promise — I promise the
American people: I have one focus, “How do we give you some breathing
room?  How do we get you to the point where we take pressure off you so
you can begin to get back to a degree of normality and we move to a
different place?” 

And this time when we move — and, by the way, everybody internationally
uses “Build Back Better” now.  When I used the phrase initially, people
looked at me like, “Build Back Better?”

Well, what it means — we’re the only country in the world, gone through
a crisis, to go through a crisis, and come out better than we were be- —
before the crisis occurred.  That’s building back better than it was
before. 

And so, this is a process.  And I just — you know, we’re going to see. 
Take it every day, every moment at a — you know, one moment at a time. 

I could take — I’m going to get in real trouble.  This is the last
question I’m taking.  You can decide who I’m pointing to.  (The
President closes his eyes and points towards the press.)  (Laughter.)

Q    Mr. President, when can Americans expect to see the impact of the
infrastructure bill?  And when do you think the Build Back Better bill
will be passed — by Thanksgiving, Christmas?

THE PRESIDENT:  I don’t want to make your job easier.  (Laughter.)  I
don’t want to give you — I know the answer exactly when it’s going to be
passed.  (Laughter.)  And I know exactly how it’s going to — (laughs).

Q    But when can Americans see the impact from this bill?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, they’ll see the effects of the bill — this bill —
probably starting within the next two to three months.  As we get things
— shovels in grounds and — in the ground — and people being told they’re
going to be working doing the following things.  And things are going to
move. 

It is a bill that’s paid out over a number of years.  And so — but the —
the biggest thing it does is give people go — you’re going to have
people going, “Oh, okay.  I guess I’m going to be able to keep my job,”
or “I’m going to be able to get — get a job doing that,” or “I’m
moving.”

So, I can’t tell you that — any of that with precision.  If anybody can,
then they ought to go into fortunetelling.  But it’s going to be — it’s
going to be a provision — a bill that is going to have a profound impact
over time. 

It’s a little like — and I’ll end with this — a little like when I — we
first came to office.  And a lot of this has to do with this lady right
here, the Vice President.  It’s not — I didn’t — it’s not all me.  I
feel — I used to stand there and have to listen to the President.  She’s
got to stand and listen to the President, but she deserves an enormous
amount of the credit. 

But here’s the deal.  When we came to office, we were told virtually by
everybody, “You can’t get this economy moving.”  Remember?

Remember when they told me there was no way I could get, you know, 2
million shots a day into people’s arms in the beginning?  “There’s no
mil- — no way to get 200 million.”  They said there’s no way I could get
the vaccine.  “There’s no way, no way, no way.”

It’s understandable.  It’s not — it’s — I’m not criticizing people who
said that, because these things have never been done before.  It’s never
happened before.  And so, we got to work.

I agree I am a congenital optimist, but it’s because — I really mean
this — I have enormous faith in the ingenuity and the integrity of the
American people.  I’m not joking.  I have enormous faith in them. 
Because I’m convinced we’re the most unique country in the world not
because we’re all so smart and the rest, but because we’re the only
country that’s organized based on an idea.

We really mean it.  We haven’t lived up to it, but, “We hold these
truths to be self-evident.  All men and women are created equal.” 
Basically, give everybody a shot.

And I really have faith in the American people.  I know we’re divided, I
know how mean it can get, and I know there are extremes on both ends
that make it more difficult than it’s been in a long, long time. 

But I’m convinced: If we let the American people know that we’re
committed to enhancing their ability to make their way, we’ll all do
better. 

Thank you all so very much.

10:30 A.M. EDT
