---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-11-11'
modified_time: 2021-11-11 14:12:55-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/11/11/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-national-veterans-day-observance/
published_time: 2021-11-11 14:30:00-05:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at the National Veterans Day\_Observance"
---
 
Arlington National Cemetery  
Arlington, Virginia

11:57 A.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Thank you, thank you.  Thank you, Mr.
Secretary. 

Folks, being President of the United States, you are afforded many
opportunities to try to express your love, commitment, and admiration
for the American people.  And I must say to you that the single greatest
honor I’ve been afforded as President is to stand before so many of you,
those Medal of Honor winners out there, and talk about Veterans Day and
veterans. 

I want to welcome all the Cabinet members and honored guests joining us
today, including the father of our Secretary of State, who served in the
Army Air Corps during World War Two, Ambassador Donald Blinken, whose
birthday is today.  Happy Birthday.  (Applause.)  Thank you for your
service to our country. 

And I just want to tell you, I know you’re a little younger than I am,
but, you know, I’ve adopted the attitude of the great Negro — at the
time, pitcher in the Negro Leagues — went on to become a great pitcher
in the pros — in the Major League Baseball after Jackie Robinson.  His
name was Satchel Paige. 

And Satchel Paige, on his 47th birthday, pitched a win against Chicago. 
(Laughs.)  And all the press went in and said, “Satch, it’s amazing — 47
years old.  No one’s ever, ever pitched a win at age 47.  How do you
feel about being 47?”  He said, “Boys, that’s not how I look at it.” 
They said, “How do you look at it, Satch?”  He said, “I look at it this
way: How old would you be if you didn’t know how old you were?” 

I’m 50 years old and the ambassador is 47. 

But all kidding aside, Mr. Ambassador, thank you for your service during
World War Two, as well as your service as an ambassador.  And thank you
for raising such a fine man, Tony Blinken, our Secretary of State.

To all our veterans, past and present, we thank you, we honor you, and
we remember always what you’ve done for us. 

I’d like to recognize one of our national heroes who is here today:
Medal of Honor recipient, Mr. Brian Thacker.  During the Vietnam War,
then-First Lieutenant Thacker put the safety of his fellow troops above
his own, providing cover fire against an attacking enemy, and even
calling in artillery fire on his own position so our forces had a better
chance to withdraw.

Wounded, unable to leave the area, he evaded capture for eight days
until finally federal — friendly forces retook the position.  Yours is a
remarkable story; it will never be forgotten.

And we’ll also never forget the stories of American leaders and icons
we’ve lost recently who shaped our nation in ways that are hard to
measure.

I’ve lost, like many of you, three good friends in the last month:

General Colin Powell, a child of immigrants, who grew up to be the joint
— Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Secretary of State.  A man
who was a friend but who earned the universal respect of the Americans
and people for his leadership in uniform and out. 

And a guy who became good friends in many times I was in and out of Iraq
as a Vice President and a senator — General Ray Odierno, who I met
multiple times in Iraq, and who did so much to help get us to where we
are today and who always put the troops and its veterans first.  It was
an honor to have my son, Major Biden, serve under his command at the
time. 

And my friend and colleague — who was mentioned already — the United
States Senator, Max Cleland, who, as a triple amputee, knew the cost of
war as well as anyone could ever know it and went on to champion the
dignity and care of America’s wounded veterans throughout his life. 

We lost all three of these incredible veterans in the last several
weeks, and our hearts go out to their families.

These are stories that inspire generation after generation of Americans
to step forward to defend our nation.

And, today, we pay homage to the unrelenting bravery and dedication that
distinguish all those who have earned the title of “American veteran.”

It’s an honor that not only a small percentage of Americans can claim,
and one that marks those who are able to claim it as brothers and
sisters.  It’s a badge of courage that unites across all ages,
regardless of background — because to be a veteran is to have endured
and survived challenges most Americans will never know.

You’ve come through the trials and testing, braved dangers and
deprivations, faced down the tragic realities of war and death. 

And you’ve done it for us.  You’ve done it for America — to defend and
serve American values, to protect our country and our Constitution
against all enemies, and to lay a stronger, more secure foundation on
which future generations can continue to build a more perfect union. 

Each of our veterans is a link in a proud chain of patriots that has
stood in the defense of our country from Bunker Hill to Belleau Woods,
Gettysburg to Iwo Jima, the Chosin Reservoir to the Kunar Valley.

Each — each understood the price of freedom, and each shouldered that
burden on our behalf.

Our veterans represent the best of America.  You are the very spine of
America, not just the backbone.  You’re the spine of this country.  And
all of us — all of us — owe you.

And so, on Veterans Day and every day, we honor that great debt and
recommit ourselves to keeping our sacred obligation as a nation to honor
what you’ve done.

We have many obligations to our children, to our elderly, to those truly
in need.  But I’ve gotten in trouble way back when I was a young senator
for saying we only have one truly sacred obligation.  We have many
obligations but one truly sacred obligation: to properly prepare those
and equip those who we send into harm’s way and care for them and their
families while they’re both deployed and when they return home.  This is
a lifetime sacred commitment.  It never expires.

And for me and for Jill and for the entire Biden family: It’s personal. 

When Beau was deployed to Iraq, after spending six months in Kosovo as
an Assistant U.S. Attorney trying to help — he was trying to set up a
criminal justice system, I got a call from him one day.  He said, “Dad,
what are you doing Friday?”  And I said, “What do you need, hon?  I’m —
what do you need?”  He said, “I’d like you to pin my bars on.”  I said,
“What in the heck have you done?”  He said, “Someone’s got to finish
these wars, dad.”  True story. 

Jill and I learned what it meant to pray every day for the safe return
of someone you love.  So many of you have done that.

Our grandkids learned what it meant to have their dad overseas in a
warzone instead of back at home, for a year, tucking them into bed and
reading that story every night.  Thousands of Americans — tens of
thousands have had that experience. 

As the English poet John Milton wrote, “They also serve who only stand
and wait.” 

So, to all the mothers and fathers, sons and daughters, spouses — all
those who stand alongside our veterans — and their families, caregivers,
survivors: You are the solid steel spine that bears up under every
burden, the courageous heart that rises to every challenge. 

We’ve asked so much of you for so long, and our nation is grateful.

For two decades, the lives of our service members and their families and
veterans have been shaped by the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Since 9/11, hundreds of thousands of Americans have served.  So many are
still serving today in harm’s way, and we cannot forget them.

The American people are forever grateful and in awe of what you’ve
accomplished.

But in fulfilling their mission, so many veterans and their families and
caregivers have been through hell.  Some facing deployments after
deployment, spending months and years away from their families, missing
birthdays, the anniversaries, and <s>collections</s> \[celebrations\].

I remember one of the last times I flew into Iraq, in the so-called
“Silver Bullet.”  I remember walking up to the cockpit.  And the
crewmasters along with the pilots were up there, and I said, “How many
of you is this your first tour?”  No one raised their hand.  There were
five people.  “Second tour?”  No one raised their hand.  “Third tour?” 
Two raised their hand.  “Fourth tour?”  Two raised their hand. 
“Fifth?”  One raised their hand.

Folks, on Veterans Day we have to always remember that there’s nothing
low-risk or low-cost about war for the women and men who fight it.

I carry with me, in my pocket, every single day — I have my staff check
with the Defense Department — on the back of my schedule I have U.S.
daily troops in Afghanistan, killed and wounded; U.S. daily troops in
Iraq, killed and wounded.  
  
<s>52,323</s> \[53,323\] — not “roughly 53,000” — every one of these
individuals has a family, has a unit at home.  53,323 American
servicemen and women wounded in the conflicts of Iraq and Afghanistan;
7,074 gave their lives — the last full measure of their devotion.

Untold thousands more returned home — as our Secretary can tell you —
with unseen psychological wounds of war, the enduring grief borne by our
Gold Star families.

These are the costs of war that they’ll carry — we’ll carry as a nation
for decades to come.

And to all veterans, service members, their families, caregivers,
survivors: I want you to know that our administration is going to meet
the sacred obligation that we owe you.

We’re going to work with Congress — Republicans and Democrats together —
to make sure our veterans receive the world-class benefits that they’ve
earned, and meet the sacred — the specific care — specific needs that
they each individually need.

That means expanding presumptive conditions for toxic exposure and
particulate matter, including Agent Orange and burn pits.

We’re going to keep pushing on this front to be more nimble and
responsive.  We’re reviewing all the data and evidence to determine
additional presumptive conditions that make sure our veterans don’t have
to wait to get the care they need.

It also means prioritizing mental health care that is necessary to treat
the invisible wounds that so many of our veterans carry, including
pursuing our newly released comprehensive public health strategy to
reduce military and veteran suicides.

I want to say clearly to all our veterans: If you’re struggling — you’re
so used to never asking for anything.  If you’re struggling, reach out. 
Call the Veterans Crisis Line.

If you’re having trouble thinking about things, it’s no different than
if you had a wound in your arm. 

And mak- — it’s also making sure that the growing population of women
and LGBTQ+ veterans receive appropriate services and support.

And as we continue our efforts to defeat the pandemic and build back
better, it means keeping the needs of veterans front and center.

The American Rescue Plan included $17 billion to support VA’s COVID-19
response, to get vaccination — vaccine shots in arms as fast as
possible, and to fund programs that provide rapid retraining assistance
for veterans who may have lost their jobs in the pandemic, housing
assistance, debt forgiveness, and to invest in improving VA facilities
and the living conditions of vulnerable veterans.

Through Jill’s work of Joining Forces, we’re also working to support our
veterans and military families, survivors, and caregivers so they can
have what they need to thrive.  They deserve it.

As Secretary McDonough noted, this Veterans Day also marks the
centennial of one of our most hallowed American monuments:

the Tomb of the Unknowns.

A hundred years ago today, an American soldier of the first World War —
as the tomb says, “known but to God,” end of quote — completed the
voyage from an unidentified battlefield in France, over the rough
Atlantic seas, here to Arlington National Cemetery.

He lay in state under the Capitol Rotunda for two days on the same
plinth that held the body of Lincoln, as 90,000 Americans came to pay
respects.

On the final leg of his journey, he was escorted from the Capitol by the
President of the United States, the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court,
members of Congress, General Pershing, and the Chiefs of Staff — Medal
of Honor recipients all walking, as the Washington Post said, processing
“without parallel” to give honor due to American service mem- — American
service members — not just the anonymous soul today entombed in gleaming
marble, but the generations of Americans who dared all, risked all, gave
all for the cause of freedom.

To commemorate, in the wounds of the member — in the words of a member
of Congress who proposed the legislation creating the memorial, an
American warrior who, quote — and this is the quote — who “typifies…the
soul of America.”  You veterans are the soul of America.  America’s
soul.

It’s why our veterans have always fought, always been willing to put
themselves on the line.  That the first unknown lies now with his
brethren — unnamed warriors from later wars.

Fellow patriots who picked up the mantle of honor and made it their
burden.

And today, 100 years later, we keep a sacred watch over their graves. 
Generations of elite sentinels have taken the post, pledging their
“eternal vigilance.”

We lay wreaths.  We renew our oaths.  We stand in solemn awe of such
fidelity.  Because for us to keep faith with American veterans, we must
never forget exactly what was given to us, what each of them was willing
to put on the line for us.

And we must never forget that it is the mighty arm of the American
warrior — never bending, never breaking, never yielding — generation
after generation that secured for us the blessings of a nation that
still stands today as the beacon of

liberty, democracy, and justice around the world.

May God bless you all.  God bless all American veterans and those who
proudly earned that title.  And may God protect our troops.

Thank you.  (Applause.)

12:15 P.M. EST
