---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-11-15'
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/11/15/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-on-president-bidens-virtual-meeting-with-president-xi-of-the-peoples-republic-of-china/
published_time: 2021-11-15 19:04:27-05:00
title: "Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials on President\_Biden\u2019\
  s Virtual Meeting with President Xi of the People\u2019s Republic of\_China"
---
 
Via Teleconference

(November 14, 2021)

5:12 P.M. EST

MODERATOR:  Hi, everyone.  Thank you for joining us this evening.  I
want to kick us off with some ground rules.  This call will be on
background.  The speaker will be referred to as a “senior administration
official.”  And the contents of this call are embargoed until Monday,
November 15, at 5:00 a.m. Eastern Time.  Again, this call is on
background, attributed to a “senior administration official,” embargoed
until Monday, November 15th, at 5:00 a.m. Eastern Time.

Now, not for reporting, but for your awareness, our speaker today is
\[senior administration official\].  Again, by joining this call, you
are agreeing to these ground rules and these terms, and our speaker will
be hereinafter referred to as a “senior administration official.”

With that, I’ll turn it over to her for some opening remarks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  And thanks again to all of you
for joining us this evening.  As you’ve heard us say many times, the
United States and the People’s Republic of China are engaged in stiff
competition, and we believe that intense competition requires intense
diplomacy.  That’s why President Biden will meet with President Xi
virtually on Monday evening, November 15th, Washington time.

First, I just want to spend a minute talking about the intense
competition part and the context in which we are entering this meeting. 

Since day one of his administration, President Biden has been making
sure that we can outcompete China in the long term.  And over the past
10 months, we’ve been making sure that the United States is playing our
strongest possible hand.  We’ve taken substantial steps to strengthen
our competitive hand, primarily by investing in ourselves.  To that end,
just ahead of the meeting tomorrow, President Biden will sign into law a
once- in-a-generation, bipartisan investment in our infrastructure.

We’re also aligning more closely with our allies and partners to take on
the challenge that we face with China.  The meeting that President Biden
will have tomorrow with President Xi follows President Biden’s intensive
and impactful diplomacy in recent weeks, including in person at COP 26
in Glasgow, at the G20 in Rome, and with our allies and partners in the
Indo-Pacific region through ASEAN, the Quad, and beyond.  Together with
our allies and partners, we are writing the rules of the road that
reflect our interests and our values. 

But second, let me move to the intense diplomacy part that follows, that
is part of the — that’s part of our intense competition.  You know, we
believe that this leader-level meeting is important in order to
responsibly manage the competition.  And we think that that requires,
again, leader-level engagement.

This engagement matters because it’s about setting the terms of the
competition in two key areas: One, ensuring that the competition does
not lead to conflict.  As the President has said many times, we want to
ensure that competition remains in that space.  And he’s told a story
about how his father always would say that the only thing worse than an
intended conflict is an unintended one.  We know, as a responsible
global leader, that it’s important to keep channels of communication
open.  That’s why President Biden initiated this meeting.  We want to
make clear our intentions and our priorities to avoid misunderstandings.

The President will also make clear that we want to build commonsense
guardrails to avoid miscalculation or misunderstanding.  That’s how you
sustain responsible competition.

Second, we also think that this meeting is — that the meeting and our
intense diplomacy is about enforcing the rules of the road.  This is an
opportunity for President Biden to tell President Xi directly that he
expects him to play by the rules of the road, which is what other
responsible nations do.

On everything from technology to trade to international institutions and
international waterways, we have concerns about the PRC’s behavior.  And
as a part of that, alongside our allies and partners, we are focused on
writing and enforcing the rules of the road of the 21st century in a way
that is favorable to our interests and our values and those of our
allies and partners. 

And, of course, we’re taking steps to enforce those rules when Beijing
fails to uphold them in order to defend our interests and our values. 

So I know a lot of you are probably wondering what do we hope to get out
of this meeting.  And I would just set that context in two different
ways.  The first: This meeting is about our ongoing efforts to
responsibly manage the competition, not about agreeing to a specific
deliverable or outcome.  Setting the terms of the competition will be an
ongoing effort, and this meeting between the two leaders is one step in
that. 

We also believe that leader-level engagement, particularly given the
centralization of power in Xi Jinping’s hands, is essential to
facilitating effective communication between our two governments.

Since the September 9th phone call between President Biden and President
Xi, we’ve been able to have more substantive discussions in some areas,
both where our interests align, as well as day-to-day bilateral issues
where we continue to face challenges.  And we’re looking to advance
those discussions further through this meeting.

Let me just spend a minute on the agenda and what the two leaders will
talk about tomorrow. 

First, President Biden will discuss his approach to dealing with China. 
He’ll talk about the importance of bounding the competition with
commonsense guardrails, keeping communication lines open, and ensuring
our conversations are substantive and not symbolic, just to give a few
examples. 

He’ll also talk about his work to invest in the United States to ensure
that we are delivering in our own democracy here at home and working
with allies and partners — many of the things that I’ve already spoken
about that’s part of our broader approach.

Second, they’ll discuss areas of divergence between the United States
and China.  The President will be very direct and candid about areas
where we have concerns about China’s behavior.  And just to give a few
examples of what that includes: the threats we see to the rules-based
international order; unfair economic behavior, such as China’s
extraordinary state support of industry and its practice of economic
coercion; its human rights practices; China’s coercive and provocative
behavior with respect to Taiwan; its approaches with respect to
technology; and areas of strategic risk — for instance, in cyberspace,
as well as others. 

Third, they will discuss areas of potential alignment.  And even as we
compete vigorously with China, we know that as two large countries,
there are areas where our interests align and where we should be able to
work together.  That includes on transnational issues, such as climate
change and health security. 

But I think it’s important to note in this context that China taking
bold action on an existential crisis, like climate change, is in its
interest, and that is what responsible nations do.  This is not a favor
to us.  And while we may work together in these regards, that does not
either alter the nature of the bilateral relationship, and we very much
reject the linkage between cooperation on transnational issues and
bilateral relations. 

Lastly, I just want to spend a minute — because I’m sure many of you
have covered previous bilateral meetings between U.S. and Chinese
presidents — and I just want to say that our two countries are in a
fundamentally different place with each other than we have been in the
past.  And I’d encourage you to keep that in mind as you report on the
meeting. 

You know, we are seeking a steady state of affairs between our two
countries where we compete vigorously, where we push back on the many
areas of concern we have with the PRC, and where we coordinate on issues
where our interests align.  It’s a multifaceted dynamic, it’s complex,
and it does not have a historical parallel. 

I’d also like to emphasize that unlike previous approaches to policy
with respect to China, the Biden administration is not trying to change
China through bilateral engagement; we don’t think that’s realistic. 
Rather, we’re trying to shape the international environment in a way
that is favorable to us and our allies and partners.  And we’ve been
active on that front since taking office. 

All of this really makes it all the more important to have the leaders
sit down face-to-face and have a real discussion about the nature of the
relationship, our terms and expectations for it, how to conduct the
competition in a way that is competitive but doesn’t lead to conflict,
and how to find ways to manage the risks that we see in that
competition. 

I will end by saying that President Biden knows that the competition
between our two nations has global implications.  And as a global
leader, he takes that seriously.  But ultimately, he is meeting with
President Xi to protect the prosperity and security of the American
people and people around the world. 

So with that, we’d be happy to take some questions.

Q    Thank you very much for doing this briefing.  I’m wondering how the
profound change in President Xi’s situation — his power — after the
plenum changes, if at all, the dynamic of our competition with China and
the way the President will handle this meeting.  I know from when he was
vice premier and the President was vice president, he spent so much time
with President Xi.  But this is an entirely different power structure
now.  And how is that (inaudible)?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, thanks so much, Andrea, for the
question.  You know, we’ve certainly seen, as I mentioned in my opening
comments, the continued centralization of power in Xi Jinping’s hands in
the plenum last week, and the historical resolution that was passed,
certainly only sort of further cemented that.  I think, in our mind,
that just further underscores the importance of this leader-level
engagement. 

You’re right that President Biden has spent a significant period of time
with President Xi in the past, and I think he has a very clear
assessment of him based on their time together. 

You know, we certainly see that President Xi will be coming into the
meeting tomorrow coming off of last week’s events at the same time
President Biden is coming in.  You know, he will be, as I mentioned
earlier, signing the infrastructure deal just earlier in the day — a
major — a major bipartisan win for him. 

We think that the United States is coming into this meeting, that
President Biden is coming into this meeting with a strong hand as well,
and feels well positioned to engage President Xi, having built on many
aspects of our approach to the competition over the past 10 months. 

But I think, again, I would just underscore that the continued — you
know, the steps that we saw last week are a continuation of what we have
seen throughout Xi Jinping’s tenure and just continues to further
underscore to us the importance of this leader-level engagement in
responsibly managing the competition.  Thanks.

Q    Hi.  Thank you so much for doing this call.  I was wondering
whether you could elaborate a bit further about climate change and the
way the U.S. and China could cooperate in that regard, and maybe also
react to some reports we’re seeing after COP26, saying that, actually,
the United States and China do align but also to protect their own
fossil fuel industries, and not always to push for more aggressive
action against climate change.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks so much for the question.  So,
we’ve been pushing for progress on China’s climate commitments since the
beginning of the administration.  And we think that we’ve seen a bit of
progress from China in terms of some of its commitments, including
through the discussions between Xie Zhenhua, the Special Envoy for
Climate from the PRC, and Special Envoy John Kerry. 

But, you know, we believe that much more work is needed.  We think the
PRC should be taking concrete action on climate because it’s an
existential crisis and because that’s what responsible nations do.  We
think it’s in China’s interest to take bold action on climate change,
and we’re going to continue to urge them to do so.  And I expect
President Biden will continue to press President Xi on that in their
discussions tomorrow night.

Q    Thank you very much for doing this.  I’m going to be a little
specific.  I imagine you probably won’t want to get this specific, but
let’s just try.

The working groups that have existed between the U.S. and China have
made progress, especially on visa restrictions and some steps on
purchasing — for example, like a Boeing purchase.  And there’s also been
talk of some kind of dialogue on nuclear weapons.  You didn’t mention
nuclear in your (inaudible), But you did say other items.

So can you talk at all about whether there will be any deliverables or
progress announced on those specific things — visa purchases and nuclear
weapons?

And is it your understanding that China will invite Biden to the
Olympics, or is that an invitation that comes from the IOC?  And what
would be his response?  Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Nick, that was like 15 questions in
one, so — but I’ll let you get away with it a little bit. 

So you’re right in anticipating that I’m not going to get down to a
super granular level of detail on all those things.  You know, what I
what I will say, you know, is we do — you know, we have over the past
few months seen some initial increased willingness by PRC officials to
engage in substantive, serious discussions, and you referenced some of
the working groups that were established this summer at the — through
our embassy.

You know, we believe that these are important opportunities to be able
to address specific bilateral issues that are in our interests.  But I’m
not going to go into more significant detail than that. 

I would just also note, again, that this is not a meeting where we
expect deliverables to be coming out.  We’ve seen reporting along those
lines.  But that’s just not the kind of meeting that we are anticipating
the two leaders having.  And I can just say specifically, you know, we
are not intending to sort of launch new dialogues coming out of this
meeting. 

The last thing that I would just say is: We’ve seen the report about —
that you referenced — about the Olympics.  I certainly can’t predict
what China is going to raise, but you know, at this time, I also don’t
have anything further for you on that.

Q    Hello.  Hey.  Thank you for doing this.  So, I do have two
questions.  We do know that the COP26 just ended.  The United States and
China reached some consensus on fighting climate change, and that’s the
issue you mentioned that U.S. and China can work together.

On the issues that both sides will have differences — assuming President
Biden will reiterate U.S. commitment to Taiwan’s defense, upholding
human rights standard in Hong Kong, Tibet and Xinjiang at the meeting
tomorrow — what is the guardrail that you’re talking about on those
issues President Biden would like to set and expect China to set or
respect tomorrow? 

Second question is: We know — although the United States and China have
a joint declaration on climate — but how will the United States
effectively lead the climate effort when most solar panel supply chain
is in Xinjiang and which United States is sanctioning right now due to
human rights and forced labor violation?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  Well, thanks so much.  So, on
human rights issues, the President has been very clear in his previous
conversations with Xi Jinping, and I expect him to be quite clear
tomorrow, that these are universal values, but they’re also values that
Americans believe in very deeply, that it’s sort of in our DNA.  And he
will continue to make clear to President Xi his concerns about China’s
human rights abuses. 

And I think his — you know, as he is in all these conversations, I
expect that to be a pretty candid and direct conversation.

I would just note that we believe that these are differences that we
need to address directly and not, in some way, put to the side, as I
think China would often like to do.

You know, on the question of climate and solar, we have, as you noted,
taken a number of concrete measures on our own, from the executive
branch, that are aimed at addressing the use of forced labor in global
supply chains, including in solar.  And that is an area where we
continue to press on, and we certainly believe that we can do both: that
we can address the climate crisis at the same time that we stand up very
clearly and press for — you know, press to ensure that we are addressing
forced labor in Xinjiang and elsewhere.

Q    Hi.  And thank you for doing this.  I have two questions, if you
don’t mind.  The first is: Has the administration reached a decision on
whether to send officials or diplomats to the Beijing Winter Olympics?

And the second question is more, kind of, on the strategy with China.  I
mean, you mentioned that the administration has obviously been working
with allies and partners to set the rules of the road and that China is
going to be expected to follow these rules of the road, but I’m just —
like, how are you expecting them to react to being asked to follow rules
of the road that they weren’t involved in creating?  I mean, do you
think they’re going to (inaudible)?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, Amy.  (Inaudible.) 

You know, on the rules of the road, I think President Biden has been
quite clear on this.  You know, there’s principles that we believe have
been embraced not just by the United States but multilaterally by many,
many nations.  And, you know, we believe that when China sort of fails
to uphold those, or tries to rewrite them in ways — particularly
through, sort of, coercive means or ways that are aimed at sort of
undercutting, whether it’s sort of international waterways — you know,
definitions around international waterways, and free and open access to
them, or setting rules in new and emerging areas — you know, for
instance, with respect to technology — to do that in a way that
undercuts really important democratic norms and principles that he and
our allies and many of our partners uphold — you know, attach a lot of
importance to.

You know, he thinks it’s important that the United States plays a real
leading role in helping to shape those in a way that is favorable to us,
to our interests, and to our values.

Q    Hi, thanks so much for doing the call.  I just wanted to see if —
how much, if at all, do you expect the current supply chain crisis that
the United States and the world are seeing to come up as part of this
conversation.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks for that.  You know, it’s not
something I expect to be a significant point of discussion, but
certainly, there are a number of, sort of, economic issues and other
questions that I think they will touch on through the course of the
conversation. 

I certainly can’t predict what China may raise, but I don’t expect that
to sort of feature as something on — at least on our agenda.

Q    Thanks.  Pretty straightforward question.  I mean, given the fact
that they’ve already had two pretty extended phone calls this year — I
believe 90 minutes or so, each of them — can you just speak to kind of
the format for tomorrow and how you expect a different tenor or outcome
from a virtual format, as opposed to a phone call — you know, winding
down the pandemic era with a “how are you doing” Zoom call question, I
guess?  Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, it’s a good question.  So I’d say
a couple of things.  You know, one, this will be the first time that
they will see each other face-to-face, certainly since President Biden
has been President, albeit virtually, not in person.

But I think this will be — you know, there is something different about
actually seeing someone physically, about the kind of depth of the
conversation you can have, versus just on a on a regular phone line. 

You know, number two, we have over the course of the last several weeks
had a number of conversations, just as you would with a meeting — a sort
of physical meeting between two leaders — working with our Chinese
counterparts to make arrangements for the meeting and to set things up
in a way for them that we believe will facilitate the most productive,
substantive, and in-depth kind of conversation on the real strategic
issues and high, sort of, priority issues that we think are important
for the two leaders to address. 

I think it (inaudible) — preparing for a meeting is a different thing
than necessarily just preparing for a phone call.  And so I think
there’s just a different level of preparation that’s gone into this and
a sort of different, you know, kind of sense of the key things that that
we really want to hone in on in that conversation from both sides that
will hopefully facilitate a substantive and, as I said, both strategic
and really focused conversation on the priority issues for the two
leaders.

Q    Hi, I had a few more questions on the logistics of this meeting. 
Who else is going to be participating?  Will they be speaking through
translators?  And how long do we expect the meeting to last?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  On who is going to be
participating, I think we’ll confirm that information separately.  I
don’t have that for you at this point in time.  But I think that will be
followed up on by some of my colleagues. 

Yes, they will be speaking through interpretation.  And I don’t have a
set period of time for you for the meeting.  I do anticipate it will run
several hours, but I don’t have a hard-and-fast time for you.

Q    Hi, thank you for taking my question.  You mentioned that
industrial subsidies would be one issue that President Biden raises on
the call.  Can you discuss what he plans to say or whether he plans to
suggest any retaliatory action for those policies?

And then related to that, there’s been some discussion of tariffs on
Chinese products.  Obviously, China wants those removed.  And there’s
been some suggestion that doing so could actually help with the
inflation issue.  Do you expect that tariffs and how they will be
handled is something that the call will address?  Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great, thanks for that.  Yeah, I think
our concerns about China’s industrial policy and subsidies is well known
and certainly something that Ambassador Tai spoke to in her remarks
earlier this fall.  And so, that’s something — you know, I’m not going
to further preview the President’s talking points beyond saying that he
will make clear that those concerns are ones that he holds.

You know, I do not expect tariffs to be something that will be on the
agenda for tomorrow night.

Q    Oh, hi.  Thank you.  One quick logistical question.  Will there be
a pool spray at the top or at any point in the meeting?  And the second:
To what extent do you expect (inaudible) and the (inaudible) nuclear
submarines (inaudible) play in the conversation tomorrow?  Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great, thank you.  On the question of
the pool spray, my ops colleagues will be following up on details about
any logistical arrangements on issues like that.  So I will defer to
them on that.

On AUKUS, you know, we will see what Beijing raises.  I’m not going to
necessarily predict what they are going to raise.  It’s certainly
possible that we could hear from them on that, but I’m not going to —
I’m not going to sort of predict necessarily what they’re going to raise
with the President.

Q    Thank you for doing this.  Yesterday, we saw the readouts from
State Department and the Chinese Foreign Ministry, respectively, about
phone calls between Secretary Blinken and Chinese Foreign Minister
Wang.  We saw the main difference of the readout is on Taiwan.  Is this
sort of the preview of what’s going to happen tomorrow during the
meeting, when Taiwan issue is raised?  I mean, like, how will President
Biden address the U.S. decision with regard to the (inaudible)
relations?  Because the Chinese is accusing U.S. encouraging
pro-independence of Taiwan.  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks so much.  Certainly, Taiwan has
been a topic that has been discussed throughout all of our discussions
with senior Chinese officials during the course of this administration,
and we definitely anticipate it will be a topic of conversation between
the two presidents tomorrow night. 

You know, I’m not going to, again, sort of preview what the President is
going to say, other than to just note that our policy has been
consistent and remains consistent.  And I expect the President to
reaffirm that.

You know, we’ve also seen, you know, not just on the Taiwan issue, but
on a number of issues, differing narratives around the conversations
between U.S. and PRC officials.  And, you know, I think that we’ve been
quite clear and direct in both underscoring what we have said, but also
making clear to Beijing not to mischaracterize our own position, which
we’ve seen happen a few times. 

So, again, I’m not going to further predict what the President is going
to say tomorrow night, but definitely do expect it to be a topic of
conversation.

Q    Thank you.  Several times you have mentioned that there are certain
economic things you don’t think will come up, like tariffs and so on. 
And you’ve spoken broadly about rules of the road that Mr. Biden wants
to emphasize.  Can you just say more specifically what these key
priority areas are that you have been working to prepare so that the
conversation will be constructive in those few hours on the issues that
you want to emphasize?

And could you also explain what you mean by “guardrails”?  I mean, is
Mr. Biden going to present a list of things or a sort of — that he wants
the Chinese to observe, or a communications infrastructure or
arrangement?  Or what does that mean, “guardrails”?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, of course.  So, you know, just in
terms of the areas that we’ve been preparing for the two leaders to
discuss — I mean, again, I can really only speak to what we are going to
say and do, and, you know, we’ll see what President Xi decides to raise
tomorrow night. 

But, you know, the things that we prepared for President Biden are,
number one, a discussion of our approach to China and to his overall
priorities and intentions of what the United States is trying to do. 
Again, that’s really aimed at avoiding misunderstandings and ensuring
that we are setting the terms for effective competition with China. 

Second, you know, I anticipate they are going to discuss and that we
certainly prepared them for discussion of areas where we — where the
United States and China diverge.  And I anticipate the President will be
very direct and candid about areas where we have concerns. 

And then the third is, as I mentioned, potential areas of alignment
where we do think there should be the ability for the United States and
China to work together. 

So, you know, I think that that’s — you know, those are the kinds of
things that we’ve been preparing for the two of them.  I’m not going to
get into further previewing of the agenda before they’ve had a chance to
speak with one another because I do think it is important for them to be
able to have that private conversation.  But that’s kind of the broad
brushstrokes on that.

You know, on the question of guardrails, I would just say a couple of
things on this.  You know, one, as I mentioned, the President has said
many times that the only thing worse than an unintended con- — or than
an intended conflict is an unintended conflict.  And so, you know, there
are a number of areas where he believes we need to not only keep
channels of communication open, but to build those commonsense
guardrails to avoid miscalculation and misunderstanding.

I don’t anticipate he’s going to be, you know, getting into — he’s not
planning to present a list or anything like what you suggested, but I
think it will be a conversation around a few specific areas — and again,
I’m not going to get ahead of the conversation on that — but where he
does think that there are areas where we both need to have a clear
understanding of one another’s intentions to avoid miscalculation or
misunderstanding, and to ensure that we have ways to avoid those kinds
of things, if possible.  So I think I’ll leave it at that.

MODERATOR:  Great.  Thanks so much.  Sorry we couldn’t get to all of
your questions.  We recognize there’s a lot of attention and interest in
this.  We will be — we do plan to brief again, following the meeting. 
So there’ll be more opportunities to ask questions. 

Just as a reminder, this call was on background, attributed to a “senior
administration official.”  The contents are embargoed until Monday
morning, 5:00 a.m. Eastern Time, November 15. 

And again, by joining this call, you’re agreeing to those ground rules.

5:48 P.M. EST
