---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-11-02'
modified_time: 2021-11-02 08:29:09-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/11/02/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-action-on-forests-and-land-use-event/
published_time: 2021-11-02 08:29:08-04:00
title: "Remarks by President Biden at the \u201CAction on Forests and Land-Use\u201D\
  \ Event"
---
 
Scottish Event Campus

Glasgow, Scotland

10:00 A.M. GMT

THE PRESIDENT:  Good morning, everyone.  It’s an honor to be with you. 
My fellow leaders, I’m honored to represent the United States in this
important discussion.

Conserving our forests and other critical ecosystems is indispensable —
an indispensable piece of keeping our climate goals within reach as well
as many other key priorities that we have together: ensuring clean
water, maintaining biodiversity, supporting rural and Indigenous
communities, and reducing the risk of the spread of disease.

Our forests are also nature’s carbon capture, cycling CO2 out of our
atmosphere.  And I want to recognize the presidents of the
\[Democratic\] Republic of the Congo and Gabon, who are here today, for
their considerable commitment to conserve — to conserve their forests.

If we all work together to make sure these precious resources are
conserved in Africa and around the world, forests have the potential to
reduce — reduce carbon globally by more than one third — by more than
one third.  

So, we need to approach this issue with the same seriousness of purpose
as decarbonizing our economies.  That’s what we’re doing in the United
States.

We’ve already exceeded the 2020 Bonn Challenge goal of more than 20
million hectares of forest land under restoration thus far.

During my first week in office, I issued an executive order that set the
goal of conserving at least 30 percent of all U.S. lands and waters by
the year 2030.

We have put a — in place protections for the Tongass Forest in Alaska,
the world’s largest intact temperate rainforest.

And today, I’m announcing a new plan to conserve global forests, which
will bring together a full range of U.S. government tools — diplomatic,
financial, and policy — to halt forest loss, restore our critical carbon
sinks, and improve land management.

Through this plan, the United States will help the world deliver on our
shared goal of halting natural forest loss and restoring at least an
additional 200 million hectares of forests and other ecosystems by the
year 2030.

This is a plan that is the first of its kind, taking a
whole-of-government approach and working, in our case, with Congress to
deploy up to $9 billion in U.S. funding through 2030 to conserve and
restore our forests and mobilize billions more from our partners.

As part of this, we’re going to work to ensure markets recognize the
true economic value of natural carbon sinks and motivate governments,
land owners, and stakeholders to prioritize conservation.

We’ll work to align the private sector investment flows in our climate
conserv- — and conservation goals, including reducing the drivers of
deforestation, creating sustainable supply chains, pursuing more
sustainable commodity sourcing.

At every step, we’ll work in partnership with the people most impacted
by deforestation and most experienced in sustainable land management —
local communities, Indigenous peoples, local governments, civil
societies — to make sure our approaches are effective and focused on the
needs of vulnerable populations.

Preserving forests and other ecosystems can and should play an important
role in meeting our ambitious climate goals as part of the net-zero
emissions strategy we all have.

And the United States is going to lead by our example at home and
support other forested nations and developing countries in setting and
achieving ambitious action to conserve and restore these carbon sinks.

I’m confident we can do this.  All we need to do is summon the will to
do what we know is right and we know is necessary and we know is within
our capacity. 

So, as simple as it sounds, I think it is this simple.  Let’s get to
work.  We can do this.  And it will have a generational impact.

Thank you.  (Applause.)

10:04 A.M. GMT
