---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-11-14'
modified_time: 2022-01-25 16:33:08-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/11/14/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-texas-childrens-hospital/
published_time: 2021-11-14 16:29:00-05:00
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill Biden at Texas Children\u2019\
  s Hospital"
---
 
*Houston, TX*

As First Lady, I’ve had the chance to meet some larger-than-life
people—but never two who can defy gravity. I think we’re all excited to
see Wonder Woman and Superman! 

But today, I’m inspired by you, Caleb and Bryan. Thank you for sharing
your story. You may not be able to fly, but you and all of the other
kids getting your shots today are the real superheroes. So, let’s have a
round of applause for all of the brave kids who are getting vaccinated! 

Today, I’m here to talk to parents.  

I’m a mom, too, and when you became a parent, there’s a moment that we
all go through—when you look at that baby, with eyes like saucers and
the tiniest fingers,  

and you feel an overwhelming sense of love, deep in your bones, and
absolute terror.  

Because you know that this fragile life is depending on you.   

And from that moment on, you see the world differently—every step, every
street corner, every bite of food is a danger that you never even
noticed before.  

So, we buy baby gates and cover our electrical outlets. We wrestle them
into car seats no matter how much they complain. We make them eat their
vegetables and stuff them in winter coats and scarves until they can
barely walk. 

And after bedtime, when we’re exhausted from the day and sure that, if
we hear “can I have a glass of water” one more time, we will descend
into a permanent madness—We quietly close their bedroom door and feel a
pang of gratitude, knowing that those dinner complaints and bedtime
negotiations mean that everything is OK, that they are healthy and
growing, that we are OK.  

Parents, we do absolutely everything to protect our kids. And in this
pandemic, you did.  

You figured out how to support their virtual learning while working your
job. Some of you even left your job to help your kids. You found ways to
create online playdates and birthday parties. You chose to get yourself
vaccinated.  

And even though there were times when you probably felt like no matter
what you did, it wasn’t enough, I want you to know: You carried your
family though this. You’re doing an amazing job.  

The President and I know how difficult this has been for your family.
I’m here today because we care about you and your children. Joe and our
team have been working every day to give you what you need to keep your
family safe in this pandemic.  

And parents, I’m so excited that, now, you have a new way to do just
that: a vaccine for children, 5 and up.  

So many of you have asked me over the last few months when this was
coming. And now, it’s here—not just another way to protect your kids
against COVID-19, but, as Dr. Murthy said, the best way. 

So, here’s what I want you to remember and share with other parents:  

The vaccine is the best way to protect your children against COVID-19.  

It’s been thoroughly reviewed and rigorously tested. 

It’s safe.  

It’s free.  

And it’s available for every child in this country, five and up.   

In fact, there are pop-up clinics across the city that are offering
vaccinations—including one today and next Sunday at Tidewell Park. Mayor
Turner is working hard to get you the resources you need here in
Houston.  

Parenthood and worrying go hand-in-hand. It’s just what we do.  

So, I can’t promise you that the dangers of the world will become any
less frightening—just wait until your kids start driving!  

But with this vaccine, we can take away at least one of those worries. A
big one.  

From the day you first held your sweet, fragile, little baby, you have
made the choice, again and again, to keep your child safe. Giving your
child the COVID-19 vaccine is your choice too.   

So, make the decision to protect your children with the same vaccine
that has already saved millions of lives. Because nothing is more
important than our children’s health. It’s up to us to keep them
safe—and with this vaccine, we can.  

Thank you.  

\### 
