---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-11-22'
modified_time: 2021-11-22 16:50:21-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/11/22/remarks-by-president-biden-announcing-his-nominees-for-chair-and-vice-chair-of-the-board-of-governors-of-the-federal-reserve-system/
published_time: 2021-11-22 16:30:06-05:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden Announcing his Nominees for Chair and Vice Chair\
  \ of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve\_System"
---
 
South Court Auditorium

1:19 P.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon.  Please — please sit down.

Before I begin, I want to comment on the tragedy that occurred last
night during the holiwa- — the holiday parade in Wisconsin.

While we don’t have all the facts and details yet, we know, this
morning, that five families in Waukesha are facing fresh grief of a life
without a loved one; at least 40 Americans are suffering from injuries,
some of them in critical condition; and an entire community is
struggling — struggling to cope with a horrific act of violence.

Last night, the people of Waukesha were gathered to celebrate the start
of a season of hope and togetherness and thanksgiving. 

This morning, Jill and I and the entire Biden family — and, I’m sure,
all of us — pray that that same spirit is going to embrace and lift up
all the victims of this tragedy, bringing comfort to those recovering
from their injuries and wrapping the families of those who died in the
support of their community. 

We’re all grateful for the extraordinary work of the first responders —
from law enforcement to the emergency room doctors — who are working
around the clock to deal with the terrible consequences of what happened
last night. 

My administration is monitoring the situation very closely.

But now, let me turn to today’s announcement.

Twenty months ago, the COVID-19 pandemic exploded in America, creating
the worst economic crisis we’ve faced since the Great Depression,
wreaking havoc not only on our economy but the economies across the
world.

In just two months, over 20 million Americans lost their jobs and the
unemployment rate shot up to 14.8 percent — the highest ever recorded in
America.

And all of you remember those scenes: Major cities and small towns, main
streets that looked like ghost towns.  Boarded-up businesses.  Empty
roads, empty highways, empty airports, and empty train stations. 
Offices were closed, schools were closed, and hospitals were taken to
the breaking point.

When you remember the depths of the crisis we faced, it’s all the more
amazing the progress that we’ve made since then.  We’ve gone from an
economy that was shut down to an economy that is leading the world in
economic growth.  We’ve gone from small businesses being shuttered to a
record number of new small businesses starting up.  And we’ve gone from
devastating job destruction to record new job creation.

Don’t get me wrong: We still have a long way to go to fully recover from
all the pain and destruction caused by the pandemic.  And we’re still
dealing with the difficult challenges and complications caused by
COVID-19 that are driving up costs for American families.

I know, for a lot of Americans, things are still very hard — very hard. 
But if we look at the facts — all the facts — you can only come to one
conclusion: We have made enormous progress in this country.

First and foremost, our economy is creating jobs — lots of jobs.  In
fact, we’ve seen a record new job growth in America this year: 5.6
million jobs just since I was sworn in on January the 20th — more jobs
created at this point in a new presidency than ever before in American
history.

We have seen a dramatic drop in the unemployment rate — from a high of
14.8 percent in April 2020, to 4.6 percent today.

Earlier this year, independent experts were predicting it would take
until the end of 2023 to see unemployment that low.

Our economy is creating new businesses — lots of new businesses.  In
fact, Americans are starting small businesses at a record rate — up 30
percent compared to before the pandemic.

Economists will tell you that an increase in new businesses is one of
the best signs of an economy — an economy that is becoming more
innovative and more dynamic. 

And that’s because small businesses aren’t just the heart and soul of
America, they’re not just the bedrock of so many communities across this
country — America’s small businesses are the primary job creators,
innovators, and drivers that power our economic progress.

That’s why it’s a powerful statement about — of the faith about — that
we have in our country — where our country and our economy is heading
that small business creation is surging — surging in America today. 

Which is why I’m proud to say: If you look at my presidency so far, it’s
a jobs presidency and it’s a small business presidency.

So, if you look at the facts, here’s what the record shows: record job
creation, record economic growth, record new small business creation.

That’s a story that should give us confidence about the economy that
we’re building, confidence in ourselves, confidence in the future.

Now, after years and years of wages being flat or falling behind, we’re
also seeing something else: Things are getting better for American
workers — higher wages, better benefits, more flexible schedules.

The balance sheets for American families are better as well.  Savings
are up.  Home equity is up.  Credit card balances are down.

And if you continue and combine the wage increases we’ve seen with the
direct relief my administration has provided to middle-class families,
the typical middle-class family’s disposable income has actually gone up
2 percent this year, even after accounting for higher prices.

That’s the kind of recovery, just one year after a crippling worldwide
economic crisis, that is unprecedented.  And it takes us — no, it makes
us stand out from the rest of the world.

America is the only major economy, the only one in the world, where the
economy is bigger today and families have more money in their pockets
today than before the pandemic hit.  That’s even after accounting for
inflation.  None of our competitors internationally can say that. 
None. 

It’s a testament to the hard work and perseverance of the American
people.  It’s a testament to the effectiveness of the vaccines and our
vaccination effort.  And it’s a testament to the economic policies we
fought so hard to pass and to put in place, especially the American
Rescue Plan.  And it’s a testament to the Federal Reserve. 

But for all the progress we’ve made, we know we still face challenges —
serious challenges.  We know there is a lot of fear and uncertainty in
the country.  We know — we know it’s tough for families to keep up with
the rising costs of gasoline, food, housing, and other essentials.  

It’s not just an American problem; it’s a worldwide problem.  It doesn’t
make it any easier for Americans, but it’s a worldwide problem.  Every
country is dealing with the same problems emerging from the pandemic:
supply chain bottlenecks, disruption caused by spikes in COVID-19,
elevated prices.  They’re all taking a bite out of our family budgets. 

Perhaps no entity <s>pays</s> \[plays\] a more important role in
navigating these challenges than the Federal Reserve because it’s the
Fed’s job to balance two key goals.  The first is to achieve maximum
employment — to get as many American work- — Americans working — working
as possible.  

And the second is to keep inflation low and stable.  To meet these goals
is going to require patience, skill, and independence. 

That’s why, today, I’m nominating Jerome Powell for a second term as
Chair of the Federal Reserve and I’m nom- — I’m nominating Lael Brainard
to take the position as Vice Chair of the Federal Reserve.

When our country was hemorrhaging jobs last year and there was panic in
our financial markets, Jay’s steady and decisive leadership helped to
stabilize markets and put our economy on track to a robust recovery.

Jay is a believer in the benefits of what economists call “maximum
employment.”  That’s an economy where companies have to compete to
attract workers instead of workers competing with each other for jobs,
where American workers get steady wage increases after decades of
stagnation, and where the benefits of economic growth are broadly shared
by everyone in the country, not just concentrated for those at the top.

Jay said it well last month, and I’m going to quote him.  He said, and I
quote, “an economy is healthier and stronger when as many people as
possible are able to work.  If entrenched inequities prevent some
Americans from participating fully in our labor markets, not only will
they be held back from opportunities, but \[the\] economy overall will
not realize its potential.  And those who have historically been left
behind stand the best chance of prospering in a strong economy with
plentiful job opportunities.”  End of quote. 

As Chair, Jay undertook a landmark review to reinforce the Federal
Reserve’s mission towards delivering full employment.  We’re making
strong progress toward that goal now.

And I believe Jay is the right person to see us through and finish that
effort while also addressing the threat of inflation that it imposes to
our families and to our economy.

Jay and I have had a chance to discuss his views on priorities for the
Federal Reserve in the years ahead.  He’s made clear to me: A top
priority will be to accelerate the Fed’s effort to address and mitigate
the risks — the risk that climate change poses to our financial system
and our economy.

And extreme weather has cost our economy over $600 billion over the last
10 years.  We have to make sure our financial system could withstand
climate change and is prepared to transition to clean energy.  The Fed
must be a leader among Central Banks globally in addressing
climate-related financial risks. 

He’s also underscored the importance of the Fed taking a more proactive
role in the months and years ahead in making sure that our financial
regulations are staying ahead of emerging risks, be they from
innovations in cryptocurrency or the practices of less regulated
non-bank financial institutions.

Having served as Vice President during the depths of the 2009 financial
crisis and having worked with President Obama to put in place stronger
financial rules of the road, I understand the stakes of our regulations
falling asleep at the switch — regulators falling asleep at the switch. 

Jay, along with the other members of the Fed board that I will nominate,
must ensure that we never again expose our economy and American families
to those kinds of risks.   

I respect Jay’s independence, and I also trust that he will follow
through on his commitment to prioritize these issues with the skill that
he has shown in his service to date.

Now, some will, no doubt, question why I am re-nominating Jay when he
was the choice of a Republican predecessor.  Why am I not picking a
Democrat?  Why am I not picking fresh blood or taking the Fed in a
different direction?

Put directly, at this moment both of — of both enormous potential and
enormous uncertainty for our economy, we need stability and independence
at the Federal Reserve.  Jay has proven the independence that I value in
the Federal Chair — in the Fed Chair.

In the last administration, he stood up to unprecedented political
interference and, in doing so, successfully maintained the integrity and
credibility of this — his institution.  It’s just one of the many
reasons why Jay has support from across the political spectrum.

In 2018, he was confirmed with 84 votes in the United States Senate. 
His approach as Fed Chair has earned the respect and support of groups
from the AFL-CIO to the Business Roundtable. 

Which brings me to one more reason I have chosen to re-nominate Jay: I
believe having Fed leadership with a broad, bipartisan support is
important, especially now in such a politically divided nation.  

I believe we need to do everything we can to take the bitter
partisanship of today’s politics out of something as important as the
independence and credibility of the Federal Reserve.  This is vital to
maintaining public trust in an independent institution like the Federal
Reserve. 

And that is why I am so proud as well to be nominate Dr. Lael Brainard,
you know, to serve as Vice Chair of the Federal Reserve. 

You know, by promoting Lael today to Vice Chair, I am elevating one of
the country’s most qualified and dedicated public servants.  She is one
of the nation’s leading macro economists.  She spent years at the
Treasury Department, representing America in capitals around the world
on international economic issues. 

And she has spent nearly the last decade as a member of the Fed, most
recently working side by side with Jay as the Fed navigated historic
economic and financial crisis and reaffirmed its commitment to a full
employment economy.

Throughout her time at the Fed, Lael has also been a steadfast voice for
tough rules that protect the pensions and savings of the American
people.

She’s led the Fed’s efforts to make sure our banking system serves
everyone in the communities they serve so that regardless of where you
live or your background, every American have acce- — can have access to
credit they need to start a business, buy a home, and just have a fair
chance in life.

She’s done pioneering work on how the Fed should account for the
emerging risk of climate change to our financial system.

And like Jay, her expertise and leadership have earned her the respect
and support of Republicans and Democrats alike.

I’m proud to be nominate her to the vital role of Vice Chair of the
Federal Reserve.

Beyond Jay and Lael, I look forward in the coming weeks to nominating
additional members of the Federal Reserve Board of Governors, including
a new Vice Chair for Supervision.

These individuals will help safeguard our financial system and,
alongside Jay and Lael’s leadership, help to support and continue this
historic economic recovery.

While Jay and Lael bring continuity and stability

to the Fed, my additions will bring new perspectives and new voices. 

I also pledge that my additions will bring new diversity to the Fed —
which is much needed and long overdue, in my view.

Last year, the pandemic shut down much of the global economy.  Now there
is a worldwide rearaking \[sic\] –- reawakening, and it’s creating both
an incredible opportunities and tough challenges.

As economies all across the world come back from its — this pandemic,
America is leading the way.

Like every country in the world, we have to deal with these issues of
rising costs.  But we should remember: We have the

skills and the tools to get it under control.

While other countries are stumbling out of this pandemic, we’re racing
ahead. 

Because so much of the rest of our economy is doing well, because we
have created so many new jobs as fast as we have, we’re in a position to
attack inflation from a position of strength, not weakness.

In times like these, we need steady, tested, principled leadership at
the Fed.  We need people with sound judgment and proven courage to
preserve the independence of the Fed.

And we need people of character and integrity who can be trusted to keep
their focus on the right long-term goals of our country — for our
country.

And I’m confident Jay and Lael are those people.

Now I’d like to give both Jay and Lael an opportunity to say a few
words.  And we’re going to start with Jay, and then I’m going to turn it
to Lael.

Jay, the floor is yours.  You’re over on this side.

CHAIR POWELL:  Mr. President, thank you for this extraordinary
opportunity to continue to serve the American people. 

If confirmed by the Senate, I pledge to do everything within my power to
meet the responsibilities that Congress has entrusted to the Federal
Reserve. 

I’m joined today my –- by my wife, Elissa Leonard, and our three adult
children, Susie, Lucy, and Sam; and Sam’s wife, Elyssa.  Their love and
support underpin and make possible all that I do. 

I’m also grateful to the exceptionally talented and dedicated team at
the Federal Reserve, with whom it has been my great privilege —
privilege to serve over the last decade. 

My predecessor, Secretary Janet Yellen, left the Fed in a strong
position to meet every challenge.  And I’m thankful for her leadership,
her example, and her friendship.

When COVID hit our shores, American families and businesses were 10
years into historic economic expansion with a robust jobs market that
was reaching even those who had traditionally been left out. 

The pandemic, however, brought an immediate and painful recession. 
Fortunately, American resilience, along with strong policy actions and
vaccines that enabled the economy’s reopening, cushioned the blows and
set the stage for a strong recovery. 

Today, the economy is expanding at its fastest pace in many years,
carrying the promise of a return to maximum employment.  Challenges and
opportunities remain as always.  The unprecedented reopening of the
economy, along with the continuing effects of the pandemic, led to
supply and demand imbalances, bottlenecks, and a burst of inflation. 

We know that high inflation takes a toll on families, especially those
less able to meet the higher costs of essentials, like food, housing,
and transportation.  And we use our tools both to support the economy
and a strong labor market, and to prevent higher inflation from becoming
entrenched. 

Other key priorities include vigilantly guarding the resilience and
stability of the financial system, addressing evolving risks from
climate change and cyberattacks, and facilitating the modernization of
the payment system while protecting consumers. 

I look forward very much to continuing to work closely with my colleague
of the past seven years, Lael Brainard, as the Fed confronts these and
other issues.  Lael brings formidable talent, a wealth of experience,
and good judgment to our work. 

Inside the Federal Reserve, we understand that our decisions matter for
American families and communities.  I strongly share that sense of
mission, and I’m committed to making those decisions with objectivity
and with integrity based on the best available evidence in the
longstanding tradition of monetary policy independence. 

Mr. President, thank you again. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Now I’d like to give the floor to Dr.
Brainard.

DR. BRAINARD:  Mr. President, thank you.  I’m deeply honored that you’re
entrusting me with this responsibility at a critical time. 

I’m committed to putting working Americans at the center of my work at
the Federal Reserve.  This means getting inflation down at a time when
people are focused on their jobs and how far their paychecks will go.

It means supporting a growing economy that includes everyone.  It means
ensuring that financial markets are thriving and resilient, and the
economy is sustainable for future generations.  It means serving all
Americans in every community across the country and ensuring the Federal
Reserve reflects the diversity of the communities we serve.

I was privileged to work with Chair Powell as we made every effort to
protect workers, businesses, and families from the COVID financial shock
with the support of Congress.  And I look forward to working with him in
the months and years ahead to build a durable recovery.

I also want to thank Secretary Yellen, with whom I’ve also been
privileged to work.  I’m grateful to the many people who’ve supported my
efforts.  As a working mom, I’m especially grateful for the love and
support of my three dynamic daughters, Caelan, Ciara, and Coco, who took
the afternoon off from school; my deeply devoted husband, Kurt; Aunt
Vivienne; my sisters; and my amazing mother, Joanne, who’s here with me
today.

I’m confident that by working together, we will see a strong recovery
for all Americans.

Thank you.

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you. 

Well, folks, that’s it.  I hope you have a happy Thanksgiving.

And I thank the families of the two nominees for being willing to
support their work and what they have to do.  It’s going to be long
hours, as you already know, and long efforts — and I thank the families.

Thank you all.

1:41 P.M. EST
