---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-11-18'
modified_time: 2021-11-18 17:10:11-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/11/18/remarks-by-president-biden-at-signing-of-bills-that-extend-critical-support-to-our-law-enforcement-and-first-responders/
published_time: 2021-11-18 17:10:10-05:00
title: Remarks by President Biden at Signing of Bills that Extend Critical Support
  to our Law Enforcement and First Responders
---
 
State Dining Room

10:00 A.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, everyone.  Sorry to keep you waiting for a few
minutes.  We were doing a little bit of a check-in with — making sure
everybody is clear to come in, in terms of health.

Anyway, thank you all for being here.  Please, sit down.  Please, sit
down.  I keep forgetting that — I see all my Senate colleagues, and I’m
so unaccustomed to them standing up for me that I — (laughter) — no
reason why they should either.  (Laughs.)  They should be standing for
Pat.  Pat, you had a great speech.  Thank you.

Okay.  Well, Vice President Harris, Attorney General Garland, and
Secretary Mayorkas, I want to thank you for your leadership.

And in a moment, I’ll be signing into law three bills that extend
critical support to our law enforcement and first responders and the
communities they serve. 

I want to thank everyone who worked together to pass each of these
bipartisan bills.  I emphasize “bipartisan” bills.

Before I turn to the specifics of the bills, I want to say that when you
look at what our communities need and what our law enforcement is being
asked to do, it’s going to require more resources, not fewer resources. 

That’s why my administration is investing in the community policing we
know works, and the training and partnership that law enforcement and
our communities have requested, and in community-based programs and
interventions that can stop violence before it starts.

Think about what we ask a police officer.  We ask them to be everything
from counselors to law enforcement officers to the folks who have to
take down the bad guy.  I mean, everything in between.

And so, just this morning, the Department of Justice released a
significant new investment in community policing through Community
Oriented Policing Services.  Everything has an acronym; it’s called COPS
program.

These grants, which total nearly $140 million, will go to 183 law
enforcement agencies, and allow them to fund over 1,000 new law
enforcement positions and to fund other initiatives to build legitimacy
and trust in communities, to address gun violence and other violent
crimes, and to combat hate and domestic extremism, and to enhance the
response to people in crisis.

You know, in addition, this announcement, along with the historic
funding in the American Rescue Plan, means communities have the
resources now available for the community violence intervention than —
more than they ever had before. 

We’re talking about programs like violence interrupters, who work as a —
as a complement to police in identifying those most likely to be
involved in gun violence, stopping it from happening to begin, and put
those at risk — who put those people at risk, and put them on a better
road to life so we can — we get them — we divert them before they get
into the bad stream to begin with.  And I want to thank the folks in
front of me for doing that.

And I want to thank the Attorney General — Attorney General Garland —
for leading these efforts as well.

Today’s investment, and the bills that I’m about to sign,

share a goal of helping law enforcement officers and first responders be
the protectors and the partners our communities need.

The first bill I’ll sign is the COPS Counseling Act.  The law is modeled
after successful laws in Nevada, and I want to thank Senator Cortez
Masto.  Thank you very much for what you did as Attorney General in
Nevada and what you continue to do.

My good friend Senator Leahy, who’s been working on these things for a
long time.  And Todd Young and Thom Tillis.  Representative David Trone
and Reschenthaler.  Where — there you are.  I was looking around.  I
couldn’t see you.  I apologize. 

And, by the way, David worked closely with our special guest here today,
Angela Bomba, the widow of Montgomery County police officer Thomas
Bomba, whose painful experience helped inspire this bill.

Every day, our nation’s police officers answer the call and confront
scenes that can take a toll on them, as well, and leave them
traumatized.  You know, it’s not fundamentally different than folks in
the battlefield.  An awful lot of people come home without any physical
wounds but come home with post-traumatic stress, and they’re responding
to terrible incidents.

Well, the same happens for our law enforcement officers, arriving at
homicide scenes, handling child abuse cases.

As they confront these situations, they need to — we need to help them
recover from the invisible wounds that their work can inflict.

These wounds are no different from wounds that, as I said, our military
encounters on the battlefield. 

According to one study, law enforcement officers are 54 percent more
likely to die by suicide than the average American because they’re under
such enormous pressure and they see things none of us ever see.

The vast majority of law enforcement officers tell us that peer support
programs are the most helpful mental health resource there is.  And that
makes sense.  If you hold just a second, it makes you — when you think
about it, you know, law enforcement, as well as the military, all have
taught to be “stand your own”; you know, “Don’t ask for anything.  You
can do it.  Just take care of yourself.”  And it’s an enormous burden we
put on people.  And it’s really difficult.  I’ve learned, working so
diligently with the military community, it’s so hard to get them to say,
“Hey, I need some help.  I need some help.”

I want you to know: A wound that is imposed on your mind is no different
than if you broke your arm or got shot in the leg.  It’s the same
thing.  It’s the same thing.  And it deserves to be treated.  And it
deserves the respect that you — that goes along with that. 

Because the strongest support and best guidance often come from someone
who has walked in their shoes.  However, many officers don’t access peer
support because they have concerns about privacy and confidentiality,
and only about half the states have confidentiality protections.

But this bill — and I want to thank the Congress for this — encourages
first responders’ agencies to adapt peer counseling programs; require
the Department of Justice to make the best practices and resources
publicly available for people who want to become peer support mentors;
and ensure confidentiality to federal law enforcement officers who use
peer counseling services, with the only exception being admission of a
criminal conduct and/or a threat of serious physical harm.

My hope is: By giving more effective officers — more — more officers
access to confidentiality and high-quality mental health resources,
we’re going to reduce the stigma around seeking help and lead to better
policing and prevent suicides.

Put simply: We’ll get more officers the help they need so they can
better help the communities they serve.

The next bill I’ll be signing is the Protect America’s First Responders
Act.

I want to thank Senator Gillibrand and thank her very much.  And, Bill,
I want to thank you — Pascrell, and Brian Fitzpatrick, Joe Courtney —
they’re all dear neighbors where I used to represent — for their
leadership in supporting those who have — are disabled or killed in the
service of their community. 

You know, when our nation’s firefighters, disaster relief workers, EMT,
law enforcement officers, and other first responders respond to that
radio alert, they run toward the danger while others are running away. 
They know there’s a risk of them getting injured or worse.

And when they go to work each day, their families wait for that phone
call.  Are they going to get that phone call that something has
happened?

Public Safe- — Public Safety Officers’ Benefits Program was originally
established to provide death benefits to officers who fall in the line
of duty so that if, God forbid, their family gets that call, they don’t
also lose their house, their car, and they’re left bereft, in terms of
economic capacity.

It has since been expanded to provide disability and education benefits,
and increases the number of first responders who are eligible, including
children born after the fact.

It’s really important.  And, you know — and, Pat, you and I used to
discuss this all the time in Judiciary 120 years ago here.  (Laughter.)

But — but the truth is, you know, with over a thousand claims a year to
review, the program has been slow and inconsistent when it comes to
reviewing claims and supporting first responders and families, including
those who responded on 9/11.

The law has to change, and you’re doing that.  You’re changing the law
to do that.  And it’s going to make sure this program processes claims
more quickly and speeds up payments; makes clear the public safety
officers who are acting in an emergency situation, no matter the
jurisdiction, are covered; and broadly defines what it means to be
“permanently disabled.”

Before this law, first responders permanently disabled in the line of
duty were only eligible for benefits programs if they could never again
perform any of the compensated work that they performed. 

Now what you guys and women have changed is the — you allowed the
disabled first responders who can’t do the work they had been trained
for, but still can perform tasks and take on work that’s therapeutic for
them, to do these jobs without losing the benefits, at the same time
getting both the pay and the benefit, if it’s in a different area.

There’s a line inscribed in the National Law Enforcement Officers
Memorial; you’ve all seen it many, many times: In valor — “In valor
there is hope.”  “In valor there is hope.”

Well, as one of the leaders of the Federal Law Enforcement Officers
Foundation pointed out, this bill restores their sense of valor, and
with that comes a lot of hope.

The third and final bill I’ll sign is named Jaime <s>Zappa</s>
\[Zapata\] and Victor — excuse me — Avila — I didn’t want to
mispronounce it; I hope I pronounced it correctly because it’s important
— Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents who were ambushed by a drug
cartel hitman in Mexico in 2011.

The assailants tried to pull Agent <s>Zappa</s> \[Zapata\] from the
driver’s seat of the vehicle — and shooting him six times.

And Agent Avila, despite also having been shot, was able to push
<s>Zappa’s</s> \[Zapata’s\] leg down on the accelerator and escape the
attack.  Unfortunately, Agent <s>Zappa</s> \[Zapata\] later died of his
wounds.

That tragedy was compounded by another tragedy: a miscarriage of
justice.  The murder convictions against the two killers responsible for
the murder were overturned on appeal.

It was overturned because the law didn’t make clear the Department of
Justice can prosecute anyone who kills or attempts to kill a federal law
enforcement officer outside the United States.

Thankfully, the murder remains — the murderers remain in prison
conviction of — being convicted of other incidents stemming from that
same incident.

But this bill is going to protect agents serving abroad

and send a message to drug cartels, terrorists, and criminals wherever
they operate that if you attack our agents, you will not escape our
justice.

I want to thank Senator Coons and Senator Cornyn for the — for that
legislation.  And Representative Hen — excuse me — Henry Cuellar, and
Michael McCaul, Steve Chabot, and other leaders for their leadership on
this bill.

In just a minute, I’ll sign these bills.  And they’re good and important
bipartisan bills.  
  
  

But I want to thank the International Association of Chiefs of Police
and the Fraternal Order of Police and the National Organization of Black
Law Enforcement Officers and other law enforcement organizations have
been constructive players in negotiating over meaningful police reform.

So I’m asking the bipartisan leaders here today to come together with
them, as you’ve done before, to finally pass the George Floyd Justice in
Policing Act.  But that’s next.   
  
And now, I want to sign each of these bills.  I want to — and God bless
you all.  And may God protect all our law enforcement officers and first
responders throughout the nation. 

Thank you.  I’m going to sign these bills.  (Applause.)   
  
And, by the way, there’s a tradition where you sign the bill and you
give the signing pen to the authors of the bill.  But I don’t have that
many pens with me.  (Laughter.)  So I — so I’m going to make sure
everyone will get a pen.  Everyone will get a pen.  I’m not trying to
hoard the pens, guys.  (Laughter.) 

Okay. 

Hi.  What’s your name?  Nice to meet you.  How old are you? 

MR. JAKE BOMBA:  Seven.

THE PRESIDENT:  Seven years old.  Well, you’re — you are.  What grade
are you in?

MR. JAKE BOMBA:  First. 

THE PRESIDENT:  First grade.  Well, that’s great, man.  Thank you for
being here.  Are you okay? 

MR. JAKE BOMBA:  Mm-hmm.

THE PRESIDENT:  Meet me after this and I can show you the around the
White House.  Do you want to see it?

MR. JAKE BOMBA:  (Nods.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Okay. 

Okay.  Here we go. 

(The bill is signed.) 

All right.  (The President hands the signing pen to Jake Bomba.) 
(Applause.)

Okay.  “To amend…” — well, I’m not going to read it out. 

(The bill is signed.) 

(Cross-talk.)

(Inaudible.)  (The President hands the signing pen to Senator
Gillibrand.)

SENATOR GILLIBRAND:  God Bless you, Mr. President. 

THE PRESIDENT:  All right, thank you.  Thank you, thank you, thank you. 

All right, now I’m going to sign the third bill. 

(Cross-talk.)

Okay.  “To amend title 18 of the \[U.S.\] Code, to further protect our
officers and employees of the United States, and for other purposes.”

(The bill is signed.)  (The President hands the signing pen to Senator
Coons.)  (Applause.)

Q    Mr. President, what will your message be to the leaders of Canada
and Mexico today? 

THE PRESIDENT:  I’ll be happy to answer your questions while I — after I
meet with them — with all the leaders.

So, thank you all so very, very much. 

10:17 A.M. EST
