---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-11-02'
modified_time: 2021-11-02 11:29:47-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/11/02/remarks-by-president-biden-in-meeting-on-the-build-back-better-world-initiative/
published_time: 2021-11-02 11:29:46-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden in Meeting on the Build Back Better World\_Initiative"
---
 
Scottish Event Campus

Glasgow, Scotland

11:31 A.M. GMT

THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, everyone.  Thank you all for making the time amid
these very packed schedules we all have.

We’re gathered here at COP26 to emphasize how the choices we make today
— and I literally mean today — will resonate for decades to come.  This
is especially true when it comes to infrastructure.

And the choices to build, for example, a coal plant today instead of a
solar or wind farm could mean that — another 30 years of burning fossil
fuels.  Expanding a road instead of investing in mass transit could
shape a city for a generation and the carbon footprint in that city.

Every choice we make in this decisive decade — and I mean it literally,
between now and 2030 — has to bring us closer — closer to, not push us
farther away from, a sustainable path to net-zero emissions by 2050.

That recognition was front and center when I announced the Build Back
Better World initiative in June, along with our G7 partners.

But to put this in perspective, the Build Back Better initiative, the
Clean Green Initiative of Great Britain, the Global Gateway and Clean
Green initiatives are all part — all part of a joint effort among the G7
partners to deliver high-quality, sustainable infrastructure.  And I
want to thank Ursula for the Clean Green Initiative as well. 

I mean, it’s — we’re all on the same team with, essentially, the same
issues.

There’s an urgent need for infrastructure development in countries —
infrastructure that prioritize, when you build it — it prioritizes the
fight against climate change from the moment the spade goes in the
ground, and jumpstarts the green economic growth.

That’s what I’m focused on in the United States.  But it isn’t just an
American project, it’s work we all have to do and we all are doing
around this table.

By ensuring high standards — high standards for our projects, we can
create infrastructure that lifts up communities and begins to lift them
up now, and does not put them behind the eight ball — or that’s a bad
expression to use — but put them behind the curve when it comes to 2, 5,
10, 15 years from now.

Being transparent about how we’re financing our projects, we offer
positive alternatives to debt — to debt traps and corruption.  We can
hold entire countries back if we don’t do that.  Transparency is
critically important.

And by insisting and responding to the needs of developing countries
rather than dictating projects from afar, we can deliver the greatest
impact for those who need it the most.

By mobilizing trillions of dollars of investment capital that’s sitting
on the sidelines, that can multiply the impact of our country
investments in a significant way.

And by coming together to make a difference in the lives of people all
around the world, we have to show — and I think we will show — that
democracy is still the best way for delivering results.  Let me say it
again: Democracy is still the best way for delivering results.

That is my vision of the Build Back Better World.  But my guess is it’s
my colleagues’ vision as well, and I’m eager to hear from all of you
today, quite frankly. 

And to start the conversation, I’d like to propose five key principles
that should guide our investments in infrastructure. 

First, every project should be climate resilient and developed with
climate in mind.  Every project that’s started, we should think about it
from the perspective of climate.  I mean that sincerely. 

New transportation infrastructure should be designed with sea-level rise
in mind.  Healthcare and digital infrastructure should be built to
withstand extreme weather events.  And in this decade, to invest in
wind, solar, hydropower, and more.

Today, as part of this commitment, the United States — together with the
UK, France, Germany, and the EU — is announcing a new partnership with
South Africa to help transform their economy to a clean energy economy
more quickly.  

Right now, South Africa is the largest emitter in Africa, due in large
part to their heavy reliance on coal for power.

By closing South Africa’s coal plants ahead of schedule and investing in
clean power alternatives for the people of South Africa, and supporting
an equitable and inclusive transition in South Africa’s coal sector,
we’re following through on the pledge the G7 partners made in Cornwall
to accelerate the transition away from coal in developing countries.

And I realize the reliance on coal is consequential.  But I can remember
growing up as a young man in an area that was a heavy supplier of coal
in northeast Pennsylvania.  And I watched what happened when it
collapsed and how the — the impact on the community.  And that’s why we
have to take care of the people who are impacted on and provide
alternatives for them as well.

By closing South Africa’s coal plants ahead of schedule and investing in
clean alternatives the people of South Africa — for the people of South
Africa, and supporting equitable and inclusive transitions in South
Africa’s coal sector, we’re following through, as I said, on the pledge
we had — we made. 

The second point I’d like to make: All our projects should be designed
in close partnership with the countries where they will happen — where
they will happen. 

It’s — it’s a simple but powerful principle: Projects will only be
successful, in my view, when there is buy-in, input, and engagement from
the communities they’re intended to help impact.  I learned that
yesterday from Barbados.  (Laughs.)  Actually, I think I knew it ahead
of time, but you made a, really, very compelling speech yesterday.  

Local governments, labor, and civil society should be engaged from the
very start to make sure the benefits to the community are equitable and
they’re immediate.

Thirdly, the Build Back Better World project should be high quality and
high standards.  What does that mean in practice?  Well, it means
whenever there’s something to purchase or someone to hire, we’ll use
transparent and competitive processes that safeguard against corruption.

It means we’ll provide affordable financing so local taxpayers aren’t
stuck with a big bill they can’t pay down the line.

It means environmental planning to reduce the risk of damaging the
ecosystem and increase the resilience to climate change. 

And fourthly, partnership is essential.  To reach net-zero by 2050,
we’re going to need to mobilize trillions of dollars — as our friends at
the end of the table know — trillions of dollars in financing to harness
both private- and public-sector resources.  I met with some of these
private-sector suppliers earlier today.  I think it’s within our
capacity to do that, led by the men at the end of the table, and harness
both private- and public-sector resources.

So I look forward to working with the World Bank President, David
Malpass, and Mark Carney, who is now with the U.N., about how to
mobilize the private sector and international financial institutions to
help build a pipeline of projects that we can invest in, but can be
counted on and planned for, and be done in regular order.

And finally, as you keep hearing me say — and I apologize — building out
our climate infrastructure can and should help drive a sustainable
economic recovery. 

From the first meeting we had, I kept — I know I’m — I apologize for the
repetition — but I look at climate and dealing with climate change, and
I see jobs.  Good jobs, economic development, and movement.  That’s what
I see.

And finally, you keep hearing me say it, but building out the climate
infrastructure should drive sustainable economic recovery.  It can spur
the creation of those good jobs in the developing world just like it can
in the developed world.

Our global transition to a net-zero economy is predicated on 30 million
new jobs worldwide by 2030.  Thirty million new jobs — good-paying
jobs. 

So this climate crisis is an enormous opportunity.  It’s about jobs. 
It’s about building the industries of the future.  It’s about making
sure everyone shares in the benefits of an equitable and sustainable
green recovery.

Build Back Better World is going to show that we can grow our economies,
fight climate change, and leave a better, cleaner, more livable planet
for all of our children.

So, I want to thank you all for — for joining us today.  And now I’d
like to turn it over to a woman who I think impresses me every time I
hear her speak, President von der Leyen, to make a few remarks.

11:41 A.M. GMT
