---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-11-12'
modified_time: 2021-11-12 18:21:55-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/11/12/remarks-by-president-biden-in-cabinet-meeting-2/
published_time: 2021-11-12 18:30:00-05:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden in Cabinet\_Meeting"
---
 
Cabinet Room

2:36 P.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I want to thank you all for being here.  I want to
thank Vice President Harris, who is on the line.  I asked her to go to
Paris to meet with Macron — with President Macron — and to work on some
things relating to Libya and a few other things.  And — and thanks.  I —

Madam Vice President, in a little while, after this is over, maybe we
can talk and see how things are going okay for you.  All right?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I’d like that.  Thank you, Mr. President. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Okay. 

And we’ve gathered my Cabinet this afternoon at a moment of immense hope
and possibility, in our view, for the United States. 

The American people sent us here to deliver.  The American people said
they sent us here to make their government work, and they sent us here
to make a difference in their lives.  And I believe we’re doing that.  I
believe that’s just what we’re doing.

On Monday, I look forward to signing into law the Infrastructure Act —
the Investment and Jobs Act, which we’ll do outside, God willing, if the
weather — the weather holding.  And it’s going — you know, it was a lot
of hard work to get it done.  I know it was probably hard work for all
the press here to watch me try to get it done. 

But I want to thank them for acknowledging that this was a bipartisan
bill — it was bipartisan support — and proving we can still come
together.  It’s hard, but we can still come together to get something
big done for the American people.

And the bill represents critical investments that are long overdue in
our country — from rebuilding our roads and highways, to getting rid of
the lead pipes; delivering clean water to thousands of fam- — tens —
actually, millions of people around the nation; to making high-speed
Internet accessible to every American, rural and urban; to forfitin- —
to fortifying our bridges and powerlines and levees that stand up to the
increasing threats posed by extreme weather and super storms.  And we
have $99 billion worth of losses just this year because of the
consequence of those environmental events.  To fortifying our bridges,
our power lines, as I said, and our levees.  But also to — one of our
biggest responsibilities is to make sure all the money is used
efficiently and effectively. 

And I have a lot of experience in doing that.  I — when the — when I was
Vice President, I was given the responsibility of overseeing, as my —
now running the Vets Department, but my — the former — the former chief
of staff of — I was saying here to Denis, who can tell you — of
implementing the Recovery Act, which was nearly $9 billion in stimulus
pack- — $900 billion stimulus package.

And in the process, I’m proud to say we were able to — the President
gave me the authority — which I will be signing as well — the — to use
whatever assets the federal government had — any personnel in the
federal government.  And we put together a good team because we — when
we finished implementing the Recovery Act, it was determined that it had
less than two tenths of 1 percent waste or fraud.  Period.

I was — that’s how I became known.  (Laughs.)  The President started
calling me “Sheriff Joe,” but — from President Obama at the time. 

Because I made it a point, every day, to stay on top of how exactly the
money was spent, what projects were being built, what projects were not
being built, and how it was functioning.  And it was one of the most
efficient implementations of a major program in modern American history.

Well, it is my intention to see to it that the Act we just passed and
we’re going to sign on Monday does — meets the same standard.  We owe it
to the American people to make sure the money in this infrastructure
plan and the Build Back Better plan — which, God willing, we’re going to
be able to still finish — will be able to be used for purposes it was
intended.

So, that’s what I want to talk to my Cabinet about today and the high
obligation and responsibility that we all have to make sure this money
is used wisely, used well, and used to the stated purposes for the
American people.

Because if we do it right, we know what it will mean.  We know what it
will mean.  It will create millions of new jobs, it will grow the
economy, and we’ll win the world economic competition that we’re engaged
in in the second quarter of the 21st century with China and many other
countries around the world.

And we’re going to — we’ll see ease — and I say, yes, “ease” — lower
inflationary pressures on our economy.  And we’ll be carrying this out —
what I call the “blue-collar blueprint for America,” one that builds the
economy from the bottom up and the middle out, and one not from the top
down. 

And so, I want to thank you all for being here.  That’s what we’re going
to discuss today.

And next week, I’ll have further announcements of exactly who’s going to
be put in charge of how we do this. 

So, thank you all so very much.

2:42 P.M. EST
