---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-11-29'
modified_time: 2021-11-29 17:45:45-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/11/29/remarks-by-president-biden-providing-an-update-on-the-omicron-variant/
published_time: 2021-11-29 17:45:44-05:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden Providing an Update on the Omicron\_Variant"
---
 
Roosevelt Room

12:01 P.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  Good morning, folks.  I hope you all had a happy
Thanksgiving -– able to get together with your family and friends.  And
it was great to see so many families getting together this Thanksgiving
after being apart last year.  And we have much to be grateful for as a
nation.

When I was elected, I said I would always be honest with you.  So today,
I want to take a few moments to talk about the new COVID variant first
identified last week in Southern Africa.  It’s called the Omicron. 

It is –- and to their credit, the scientific community in South Africa
quickly notified the world of the emergence of this new variant.  This
kind of transparency is to be encouraged and applauded because it
increases our ability to respond quickly to any new threats.  And that’s
exactly what we did. 

The very day the World Health Organization identified the new variant, I
took immediate steps to restrict travel from countries in Southern
Africa.  But while we have — that travel restrictions can slow the speed
of Omicron, it cannot prevent it. 

But here’s what it does: It gives us time.  It gives us time to take
more actions, to move quicker, to make sure people understand you have
to get your vaccine. You have to get the shot.  You have to get the —
get the booster if you’re -–

Sooner or later, we’re going to see cases of this new variant here in
the United States.  We’ll have to face this new threat just as we have
faced those that have come before it.

Today, there are three messages about the new variant that I want the
American people to hear. 

First, this variant is a cause for concern, not a cause for panic.  We
have the best vaccine in the world, the best medicines, the best
scientists.  And we’re learning more every single day. 

And we’ll fight this variant with scientific and knowledgeable actions,
and speed — not chaos and confusion.  And we have more tools today to
fight the variant than we’ve ever had before — from vaccines to
boosters, to vaccines for children five years and older, and much more.

A year ago, America was floundering against the first variant of COVID. 
We beat that variant significantly, and then we got hit by a far more
powerful threat: the Delta variant.  But we took action, and now we’re
seeing deaths from Delta come down.  We’ll fight the –- you know, and –-
look, we’re going to fight and beat this new variant as well. 

We’re learning more about this new variant every single day.  And as we
learn more, we’re going to share that information with the American
people candidly and promptly. 

Second, the best protection –- I know you’re tired of hearing me say
this — the best protection against this new variant or any of the –- of
the variants out there -– the ones we’ve been dealing with already — is
getting fully vaccinated and getting a booster shot.  Most Americans are
fully vaccinated but not yet boosted.

If you’re 18 years or over and got fully vaccinated before June the 1st,
go get the booster shot today.  They’re free, and they’re available at
80,000 locations coast to coast.  A fully vaccinated boosted person is
the most protected against COVID. 

Do not wait.  Go get your booster if it’s time for you to do so. 

And if you are not vaccinated, now is the time to get vaccinated and
take your children to be vaccinated.  Every child age five or older can
get safe, effective vaccines now. 

While it will be a few weeks before we know everything we need to know
about how strongly the existing vaccines protect against the new variant
— Dr. Fauci, who is with me today — of our medical team, and — believe
that the vaccines will continue to provide a degree of protection
against severe disease. 

And as an additional protections, please wear your masks when you’re
indoors in public settings, around other people.  It protects you; it
protects those around you. 

Third, in the event — hopefully unlikely — that updated vaccinations or
boosters are needed to respond to this new variant, we will accelerate
their development and deployment with every available tool.

I want to reiterate: Dr. Fauci believes that the current vaccines
provide at least some protection against the new variant and the
boosters strengthen that protection significantly. 

We do not yet believe that additional measures will be needed.  But so
that we are prepared if needed, my team is already working with
officials at Pfizer, Moderna, and Johnson & Johnson to develop
contingency plans for vaccines or boosters if needed.

And I will also direct the FDA and the CDC to use the fastest process
available — without cutting any corners for safety — to get such
vaccines approved and on the market if needed. 

And we will do that the same way if — any modifications are needed or
current treatments need — used to help those with — who get ill with the
COVID virus. 

Look, I’m — I’m sparing no effort and removing all roadblocks to keep
the American people safe.  All of this is confusing to a lot of people. 
But if it’s confusing to you, let me close with this simple message: If
you are vaccinated but still worried about the new variant, get your
booster.  If you aren’t vaccinated, get that shot.  Go get that first
shot.

My team at the White House will provide me with daily updates this
week.  And on Thursday, I’ll be putting forward a detailed strategy
outlining how we’re going to fight COVID this winter — not with
shutdowns or lockdowns but with more widespread vaccinations, boosters,
testing, and more. 

I promised every American that there will be — always be the latest
vaccines available and the booster shots available to them and for free
and — everywhere available.  Every single American, free of charge — and
I will keep that commitment. 

But we need to do more than vaccinate Americans.  To beat the pandemic,
we have to vaccinate the world as well.  And America is leading that
effort.  We’ve shipped — for free — more vaccines to other countries
than all other countries in the world combined: over 275 million
vaccines to 110 countries. 

Now we need the rest of the world to step up as well.  Let me be clear:
Not a single vaccine shot Americans ever send to the rest of the world
will ever come at the expense of any American.  I will always make sure
that our people are protected first. 

But vaccinating the world is just one more tool in how we need to meet
our moral obligation as Americans and how to best protect Americans as
well.

The Delta variants and now the Omicron variant all emerged elsewhere in
the world.  So we can’t let up until the world is vaccinated.  We’re
protecting Americans by doing that as well.

As we continue this effort, let’s remember where we stand.  We’re in a
very different place as we enter the month of December this month
compared to where we were last — last Sept- — last Christmas. 

Last Christmas, fewer than 1 percent of American adults were
vaccinated.  This Christmas, the number will be over 71 percent,
including more than 86 percent of seniors. 

Last Christmas, our children were at risk without a vaccine.  This
Christmas, we have safe and effective vaccines for children ages five
and older, with more than 19 million children and counting now
vaccinated. 

Last year, a majority of schools were closed.  This year, 99 percent of
our schools are open.  And let me reiterate once more: We also now have
booster shots that provide extra protection.  They are free and
convenient.  There is still time to get your first two shots or your
booster shot or get your children vaccinated before Christmas.  All
three are available and can be done before Christmas.

If you and your family are fully vaccinated, you can celebrate the
holidays much more safely.  And given where we were last year, that’s a
blessing that none of us should take for granted.

We’re throwing everything we can at this virus, tracking it from every
angle.  And that’s what we have to keep doing.  That’s how we reopened
our country.  That’s how we reopened our businesses.  That’s how we
reopened our schools.  That’s how, even with a pandemic, we’ve generated
a record job creation, a record economic growth in this country. 

We’ve moved forward in the face of COVID-19.  We have moved forward in
the face of the Delta variant.  And we will move forward now in the face
of the Omicron variant as well.

So thank you.  May God bless our troops.  And I hope you all have — I’ll
be speaking before then, but — a Merry Christmas, as we approach it.

Questions.

Q    (Cross-talk.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Let me call on Nancy of Bloomberg.

Q    Thank you so much, President Biden.  Do you think that other
countries will be reluctant to report variants or other strains given
the travel ban that you put so quickly on South Africa?

THE PRESIDENT:  No, I don’t think so.  I don’t think that’s what’s going
to happen.  And I want to — again, the reason for the immediate travel
ban is there were a significant number of cases, unlike any other
country — well, the few around South Africa — in the world.

We needed time to give people an opportunity to say, “Get that
vaccination now” before it — it’s going to move around the world.  I
think it’s almost inevitable there will be, at some point, that — that
strain here in the United States. 

But I don’t — I don’t think anyone is going to be reluctant to report. 

We have also moved to do more.  For example, we’ve provided more
vaccines, as I said, than all other countries in the world combined. 
And we’ve provided significant vaccines as well to South Africa and that
region.  As a matter of fact, South Africa doesn’t need any more
vaccine; they’re having trouble getting it out into people’s arms, and
the reluctance is there. 

But no, I don’t think it’s going to have that effect. 

Let me call on Alexis.  Alexis. 

Q    Alex?

Q    We’ve got two Alex’s.  (Laughter.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Oh.  Alex of Reuters.

Q    Yes.  Thank you so much, Mr. President.  I wanted to ask if the
U.S. is doing anything to screen international travels for this variant,
and what is being done, if anything, internally to see if the virus —
this variant has already arrived.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, there’s a lot being done.  I’m going to turn to
Dr. Fauci to answer the last question about what’s been done.

Doc.

DR. FAUCI:  Thank you, Mr. President.  We already have in place — when
people come into the United States, they have to be tested before they
get on and they have to show vaccination documentation.  So even before
Omicron came in, we have a situation where we’ll be able to test.

And in talking about testing, fortunately for us, the PCRs that we
mostly use would pick up this very unusual variant that has a real large
constellation of mutations — fortunately for us, that the PCRs that we
do do pick it up.

THE PRESIDENT:  And we’re following extremely closely — the medical
community, the COVID team — any developments as it relates to how severe
it is, how quickly it mutat- — how quickly it spreads, how dangerous it
is, et cetera.  We have more work to do in that area.

And Wall Street Journal, Sabrina.

Q    Thank you.  Thank you, Mr. President.  The UK, Europe, and a
growing number of countries have confirmed cases of Omicron.  Are you
considering additional travel restrictions on countries where the
variant has been detected? 

And just separately, you’ve urged Americans to wear masks in indoor
public spaces, but many states and cities, including Washington, D.C.,
have lifted mask mandates.  So, are you calling on state and local and
officials to reinstate mask mandates?

THE PRESIDENT:  With regard to the last question, the answer is: I
encourage everyone to wear a mask when they’re indoors in a crowded
circumstance like we are right now and — unless you’re eating or
speaking at a microphone. 

And secondly, the degree of the spread impacts on whether or not there
is a need for any travel restriction.  But that’s not — I don’t
anticipate that at this point.  And we’ll see.  We’ll see where that
works. 

And so the other Alex doesn’t have a heart attack, I want to call on
him.  Is it — is it —

Q    Yes —

Q    Mr. President, hi. 

Q    Two female Alex’s.

Q    Two girl Alex’s.

Q    Yeah, no, I’m not an Alex, but I’d love to ask one question and
then the other Alex.

Q    Can we both ask questions?

THE PRESIDENT:  Okay, let me ask the other Alex and then you, sir. 

Q    Thank you very much.

Q    Mr. President, is this the new normal that Americans should expect:
anticipating future potential variants?  Should we expect intermittent
travel restrictions and potential drops in the stock market going
forward?  Do you have any words of reassurance that this won’t become
the new normal?

And then for both you and Dr. Fauci: Dr. Fauci said earlier on CBS that
lockdowns, shutdowns are off the table for restraining COVID going
forward.  You said that won’t be part of your plan, on Thursday.  But
why is that?  Why are you taking that off the table?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, to answer your first question first, the answer
is: I expect this not to be the new normal.  I expect the new normal to
be everyone ends up getting vaccinated and the booster shot so we reduce
the number of people who aren’t protected to such a low degree that
we’re not seeing the spread of these viruses. 

Now, we — it remains to be seen exactly what the elements of this
particular strain are.  But if they’re as I hope, then it’s not going to
be fundamentally different than in the past.

And in terms of — what was the second part of the question?

Q    Are lockdowns off the table — 

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes, for now.  Yes.

Q    — in dealing with this?  Fau- — Dr. Fauci, why is that?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, because we’re able to — if people are vaccinated
and wear their masks, there’s no need for the lockdowns. 

Q    Sir, this —

THE PRESIDENT:  My last question.

Q    Yes.  Going on from that question, we’ve got the Christmas period
coming up, a huge amount of travel.  Would you give it any thought to
domestic flights requiring tests or vaccine before people get on planes
— the same as they do for international flights?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, at this point, that’s not been recommended.  I
would wait for my — the scientific community to give — give me a
recommendation on that.

Q    Are travel restrictions too late to be effective, sir, given that
Dr. Fauci says this new variant could already be here? 

THE PRESIDENT:  You understand the point of the — of the travel
restrict- — of the restrictions: to give us time to get people to get
protection, to be vaccinated and get the booster.  That’s the reason for
it. 

Thank you all so very, very much.  I appreciate it.  Thank you. 

And I’m sure I’ll see you between now and Christmas, but hope you had a
good Thanksgiving.  Thanks.

12:17 P.M. EST
