---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-11-02'
modified_time: 2021-11-02 10:55:36-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/11/02/remarks-by-president-biden-at-an-event-highlighting-the-progress-of-the-global-methane-pledge/
published_time: 2021-11-02 10:55:34-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at an Event Highlighting the Progress of the Global\
  \ Methane\_Pledge"
---
 
Scottish Event Campus

Glasgow, Scotland

1:36 P.M. GMT

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, it’s very easy to follow Ursula.  I think she says
it all well the first time. 

Look, I’m going to be very, very brief.  I want to thank Ursula.  And
thank you so much to everyone here today, you know, for signing this
game-changing commitment.  

One of the most important things we can do — and I keep referring, as
many of you do, to this decisive decade.  We’ve got to figure what we’re
going to do.  It’s not just between now and 2050.  What we’re going to
do between now and 2030 is going to impact significantly what we’ll —
whether we’ll be able to meet our longer-term commitment. 

And one of the most important things we can do in this decisive decade
is — to keep 1.5 degrees in reach — is reduce our methane emissions as
quickly as possible. 

As has already been stated, it’s one of the most potent greenhouse gases
there is.  It amounts to about half — half the warming we’re
experiencing today — just the methane exposure.

So, together, we’re committing to collectively reduce our methane by 30
percent by 2030.  And I think we can probably go beyond that.

We just announced this package at the General Assembly back in
September.  At the time, it was mentioned, nine countries had signed
on.  Today, it’s over 80; it’s approaching 100 countries that are
signing on.  That’s nearly half the global methane — methane emissions —
or 70 percent of the global GDP. 

And it’s not — this is going to make a huge difference.  And not just
when it comes to fighting climate change, as Ursula pointed out — the
physical health of individuals and a whole range of other things.  It’s
going to improve health, reduce asthma, respiratory-related
emergencies.  It’s going to improve the food supply as well by cutting
crop losses and related ground-level pollution.  And it’s going to boost
our economies, saving companies money, reducing methane leaks, capturing
methane to turn it into new revenue streams, as well as creating
good-paying union jobs for our workers.

And we’re taking — and we’re talking jobs to manufacture new
technologies for methane detection; jobs for union pipefitters and
welders to go out and cap abandoned oil wells and plug leaking
pipelines, which there’s thousands of miles of those.

And it has been a foundation — the foundational commitment of my
administration from the beginning.  It’s something that we — I
campaigned on.  And today, I’m announcing the next steps to reduce U.S.
methane emissions.

We’re proposing two new rules.  One through our Environmental Protection
Agency that is going to reduce methane losses from new and existing oil
and gas pipelines.  And one through the Department of Transportation to
reduce wasteful and potential dangerous leaks from natural gas
pipelines.  They have authority over that area.

We’re also launching new initiatives to work with our farmers and our
ranchers to introduce climate-smart agriculture practices and reduce
methane on farms, which is a significant source as well.

And this is all part of our new methane strategy, which focuses on
reducing the largest source of methane emissions while putting thousands
— thousands — of skilled workers on the job all across the United States
and, I expect, in your countries as well.

So, let me close again by reiterating this isn’t just something we have
to do to protect our environment and our future, it’s an enormous
opportunity — enormous opportunity for all of us, all of our nations to
create jobs and make meeting climate goals a core part of our global
economic recovery as well.

The United States is eager to work with each of you to make sure we meet
this goal and encourage more countries — more countries — to join us in
committing to reducing methane globally, because there are more that can
join and should.

So, I want to thank you again.  Much more to say, but much of it has
already been said.  But thank you for your partnership.  Thank you for
your ambition. 

And now I’m going to turn it back to Secretary Kerry, I believe.  He’s
still here?  There he is. 

And I thank you all so very much.  (Applause.)

1:41 P.M. GMT
