---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-11-09'
modified_time: 2021-11-09 19:10:30-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/11/09/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-virtual-grassroots-event-for-the-democratic-national-committee/
published_time: 2021-11-09 19:15:00-05:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at a Virtual Grassroots Event for the Democratic\
  \ National\_Committee"
---
 
Via Teleconference

4:49 P.M. EST  
  
THE PRESIDENT: Hey, Jaime. Thank you, Mr. Chairman — Chairman Harrison.
I tell you what: Your introduction was great — a little exaggerated, but
thank you for your leadership.

MR. HARRISON: (Laughs.)

THE PRESIDENT: And I want to special thanks to each of you, the
grassroots advocates for — from all across the country. They tell me
there’s a whole bunch of you on this — on this video.  
  
Look, let me start with this: Kamala and I were sent here by the
American people to deliver. And that’s what we’ve done. After years of
“Infrastructure Week,” followed by another — just a — we just passed a
monumental piece of legislation.  
  
It’s going to create millions of jobs — and that’s not just Joe Biden
saying it; that’s everyone from Wall Street to labor saying it —
creating millions of jobs to grow our economy, make us more competitive,
and take a giant step — and I mean this sincerely — a giant step toward
dealing with climate and the climate crisis.  
  
It’s the most significant investment in passenger rail in the past 50
years, roads and bridges in the past 70 years, public transit ever. And
we’re going to modernize our ports, our airports, our freight rail, and
make it easier for companies to get their goods to market and reduce the
supply chain ba- — bottlenecks — backlogs that are out there, and lower
the cost for working families.  
  
It will replace lead pipes in every American — so that every American
can drink clean water and not have to worry. Every American will have
access to high-speed Internet. And we’ll see new fleets of electric
vehicle, school buses, a national network of charging stations — over
500,000 of them all across America — so we can charge up and drive
across the country without ever having to do anything other than know
you can get to the next charging station and make it all the way without
worry at all.  
  
We’re going to also take away those diesel buses, which are where our
children inhale diesel exhaust, making it safe and battery-operated
buses.  
  
We’re making sure bridges you drive over are safe, making sure the water
you drink is clean, to making sure that your — our power lines and our
levees are strong enough to withstand the next hurricane, the next
flood, the wildfire, or superstorm.  
  
Look, this legislation is going to change the lives of every American.
And for four years long — for four years long, the last President told
us we’re going to get the infrastructure done, but he couldn’t get it
done. So it was left to us, and we got the job done.  
  
By the way, we got some help from some Republicans who had to encourage
to vote for it initially and vote for it in the House. And now we need
to do it again with my Build Back Better plan. And I’m confident we’re
going to get it done, as we — as we did in the past with everything else
we’ve tried so far. And we’re going to need your help; your help and
your talking about it makes a difference.  
  
And for those families struggling to afford childcare and eldercare, our
Build Back Better plan will be lifechanging. For those 2 million women
who can’t get back to the workforce right now because of things like
childcare, this will get them back to work. And that’s going to be good
for them and good for their families and good for the economy.  
  
But there’s more.  
  
There’s universal pre-K for every three- and four-year-old child in
America. It’s going to increase academic achievement in all children and
give them an even start no matter what — what home they come from, no
matter how little — little they’ve been taught to read or they’ve been
read to. It’s going to change everything.  
  
More affordable healthcare and lower prescription drug costs. Tax cuts
for working people and the middle class and are working their way into
the middle class.  
  
Together with the infrastructure bill, we’re going to make the most
significant investment ever to turn the climate crisis into an
opportunity: new jobs. And all this is paid for by raising taxes on big
corporations and the very wealthy. I’m not trying to punish anybody, but
I’m insisting that they pay their fair share. It’s fiscally responsible
and it’s paid for.  
  
Plus, one more thing: It extends the refundable Child Tax Credit by
putting the American Rescue Plan that we passed months ago. It’s one of
those things that I’m most proud of, because not only has this meant a
tax cut for working families, not only has it helped some 60 million
children in America. It has helped to cut child poverty in America by
more than 40 percent. And that’s something to really — really be proud
of, in my view.  
  
You know, we had some other big news just a few days ago: The COVID
vaccine for children ages 5 to 12 was approved. That’s going to give
millions of Americans — millions of American parents peace of mind. And
it means we now have all the tools to combat COVID-19. We have vaccine
booster shots. Soon, an antiviral pill is going to prevent severe
illness and death. And it’s also — and it’s also been a long, tough
fight, I know. We still have a way to go.  
  
We have every tool we need to get COVID-19 under control. And that’s
critically not only for the public health, but for our economy as well.
I know you all know this.  
  
Just last week, we reported over 500,000 jobs were created last month.
In the two months earlier, it was raised by 250,000 jobs that had been
under — (inaudible). And, you know, it just — I think it was about 230-
— I think it might have — over 200,000 jobs.  
  
But that means, over the course of my presidency, with your help, we’ve
created over 5 million new jobs just since we got sworn in on January
the 20th. That’s the biggest and largest number of jobs any President
has ever created up to this point in their presidency.  
  
Now, I know that a lot of folks don’t feel the progress we’re making in
the economy. I get it. I know the cost of gas, groceries, and rent seems
to be harder and harder to handle. That’s what — that’s one of the most
re- — more reasons why we should have to pass my Build Back Better
bill.  
  
But hold for a second here. You know, when we passed the American — the
first piece of legislation we passed, one of the reasons we did that —
we knew people were in real trouble. So many people lost their jobs. So
that’s why you learned that we got everybody another $1,400 to get them
through. At the time, they got a check for $1,400.  
  
It also made it easier for people to be able to — if you were — had a
child, and we passed the Child Tax Credit, it means if you had one
child, you got to check for 300 bucks a month. If you had two — anyway,
it goes on.  
  
So it really helped. But we had to do more.  
  
You know, the Build Back Better plan is not going to cause inflation
like people are talking about, because 17 Nobel laureates in economics
have looked at my plans and said they will — it will ease inflationary
pressure. So, for those Americans who are focused on the cost of living,
it’s even more important to pass this legislation.  
  
Folks, I ran for President because, for too long, the working people of
this nation had been dealt out of the deal, and it was time to deal them
back in. I ran to rebuild, as I said, the backbone of this nation —
working people, middle-class folks — to rebuild the economy from the
bottom up and the middle out.  
  
That’s why I wrote these bills in the first place. That’s why it will
matter so much when I sign them into law, because of you. And there’s so
much more to do: protecting the sacred right to vote, immigration, the
courts, building on the Affordable Care Act, protecting a woman’s right
to choose, and so much more.  
  
And my message is this: We need to remember what got us to the White
House in the first place. We won in 2020 as a unified party — maybe more
unified than ever.  
  
Now, as you look at 2022, we need to stay unified. We need to remember
that the American people sent us here to deliver to make their lives
better.  
  
Let me close with this: This is no ordinary moment. This is truly an
inflection point in the nation’s history. I truly believe that you and I
are doing something — and some of the most important work ever — of
meeting some of the most important challenges we’ve ever faced as a
nation: We’re putting out the pandem- — by pulling out of the pandemic
that is — I hate to say it — lost 750,000 lives; pulling our economy
back off the junk heap here and get us back on our feet; to rebuilding
the backbone of this nation, giving working people a fighting chance
again; to confronting the existential crisis of climate change; to
defending and protecting our very democracy and the right to vote.  
  
There’s no one else coming to do this work. It’s up to us: our country,
our planet, our democracy. They’re all in our hands right now. So, let’s
stay together.  
  
This next phase is critically important. So, let’s stay engaged.  
  
Get involved. You already are if you’re on this, but get involved and
volunteer. Text VOLUNTEER to 43367. Let me say it again: VOLUNTEER to
43367.  
  
We can do this. Let’s believe in one another. As my grandfather would
say, “Let’s keep the faith.”  
  
God bless you all. And may God protect our troops.  
  
And I’m going to turn it back to Chairman Harrison.  
  
Jaime.  
  
MR. HARRISON: Thank you, Mr. President. And let me just take personal
privilege here, Mr. President, and thank you. This weekend, I was able
to take my seven-year-old to get vaccinated. And I can’t tell you how
emotional it was for me and his mom just to have that level of
confidence and protection for him. So, thank you for all that you’ve
done to make that possible.  
  
THE PRESIDENT: Thank you, Jaime.  
  
MR. HARRISON: Yeah. We got a few questions for you, Mr. President. The
first one is: How will the Bipartisan Infrastructure Bill help me and my
family?  
  
THE PRESIDENT: Well, look, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal is going
to have a significant impact on families across the country.  
  
The infrastructure deal is going to create good-paying jobs, union jobs
— not jobs paying $7 and $8, $9, $10 — and not even $15. And the good
part about this: None of these jobs can be outsourced. It’s building
here.  
  
These jobs will do the following:

-   One, put pipefitters and plumbers back to work replacing lead water
    pipes so every child in America can drink clean water. All those
    lead pipes will be gone.
-   Transform rail, roads, and bridges — public transit — and modernize
    our ports and our airports and freight rail, increasing the ability
    for goods to flow more quickly across the country and around the
    world.
-   Manufacturing solar panels, wind farms, batteries, and electric
    vehicles to grow clean energy supply chains, so we can export to the
    world as well — not just benefit our country, but export to the
    world.
-   Build out the first-ever national network of charging stations. As I
    said, over 550,000 so families can travel coast-to-coast in an
    electric vehicle.
-   Make high-speed Internet affordable and available for every American
    household, rural and city, and make it affordable.
-   Clean up the Brownfields and the Superfund sites, as well as plug
    abandoned mines — mines that are still open — orphaned wells. And
    stop polluting and protecting — and start to protect public health.
    And, by the way, capping these wells are going to pay the same ways
    wage that dugging \[sic\] — digging the well cost — reward to
    workers. It’s going to be a union wage.
-   Build up our resilience to superstorms and droughts and wildfires
    and hurricanes that cost billions of dollars a day. I mean, just
    this past year, these weather events have cost $99 billion in
    America — $99 billion. And these investments are going to help
    families with their commutes and school drop-offs with safer roads
    and better transit options.

And everyone — you know, everyone can tell me what the most dangerous
intersection in their neighborhood is, can’t ya?  We’re going to fix it.
The money is there for that. And that’s true all across the country. And
this bill is going to help fix intersections, like those dangerous ones
you know in your town and your city.  
  
And it’s going to help businesses, small and large, compete, getting
their good — their goods, and the goods they make, to market faster, and
enable to offer lower prices.  
  
How long have you heard people in Washington talk about passing an
infrastructure bill? A long time. But we got it done. And, by the way,
19 Republicans helped us pass it in the Senate, and Democrats voted for
this bill. So, it’s not just talk, it’s action.  
  
MR. HARRISON: Thank you, Mr. President. And I can tell you, particularly
in rural communities, the broadband expansion is going to be big — and
not only for jobs, but also for healthcare. A lot of our rural hospitals
are closing because they don’t have access to broadband. So, your help
here is going to have a tremendous impact on many of those
communities.  
  
THE PRESIDENT: And, Jaime, let me point out that it’s not only that,
it’s going to — as you said, at all those rural hospitals, this is going
to allow telemedicine.  
  
MR. HARRISON: Exactly.  
  
THE PRESIDENT: It’s going to make a big difference in people’s lives.
And how many people do you know, Jaime — whether it’s in South Carolina
or in Wilmington, Delaware, where I’m from, or wherever it is, and
during this pandemic, where kids were out of school and they’re being
taught virtually — how many parents had to drive their kids do their
homework in a McDonald’s parking lot because they could hook into their
— into their ability — they had Internet that you could hook into?  
  
But I mean, you know, this is just ridiculous in a country as great as
ours.  
  
I’m sorry to interrupt. Go ahead.  
  
MR. HARRISON: No, no. I agree, Mr. President. We also got a question
from an educator, and she said, “As an educator, I’ve been keeping an
eye on the parts of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Bill and the Build
Back Better Act that would help our children. Can you explain how these
bills would work together to help the next generations of students
succeed in their education?”  
  
THE PRESIDENT: Well, first of all, I’m married to an educator. I think
my wife, Jill — or I’m Jill’s husband, as we say in my house — she
teaches full time in a community college and has taught for years in the
public school system. And then, since I became Vice President, we moved
to — before that, she worked as a community college professor in
Delaware, and now she works as a community college professor in Northern
Virginia and still does her duties as First Lady.  
  
And she has an expression. She says — she says, “Any country that
out-educates us is going to outcompete us.” The average cost of pre-K in
the United States is $8,600. That’s a tough squeeze for working
families. Under my plan — and this now going to go into effect — under
my plan, we’re going to be able to provide free — free preschool for
every three- and four-year-old in America when this next bill passes.  
  
And the studies have shown that kids who go to pre-K are more likely to
stay in school and do better over the course of their education, no
matter what the background they come from. Some people come — kids come
from backgrounds where, as you know, as a teacher — all the studies show
where if you’re from a middle-class family or an upper-middle-class
family, and there’s books and parents read to you, and et cetera, et
cetera, you start off having heard a million more words than a kid
coming from a poor household or a household with a single parent that
didn’t have the time to do that.  
  
This is one of the best investments we’re going to make because it
equalizes the playing field. The three-year-old from the house that has
been — had economic pressure on it and the three-year-old from the house
that doesn’t, they end up being able to do the same thing throughout
school.  
  
Look — and we’re going to make sure that education beyond high school is
more accessible for those families, (inaudible) by raising the maximum
in what they call Pell Grants. And we’ve increased the amount of Pell
Grants, and we’ve invested in community college and workforce programs
that will be able to be used for parents who can’t afford it.  
  
So, it makes a big change in educational opportunity, plus so many other
things I believe it does indirectly for kids, in terms of their overall
education.  
  
MR. HARRISON: Well, Mr. President, again, I’m married to a former — I’m
married to a teacher, and I was a former teacher myself. And I can tell
you this is a big deal for many, many working families, and it’s going
to be a big deal for our kids.  
  
And we just want to thank you for everything that you have done to make
this possible.  
  
THE PRESIDENT: Jaime, you know, the interesting thing is, what really
got me focused on preschool and making sure it was available is, you
know, of all the countries in the world, we rank number 33 — I think it
was — out of 44 of the leading countries, according to the OECD, of the
most advanced countries in the world — the United States — in early
education. We rank at the bottom of the list — the United States of
America. And it’s long overdue.  
  
And it also shows — all the studies that the great universities have
done in the last 10 years demonstrate that if they have — if they go to
preschool at three and four years old, it increases by something like 53
percent the ability of — the likelihood that that child will go all the
way through all 12 years and go beyond high school.  
  
So, it’s — it’s like you would say or your wife or my wife: Any country
that out-educates us is going to outcompete us.  
  
MR. HARRISON: Well, and, Mr. President, I think people should also
understand that this isn’t your first time investing in education. The
American Rescue Plan got our schools back open. And that is something
that you did, along with all the Democrats in the House and the Senate.
And sad to say, not one Republican in either body actually voted for
that plan. But it was you who helped to get our schools back open.  
  
THE PRESIDENT: Well, I’m hoping, Jaime, that we can get back to a place
where there’s more civility in politics. I really mean it. And I’ve
never seen it this way.  
  
You know, the Republicans who voted in the House of Representatives for
the infrastructure bill — you’ve seen in the press the reports that the
other Republicans are trying to strip them of their standing in their
Congress. If they’re a chairman of a committee, they’re trying to strip
them of that chairmanship. I’ve never seen it like this before. It’s got
to stop for the sake of America.  
  
I know I get in trouble when I talk about “bipartisan,” because people
say, “Why the devil would I like any Republicans?” Well, it’s important.
We are — unless we get — generate consensus in America, we’re in
trouble.  
  
And the one thing we generated consensus on and then the very people who
voted for it initially — because it looked like the Democrats were going
to be given credit for something — are now being threatened with their
chairmanships. It’s just not right. We’re going to change it though.  
  
MR. HARRISON: Well, thank you, Mr. President, for — from all of us. We
really appreciate your visit, your leadership, and your heart. And
you’re the President we need at this moment. So, thank you again, Mr.
President.  
  
THE PRESIDENT: Well, but what we need at this moment are the thousands
of people you have on this — on this Zoom here.  
  
And listen, I want to thank them all. From the bottom of my heart, thank
you. It’s who we are. Thanks.  
  
MR. HARRISON: Well, thank you again for joining us this afternoon, Mr.
President. And we look forward to seeing you all again — seeing you
again soon.  
  
5:09 P.M. EST
