---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-07-07'
modified_time: 2021-07-07 14:41:35-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/07/07/press-gaggle-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-aboard-air-force-one-en-route-crystal-lake-il/
published_time: 2021-07-07 14:41:34-04:00
title: "Press Gaggle by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki Aboard Air Force One En Route Crystal\
  \ Lake,\_IL"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Crystal Lake, Illinois

11:13 A.M. CDT

MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.  Welcome to our trip to Crystal Lake,
Illinois.  In Crystal Lake, the President will make the case for
generational investments in human infrastructure and other critical
priorities like clean energy that form his Build Back Better agenda, a
combination of the American Families Plan, and policies from the
American Jobs Plan that aren’t included in the Bipartisan Infrastructure
Framework.

At McHenry County College, which has workforce development programs and
a childcare center, the President will underline the specific
game-changing impacts of the Buil- — his Build Back Better agenda.

He will argue that to build an economy from the bottom up and the middle
out, we need to invest in our people by providing four additional years
of public education to every student, increasing Pell Grants and
investing in job training.

You’ll also hear him talk about the fact that, as a former single
father, he will — he will stress that his plan is to help boost
childcare affordability by building new childcare centers and ensuring
that no middle-class family pays more than 7 percent of their income on
high-quality care for children up to age five.

He will also note that the Build Back Better plan will invest in the
childcaring workforce, provide parents with an up to $8,000 tax credit
to cover their childcare expenses, institute 12 weeks of paid family and
medical leave, and extand \[sic\] — and extend the expanded Child Tax
Credit from the Rescue Plan.

Finally, with over 10 million Americans currently paying over half of
what they earn in rent, the President will cover how the Build Back
Better agenda includes a historic investment in affordable housing —
something I think you all haven’t heard him talk about that much yet —
to address supply and building or rehabilitating more than 2 million
homes.

One other item for all of you: Today we also announced three initiatives
as part of the President’s forthcoming executive order, fulfilling his
campaign promise to promote competition in labor markets in order to
raise wages and make it easier for workers to change jobs and to move
between states. 

First, roughly half of private sector businesses require at least some
employees to enter non-compete agreements, affecting over 30 million
people.  This affects construction workers, hotel workers, many
blue-collar jobs, not just high-level executives.  He believes that if
someone offers you a better job, you should be able to take it.  It
makes sense. 

So, in keeping with his campaign promise, the executive order will call
on the FTC to adopt rules that curtail non- compete agreements.  His
executive order will also call on the Federal Trade Commission to adopt
rules that ban unnecessary occupational licensing requirements.  Today,
almost 30 percent of jobs in the U.S. require a license from attorneys
and accountants to interior designers and hairdressers. 

While occupational licensing can serve important health and safety
concerns, unnecessary or overly burdensome licensing can lock people out
of jobs.  This hugely affects military families in particular, over one
third of whom work in a field requiring a license and who are subject to
military-directed moves every year. 

Finally, a little update for you on vaccine doses.  Today we’re
announcing we are sharing more doses with Latin America.  One million
Johnson & Johnson doses will be headed to Bolivia on Thursday.  One
million doses of Pfizer will be sent to Paraguay.

Sorry, actual last thing: The Department of Education also released
today nearly $6 billion in American Rescue Plan funds to six states and
Washington, D.C., to support the safe reopening of K-through-12
schools. 

Lots going on.  Go ahead.

Q    A couple of questions.  Off the top, I know the midterms are a
while away, but they come quicker than you expect, so can we talk
politics a little bit, partly because the President has visited three
top targeted congressional districts in the past week.  Obviously, today
is one of them.  So, considering the party in power typically loses
seats in a midterm, is part of the strategy right now to mitigate those
potential losses?  And does the White House see the President’s policies
as swaying voters in the upcoming midterms?

Well, first, I would say that the President is visiting this district in
Illinois today because Congresswoman — in part because Congresswoman
Lauren Underwood has — is a registered nurse.  She’s a champion for
healthcare and expanding access to affordable healthcare.  And that
certainly is part of what’s under discussion and what is part of his
Build Back Better agenda. 

I will say that when the President put together his economic plans — his
Build Back Better agenda, the American Rescue Plan, the American Jobs
Plan, the American Families Plan — what he had in mind was governing for
all Americans — Democrats, Republicans — and making clear that he was
going to be the President for everyone, not just the people who voted
for him. 

And certainly the most effective role he can play as President, as
Commander-in-Chief, and certainly as leader of the party, is to go out
there and do what he does best, which is to be the “explainer-in-chief”
and make — and lay out the specific plans and specific ways his plans,
his proposals, and the agenda of the Democratic Party, but also his
administration, are going to help people across the country.

Q    And then, on these cyberattacks, the RNC was just attacked by a
likely Russian actor.  And so, considering that reining in these
cyberattacks was a central focus of the Putin summit, does the President
still believe that that summit was a success considering we’ve seen two
new Russia-linked cyberattacks in the last week?

And then, coming out of this interagency meeting that just happened, can
you tell us a little bit more about what went on there and if there were
any sort of clear retaliatory actions that the U.S. is considering in
response to these attacks?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  First, on the RNC report — because I think some of
the reporting got a little ahead of where the administration is and
where actual attribution is.  I’d also note that the RNC put out a
statement conveying this was a third-party vendor and that none of their
data was accessed. 

So we, of course, are investigating.  The FBI, CISA are in touch with
the RNC, and when — we will determine attribution and make a decision
accordingly.

As it relates to the meeting that the President had earlier today, he
met — the President and the Vice President, I should say, met this
morning with our national security team as a part of an internal update
briefing on our across-whole-of-government effort to address ransomware
attacks.

Now, I would remind all of you that ransomware attacks are not new; they
long predated this administration.  What is new is this level of
engagement at the — at a high level — at the highest level, ongoing
high-level engagement from our national security officials with the
Russian government, and expert-level talks about the cyber and
ransomware attacks. 

So, in this meeting, they provided an update on their ongoing work:
surge capacity, resilience and reporting, addressing payment systems,
and our ongoing efforts to combat ransomware. 

We don’t have anything new to report in terms of attribution, nor do we
have anything to preview in terms of operational actions or
considerations. 

What we do continue — what we did — they did discuss is the fact that
the President reserves the right to respond against any ransomware
networks and those that harbor them.  That continues to be his policy. 

Q    But what did the President mean today when he said, at departure,
that he would “deliver” this message to Putin? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think the question was — I can’t remember what the
context —

Q    The question was, “What’s your message to Putin?”  And he said,
“I’ll deliver it to him.”

MS. PSAKI:  I think he wasn’t going to share with all of you what he
just discussed in a private briefing.  (Inaudible.)

Q    Has the RNC asked the administration for assistance at all?  Have
you been in — has the administration —

MS. PSAKI:  The FBI and CISA have been in touch with the RNC, yes.

Q    Jen, can I ask for an update on OPEC?  Do you have any new details
about outreach from the administration — who’s been doing that?  Do you
still feel encouraged, like you did yesterday, as the talks continue to
drag out?  And just a general kind of status check on how things are
going. 

MS. PSAKI:  I certainly understand your question.  We don’t have any
update from yesterday.  Just to reiterate: While we’re not a party of
OPEC, we are in touch with key participants in these discussions.  We’re
encouraged that they’re continuing, but we don’t have any update on the
status.

Q    Still don’t expect the President to get involved directly at any
point?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any expectation of that at this point, or
prediction (inaudible).

Q    Can I go back to cyber just for one second?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    You mentioned payment systems, and I know that you’re looking into
whether — you know, how to approach this — how ransoms are paid, and
whether they should be paid in that entire question.  But given the role
that cryptocurrencies are playing in that, is that an area that you’re
looking into for further investigations?

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah, that’s a part of ransom payments.  And I should just
say that part of this is there’s been ongoing work led by Deputy
National Security Advisor Anne Neuberger and others across the
government to consider what has long been a range of issues as it
relates to ransomware attacks.  And certainly cryptocurrency, the role
of cryptocurrency, the role of payment systems is a part of that. 

Surge capacity — the importance of partnering but also encouraging the
private sector to harden their own protections — that’s all part of it. 
And this was a internal, you know, somewhat standard update, but one
with an across-the-government representation.

Q    And then one more on that.  So, sanctions are one of the tools that
you’ve used against Russia.  You used them in response to election
interference issues.  And I’m wondering, if this is something that we
see happening with the RNC — another leg of Russia attempting to
interfere in the political process here — do you still see sanctions as
a viable tool for dealing with that?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I would say, on the RNC piece, I think it’s
really important to asse- — to speak to where we are in this moment,
which is the RNC has put out a statement conveying this was a
third-party vendor.  They’ve said none of their data was accessed.  So
it’s not that at this point.  We’re investigating.  We’ll conclude the
investigation and make an assessment. 

In terms of operational considerations, obviously it’s not in our
interest to preview those or preview our punches, as I like to say.  The
President has a range of options should he determine to take action.

Q    On Afghanistan: How is the U.S. going to continue its civilian —
its civil and humanitarian support for the country if the Taliban
continues its march?  Is there a plan to work with the Taliban?  Is
there — how do you do it? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, there are ongoing political negotia- —

(Turbulence on the plane.)

Ooh, okay.  Oh, okay, let’s see how this happens here.  Everyone is okay
on the plane — happy to report — currently.  (Laughter.)  Alex has been
teaching me.  I’ve flown a little, but everyone seems fine.

Okay.  Okay, sorry.  To get back to your question: So, there are a
number of efforts that will be underway; one are political
negotiations.  Certainly, the State Department would provide an update
of when those will reconvene, but we certainly expect and hope and are
supportive of the continuation of those political discussions. 

One of the reasons that the President made the decision he did is
because he does not feel there’s a military solution for a 20-year war. 
Has — has long felt there was not a military solution.  Diplomatic
negotiations.

Two, as he reiterated when Afghan leaders were here just a couple of
weeks ago, we will continue to provide, as you said, humanitarian
assistance, security assistance.  We intend to continue to have a
diplomatic presence on the ground in Kabul, even after we bring the
servicemen and women home at the end of August.  So, that is a mechanism
for that. 

I would say, three, obviously, as you know, we’re going to continue to
work with partners in the region to plan for our own CT preparations.

Q    On vaccination: Yesterday, you talked about door knocking, which is
a pretty standard thing, and it was picked up in the far-right sphere
as, you know, “the government is going to come to your door and make you
get a vaccine.”  I am wondering your reaction to that and what that type
of messaging does for the efforts to, you know, convince people who
might be hesitant to get vaccinated. 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I appreciate the question.  Well, let me tell you what
this is and what it is not.  What this effort is is a continuation of
what we have seen as an impactful effort that we’ve had by local public
health officials and volunteers in a range of communities over the last
month of action. 

We’ve actually seen an impact — a positive impact of a range of steps
we’ve taken in states like Florida, Mississippi, others where there have
been lower vaccination rates.  There’s been actually an increase by over
4 percent in Florida, over the last month, of adults. 

But what we’re doing is local officials are going to areas where there
are lower vaccination rates and providing information on where people
can get access to a vaccine, where they can go, that it’s free, that
they can take time off of work.  It’s up to individuals to decide
whether they want to get vaccinated or not.

But what we’ve seen as a barrier all along, for months, has been access
and information, and so we’re going to continue to deploy the tactic —
tactics that we’ve seen effective over the last few months.

Q    And a lot of folks in the public health world have said that while
they appreciate the voluntary nature, that you guys are — you know, what
you just said, that it’s up to the individual to get vaccinated — they
also think that the only way to get to, sort of, much larger numbers of
vaccinated people is if there are mandates — whether those be mandates
by private companies for their employees or universities or public
schools or states that mandate for different kinds of, you know,
healthcare workers or others. 

Yesterday, when I asked you the question, you said you had no interest
in the government — that the administration has no interest in
encouraging that.  I mean, is that really the position of the federal
government, is that you do not want to encourage the kind of mandates
that public health officials say would work?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think, for clarity, that’s not currently the role of
the federal government.  And our role is to provide supply, provide
information, provide public health experts.  As — to your point, there
are a number of private sector entities, universities, institutions that
are starting to mandate, and that’s an innovative step that they will
take and they should take.  That’s not — and we’re not taking issue with
that.

Q    But public health officials say that you guys are in a — and the
President of the United States, with his bully pulpit and, you know,
obviously taking not the kind of hands-off approach that Donald Trump
took to federal (inaudible) —

MS. PSAKI:  I would say first —

Q    — they want you to — they want you to be part of pushing these
institutions to do that.

MS. PSAKI:  But, Mike, I think the important thing to remind everyone of
is that, one, we have reduced the rate of COVID by 90 percent.  We’ve
reduced the death rate by 90 percent.  Almost 70 percent of the adult
population is vaccinated, and we’re continuing to press further.

There are institutions, there are private sector entities that will take
this step.  We’re not standing in their way.  Those are innovative
steps.  Go forward and take steps that you feel are appropriate.  We’re
just talking about what the steps are, what the role is of the federal
government.

Q    You had said to me that you’re sort of trapped between —

Q    (Inaudible) on the violence in Chicago?

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    The administration is sort of trapped between the people who are
saying, “You need to do more; you need to mandate or you’re just not
going to reach people,” and the people who are saying, “Oh, my God.  The
government is going to mandate this.”  It seems like you’re kind of
stuck in the middle.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  But I think what we continue to remember is what
constructive role we can play as the federal government, and that
includes continuing to use resources to get out into communities; to
empower public health officials; to get accurate information out; to
ensure people understand, as the CDC put out information earlier today
or overnight, that 50 percent of the indivi- — of the cases are now, as
a result of the Delta variant, higher in areas where there are lower
vaccination rates.

That is the role where we’re going to spend our energy and our
resources.

Q    Can we get the White House reaction to the violence in Chicago —
those three officers shot overnight, one of whom was an ATF agent? 
There’s an alderman in Chicago who is asking that the President come in
the wake of what happened.  He says, quote, “Our communities and police
officers are under siege.”  What’s the President’s message as we’re
about to land there and he’s about to meet with the mayor of that city?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, let me first say that we are closely monitoring
the situation in coordination with the Department of Justice and ATF. 
We stand ready to provide any assistance needed.  Our thoughts go out to
the two ATF agents and the Chicago Police Department officer who were
wounded, as well as their families and fellow agents and officers. 

As the President has said many times, every time a law enforcement
officer pins on their shield and walks out the door, they’re carrying a
sacred responsibility. 

I will note that, in terms of the efforts the President has underway to
address the rise in violence we’ve seen over the last 18 months,
including in Chicago, there are a number of steps that impact Chicago
directly and specifically, including — his Rescue Plan is giving cities
like Chicago — alone is getting almost $1.9 billion through the Rescue
Plan.  Cook County is getting over $1 billion.  And the state government
of Illinois is receiving an additional $8.13 billion.

As a part of our gun crime reduction strategy, Chicago is also taking
part in a community violence intervention collaborative with 15
jurisdictions nationwide to help them invest in proven evidence-based,
community-based strategies.

And Chicago is also one of the five cities we announced recently that’s
going to be — we’re going to be working with — the Department of Justice
is going to be working with in launching a gun trafficking strike force
— there’s four other cities, I should say, nationwide — to help
interrupt gun trafficking corridors that send crime into Chicago from
across the city and state lines. 

Q    Will he visit?

MS. PSAKI:  Will he visit — our plans today have not changed in terms of
our travel plans.

Q    Has the President spoken to Governor Pritzker or Mayor Lightfoot
this week, following the extremely violent weekends?  Has he —

MS. PSAKI:  He’s going to see both of them today.

Q    Jen, on the bipartisan infrastructure plan —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — we still haven’t seen congressional scoring or legislative
language, especially on the payfors.  Is that a signal that, you know,
they’re still in that, kind of, “coffee, late-night” area that you
discussed before?  Or might we a- — the alternate solution is that
there’s been a problem with the scoring and it doesn’t quite add up?  Is
there a possibility that the payfors change in any way at this point?

MS. PSAKI:  I think the order of events here, as I think you’re alluding
to, is they need to write the legislation first, which they’re working
on over the coming days. 

Q    One on Haiti.  I believe that you sent out a tweet — and I don’t
know what’s happened in the past hour and a half, but I believe the U.S.
Embassy in Haiti has not tweeted any form of tweet about what happened,
and a lot of the Western embassies have.  So I’m just checking to see if
there’s any sort of, like, friction or —

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we put out a statement from the President. 

Q    Do you think the U.S. Embassy in Haiti should be putting out —

MS. PSAKI:  I would ask the State Department that question.  I don’t — I
don’t think there’s an issue.  We put out a statement from the President
on it. 

Q    We’re about to land.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    Has the U.S. been asked to help in Haiti?  I mean, I know that you
guys are providing whatever —

MS. PSAKI:  We stand prepared to assist.  We’re certainly in touch, but
obviously this is — this is still developing, and so we’ll assess what
their needs are.  And we’re ready to provide needs — you know, respond
to the needs they ask for.

Q    Thanks, Jen. 

Q    Thank you.

11:31 A.M. CDT
