---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-07-19'
modified_time: 2021-07-19 17:40:45-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/07/19/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-july-19-2021/
published_time: 2021-07-19 17:40:44-04:00
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, July 19,\_2021"
---
 
1:06 P.M. EDT

MS. PSAKI: Hi, everyone. Good morning — or good afternoon. Happy Monday.

Okay, one item for all of you at the top. The United States continues
its tremendous efforts to donate COVID-19 vaccines from the U.S. global
supply. Today, we can announce that we have over a million Johnson &
Johnson vaccines headed to Gambia, Senegal, Zambia, and Niger. We’re
also pleased to announce 3 million vaccines going to Guatemala tomorrow,
continuing our prioritization of Latin American countries.

As these shipments demonstrate, the United States is fulfilling our
promise to be an arsenal of vaccines for the world, and we’re proud to
be donating these doses to save lives and help those in need.

Josh, why don’t you kick us off.

Q Thanks, Jen. Two subjects. First, the President’s remarks on why China
didn’t face sanctions for cyberattacks but Russia did: Could you
clarify, since both countries are accused of protecting criminal hacker
groups? And then, along the same lines, the U.S. imports about $435
billion dollars in goods from China. To what degree do economic concerns
play a role in how to address cyberattacks?

MS. PSAKI: Well, first, let me say that, today, an unprecedented group
of allies and partners — including the European Union, the United
Kingdom, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, Japan, and NATO — are joining
the United States in exposing and criticizing the PRC’s Ministry of
State Security’s malicious cyber activities. And this is the first time
NATO has condemned PRC cyber activities.

So, I would note that we are actually elevating and taking steps to not
only speak out publicly, but certainly take action as it relates to
problematic cyber activities from China — in a different way, but as we
have from Russia as well. We are not differentiating one as, you know,
out of the realm of condemnation or out of the realm of consequence from
the United States.

In terms of the economic pieces, I think you’re asking me — give me a
little more on your question we’re trying to get at.

Q I mean, basically the U.S. economy depends a lot on Chinese imports.
We only get $16 billion worth of goods from Russia. If we were to come
with major sanctions on China, is there a risk that we can be hurting
our own economy?

MS. PSAKI: Well, I would say, first, that we take cyber actions against
our country and against private-sector entities quite seriously.

The Department of Justice is imposing costs and today announced criminal
charges against four MSS hackers. These charges address activities
concerning a multi-year campaign targeting foreign governments and
entities in key sectors.

We also have, of course, through the National Security Agency,
Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, and Federal Bureau of
Investigation, exposed over 50 tactics, techniques, and procedures
Chinese state-sponsored cyber actors used when targeting U.S. and allied
networks.

My point is we are not holding back. We are not allowing any economic
circumstance or consideration to prevent us from taking actions where
warranted. And also, we reserve the option to take additional actions
where warranted as well. This is not the conclusion of our efforts as it
relates to cyber activities with China or Russia.

Q And then, secondly, with Facebook: The President suggested that
executives look in the mirror and change their practices. Does that mean
the administration isn’t considering any regulatory or legal moves to
possibly address disinformation on social media?

MS. PSAKI: Well, I don’t think we’ve taken any options off the table.
That’s up to Congress to determine how they want to proceed moving
forward.

But let me just note that we’re not in a war or a battle with Facebook;
we’re in a battle with the virus. And the problem we’re seeing, that our
Surgeon General elevated just last week, is that disinformation,
traveling through a range of mediums — some of them are a range of
social media platforms, some of them are media, some of them are through
the mouth of public officials — that bad information, inaccurate
information about vaccines is killing people.

That’s where our concern is, and that’s what we — the President is
working to express and also what the Surgeon General expressed in his
report just last week.

Go ahead, Steve.

Q Now that you’ve levelled these charges on China, do you plan to raise
them with them?

MS. PSAKI: We, of course, will continue to be in touch with Chinese
officials at a high level, and that — that will be the case in these
regards as well.

Q Is the Chinese government actively doing the hacking or contracting it
out?

MS. PSAKI: I don’t have any more detail than that, Steve. Let me check
and see if there’s more we can provide to you about —

Q Lastly, the Belarus opposition leader is in Washington this week. I
think she’s going to meet Tony Blinken today. Is the President going to
meet with her?

MS. PSAKI: We are still finalizing what the details are. She will be
meeting with White House officials. I wouldn’t say it will be the
President, but she will be meeting with White House officials when she’s
here. We’ll have more to report on that once those details are
finalized.

Go ahead, Phil.

Q Just to follow up: The statement said the Ministry of State Security
was directly paying hackers, which is, I think, why it was elevated. The
President kind of compared it to the Russia situation but said that
maybe they’re protecting them or accommodating them, which doesn’t seem
to be a direct link. That’s what the statement said this morning. I’m
just trying to square kind of where things stand in terms of how the
White House views what has actually transpired.

MS. PSAKI: As it relates to the cyber activities and the attribution
that was put out earlier this morning?

Q Yeah. Yeah.

MS. PSAKI: Well, first, I would say that we felt it was important to be
clear that — as was clear when we made the announcement this morning,
that the former attribution of the malicious cyber campaign utilizing
the zero-day vulnerabilities in the Microsoft Exchange serv- — server,
which was disclosed in March 2021 — two malicious cyber actors,
affiliated with the MSS with high confidence. That was the information
put out by the intelligence community or by our national security team
earlier today. That is accurate.

That’s why we worked also — and it’s significant, which is why I pointed
this out initially — that we worked in coordination with Eur- — with
many partners around the world — the European Union, the United Kingdom,
Australia, Canada, New Zealand, Japan and NATO — to criticize, expose,
and call out these malicious cyber activities. But that is the
information that’s accurate about the attribution.

Q And then, just one more on that and then one quick other one. The
President said he’s going to be briefed on it or — in his remarks, when
he was asked about it, he said he was going to be briefed on it. This is
a pretty significant el- — escalation of things from the U.S. and its
allies. What more does the President need to be briefed on in terms of
the process, going forward?

MS. PSAKI: I would say, first: The President is regularly briefed. He
certainly is aware of attributions that are determined by the U.S.
government, including the one announced earlier today. But this is an
ongoing effort, an ongoing consideration of how to prevent these
malicious actions from happening in the future to other private-sector
companies — certainly something that the President will continue to
speak with his national security team about.

Q And then, just one more on the economic side. Obviously, the President
kind of addressed inflation head on today. One thing that Chair Powell
says — and I know you guys are in the same place on the idea that it’s
transitory right now — but Chair Powell said, in congressional
testimony, “We’re humble about what we understand,” given the fact this
— there’s no real roadmap coming out of a once-in-a-century pandemic,
economically.

Is the White House economic team, when it comes to the inflation, also
humble about what they understand — that maybe they don’t necessarily
know what’s going to happen next as it pertains to inflation?

MS. PSAKI: Absolutely. We take inflation very seriously. It is under the
purview of the Federal Reserve. As you know, they have regular quarterly
meeting where they put out that information and any considerations
publicly.

Their projection continues to be that, while there’s an — a projected
increase in inflation this year, it’s expected to come back down to
about 2.2 next year. They have not changed that, and that is aligned
with a number of outside economists as well.

You’re also correct that when the economy is turning back on from a
global pandemic, there isn’t a lot of historic precedent for that.

And certainly, we’re seeing prices go back to pre-pandemic levels in
some cases. We’re also seeing a range of factors, including shortages in
the supply chain — from chips shortages that are impacting the auto
industry, to lumber shortages that are impacting the housing industry —
that are also factors here as we’re seeing price increases.

But we do look at all of that. We take it incredibly seriously. And we
respect the role of the Federal Reserve as well.

Go ahead, Rachel.

Q Thanks, Jen. Two questions — one on — just to follow-up on and China
and the cyberattacks. A senior administration official said that no one
country acting on its own can change China’s behavior. So, if the United
States were to take action against China, would it do so alone, or does
the administration feel like you need allies on board to take that step?

MS. PSAKI: Well, it’s a good question, Rachel. I think as we’ve
approached our China strategy from the beginning and our policy as it
relates to China, we’ve always felt that going — working together,
working in partnership with allies around the world, and also with — in
partnership with members of the federal government, members of Congress
from both sides of the aisle, was how we approached it from a position
of strength.

So, what’s significant today is that while we’re all calling out these
malicious cyber activities, so are a number of our key partners around
the world: the European Union, the United Kingdom, Australia, Canada,
New Zealand, Japan.

These malicious cyber activities are not only impacting the United
States. They’re impacting a range of countries, a range of partners.
And, yes, we would, of course, like to work with countries and work with
our key partners around the world moving forward. And, you know,
obviously we can’t determine steps and consequences on their behalf, but
that is certainly our objective and how we’ve approached our strategy to
date.

Q But you’re not ruling out taking action on your own if you felt like
it was necessary?

MS. PSAKI: No, we’re not. But we also, from the beginning, have felt
that working in partnership, working in coordination is — and working
together is a stronger way to approach malicious activity — cyber
activity and others — with — in areas of concern around the world.

Q One quick follow-up just on infrastructure. You know, Republicans are
saying that they don’t want to move forward with this test vote that’s
scheduled for Wednesday without knowing exactly how they’re going to pay
for everything in that bipartisan infrastructure bill.

Senator Bill Cassidy, over the weekend, said the White House is not
working with Republicans on the payfors and that he feels like they’re
competing with Democrats’ $3.5 trillion plan. So does the administration
feel like these differences can be resolved in the next 48 hours?

MS. PSAKI: Well, first, I think it’s important to take a step back and
remember that, a month ago, a bipartisan group of senators stood outside
of the White House with the President to announce an agreement on
infrastructure framework. There’s been a lot of progress since then — a
lot of late nights, a lot of coffee drinking — and important
legislating, bill writing that’s happened.

But the American people have waited a long time. The American people are
ready to see progress. And we believe it’s time for progress to happen
and time for this legislation to move forward. We also work in close
contact or close coordination with, of course, Leader Schumer, and we
defer to him and other leaders in Congress on the timeline and the
sequencing of legislation moving forward.

Go ahead.

Q On that discussion with Leader Schumer, has he talked in the last few
days, at all, with any of the Republicans  
who are negotiating (inaudible)?

MS. PSAKI: The — the President? I don’t have any calls to read out for
you. I can tell you that our team, senior White House officials, have
been in close to- — contact with Democrats and Republicans, members, and
their offices. And, whenever it warrants, the President is always happy
to pick up the phone.

Q And then, on the Guantanamo Bay announcement today: Senior officials
said 10 of the remaining detainees are eligible for repatriation. Any
sense yet of the targeted timelines for transferring them? And is there
a broader goal within this administration of closing Guantanamo Bay? Has
that timeline been set?

MS. PSAKI: Yes, our goal is to close Guantanamo Bay. I can tell you that
there’s 39 — I think you know some of this, but for others who are
following it — there are 39 detainees who remain at Guantanamo Bay: 10
are eligible for transfer, 17 are eligible for a Periodic Review Board,
10 are involved in the military commissions process, and 2 detainees
have been convicted.

This individual who we announced the transfer of — the Department of
Defense announced the transfer of — had been — had started moving
through the process during the Obama-Biden administration and was on
pause for some period of time over the last four years.

I don’t have a timeline for you. As you know, there’s a process. There
are different layers of the process. But that remains our goal, and we
are considering all available avenues to responsibly transfer detainees
and, of course, close Guantanamo Bay.

Q We and a few other outlets have reported that the administration is
now planning to send about 2,500 Afghan translators and, I believe,
members of their family to Fort Lee in Virginia as they complete the
steps to have their legal status in this country reviewed. Will there be
other U.S. military bases in the United States also used to house them
temporarily?

MS. PSAKI: Well, first, any confirmation and final details of military
base usage would be from the Department of Defense and the State
Department, given they’re implementing these programs. I expect they
will have more to share with you, Ed. I just want to defer to them,
given it is their programs.

I will say that when I went through the programs and how the process
worked last week, one of the things I tried to note but I will — I will
elevate again here is that individuals who have completed the process —
the security review — the vetting and security process could be
relocated to the United States. That would be certainly military — U.S.
military bases, and the Department of Defense will assess how many of
those and how many facilities they would need for those transfers.

Q Two real quick scheduling things.

MS. PSAKI: Mm-hmm.

Q Is he — is the President at all scheduled to meet any time soon with
members of the Texas Democratic House delegation that’s here in
Washington?

MS. PSAKI: I don’t have any meetings to preview for you at this point in
time.

Q And I hesitate to ask this because I’m only (inaudible).

MS. PSAKI: Don’t hesitate. It’s okay. It’s a Monday.

Q Is Tom Brady joining the Buccaneers here at the White House tomorrow?
I’ve been asked to ask this by several (inaudible).

MS. PSAKI: (Laughs.) It’s okay. I don’t have the list of Buccaneers
attending tomorrow in front of me. We will see if we can venture to get
that for you all by the end of the day.

Go ahead.

Q Thank you, Jen. And great throw yesterday —

MS. PSAKI: Thank you.

Q — at the Nationals.

MS. PSAKI: Thank you very much. I appreciate it.

Q On vaccine hesitancy: As COVID-19 cases rise, if this is becoming a
“pandemic of the unvaccinated” and you guys are having a hard time
getting a certain part of the population to go get the shot, would
President Biden ever call former President Trump and say, “I need your
help. Let’s cut a PSA and tell people to go do it”?

MS. PSAKI: Well, first, I would say that what we’ve seen in our data is
that the most trusted voices are local officials, doctors, medical
experts, civic leaders, clergy, from time to time — and that is where we
have really invested our funding and our resources.

We’ve seen almost every former President play a role in putting out a
PSA, making sure people understood in the country that the vaccine is
safe and effective. We don’t believe that requires an embroidered
invitation to be a part of.

But certainly, any role of anyone who has a platform where they can
provide information to the public that the vaccine is safe, it is
effective, we don’t see this as a political issue, we’d certainly
welcome that engagement.

Q And about those Texas Democrats, since the Vice President met with
these Texas Democratic lawmakers, five of them have now tested positive
for COVID-19. Is there any safety concern about her spending time around
the President until a certain amount of time has passed?

MS. PSAKI: Well, first, I would say the — I think the Vice President’s
Office put out that she was tested, and that she did — there was no
detection of COVID-19. They also put out some specific details about
their proximity to the individuals who tested positive as well.

We take these precautions incredibly seriously and abide by the health —
the guidance of our health and medical experts.

Q Do officials here wish that those Texas Democrats would have been more
careful and taken more precautions like wearing masks on the flight
here?

MS. PSAKI: Again, I don’t think I’m going to be in a position here to
assess what safety precautions they may or may not have taken.
Obviously, these individuals were out there trying to elevate the issue
of an individual’s right to vote. We — we, of course, hope everybody
abides by public health guidelines. That’s what we certainly recommend.

But the Vice President — what’s important for everybody to know is that
the Vice President was tested. She, of course, takes these precautions
seriously, and we would follow any advice our public health officials
give us.

Q And can you tell us anything else about the nature of her trip to
Walter Reed yesterday?

MS. PSAKI: Yes. She was — it was a — it was a visit that was scheduled
for several weeks, long before the visit of the Texas legislators — a
routine appointment, which she had had again scheduled several weeks
ago.

Go ahead, Kelly.

Q And just to button that up: She and the President have been in the
same room since she had that test? There’s no separation of the
President and the Vice President?

MS. PSAKI: There haven’t been additional precautions taken, no.

Q On China, can you help us understand why the President — I asked a
couple of questions today — was not, sort of, in the same posture we’ve
seen toward Russia, where he has called out Russia publicly to stop?

And from what we know based on the administration’s findings, this is
China paying cyber criminals to carry out — whereas, in Russia, our
understanding is Putin may have some looser relationship or perhaps some
ability to direct criminal actors, but not that connection. So, we gave
the President an opportunity to address the China issue today; he seemed
to pull his punches and not go after China. Why?

MS. PSAKI: Well, I would say, first, Kelly, that that was not the
intention he was trying to project. He takes malicious cyberactivity
incredibly seriously. The effort and the — to engage and unite an
unprecedented group of our allies and partners was something that was
under his direction.

And he felt — he continues to feel it’s important to lead from a
position of strength in close coordination with our partners and allies
around the world. And he takes malicious cyberactivity — whether it’s
from Russia or China; whomever the actors may be — quite seriously. And
I think our efforts to lead on this should be an indication of that.

Q On COVID, does the administration think it is appropriate, at this
time, to try to do more tracking on breakthrough cases since there are
more reports of that, and that’s not something the CDC has been
following, except when it’s hospitalizations? Should more data
collection take place?

MS. PSAKI: It’s a great question. I’ll have to talk to my health — our
health and medical experts about the benefits of that tracking, and how
they see that as a public health priority.

I will note that what we’ve continued to see is that the individuals —
99.5 percent of people who are being hospitalized and dying of COVID are
not vaccinated. The individuals who — who are — who have been — who have
gotten COVID, I should say — a number of these individuals we’ve been
talking about from a public manner have been getting mild cases, have
not been hospitalized.

That’s, of course, no one’s preference to get any form, but they have
been asymptomatic and that is showing that the vaccine is actually
working.

Go ahead.

Q On the virus, the President spoke this morning about the economic boom
the country is undergoing.

MS. PSAKI: Yep.

Q But stock and oil prices fell today, in part because of rising
concerns about the Delta variant. Is the administration — is the
President considering reinstating mask requirements at all — both for
health, but also for economic reasons?

MS. PSAKI: Well, first, I would say that we are — we look — our health
and medical experts — look closely at the broad swath of data across the
country. And I would remind you all that almost 70 percent of adults are
still vaccinated in this country. We are not in the place we were two
months, three months, six months ago, as it relates to our fight with
the virus.

It is still underway. We are still battling the virus. There’s no
question. And as the President said just on Friday, this has become a
“pandemic of the unvaccinated,” in that that is where we are seeing
hospitalizations, where we are seeing deaths.

We certainly have seen — we, of course, have seen the movements in the
stock market. We also know that unemployment is down, economic growth is
up, job creation is up, wages are up, and we can assure people we are
still at war with the virus, even as we’ve seen progress made over the
last several months.

Q One more also on COVID. I’m sure you’ve seen an alternate on the
women’s gymnastics team has tested positive while in Japan. Any specific
precautions the White House is taking with the First Lady’s travel to
ensure her safety as she goes over there?

MS. PSAKI: Well, first, we are aware of, of course, COVID-19 cases among
a handful of athletes. We’re monitoring the situation, wishing a speedy
recovery to those who have tested positive.

Public health remains a central priority for the games. The government
of Japan and the IOC have very strict protocols, and they are taking
careful safety precautions to keep the athletes and the public safe.

Nothing has changed in terms of our plans for the U.S. delegation. Our
team will be following very strict protoc- — safety and health
protocols, limiting engagement with the public, and keeping our
footprint as small as possible.

Our COVID team at the White House, as well as health officials at the
IOC and the government of Japan all agree that the stringent protocols
and health measures in place will keep — will keep them safe. But, of
course, we continue to monitor individuals (inaudible).

Q Anything specific with the First Lady’s travel?

MS. PSAKI: There is nothing new. Nothing has changed as it relates to
her travel or the travel of the delegation.

Go ahead.

Q Earlier today, the President said he wasn’t sure whether Facebook had
done enough since last week to combat misinformation. Is there anything
that the White House can point to generally that perhaps indicates that
companies are getting the message?

MS. PSAKI: Well, I think it’s a — as I, kind of, started off in response
to Josh, I would just go back to the point that our fight is not with
one social media platform; it is with the virus. And we have a role, who
— everybody has a role in combating misinformation.

In terms of monitoring whether there have been steps that have been
taken, I mean, there are things that you all can assess. There’s no
secret monitoring, right? You all can assess as media organizations and
companies as well. Do you have access to information from these
platforms as to who is receiving misinformation? I don’t think that
information has been released. Do you know how the algorithms are
working at any of these platforms? I don’t think that information has
been released.

But again, this is not about one platform. This is about misinformation
that we’re seeing travel around, into the minds — the inboxes, the
minds, the — of individuals, of people around the country — inaccurate
information that is preventing people from taking the step to getting
vaccinated. And that is, of course, a public health concern for us.

Q One quick follow-up, just to button it down: On the Senate calendar
for Wednesday —

MS. PSAKI: Yeah?

Q So, the White House has no pause at this point about going forward
with the cloture vote on Wednesday?

MS. PSAKI: It is the decision of the Leader — of Leader Schumer on the
timing and schedule of the Senate votes.

I will note, again, that it has been about four weeks since the
President and bipartisan members stood outside together and announced an
agreement. Lots of work has happened. Lots of good work together —
bipartisan work — has happened, but we believe it’s time to move forward
with — with this vote with congressional action.

Go ahead, Anne.

Q Two quickly on Guantanamo, and then I have one other thing. Can you be
a little more precise about what the President’s timeline is for closure
of Guantanamo? For example, does he think, as some advocates have
suggested, that it should be closed in this, his first year in office?
If not, does he have a deadline?

MS. PSAKI: I don’t have a new deadline to outline here for you today.

Q So, just closure when it can be closed?

MS. PSAKI: Well, as you know, Anne, there are several components of this
process. It includes notifications and consultations with Congress. It’s
not something where one individual, even the President of the United
States, can do it on his own.

Q And then on military commissions, 10 of the remaining 39 detainees are
eligible for military commission prosecution. As you know, the chief
prosecutor has retired with no announcement of a replacement ahead of
the first major trial of the Biden administration under that protocol.
What is the administration’s plan for military commissions? And does the
President continue to believe that it is an appropriate way to deal with
the remaining detainees?

MS. PSAKI: I — nothing has changed about the appropriateness of — or his
view — our view, the President’s view of the appropriateness of the
commissions. I can certainly check with the Department of Defense and
national security team if there’s additional —

Q And lastly, there’s some new Havana Syndrome cases or suspected cases.
Is the administration now prepared to say that it believes Russia is
responsible for this string of attacks? And what is the President doing
to protect U.S. diplomats and others from these kinds of attacks?

MS. PSAKI: Well, the NSC — the National Security Council — is
coordinating a full review of intelligence reporting to ascertain
whether there may be previously unreported incidents that fit a broader
pattern.

At this time, we still don’t know the cause of these incidents or
whether they constitute an attack of some kind by a foreign actor. These
are areas of active inquiry, something that our intelligence community
is working on and very focused on.

Go ahead

Q Jen, thanks so much.

MS. PSAKI: Yeah.

Q The infrastructure framework: If it fails to advance on Wednesday,
what’s the backup plan? Is the President committed to making sure there
is a bipartisan component, or will Democrats go it alone?

MS. PSAKI: We’re not quite there yet. There is a lot of good work that’s
happened. Two days is a lifetime in Washington, so I don’t think we’re
going to make predictions of the death of the infrastructure package.

Q Can you share some more about what possible payfors the President’s
team has proposed that might fall into the category of things
Republicans have not already rejected and that the White House has not
already rejected?

MS. PSAKI: I understand the question, certainly. I — those conversations
and discussions are having — are being had among the bipartisan group
that is finalizing this piece of legislation.

And while there was agreement, of course, on the support for the IRS
step that would have just ensured that some of the wealthiest Americans
paid what they owed in taxes, some have backed away from that.

There are other ways that they’re discussing. We’re open to alternatives
— very open to alternatives from this end, but we’ll let those
conversations happen privately and be supportive of them from our end.

Go ahead.

Q Another payfors question: The President was, of course, insistent that
the payfors not include an increase in the gas tax, but the agreement
does rely on things like public-private partnerships that typically use
tolls to pay for the infrastructure.

So can you talk about the difference in user fees? Is it — why — why is
tolling and other user fees okay, but gas taxes are not as a mechanism
for being for some of this?

MS. PSAKI: I mean, his fundamental base point is that we can’t raise
taxes for individuals making less than $400,000 a year. In terms of the
specific tolling payfor, I’d have to get more specific details on that.
But in his view, nothing violates his commitment on the $400,000.

Go ahead, Karen.

Q Thanks, Jen. The American Academy of Pediatrics today recommended that
everyone wear a mask in schools this fall, regardless of their
vaccination status — that that’s the only way to keep kids safe.

The CDC guidance does not go that far. It says if you are vaccinated,
you can go without a mask, but locals could decide universal masking.

We’ve heard you say repeatedly that the President leans on his trusted
medical and health advisors, but would the President like to see masking
in all schools this fall?

MS. PSAKI: The President is going to rely on the recommendations of the
CDC, and also local school districts will make their own decisions based
on the public avail- — publicly available health guidelines. That’s
always how it’s worked, and I think it will continue to work that way
moving forward.

Q Dr. Fauci, today, on CNN gave an interview, and he said that these
different recommendations — the Pediatric Association, the CDC, local
jurisdictions — that these types of recommendations can be confusing
because they are conflicting or different in some places. What does the
White House say to Americans and to parents who may be confused hearing
one thing this morning from the AAP, knowing the CDC has something
different. How do you sort through all of that?

MS. PSAKI: As a parent myself, it can be confusing. I think we
acknowledge that. We rely, from the federal government, on the guidance
of the CDC, and that’s how we make recommendations on public health
issues from the federal government.

There will be different decisions made by school districts, just like
there will be different decisions made by local communities. We
certainly understand and recognize that, but we will continue to rely on
the CDC for guidelines and guidance.

Go ahead.

Q So, now that caseload numbers are rising with the Delta variant, is
there something that the Biden administration wished it had done
differently to avoid getting to this point, to get us to a better
position by now?

MS. PSAKI: Well, I don’t know that there were many people who were
predicting different impacts of different variants over time. I mean,
the steps that we took — we ensured there was enough vaccine across the
country and in communities to make sure anybody who wanted to get
vaccinated could get vaccinated. We’ve invested in local messengers to
ensure that trusted voices are getting out into local communities. We’ve
relied on tactics that we’ve seen work effectively, whether it’s mobile
units or empowering and engaging and funding doctors and medical experts
to get out into local communities.

We also always knew there would be ups and downs in the fight against a
virus that is evolving and changing. And that’s one of the reasons that
we’ve been calling out misinformation — the impact of misinformation.

I mean, we’ve seen — just over the last couple of days, there was a poll
that showed that about 20 percent of the public thinks that microchips
are embedded in vaccines. Now, we all know that’s inaccurate and not
true. But why does 20 percent of the public think it? Is it is it one
platform’s fault? No. Is it one outlets fault? No. But we all have a
responsibility to make sure accurate information is out there.

So that’s one — that is our effort to make sure people know they need to
be informed and be thoughtful about information they’re getting and the
sources of it.

Q One question on the cybersecurity issue. Obviously, the attribution to
China today on the ransomware attack — does the United States use
ransomware attacks in its cyber-offensive programs?

MS. PSAKI: I don’t have anything about our intelligence or use of cyber
act- — or actions or intelligence that I’m going to convey from here.

Go ahead.

Q Following up about misinformation —

MS. PSAKI: Oh, go ahead. I’ll go to you at — well, let me just go like
that. Go ahead. Go ahead.

Q Does the President believe that those who mislead Congress should be
prosecuted?

MS. PSAKI: Who mislead Congress?

Q Yeah. I mean, it’s the Department of Justice’s decision not to
prosecute Wilbur Ross. Just wondering if there’s a general rule of
whether he feels he should be prosecuted if they mislead Congress.

MS. PSAKI: I would point you to the Department of Justice on that case.
I don’t have any more details from here.

Go ahead.

Q A follow-up on misinformation on social media. I heard you say that
all options are on the table, including maybe legal. Would that mean
potential legal action against the 12 that have come of concern for
misinformation?

MS. PSAKI: All I was conveying is I’m not taking — I think the question
was about legislative action, and I said that’s up to Congress and I’m
not here to take options off of the table. That’s Congress’s purview to
determine how they’re going to move forward.

Q (Inaudible.) And a follow-up: Does that mean if is up to the purview
of Congress that the administration or President Biden is seeing Section
230 a little differently — reforms to Section 230 that protect social
media companies for third-party information?

MS. PSAKI: You know, I think the President has been pretty clear in the
past that he believes there’s a responsibility of all platforms,
including social media platforms, about the information that is
traveling on their sites, but I don’t have anything new — nothing new
about his position on that issue.

Go ahead, Francesca.

Q Thanks, Jen. Quick point of clarification on immigration first,
though.

MS. PSAKI: Sure.

Q Is the pathway to citizenship that the President supports in the
budget bill for all undocumented immigrants? Or is it the more narrow
group of TPS holders, essential workers, DREAMers, as well as farm
laborers?

MS. PSAKI: We’ll let Senate leaders put out the specifics in the
reconciliation bill. We certainly support the — using the reconciliation
package as a — as a platform and a forum for moving immigration
protections forward, but we’ll let leaders in Congress speak to what’s
included.

Q Okay. And on voting rights, is the White House worried that if new
federal voting legislation does not pass before August 6th, which is the
anniversary of the signing of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, that it
won’t happen before next November?

MS. PSAKI: I don’t think we draw that timeline conclusion, no.

Go ahead. Oh, go ahead, Asma. Go ahead. Go ahead, Asma.

Q Okay, sure. On immigration, some leading immigration advocates have
suggested they do intend — expect the Supreme Court to uphold Judge
Hanen’s ruling on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. At
this point, does the administration have any other options to protect
DACA or DREAMer kids? Or is, really, a congressional route the only
route that you all see?

MS. PSAKI: I think, as the President’s statement made clear, a
congressional route is the way to make it permanent. And certainly, our
Department of Justice has also indicated their intention to fight this
effort even after the ruling on Friday as well.

Q So, any interim actions, I guess, before Congress were to act,
specifically on the DACA program?

MS. PSAKI: I think, again, as the statement made clear, congressional
action is the way to make it permanent. And that’s something the
President has long supported and will continue to advocate for.

Go ahead.

Q Going back on voting rights real quick, I spoke with Texas State
Representative Bowers this morning, who now says it’s actually six
members who have COVID that are in the delegation. But she said that
they are worried that nothing is going to come from the administration
by that August 6th — when (inaudible) ends.

And so she’s wondering: Is there any kind of movement that we can see
from the President coming out by that time? I know we still don’t — you
know, we don’t know if it’s going — anything on the schedule, but is
there anything that he’s planning to say or do?

MS. PSAKI: Do you mean the passage of the Voting Rights — of the bill?
Or what would do you mean exactly?

Q On —

MS. PSAKI: Well, what are they — are they expecting in terms of the
passage of the legislation or what are —

Q Exactly. She’s wor- — they’re worried that nothing is going to happen
by August the 6th, and so that was a big concern when I spoke with her
this morning, that there’s no movement that’s going to be coming from
the administration.

MS. PSAKI: Well, it would require Congress passing the For the People
Act for the President to sign it into law. He can’t — that’s — the
action would be first on Congress, not on the President.

Q But him saying anything — coming out and saying, “I know we’ve already
talked about the filibuster like 50 million times…”

MS. PSAKI: Beyond the speech he gave last week?

Q Yes. That is exactly what they are —

MS. PSAKI: I think he will continue to advocate for voting rights as a
fundamental right for people across the country. That is something he
has — gave a major speech on six days ago, and he will continue to look
for opportunities to elevate that moving forward as well. Absolutely.

Go ahead.

Q Thanks, Jen. I have a follow up to Peter’s question about Trump —

MS. PSAKI: Sure.

Q — and I have my own vaccine question.

MS. PSAKI: Okay.

Q In my follow up, even if the administration doesn’t partner with the
former President, would it consider highlighting or acknowledging, in a
greater way, his role in creating the vaccines to assure the rural
voters who still support President Trump and are hesitant to get the
vaccine?

MS. PSAKI: Well, I think you’re — do you have data to suggest that
that’s the issue that’s preventing people from getting vaccinated?

Q Well, we’re seeing that the communities — the communities that have
the lowest vaccination rates did seem to vote for President Trump.

MS. PSAKI: Okay. But what I’m asking you is if information related to
whether or not the former President got credit is leading people not to
get vaccinated, or is it information like microchips in vaccines and it
causing fertility issues, causing health issues. Because you’re drawing
a few conclusions there that I haven’t seen in data, but maybe you have
that information to provide.

Q No, but I think it’s just — it’s a — I think it’s an issue — I mean, I
think it’s a common sense that these are people who supported him. These
are people who are hesitant to get vaccinated. I don’t think it takes a
lot to draw the conclusion.

MS. PSAKI: Well, let me — let me be very clear. Our — our objective is
to ensure all Americans will get vaccinated. That would be — of course,
we’d love — we’d love that. Democrats, Republicans, independents — it’s
not a political issue to us. The virus does not — (the Press Secretary
swats at a fly) — sorry — the virus does not look at people’s party
affiliation. We recognize that. The President is going to govern for all
people.

What I’m conveying to you is you’re jumping to a few conclusions that I
don’t think data backs up, in terms of what the impacts are. And what
we’re seeing is that misinformation, traveling in a range of means —
whether it’s social media platforms, some forms of media, some elected
officials — is having the biggest factor as it relates to individuals
not getting vaccinated because people don’t have access to accurate
information.

Go ahead.

Q Thank you, Jen. The President is about to meet with the King of Jordan
shortly. This visit comes at a pivotal time, considering what’s happened
in Jordan, the constant attack on U.S. forces in Syria and Iraq, and the
Israeli government, to name a few. Does that mean that the White House
is paying more attention now to the White — to the Middle East? And what
do you hope this visit will achieve?

MS. PSAKI: Well, we — we have been paying quite a bit of attention, we
would argue, to the Middle East on a range of issues that you’ve
highlighted, Nadia, whether it is the attacks that we’ve seen on bases
in parts of the Middle East, or whether it is our desire, of course, to
— to even move forward on lasting peace between the Israelis and the
Palestinians.

And Jordan has been a key partner for some time, long before President
Biden took office, to the United States, through many Presidents, in
these efforts and these endeavors.

So, during — (the Press Secretary swats at a fly) — sorry, this is an
aggressive fly. During the meeting — (laughter) — during the meeting,
today — I apologize, this is a very —

Q It’s D.C.

MS. PSAKI: It is.

During the meeting today, we hope this will be an opportunity to
highlight the enduring and strategic partnership between the United
States and Jordan — a key security partner.

It’s also an opportunity to discuss the many challenges facing the
Middle East and showcase Jordan’s leadership role in promoting peace and
stability in the region. And certainly, we expect that everything from
Middle East peace, to security in the region to be points of discussion
— to Syria — to be points of discussion during the meeting this
afternoon. We’ll have a readout after the meeting concludes.

Go ahead.

Q Jen —

MS. PSAKI: Go ahead.

Q Thank you, Jen.

Q (Inaudible.) Oh, go ahead.

MS. PSAKI: Oh, I’m sorry. We’ll go to your next. Go ahead. Yeah.

Q Let me take you to Ethiopia.

MS. PSAKI: Yeah.

Q The U.S. and the other countries have been supporting and end to the
fighting in the Tigray region. And as the first step to end the
fighting, the government in Ethiopia declared a unilateral ceasefire for
the troops from the region. But TPLF — the Tigray Liberation Front —
rejected the ceasefire, calling it a “sick joke.” And the TPLF continues
the war, especially by deploying child soldiers in this conflict. And if
the war continues there, thousands and thousands people will die. What
is the Biden’s administration statement on TPLF’s refusal to accept the
ceasefire and the use of children as soldiers? Thank you.

MS. PSAKI: Well, certainly we take security and stability in Ethiopia
quite seriously. I would point you to the State Department. I know my
colleague Ned Price is briefing later this afternoon and giving you more
details on what are work is, and engagement, and our view from the U.S.
government.

Go ahead.

Q Is the White House seeking any meetings with social media companies
when you’re talking about misinformation?

MS. PSAKI: We have been in regular touch from the beginning of the
administration as — because we knew from the beginning that
misinformation or disinformation and how it would travel out there into
the world was going to be a challenge. So that has been something that
has been ongoing since the beginning of the administration.

Q I also wanted to ask you — someone asked earlier about Republicans
backing off the idea of increasing funding for the IRS.

MS. PSAKI: Yep.

Q When you’re talking about that and the President being open to other
proposals, are you talking within the framework — the bipartisan
framework or the reconciliation package or both?

MS. PSAKI: The bipartisan framework. That’s the deal we’re kind of —
that is the discussion with Republicans. Of course, we would welcome
Republican support for the reconciliation package, but we’re talking
about specifically the payfors on the bipartisan infrastructure
framework.

Q Thank you.

MS. PSAKI: Go ahead, in the back.

Q Thank you. Will the White House publicly release information on posts
that it considers misinformation on vaccines that it’s asked Facebook to
block?

MS. PSAKI: First of all, we’ve not asked Facebook to block any
individual posts. The way this works is that there are trending — there
are trends that are out there on social media platforms. You’re aware of
them. We’re aware of them. Anyone in the public can be aware of them.

There’s also data that we look at that many media platforms, like many
of you, also look at data in terms of trends and you report on it, which
is not — to be expected, given the number of people who get their
information from social media.

It’s up to social media platforms to determine what their application is
of their own rules and regulations. And so we just certainly raise where
we have concerns about information that’s inaccurate that is traveling
out there in whatever platform it’s traveling on.

Go ahead.

Q Thank you, Jen. Does the White House welcome the news that the Haitian
Interim Prime Minister, Claude Joseph, is stepping aside and handing
power to Ariel Henry?

MS. PSAKI: Well, we have been encouraging, for several days now, Haitian
political actors to work together and find a political way forward. So
we’ve certainly seen news reports; we have not received an official
notification through our embassy, but we welcome reports that Haitian
political actors are working together to determine a path forward.

Go ahead.

Q Yeah, thank you, Jen. As you know, the leader of the Belarusian
opposition, Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya, is in the country right now.

MS. PSAKI: Mm-hmm.

Q She’s meeting with Jake Sullivan; she’s meeting with Secretary of
State Blinken. Any chance that she will meet with President Biden?

MS. PSAKI: So, I think somebody asked this question a —

Q I’m sorry.

MS. PSAKI: — little bit — oh no, it’s okay. It’s okay. It’s okay. She
will be meeting with senior White House officials. There is not
currently a meeting scheduled for her with the President.

Oh, go, Josh. What’s happening?

Q I just wanted to thank you, Jen, but, as a point of privilege, wanted
to jump in: Canada announced it’s going to reopen its borders for U.S.
citizens who are vaccinated on August 9th. Does the United States plan
to reciprocate?

MS. PSAKI: We are continuing to review our travel restrictions. Any
decisions about reopening travel will be guided by our public health and
medical experts. We take this incredibly seriously, but we look and are
guided by our own medical experts and not in a reci- — we’re not — I
wouldn’t look at it through a reciprocal intention.

Q Thanks.

MS. PSAKI: Go ahead. Go ah- — Go ahead, in the middle. Yeah, go ahead.

Q Thank you. As you know, Senate Republicans have been calling on the
President to withdraw his nominee to lead the Bureau of Land Management,
Tracy Stone-Manning, over connections to this tree spiking incident in
1989. That escalated last week with this former Forest Service
investigator coming forward with an account that contradicts what she’s
told senators, as well as a man who was convicted in that case. Have
those revelations changed the President’s view on that nominee at all?

MS. PSAKI: It has not. He stands by his nominee and looks forward to her
getting confirmed.

Go ahead, in the middle.

Q Thanks, Jen. I appreciate it. I just had a quick follow up on the
Facebook stuff. Did anybody from the administration this weekend talk
with Facebook officials, given the President’s comments on Friday?

MS. PSAKI: Again, I think it’s important for all of you to note that we
are not at war with any social media platform; we are at war with the
virus —

Q (Inaudible.)

MS. PSAKI: — and we have been in regular touch since the beginning of
the administration, as we knew that there are a range of entities,
platforms, media organizations, public officials who all have a role in
combating misinformation.

This is not personal. It is about fighting a virus that is still killing
thousands of people. That’s our objective.

Thanks, everyone. Have a great day. I’ll talk to you tomorrow.

Q Jen, when will the President open up his East Room events to the full
press like every other President?

MS. PSAKI: We’ll look forward to seeing you soon, Brian.

1:50 P.M. EDT
