---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-07-30'
modified_time: 2021-07-30 19:01:48-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/07/30/background-press-call-by-a-senior-administration-official-on-cuba/
published_time: 2021-07-30 19:01:47-04:00
title: "Background Press Call by a Senior Administration Official on\_Cuba"
---
 
Via Teleconference

2:32 P.M. EDT  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks so much, and good afternoon,
everyone.  Thank you for joining us this afternoon.  And welcome to an
on-background conference call where we’ll be — we’ll be discussing
Cuba.   
  
For your reference, today we are joined by \[senior administration
official\].  And from this point on, we’ll be referring to them as a
“senior administration official,” per the ground rules of the call.   
  
We’ll start with some quick remarks, and then we’ll open it up for
question-and-answer.  The contents of today’s briefing will be embargoed
until 3:45 p.m. this afternoon.  And as always, if you have follow-up
questions, feel free to email me or the NSC press team distro at
<DL.NSC.Press@NSC.eop.gov>.   
  
And with that, I’ll turn the floor over to \[a senior administration
official\].  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you, \[senior administration
official\].  It’s been a busy week at the White House and the
administration in general on Latin America.   
  
You all saw on Monday that Secretary Blinken — the State Department
released a joint statement with 20 countries condemning the crackdown on
peaceful protesters in — that came out into the streets all over Cuba on
July 11th.  We also rolled out this week, as you saw, the Central
America collaborative migration and root causes strategy.  
  
On Thursday, we met with the Mexican delegation to think really
strategically about how we can look at migration management beyond the
bilateral relationship and looking at a, kind of, hemispheric approach
to migration management.   
  
You saw that we put up the Federal Register notice on Haiti temporary
protected status and it marked the date to — you know, to reflect since
the assassination of President Jovenel Moïse.  And we have rolled out
the President’s intention to nominate a well-respected academic and
former policymaker at the Defense Department, Frank Mora, as the U.S.
ambassador to the Organization of American States.   
  
What the President is doing today is — is part of what has been a very
active period of engagement in response to the July 11th protests.  And
he is doing — he’s going to take the time to meet with members of the
Cuban American community, as well as Senator Robert Menendez, Chairman
of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and Greg Meeks, the Chairman
of the House Foreign Affairs Committee.  
  
And basically, the President wants to hear directly from the community
on not just the goings on and — but, frankly, what the President has
said, which is how to hold the Cuban regime accountable for its
violations of human rights, but also, at the same time, focusing on
responding to the needs of the Cuban people.   
  
So, what we are — in addition to that conversation, we have Treasury
Department, the Office of Foreign Assets Control, is going to have
sanctions that are going to be coming out today.  I can’t get into
specifics except to say that– except that one entity and two Cuban
individuals are going to be designated pursuant to the Global Magnitsky
Human Rights Accountability Act for their role in human rights abuses.  
  
You know, I already mentioned Frank Mora, that we are in talks with
private sector providers about the possibility of providing wireless LTE
communications to the Cuban people, which we consider to be a right. 
We’re including all options, but we’re also looking at other ways to
make sure that the Cuban people have the right to information, the right
to communicate with each other, and the international community can
really see the abuses that are taking place.   
  
We are also going to be talking about humanitarian support for the Cuban
people.  And we’re going to have a few points to mention with regard to
explaining the way forward for the remittance working group and just
plans for the embassy staffing going forward.  
  
So, but again, really the focus here is to hear from members of Congress
that have been active on this issue from — from members of the Cuban
American community.  And it follows on engagements by Congressman Cedric
Richmond, senior advisor to the President, meeting with a much larger
group of members of the community, but also meetings that I have had, at
the request of Senator Menendez, with the Cuban American National
Foundation, but also Cuba Decide, to hear all points of views on Cuba
and really to try to do what’s best to provide the President and the
Secretary of State with our best objective analysis and recommendations
on the way forward following the July 11th protests in Cuba.  
  
So, I’ll leave it there.  I’m happy to enter into any — answer any
questions.  
  
Q    Thank you.  And thank you, \[senior administration official\], for
doing this.  And thank you, \[senior administration official\].  One
question regarding to the team at the State Department that is studying
the possibilities and measures in order to help Cubans with the
remittances and Internet without helping or providing support, if I can
say that in that way, to the regime: Is there any specific measure that
you can advance or tell us about these two possibilities?  
  
I mean, sending remittances without using the Cuban bank system is quite
difficult.  There is no other bank system in Cuba that is not controlled
by the regime.  And providing Internet, it seems that it would be a kind
of activity that the — it would violate the Cuban sovereignty of the
territory, and it could create maybe a counterproductive situation.  
  
I mean, what are the real options besides just repeating that you are
studying that and you’re studying and trying to identify technical
solutions?  Is there anything concrete that you can tell us today?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, thanks.  I’m not going to get out
ahead of the President.  I think anything that’s discussed at the
meeting will — will be rolled out afterward.  But, you know, you hit two
very — two, you know, very real challenges when it comes to Internet
connectivity, but also the issue of remittances.  
  
On the latter, look, I’ll say that technology is advancing every day. 
And in the example of Venezuela, for example, we’ve actually been able
to roll out licenses that have allowed, you know, the interim government
to send money directly to people in Venezuela.   
  
And so, what I think is really important here is we have looked at
recommendations that even came out under the previous administration. 
They put together a Internet communications working group that issued a
series of recommendations.  We looked at those.  But then, what we want
to do is, we put together a U.S. government group together.  They’re
going to consult with, you know, members of Congress, with the experts,
and try to make some recommendations on how — on what’s the best way to
go forward.  
  
The point here is — again, is maximizing the benefit to the Cuban
people, and that really has to be the focus of everything that we do in
this situation.   
  
With regard to Internet connectivity, there are no silver bullets.  If
it’s something that could be done easily, it would have been done
already in places like Iran and in other closed regimes.  You know, but
— we see the access to — we see the censorship of information as a
violation of human rights.  And so we’re going to explore every option
possible to be able to guarantee that access to that information.  
  
But also, in a — you know, in a transparent manner, what our Cuban
democracy programs and our Google programs do is — is actually support,
you know, civil society, artists, musicians to be able to do what they
do without any sort of ideological objective, but just to do — practice
their craft and — but that also includes access to information, the
ability to communicate with each other, but also the importance of
making sure that that the international community is not blind to the
abuses and the crackdown that’s being perpetrated by the Cuban regime.  
  
Q    Hello.  Thank you for taking my question.  Here at the White House,
we’ve seen massive protests lately that included thousands of Cuban
Americans who are asking for more action from this administration — that
includes Republican legislators, as well.  
  
I have two questions.  The first one is: Is this administration — or the
President, for that matter — meeting with any Republican legislators —
not necessarily today, but maybe in the following days or in the
previous days?   
  
And also, can you give us full — not a full, but maybe like some — a
list of the participants that are going to be taking part in this
meeting with the President later on today?  
  
And is the administration — has the administration a set plan towards
Cuba?  Or is it open to new ideas that might come out either from the
participants today or from legislators in Congress?   
  
Thank you.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, thanks for the question.  So,
look, we’ve been — we’ve been listening to the protesters, you know,
when — I’m here on the weekends.  And, you know, we’ve been listening to
them and we’ve been talking to members of the community.  And I will say
that, when I say “we,” I mean the administration.  
  
The State Department has been regularly briefing members of Congress
from the House and the Senate.  And, of course, we — I think the
dialogues that Congressman Richmond, that I have engaged in, but also at
the State Department and others have been engaging in are to he- — are
to listen to Cuban Americans.   
  
It’s important to really listen to their voices and what they’re calling
for, and — but also to — really to make sure that we keep the focus not
on the United States or the conflict with the United States and Cuba,
but rather on the Cuban people and the rights that they’re demanding. 
And the focus the international community needs to be to stand up for
them, to stand up for their rights, and to make sure that we’re doing
everything to support them, including, by any means, to prov- — you
know, provide — efforts to provide humanitarian assistance.   
  
As you know, those who are political dissidents are be — are abandoned
by the government.  They don’t have access to basic necessities.  They
don’t have access to hospital services.  They’re cut off — they and
their families are cut off.  And so, I think it’s important for the
international community to stand up for these people.   
  
So, I mean, I guess — you asked if the President had already made up his
mind on Cuba policy or if he’s willing to hear more from the community. 
My response to that is that that’s why he’s holding these meetings, but
also why he’s receiving daily updates on the situation and why the State
Department primarily has been engaging regularly with members of
Congress to hear their views.   
  
And that’s why, for example, the remittance working group is one that is
going to be engaging with members of Congress to try to get, you know,
as much guidance as possible.  I mean, I don’t know — I think that
answers your question.  
  
Q    Hi, good afternoon.  Thanks for doing this call.  Just to clarify,
should we expect an announcement today on Internet access or on
remittances or not?   
  
And secondly, on the sanctions, I know you don’t want to give
information in advance of the OFAC release, but just a general question:
How effective do you think that these sanctions on Cuban officials can
be, since 50 years of embargo and sanctions have not succeeded in
changing their (inaudible) behavior?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, no, on the second question,
that’s an important question.  Look, what we’re doing through these
individual sanctions, as the President has said, is that we are focusing
on individuals and entities that are involved in the crackdown and the
violation of human rights by the regime.  Part of it is to layer on
sanctions, but the other one is to make sure that we are keeping these
individuals in the spotlight not just on the international community,
but that the Cuban people know that the United States is supporting them
and is trying to defend them.   
  
So, we’re going to — as the President said, the sanctions are rolled out
that — last week were just the beginning.  And we’re going to try to
keep — we’re going to do everything we can to keep Cuba on the front
burner so that they can talk about — keep the conversation on the — on
the rights of the Cuban people and their — and their right to manifest
peacefully.  
  
 And so the other — sorry, what was the other question you had?  I
didn’t get the first question.  
  
Q    Can you hear me?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, we can hear you.  Sorry about
that.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Oh, okay.  Sorry.  My question was whether we can expect an
announcement today on —  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Oh, yeah.  Yeah, yeah, yeah.  
  
Q    — (inaudible) remittances.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, thank you.  So, look, we are
going to be — we’re going to be announcing a series of things.  And, you
know, those include efforts to improve Internet connectivity and other
means to make sure that we are supporting the ability of the Cuban
people to communicate with each other.  And we see information as
something that should be treated as a human right.   
  
Q    Thank you very much.  To follow up on that: Are you going to be
announcing anything on remittances?  Are you going to be announcing
anything on our diplomats going back to Havana and theirs coming back to
Washington?  And if the President wanted to hear from all points of view
— at least you haven’t mentioned any Republicans who are going to be
present — is Senator Rubio or any other Republican members or senators
going to be present?   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great, thank you, Andrea.   
  
So, he is going to be making — he is going to be making announcements on
both.  Either in the meeting or afterward, I think he’s going to be —
some of it he’ll mention, you know, at the camera spray at the top. 
Some of it may come up at the meeting.   
  
I think the focus is going to be on hearing from members of the
community.  And — but we do have plans to provide more information on
the Remittance Working Group that he directed the U.S. government to
form and plans for U.S. Embassy augmentation.   
  
What I’ll say is it that, look — given the protests of July 11th, it is
important for U.S. diplomats to engage directly with the Cuban people. 
And if we can do that in a way that is — that ensures the safety of U.S.
personnel, that is something that — that we will undertake.  But we’ll
be able to say something more about that — the meeting.   
  
So, what the focus of the meeting today — and the participants, and I
can mention some of them — is — are members of the Cuban American
community.  They are going to be the ones that are going to be the main
speakers here.  And we invited the respective Chair of the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee and the Chair of the House Foreign Affairs
Committee to join the conversation as well.   
  
But we’re going to have individuals like Felice Gorordo, who is the CEO
of eMerge Americas and has worked for Republican and Democratic
administrations.   
  
We’re going to also be hearing from Yotuel Romero, who is the Grammy
Award winning artist and activist that wrote the song “Patria y
Vida.”   
  
We have, also, members of the religious community — Father Fernando
Eduardo Heria, Director of the National Shrine of Our Lady of Charity of
Cuba.   
  
And actually, several other people have been — have been invited.   
  
But again, in the conversations that we’ve been having, we’ve been
meeting with people across the political spectrum and folks that have a
range of views.   
  
And so, I think it’s going to be only the beginning of a regular
engagement with the Cuban American community so that we can develop the
right policies to support the Cuban people.    
  
Thank you.   
  
Q    Hi.  This is Anne Gearan with the Post.  It — following on a couple
of questions about the Internet connectivity: I mean, can you give us
some specifics here, please, about what might be possibilities?  
  
I mean, one thing that’s been reported is the potential to do balloons
off the island.  Other things that have been reported have been ways for
the United States to direct Internet toward Cuba.  Are those what’s
under discussion here?  Can you help us out a little bit so that we have
something that we can actually report at 3:45?   
  
And secondly, on the Internet, is there anything that you all could do
in terms of connectivity that could not be blocked by the regime?  Thank
you.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, I can’t offer you many details on
what we’re doing or what we’re going to be announcing because I don’t
want to get ahead of the President.  But what I’m saying is we’ve been —
we heard, you know, the — Governor Ron DeSantis wrote a letter to the
President.  Senator Marco Rubio wrote a letter.  We’ve been hearing also
in our consultations with — the administration’s consultations with
members of Congress, and we’ve been exploring all those options.  
  
So, the administration, (inaudible) the Department of Commerce,
Department of Treasury, the FCC have been looking at what rulemaking
authorizations, licenses we can provide that would allow any of those
options to work.  But we’re looking at — when we’re talking to private
sector companies and looking at all the legal and technical restrictions
to doing that, it’s challenging because whether you’re looking at
satellite technology or balloons or anything, a lot of those signals are
fairly easy to block.  But we have to explore any and all options to —
exhaust any and all options to provide Internet connectivity.  
  
The other point I’ll mention, just in terms of — and this is, obviously,
open source information — is that the regime actually cut Internet for,
I think, between 30 minutes and an hour, maybe a little bit more, and
after that was involved in selective blocking of websites and areas
where there were specific protests.  
  
In that regard, there are tools and there’s technology that civil
society actors are able to use to circumvent censorship.  There’s been a
dramatic increase in their use of VPN technology, (inaudible) proxies. 
And so all of those are — you know, it’s all unclassified, it’s all out
there.  And it’s really about making sure that the Cuban American people
have — or the Cuban people have the training and have the technical
know-how and the tools to be able to do that.   
  
And obviously, the goal is to support it so that the Cuban people can
communicate with each other.  And that information about the regime’s
abuses can make it out into the — and be seen by the international
community.  
  
So we have funds in the Open Technology Fund.  There’s work that we have
with international partners.  And so there are a lot of different
options, and we’re trying to exhaust all of them to make sure that we’re
doing everything possible to support those Cubans that are out in the
streets — that were out in the streets demanding their rights.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  And this is \[senior administration
official\], and we’re just about out of time.  I just want to say thanks
to everyone for joining, especially since I know we also have the
briefing going on concurrently — the White House briefing.  
  
As a reminder, this call is on background, attributable to “a senior
administration official.”  The contents of the call are embargoed until
3:45.  If you have any additional questions, feel free to reach out to
me, and otherwise, have a great day.  
  
2:56 P.M. EDT
