---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-07-16'
modified_time: 2021-07-16 14:26:22-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/07/16/press-briefing-by-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-public-health-officials-45/
published_time: 2021-07-16 14:26:21-04:00
title: "Press Briefing by White House COVID- \u2060 19 Response Team and Public Health\
  \ Officials"
---
 
11:07 A.M. EDT

MR. ZIENTS:  Good morning, and thanks for joining us.   
  
Today, Dr. Walensky will provide an update on the state of the pandemic
and the Delta variant.  Then, Dr. Fauci will present the data from other
countries facing the Delta variant.  I will provide an update on how
we’re working on a number of fronts to manage this virus.  And Dr.
Murthy will discuss vaccine confidence with a focus on combatting
misinformation and disinformation.  And then we’ll open it up for a few
questions.  
  
Now, over to you, Dr. Walensky.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Good morning.  Let’s begin with an overview of the
data.  
  
Yesterday, CDC reported more than 33,000 new cases of COVID-19.  Our
seven-day average is about 26,300 cases per day, and this represents an
increase of nearly 70 percent from the prior seven-day average.  
  
The seven-day average of hospital admissions is about 2,790 per day — an
increase of about 36 percent from the previous seven-day period.  And,
after weeks of declines, seven-day average daily deaths have increased
by 26 percent to 211 per day.  
  
Today, Dr. Fauci and I want to provide some perspective about these
numbers and how we should be thinking about where we are at this
critical moment in the pandemic.  
  
There is a clear message that is coming through: This is becoming a
pandemic of the unvaccinated.  We are seeing outbreaks of cases in parts
of the country that have low vaccination coverage because unvaccinated
people are at risk.  And communities that are fully vaccinated are
generally faring well.  
  
You can see the patterns of local outbreaks in the slide of community
transmission.  The blue and yellow counties have low or moderate
transmission.  The orange and red counties have substantial to high
transmission.  On the left, you can see where we were just a short month
ago, and compare it to where we are now, on the right.   
  
In the last week, 10 percent of counties have moved into “high
transmission risk,” in the red, and 7 percent of counties have moved
into “substantial risk,” in the orange.  Those counties most frequently
correspond to counties with low vaccination rates.   
  
When we look over time, we can put these increasing cases in
perspective.  In January, shown in the middle of the slide, we were
averaging nearly 200,000 cases per day.  The entire country was in a
high level of transmission.   
  
You can see that from January to June, as you move from left to right on
the slide, we made remarkable progress, where the percent of counties
with high transmission decreased — as shown by the decrease in red, and
increases in blue and yellow.   
  
Now, in the upper righthand corner, which is where we are today, you can
see the recent growth in cases where the red and orange are again
increasing.  So, while we are in a far better position than we were in
January through April, this increased in red area is giving us all a
reason to double-down and get more people vaccinated.  
  
The good news is that if you are fully vaccinated, you are protected
against severe COVID, hospitalization, and death, and are even protected
against the known variants — including the Delta variant — circulating
in the country.  
  
If you are not vaccinated, you remain at risk.  And our biggest concern
is that we are going to continue to see preventable cases,
hospitalizations, and, sadly, deaths among the unvaccinated.  
  
Lastly, I want to reiterate the importance of getting fully vaccinated. 
I want to reiterate that people who got the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines
are most effective, especially when — against the Delta variant when
given as two shots in a series.   
  
Both vaccines are most effective two weeks after the second dose, with
each exceeding 90 percent effectiveness against severe disease,
hospitalization, and death in real-world studies.  Not completing the
series puts those partially vaccinated at risk of illness.   
  
We encourage that people get vaccinated on schedule three or four weeks
after your first dose.  But if you are beyond that window, I want to
reiterate: There is no bad time to get your second shot.  
  
Do it for yourself, your family, and for your community.  And please do
it to protect your young children who, right now, can’t get vaccinated
themselves.    
  
With that, I will now turn it over to Dr. Fauci.  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Thank you very much, Dr. Walensky.  I’d like to continue it
along the lines that Dr. Walensky had mentioned, but now maybe take a
look at it from a global standpoint, if I could have the first slide.   
  
Clearly, the Delta variant is dominant in the world.  If you look at
this map of the world, they’re at about 100 countries that have now have
the Delta variant that is detected in them in June of — since June in
2020.   
  
Next slide.   
  
If you look at the average daily prevalence of SARS-CoV-2 Delta variant
worldwide, if you look at the righthand part of the slide, you see the
extraordinary surge in the dominance of this variant worldwide.   
  
And we, as was mentioned in several briefings that we’ve had, are seeing
increment in our own country to the point of now having more than 50
percent dominance and, in some areas of the country, greater than 70
percent.  
  
That is the sobering news, but take a look at what’s going on worldwide
with hospitalizations.  Although Israel has the same issue with the
dominance of the Delta strain, their hospitalizations have dramatically
diminished.  And if you look at the far right of the slide, as of just a
couple of days ago, they are very low.    
  
In the next slide, we see the UK.  Similar.  A dramatic diminution in
hospitalizations.   
  
However, if you look at the trend on the far righthand part of that
slide, there’s that uptick, which somehow was reflecting what Dr.
Walensky just told you about the slight uptick that we’re seeing in
hospitalizations in our own country.   
  
Next slide.   
  
However, we know that the vaccines that are listed on the lefthand part
of this slide that are being used in this country — namely the Pfizer,
Moderna, and the J&J — both in lab studies and in clinical effectiveness
studies show the effectiveness of these vaccines against the Delta
variant, particularly, and importantly, against hospitalization.   
  
Next slide shows data from the UK with the Delta variant, which the
Pfizer-BioNTech, which clearly reflects what we’ll be seeing with
Moderna, is 96 percent effective against hospitalization.   
  
The bottom line is: We are dealing with a formidable variant in the
Delta variant, as reflected by the data that Dr. Walensky told you, and
the extreme vulnerability of people who are not vaccinated, which will
account for infections, hospitalizations, and, ultimately, deaths.  
  
And so the message loud and clear that we need to reiterate is that
these vaccines continue to strong protection against SARS-CoV-2,
including the Delta variant.  And so — why it’s so important for
yourself, your family, and your community to get vaccinated.   
  
Back to you, Jeff.   
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Well, thank you, Dr. Fauci and Dr. Walensky.  
  
Stepping back, we have come a long way in our fight against this virus. 
Because we have fully vaccinated more than 160 million Americans, we’ve
fundamentally changed the course of this pandemic from one that puts the
lives and livelihoods of all Americans at risk, to one that
predominantly threatens unvaccinated people.  
  
As Dr. Walensky said, as the more transmissible Delta variant continues
to spread across the country, we will likely continue and experi- —
continue to experience an increase in COVID cases in the weeks ahead,
with these cases concentrated in communities with lower vaccination
rates.   
  
In fact, just four states accounted for more than 40 percent of all
cases in the past week, with one in five of all cases occurring in
Florida alone.  And within communities, these cases are occurring
primarily among unvaccinated individuals.   
  
At the same time, as Dr. Fauci said, because we have so many people
fully vaccinated, including about 80 percent of seniors — those who are
most vulnerable, those over 65 years of age — we will likely see smaller
increases in hospitalizations, similar to the Israel and UK
experience.   
  
The bottom line continues to be very, very simple: While fully
vaccinated individuals have a high degree of protection against serious
illness from COVID-19, including the Delta variant, unvaccinated
Americans are not protected against serious illness, hospitalization,
and death.   
  
And we’re seeing it in the data.  Unvaccinated Americans account for
virtually all recent COVID-19 hospitalizations and deaths.  Each
COVID-19 death is tragic.  And those happening now are even more tragic
because they are preventable.   
  
Every American 12 and older, no matter where they live, has vaccines
readily available to them.  So, if you are unvaccinated, please get
vaccinated now.  The vaccines work.  It’s safe, it’s free, it’s readily
available, and it’s never been more important.  
  
As we manage this virus, our whole-of-government effort continues to
work to get more people vaccinated, address areas where we’re seeing
outbreaks among the unvaccinated, and prepare for every scenario.  
  
First and foremost, we continue to vaccinate hundreds of thousands of
new people each day — meeting unvaccinated Americans where they are,
answering their questions, helping them make up their mind, and making
it even easier and more convenient to get a shot as soon as they are
ready to do so.  
  
We’re doing this by trus- — by entrusting and empowering messengers —
trusted messengers — to have the conversations we know work — whether
it’s vaccinated people in communities across the country talking
directly to their neighbors, sharing their own vaccination journey and
answering question; or it’s Olivia Rodrigo using her voice and platform
to spread the word.  
  
We’re working with doctors, pharmacists, employers, educators, and
school administrators to bring vaccines to where people are.  
  
And as Dr. Murthy will discuss, we’re taking disinformation and
misinformation head on.  
  
We continue to see efforts to deliberately mislead the American people
about the importance of vaccination.  Those who peddle and promote these
dangerous lies are harming the very people who are most at risk and
furthering a pandemic that has already taken more than 600,000 American
lives.  
  
We are calling on everyone — social media platforms, news organizations,
individual Americans — to call this activity out and to help get the
facts out to your friends, families, and communities so that we’re
protecting our fellow Americans, not purposely putting them in harm’s
way.  
  
As I said last week, vaccinating more and more Americans each day is an
individual-by-individual, community-by-community effort.  And this type
of localized, person-to-person approach takes some time, but it is
working.  
  
In the past 10 days, 5 million Americans have rolled up their sleeves to
get a shot in their arms, and millions more Americans will get
vaccinated across the summer months.  
  
Importantly, states with the highest case rates are seeing their
vaccination rates go up.  In fact, in the past week, the five states
with the highest case rates — Arkansas, Florida, Louisiana, Missouri,
and Nevada — had a higher rate of people getting newly vaccinated
compared to the national average.  
  
At the same time, our COVID-19 Surge Response Teams are working with
governors and local public health officials to provide specific federal
resources and capabilities to fight outbreaks due to the spread of the
Delta variant.  
  
We are already helping many states to identify and address specific
needs, including testing, therapeutics, and vaccinations.  And this
week, at the request of the Nevada governor, we are deploying more than
a hundred people to the state to help enhance vaccine access and support
vaccine outreach efforts.  
  
And we’re providing CDC’s technical expertise — including on genetic
sequencing, data analysis, and outbreak response — to Missouri to help
support the state in its response.  
  
We stand ready to support our state partners with the help they need to
curb the spread of the virus and increase vaccinations in their
states.  
  
And finally, we continue to be prepared for any and every scenario,
including the possibility of booster shots, if and when the science
shows they are needed.  
  
At this time, the CDC and FDA have said Americans who have been fully
vaccinated do not need a booster shot.  Independent and rigorous
scientific CDC and FDA processes will determine if and when boosters are
needed and who might need a booster shot.  
  
I want to be clear: The science will guide this.  And as Dr. Walensky
and Dr. Fauci are making clear, this is a question that they are
continually evaluating.  We are ready for whatever the science tells
us.  
  
We have secured enough vaccine supply, and, if needed, we will ensure
Americans who might need a booster shot are able to get it quickly and
easily.   
  
Before I turn it over to Dr. Murthy, let me reiterate: The best thing we
can do right now is to get more Americans vaccinated.  Every person
matters.   Every shot matters.  Every shot is progress.  It’s another
life protected.  It’s another community that is safer.  It’s another
step toward putting this pandemic behind us.  
  
Now, let me turn to Dr. Murthy.    
  
Dr. Murthy.  
SURGEON GENERAL MURTHY:  Well, thanks so much, Jeff.  And it’s great to
be with all of you again today.  For months, on these briefings, we’ve
talked about barriers to getting vaccinated.  And today, I want to focus
on the challenge of health misinformation that’s affecting millions of
Americans.   
  
Yesterday I issued a Surgeon General’s Advisory on the dangers of health
misinformation.  Surgeon General Advisories are reserved for urgent
public health threats.  And while those threats have often been related
to what we eat, drink, and smoke, today we live in a world where
misinformation poses an urgent and insidious threat to our nation’s
health.   
  
Health misinformation is false, inaccurate, or misleading information
about health according to the best evidence at the time.  And during
this pandemic, health misinformation has led people to resist wearing
masks in high-risk settings; to turn down proven treatments — in some
cases to turn to unproven treatments and to choose not to get
vaccinated.   
  
All this has led to avoidable illnesses and deaths.  Simply put, health
misinformation has cost us lives.  And just this week, I traveled to New
Mexico to meet with youth leaders, clinicians, and public health leaders
from across the state.  And the common thread that ran through our
conversations was their struggle to help their communities navigate
information about COVID-19.   
  
Now, health misinformation has been a problem long before COVID.  What’s
different now is the speed and scale at which health misinformation is
spreading.  If we want to address health misinformation, we’ll need an
all-of-society response, and that’s why the advisory has recommendations
for everyone.   
  
First, we include recommendations for individuals and families.  We’re
asking people to raise their bar for sharing health information by
checking sources before they share information to ensure it’s backed by
credible, scientific sources.  As we say in the advisory: If you are not
sure, don’t share.   
  
We’re also asking other organizations to do their part in every sector
from health and education, to research and journalism, to philanthropy
and government.   
  
But very importantly, technology companies must act as well.  Technology
companies have enabled misinformation to poison our information
environment with little accountability to their users.  It allowed
people who intentionally spread misinformation — what we call
“disinformation” — to have extraordinary reach.  
  
In this advisory, we’re telling technology companies that we expect
more.  We’re asking them to operate with greater transparency, to modify
their algorithms to avoid amplifying misinformation, and to swiftly and
consistently take action against misinformation super-spreaders on their
platforms.  
  
Shortly after releasing the advisory, we saw organizations — like the
Rockefeller Foundation, the Digital Public Library of America, and the
American Academy of Pediatrics — step up and respond to this call to
action by committing their time, resources, and networks to confronting
health misinformation.   
  
I’m encouraged by these commitments because turning the tide against
health misinformation will take all of us.  The longer we wait, the more
lives we lose.   
  
As someone who has lost 10 family members to COVID-19 and who wishes
each and every day that they had had access to the vaccine, it’s painful
to know that nearly every death we are seeing now from COVID-19 could
have been prevented.   
  
The truth is that, across our nation, the voices of doctors, nurses,
scientists, and public health experts are too often being drowned out by
the false sirens of misinformation.  Misinformation robs us of our
freedom to make decisions for our health based on science and facts.  
  
Addressing health misinformation is an urgent challenge, a moral and
civic responsibility that we must meet together.  That’s why I issued
the Surgeon General Advisory.  You can read the full advisory at
SurgeonGeneral.gov/HealthMisinformation.  
  
Thanks for your time.  And I’ll pass it back to Jeff.   
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Well, thanks, Dr. Murthy.  Let’s take a few questions.   
  
MODERATOR:  Thanks, Jeff.  We only have time for a few questions today. 
First, let’s go to Carl O’Donnell at Reuters.   
  
Q    Hi, and thanks for taking my question.  I just was wondering if you
guys could share a little bit more detail on the current state of
thinking around boosters.  I know you’ve said and other persons have
also said that they’re not needed now.  I’ve heard some commentary
though, suggesting that among immunosuppressed people and the elderly,
they might be needed.  Maybe, you know, latter part of this year, early
next year — just curious.  
  
I also know that there can be higher risk of side effects, potentially,
with a third booster shot.  So, just curious if you can offer any
additional color.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Dr Fauci?   
  
DR. FAUCI:  Yes, well, as Dr. Rochelle Walensky has said multiple times,
the CDC is looking at a number of different cohorts that will get the
information that will be needed — as she said — if and when and to whom
we will be giving boosters.   
  
I think we should be making sure people understand — because the
question often gets asked, particularly among the unvaccinated — “If
you’re talking about boosting people, does that mean that the vaccines
don’t work?”  That’s not the case at all.   
  
We are dealing with highly effective vaccines.  When you talk about a
third shot for a two-shot vaccine regimen or another shot for the J&J
single-dose regimen, you’re talking about enhancing the durability of an
already highly effective vaccine.  And that’s the thing that’s being
actively studied right now.   
  
So, literally, in real time, we talk about this literally on a daily
basis, and evidence is being accumulated on a daily and weekly basis. 
And when we get enough information to make that decision, then that
decision will be forthcoming.   
  
But as we’ve all said: At this particular time, right now, we don’t
recommend that there be boosters for people.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  I just want to also be very crystal clear from an
operational perspective: We’re prepared for every scenario, including
the possibility of boosters, if and when the science, as Dr. Fauci said,
shows that they are needed.  If and when.   
  
So we’ve secured enough vaccine supply.  And if needed, we’ll ensure
Americans who might need a booster shot are able to get one quickly and
easily.   
  
The science, as always, will guide us.  And as Dr. Walensky and Dr.
Fauci have said — they’ve made it very clear — this is a question that
they are continually evaluating.   
  
Next question.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  And maybe —  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Oh, go ahead, Dr. Walensky.  Please.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  I was just going to say, with regard to the
immunosuppressed population, this is a little bit of a different
scenario where we might be concerned that in fact they didn’t get full
protection from their initial two doses, so we would be looking at a
third prime dose in that situation.  And that’s a situation that the
Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices is going to look at next
week.   
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Thank you, Dr. Walensky.  
  
Next question.   
  
MODERATOR:  Go to Erin Billups at Spectrum News.   
  
Q    Hi.  Thank you for taking my question.  Younger unvaccinated people
we’ve spoken to believe they will likely be fine if they get infected
with coronavirus.  So, wondering if you all can paint a picture of who
is actually being hospitalized by the Delta variant.  Is the rate of
younger people being hospitalized by coronavirus now any different than
what we were seeing at other — during other surges in the pandemic?  And
are we seeing any breakthrough infections among more vulnerable people
who have been vaccinated who might have been around younger people?  Is
there any more data you can share with us?   
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Fauci?  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Well, with regard to the breakthrough infections that we’re
seeing: So, certainly, we are seeing them, but you got to remember what
the denominator of the vaccinated people are.   
  
When you’re talking about young people, specifically, getting
hospitalized, we are seeing younger people hospitalized right now,
relatively speaking to a more extent than we were before.  Because when
we did not have the large group of elderly people vaccinated, then the
elderly people dominated the people who were hospitalized and got into
trouble.  
  
Since we have more of a veil of protection among people –because about
85 percent of people who are elderly, greater than 65 are vaccinated —
when you look at the relative number of people who get hospitalized,
clearly, we’re seeing younger people, from a relative standpoint, more
hospitalized than we were seeing before because of the shift of the veil
of protection, which is much more dominant among the elderly.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  And maybe I’ll just add: When we look at the age
demographics of people being hospitalized now, we are seeing them go up
in all age demographics, exactly as Dr. Fauci noted, differently for the
vaccinated and unvaccinated.  But, importantly, over 97 percent of
people who are entering the hospital right now are unvaccinated.   
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Next question.   
  
MODERATOR:  Kaitlan Collins at CNN.   
  
Q    Thanks so much.  I’ve got two questions: one on breakthrough cases
and then a second one on some news that just broke.  
  
One, for these breakthrough cases, are they contributing to the spread
of coronavirus?  Or is it mainly unvaccinated people that that’s
happening since this is, as Walensky phrased it, “a pandemic of the
unvaccinated.”   
  
And secondly, Pfizer just announced that the FDA has granted a priority
review designation for their application for approval of their vaccine. 
They said the goal date for a decision is January 2022.  So does that
mean we’re not going to see full approval for their vaccine until
January 2022?  Or is that just a “must have decision by” date.   
  
MR. ZIENTS:  So, Dr. Fauci on breakthrough cases.   
  
DR. FAUCI:  Well, what we do know in the cases that were looked at: If
you are vaccinated and you get infected, and you compare that person —
if you’re an asymptomatic infected breakthrough vaccinated case — and
compare that to someone who is infected but not vaccinated and
asymptomatic, the level of virus in the nasal pharynx of the vaccinated
person is considerably less than the virus in the nasal pharynx of a
person who is infected, unvaccinated, and asymptomatic.   
  
Based on that, you could make a reasonable assumption that the rate of
transmissibility from the asymptomatic vaccinated person to an
uninfected person would be less likely than if the person was
unvaccinated.   
  
But the actual studies to do whether or not the transmission occurs is a
large study that’s ongoing right now.  So, Kaitlan, we don’t have the
data — the clinical data — but I think one can make the reasonable
assumption based on the level of virus in the nasal pharynx that it
would be less likely that that vaccinated breakthrough person would
transmit, compared to an unvaccinated person.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  And, Kaitlan, on the second question, we’ll defer to the
FDA.   
  
Next question.   
  
MODERATOR:  Last question.  Let’s go to Zeke Miller with AP.   
  
Q    Thank you all for doing this.  The President, yesterday, said that
he was hoping for a timeline — to set a timeline for lifting some travel
restrictions in the next couple of days.  I was hoping you could talk
about the objective metrics that you’re looking to present to the
President for when some of these travel restrictions can be eased.   
  
And then, secondly, to Dr. Walensky’s point a few minutes ago that this
is becoming a pandemic of the unvaccinated: How does that change the
administration’s response to the pandemic?  Is it a different sort of
strategy?  Does it mean that large-scale mitigation measures, if we
start seeing cases going up –you know, mask mandates and the like — are
not necessary because so many people are vaccinated?  How does it change
the strategy going forward?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Walensky, do you want to take the second question?  And
then I’ll make a comment on international travel.   
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, absolutely.  Thank you, Zeke.  You know, as we have
said, this is very heterogeneous across the country and these decisions
have to be made at the local level.  If you have areas of low
vaccination and high case rates, then I would say local policymakers
might consider whether masking at that point would be something that
would be helpful for their community until they scale up their
vaccination rates because more people than not in the community are
unvaccinated.  
  
SURGEON GENERAL MURTHY:  And, Jeff, can I just add —  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Please.  
  
SURGEON GENERAL MURTHY: — on thought there?   
  
You know, this strategy — as we think, going forward, about how to get
the rest of the country vaccinated — has got to involve everyone.  Look,
there’s a lot government can do.  There’s a lot that we are doing and
we’ll continue to do more, but this is a moment where we need technology
companies to step up and do more to stop the spread of
misinformation.   
  
We want to work closely with schools and employers to get their help,
increasingly, in getting people vaccinated in schools and in
workplaces.  But it’s also going to take each one of us, you know, as
Americans across this country, looking to our family and our friends and
asking them if they are vaccinated.  
  
You know, this vaccination campaign is going to move, in part, driven by
trusted relationships.  And so, if you’ve got people in your life who
trust you, who look to you for advice, then you have the power to help
them get them accurate information and help get them vaccinated and
protected from COVID-19.  It will take all of us.   
  
I think governments can play an important role here, but this has got to
be an “all of the above” strategy with everybody in.   
  
MR. ZIENTS:  So, lastly, on international travel, you know, we’ve made,
as we talked about today, important progress on the pandemic.  At the
same time, we have an increase in cases and the existence of the Delta
variant.  We’ll continue to put public health first.  Any decision about
opening international travel will be guided by our public health and
medical experts.  And they’ll be looking at many metrics, including case
rates, vaccination rates, and the prevalence of any variants, including
the Delta variant.  
  
As you heard yesterday, the President said that we will be planning to
update him in the next few days on the metrics and on the public health,
and we must remain vigilant, particularly about the spread of variants. 
And we’ll reopen when the medical folks and the health experts believe
it’s safe to do so.   
  
I want to thank everybody for joining today’s briefing and look forward
to next week.  Thank you.   
  
11:38 A.M. EDT  
  
To view the COVID Press Briefing slides,
visit <https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/07/COVID-Press-Briefing_16July2021_for-transcript.pdf>
