---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-07-28'
modified_time: 2021-07-28 13:30:54-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/07/28/press-gaggle-by-principal-deputy-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-aboard-air-force-one-en-route-allentown-pa/
published_time: 2021-07-28 13:30:53-04:00
title: Press Gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre Aboard
  Air Force One En Route Allentown, PA
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Allentown, Pennsylvania

11:45 A.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ve never done this on the small plane before, so
bear with me.  Hey, everybody.  Good to see everyone.  Welcome to our
flight to Lehigh, Pennsyl — Valley, today in Pennsylvania.

As you all know, today we announced a proposed Buy American rule.  The
President believes that when we spend American taxpayer dollars, it
should support American workers and business.

In Lehigh Valley today, he will talk about the importance of this Buy
American policy to support and grow more American companies and put more
American workers in good-paying union jobs, strengthen American
manufacturing, and secure critical supply chains while confronting the
climate crisis. 

During his trip, the President will visit the Lehigh Valley Operations
manufacturing facility for Mack Trucks.  There are more than 1,500 Mack
trucks in the federal fleet, used by both military and civilian
agencies.  And the President will receive a briefing on the Mack Trucks’
electrical dump truck.

Every Mack truck built for the North American market gets its start at
the companies cab and vehicle assembly plant in the lower Macu- —
Macungie township — I know I messed that up; apologies to Pennsylvania
and that township. 

The ability to build and sell these new trucks would be helped by the
President’s proposed investment in Buy American production incentives
for domestic electric vehicle manufacturing.

Today, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, CFBP \[CFPB\], is
launching a new rental assistant finder for Americans who may be behind
on their rent.  You can go to ConsumerFinance.gov/RentHelp and input
location information to find local rental assistance programs in the
area and apply for assistance.

Thanks to the American Rescue Plan, billions of dollars in federal
rental assistance is available to renters who are behind on housing
costs and for landlords who have struggled during the pandemic.

Private-sector companies from PayPal and Square, Lyft, and GoFundMe, to
nonprofits including United Way, the National Low Income Housing
Coalition, and Bread for the World will join with the Biden-Harris
administration to raise awareness for this new and important tool, as
well as the resources available to assist tenants and landlords.

And as we announced last week, in June, over $1.5 billion was
distributed to renters and landlords more than previous — the previous
five months.

And with that, Josh, do you want to kick us off?

Q    Sure.  Two subject areas.  First, we know that the administration
is considering a vaccine mandate for federal employees.  Can you give us
any guidance in terms of how you’re defining federal employees?  Does
that include military, contractors?  Would visitors to federal agencies
also fall under that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, Josh, let me first say that, you know, our goal as
a federal employer is to keep our employees safe and to also save
lives.  That is the number-one goal that we have here.

While no decision has been finalized, I will say that the attestation of
vaccination for federal employees is one option under strong
consideration.  So, attestation — what we mean by that is confirming —
which means confirming vaccination status or abiding by stringent
COVID-19 protocols, like mandatory mask wearing, even in communities not
with high or subsequent substantial spread, and regular testing.

We’ve also said requirements for vaccination may be under consideration
for certain entities within the government.  I don’t have any updates to
preview on that front today.

Q    Are you concerned that imposing a mask mandate could exacerbate
divisions in the United States that have already been so present in
terms of vaccination rates?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, let me just — like I said, they’re — right now
we are — have many options that we’re looking under consideration.

But let me just step back, because I think — I want to take this
opportunity, with the CDC mask guidance that was given — again, not a
mandate, as you know, but a guidance. 

You know, yesterday the CDC did exactly what it was — it’s supposed to
do.  And I’m sure you all saw — are tracking what the public health
experts have said — said this as — said as much.  The message is simple:
If you are in an area where Delta is surging, you should mask up
indoors. 

The CDC has to adapt to the virus.  And unfortunately, because not
enough Americans have stepped up to get vaccinated, they had to provide
new guidance to help save lives, especially for those immunocompromised
and children, children who — especially those children who are 11 and
under who do not have — are not able to get vaccinated at this time. 
So, this is critical.

Again, we want to make sure we’re saving lives.  The CDC guidance was
done nonpartisan.  It was done as they are looking through guidance, and
to really meet the moment. 

We’re dealing with a virus, as you all know, that’s unprecedented. 
There’s no playbook for this virus.  And again, we need to make sure
that we’re saving lives.  And we are going to continue to do everything
that we can to make sure people are getting vaccinated.

Q    Karine, why would the White House be confident that people in these
red zones now will listen to this new mask guidance if they’ve shrugged
off the vaccination message from the White House, if they’ve shrugged
off mask guidance before?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, let me —

Q    Why are you so confident now? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, Karen, let me first say that the CDC is a — is a
body that is highly respected.  It is a body that people look towards. 
And you’re right — you know, we — we are — we are going to make sure
that we go community by community.  I’m sure the CDC is going to have a
communication — you know, kind of apparatus of communication with local
governments on how to best do this. 

But this was — this needed to happen.  Right?  They are following the
science.  We have said this all along.  The science is the North Star. 
We have to listen to public health experts.  And, right now, again,
we’re trying to make sure that we’re saving lives.

But, again, we need to make sure that people who are not vaccinated get
vaccinated. 

Q    Karine —

MS. HAYES:  We have to stop because we have to land.  They’re making us
sit down because we have to land.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, okay.  Sorry, guys.

11:52 A.M. EDT
