---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-07-09'
modified_time: 2021-07-09 17:22:33-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/07/09/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-july-9-2021/
published_time: 2021-07-09 17:21:15-04:00
title: Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen Psaki, July 9, 2021
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

12:50 P.M. EDT

     MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.  Happy Friday.  I have a couple of items
for all of you at the top.

     First, we welcome the unanimous adoption today in the U.N. Security
Council to extend the mandate for a critical humanitarian aid lifeline
to Syria.  This agreement, which will directly impact the lives of
millions of Syrians, was the result of hard work among the members of
the Council and intensive diplomacy following a detailed discussion at
the Geneva summit between President Biden and President Putin.

     Today’s resolution, which renews the cross-border agreement that
would have expired on July 10th, will provide further lifesaving
humanitarian assistance to the people of northwest Syria and is part of
a broader humanitarian initiative led by the United Nations. 

     The two leaders, today, on their call — there was a readout that
just went out that should be in your inboxes, you may have seen —
commended the work of their respective teams following the summit and
welcomed the unanimous vote in the Council.

     There was a readout, I should note, that just went out, of a call
that President Biden did with President Putin this morning.  I’m sure
we’ll talk more about that.  But just to note for all of your inboxes.

     Also, today, the President will sign an executive order that will
direct a historic whole-of-government effort to promote competition in
the American economy.  This effort has three goals: lower prices for
consumers, higher wages for workers, and more innovation and economic
growth.

     Lack of competition drives up prices for consumers.  Barriers to
competition also drive down wages for workers.  When there are only a
few employers in town, workers have less opportunity to bargain for a
higher wage and to demand dignity and respect.

     In total, higher prices and lower wages caused by lack of
competition are now estimated to cost the median American household
$5,000 per year, so we want to work to address that.

     Competition is the engine of our economy.  And this is just the
beginning.  We’ll be back, in the weeks ahead, to update you on the
progress we’re making on this executive order and the concrete benefits
we are delivering to the American people.

     I also wanted to provide a quick update for you on our work in
Haiti.  The United States remains engaged and in close consultations
with our Haitian and international partners to support the Haitian
people in the aftermath of the assassination of the president.

     In response to the Haitian government’s request for security and
investigative assistance, we will be sending senior FBI and DHS
officials to Port-au-Prince as soon as possible to assess the situation
and how we may be able to assist.

     I also wanted to note that in January of 2021, we announced a $75.5
million for a wide range of issues, including democratic governance,
health, education, agricultural development, and strengthening of
pre-election activities.  Strengthening Haiti’s law enforcement capacity
is a key U.S. priority — was before the assassination a few days ago,
continues to be.

     And the U.S. Department of State’s Bureau of International
Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs provides assistance directly to
the Haitian National Police.

     We are also providing $5 million to strengthen the Haitian National
Police capacity to work with communities to resist gangs.

     I also wanted to remind you all that, earlier this year, the
Department of Homeland Security re-designated Temporary Protected Status
for Haiti for 18 months — something the Secretary announced in May and
something we are working to implement.

     And finally, Haiti is one of the countries that is — will be
receiving vaccines from the United States.  We will be prepared to
deliver those, hopefully as early as next week.  Part of that is
assessing what the airport — what can happen with the airport and how we
will be able to deliver these.

     Sorry, one other — two other updates.  One other update and the
week ahead.

     On global vaccines, today we are sending 3 million doses to
Indonesia, 1.5 million doses to Nepal, 500,000 doses to Moldova, and
500,000 doses to Bhutan.  With these shipments, in this week alone, we
have sent nearly 15 million doses to countries including Guatemala,
Uruguay, Paraguay, Bolivia, Afghanistan, and Vietnam.

     On Indonesia, I also wanted to add that, in addition to the
vaccines, we are also sending — we are also moving forward on plans to
increase assistance for Indonesia’s broader COVID-19 response efforts. 
We recognize the difficult situation Indonesia currently finds itself in
with a surge of COVID cases, and our thoughts are with all those in
Indonesia who are affected.

     Finally, let me get to the week ahead.

On Monday, the President will meet with local leaders — including law
enforcement, elected officials, and a community violence intervention
advocate — to discuss his administration’s comprehensive strategy to
reduce gun crimes and other violent crimes.  And that’s here at the
White House.

     On Tuesday, the President will deliver remarks in Philadelphia —
the birthplace of democracy — on his administration’s actions to protect
the sacred, constitutional right to vote and the need to overcome
anti-voter laws.  He will make the moral case to the American people on
why the right to vote is fundamental to who we are as a nation.

     On Thursday, the President will deliver remarks to mark the day
that tens of millions of families will get their first monthly tax
relief payments thanks to the American Rescue Plan. The expanded Child
Tax Credit provides working families $250 each month for every child 6
to 17 years old, and $300 each month for every child under 6 years old.

     Also Thursday, the President will welcome German Chancellor Angela
Merkel to the White House for an official working visit.  Her visit will
affirm the deep and enduring bilateral ties between the United States
and Germany.  This forward-looking visit will address our robust
partnership on shared global challenges and identify areas to further
strengthen cooperation in the months and years ahead.

     And on Friday, the President will participate in the Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation Leaders Retreat — remotely, obviously — on the
response to the COVID-19 pandemic.  On Friday afternoon, the President
will travel to Camp David, where he will remain over the weekend.

     Alex.  That was a lot of information, hopefully.  Go ahead.

     Q    It was.  And we have new information about a call with
President Putin.  Can you tell us more about what prompted this?  Was it
decided in response to these recent randomware — ransomware attacks? 
What exactly did President Biden say?  He reiterated that the United
States will take any necessary action to defend its people.  What
threats, if any, did he make?

     And then, I wanted to know — the top of readout suggests that it
was partly, sort of, a pleasant call.  The leaders commended their joint
work.  So can you explain why President Biden was at all pleasant in
this call when it seems that there are all of these ransomware attacks
coming from Russia that may have been government-approved?

     MS. PSAKI:  First, let me say that the President is a believer in
face-to-face diplomacy when possible and leader-to-leader diplomacy when
that’s not possible, and this is an example of that. 

     And this is the first time — even though ransomware attacks have
been increasing over the past 18 months, if not longer — that there has
been this level of engagement at this level.  And certainly, the
President knew, even when they met in Geneva, that there would be a need
for ongoing discussions and engagements.

     I would say the reason that they commended the work of their teams
is: This is consistent with the President’s view that diplomacy includes
working together where there is opportunity and agreement, and being
clear and candid and forthright when there’s disagreement.  And this
call is an example of that. 

     So, because of their agreement and the discussion they had in
Geneva, the U.N. Security Council is going to extend access for
humanitarian corridors — providing assistance, humanitarian assistance
to people in Syria.  That’s something that is pivotal and that is going
to save lives.  That is something to be commended. 

     At the same time, the President made clear, as I think you could
see in the readout, that — he underscored the need for President Putin
to take action to disrupt these ransomware groups.  While REvil, we
know, operates in Russia and other countries around the world, and we
don’t have additional or new information suggesting the Russian
government directed these attacks, we also know and we also believe that
they have a responsibility.  They have a responsibility to take action.

     And as you can see in the readout, the President also made clear
that the United States will take any necessary action to defend its
people and its critical infrastructure.

     So, this was an example of leader-to-leader diplomacy — something
the President feels is vital as he operates in the world.

     Q    And a quick note of clarification on the new CDC guidelines on
schools —

     MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

     Q    — because there seems to be a lot of confusion when these come
out.  Schools are now supposed to allow teachers and students that are
vaccinated not to wear masks, but they’re not recommended to keep track
of that.  Is that recommendation enforceable?  And if not, why even make
the recommendation to begin with?

     And then, going forward, as we’re seeing an increase in
vaccinations — or increase in Delta — the Delta variant in some of these
under-vaccinated clusters, is there a situation in which the
administration would suggest returning to virtual learning at all?

     MS. PSAKI:  First, the CDC laid out ways, several months ago, that
all schools can safely return to in-person learning.  That applies to
schools in areas where there are high levels of vaccination and areas
where there are lower levels of vaccination.

     And thanks to the American Rescue Plan — $122 billion in funding —
schools can implement these mitigation measures that they may not have
been able to prior. 

     So this — this guidance today reiterated that masks should be worn
indoors by all unvaccinated individuals; schools should continue to
maintain at least three feet of physical distance.  Screening, testing,
ventilation, hand washing, and respiratory etiquette, staying home when
sick, and getting tested, contact tracing with quarantine and isolation,
and cleaning and disinfection continue to be important layers of
prevention to keep schools safe. 

     Now, the guidelines that they provided — the guidance — is in line
with their public health guidance that theyhave provided broadly.  So if
somebody is vaccinated, they are safe.  If they are not vaccinated —
which obviously applies to children who are under a certain age who are
not yet eligible — then there are additional — there are guidelines that
remain in place. 

How these guidelines will be implemented has always been the purview of
local school districts.  That has always been the case with vaccines in
general, even prior to the coronavirus.  So, this is public health
guidelines that they are providing.  It is up to the school districts to
apply and implement. 

Go ahead, Jeff.

Q    Some three weeks or so ago, President Biden, in Geneva, said that
Vladimir Putin “knows there are consequences” — “he knows I will take
action.”  Did he raise the volume of a similar message in their call
today, or did he amplify it in any way, or did he just repeat it?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think, as the readout makes clear, he reiterated
that the United States will take any necessary action to defend its
people and its critical infrastructure.  And he also reiterated his
expectation that President Putin take action, even if it is not directed
by the Russian government and if it is because of criminal actors in his
own country. 

So, I’m not going to give you a tone-and-tenor readout here.  But the
President believes that this is — that — and he’s always believed this
was going to need to be an ongoing diplomatic engagement with the
Russians.  We’ve had expert-level talks.  We’ve had those talks focused
on cyber, focused on ransomware, but he also understands that there’s
going to need to be talks at times at the leader level (inaudible).

Q    You said you don’t have new information that Russia was involved,
specifically, in these attacks.  Is that right?

MS. PSAKI:  Correct. 

Q    Are the cyber groups still meeting next week — the U.S. group and
the Russia side meeting next week on cyber?

MS. PSAKI:  Yes.

Yes, go ahead.

Q    So, in this call with President Putin, did Putin provide any
assurances to President Biden that he will in fact crack down on cyber
criminals that are in his country?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’m not going to read out on behalf of the Kremlin.  I
will let them read out their own — what the President conveyed —

Q    But did —

MS. PSAKI:  — to President Biden.

Q    Oh, sorry.  I didn’t mean to cut you off.  But did President Putin
provide any assurances to President Biden on that call at all?

MS. PSAKI:  Again, that’s not an appropriate role for the United States
to convey.  I can convey and read out to you what role President Biden
played and what message he delivered to the Russians. 

Go ahead. 

Q    So you’ve talked about the visit of Chancellor Merkel coming on
Thursday.  What — to what extent will President Biden ask Germany and
other countries that are involved to stand with him in a response to
Russia on these ransomware attacks?  Is that a big part of your agenda?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say that it is — it has long been and it was —
back to the G7 and the meetings on the President’s first foreign trip,
part of his message to other European leaders and partners was: We need
to stand together and work together to address the threat of ransomware
cyberattacks.  It is not just an issue for the United States.  It is an
issue for a range of countries around the globe.

In terms of what percentage of the meeting, I think we’ll have more as
we get closer to the meeting with — with Chancellor Merkel.  But,
certainly, I would expect that the rising threat of cyber and ransomware
would be part of the agenda.

Q    And one more on Germany and then another quick one.  So, on
Germany, you know, this one residual issue that is still to be addressed
has to do with Nord Stream.  To what extent are you hopeful that you
might be able to reach some kind of an agreement or extract some kind of
promises from Germany that would stave off the need to have this tariff
— sanctions takes place — take effect?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, it certainly will be a part of the discussion.  And
the President — our view continues to be that it’s a bad deal and one
that has global issues involved in it.  But I’m not going to predict for
you what the outcome of the meeting will look like.

Q    And just real —

MS. PSAKI:  Yep.

Q    — real quick on Haiti.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    So we have some reporting that there’s an investigation going on
about the role that Haitian Americans may have played in that attack. 
Can you say a few words about your understanding of that?  I understand
you’re sending to the FBI and DHS —

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    — and it may be a bit premature, but any readout now would be
helpful.

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything to update in that regard.  Obviously,
the investigation is being led by Haitian police forces on the ground. 
There have been some reports, I think you’re referencing, but I don’t
have any update beyond that.

Q    Would that be a serious concern for the White House if you found
that there were in fact American citizens involved in this
assassination?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, certainly.  But I’m not going to get ahead of where
the investigation is going.  It’s ongoing.  It’s led by the Haitians on
the ground.

Go ahead, Kelly.

Q    Did the President, in his conversation with President Putin, expand
on the list that he presented to him in Geneva about the types of
critical infrastructure and parts of the U.S. economy that were off
limits?  Has the increase in ransomware informed his view on that to
expand that?  And should we interpret this call and the implicit warning
in there again as a sign that the U.S. will act and act soon?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I would say that, as you noted, the President
did provide a list of critical infrastructure when he met with President
Putin just a few weeks ago.  He did that because, of course, an attack
on critical infrastructure that would take out a swath of the American
economy would have a significant national security impact. 

He did not provide that list to say: If the attack is not on critical
infrastructure, we’re not going to take action.  That was not the
restriction he gave himself. 

And I think, in this call today, he was making clear that, again — and
reiterating again — that attacks by criminal groups, by actors that may
not be directed by the Russian government, you still have a
responsibility.

And in terms of actions, he made clear that he’s going to take steps to
defend the American people and our own infrastructure and our interests
here in the United States. 

So while we’re not going to preview, operationally, what that looks like
or what he may decide to do, he did make clear that he reserves that
option to take action. 

Q    And do you think the President’s intent in having this call and on
this topic within the call was to send that signal that action could be
imminent?

MS. PSAKI:  I think his intent was to make clear and reiterate, again,
that attacks by criminal groups, ransomware attacks by criminal groups
on entities in the United States is not acceptable and that we reserve
the right to take action. 

Go ahead, Weijia.

Q    Thank you.  Did President Biden specifically ask about Kaseya and
the RNC hack in this phone call?  And did Putin say he was
investigating?  Did he deny it?  What was that conversation?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’m still not going to read out what President Putin
said, and I’m sure that the Kremlin will do their own readout of what he
conveyed.  I can tell you broadly that, of course, the ransomware attack
that happened over the course of last weekend was a big focus, of
course, of the call, which was — was clear in the readout that we
provided. 

Again, I would reiterate, on the RNC attack, that that — that the
information we have to date is that that was on a third-party entity and
it’s something the FBI is working with them on.  We don’t have
additional information beyond that at this point in time. 

Q    Did the President express when he would take this action
(inaudible)?

MS. PSAKI:  I’m just not going to have more to read out for you on
operational details or specifics.

Q    Okay.  And I have a question on Hunter Biden’s artwork. 

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    Did the White House play any role in crafting the sales agreement
with the New York gallery to protect the — the purchasers — or the
ultimate purchasers’ identity?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I can tell you that after careful consideration, a
system has been established that allows for Hunter Biden to work in his
profession within reasonable safeguards. 

Of course, he has the right to pursue an artistic career, just like any
child of a President has the right to pursue a career.  But all
interactions regarding the selling of art and the setting of prices will
be handled by a professional gallerist, adhering to the highest industry
standards.  And any offer out of the normal course would be rejected out
of hand. 

And the gallerist will not share information about buyers or prospective
buyers, including their identities, with Hunter Biden or the
administration, which provides quite a level of protection and
transparency (inaudible).

Q    But the gallery owner is a private citizen who might not be privy
to who might have some interests in purchasing this artwork.  Is the
White House doing anything to work with the owner to make sure there’s
not impropriety there, when it is ultimately sold?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think it would be challenging for an anonymous
person who we don’t know and Hunter Biden doesn’t know to have
influence.  So that’s a protection.

Go ahead. 

Q    Thanks, Jen.  On this call this morning with the Russian President,
did President Biden discuss at all the Taliban delegation that was in
Moscow yesterday?

MS. PSAKI:  The focus of the call and the conversation, which I can tell
you was about an hour long, was really primarily on these two topics.  I
can see if there was anything in addition that was raised, and I can
follow up with you after the briefing. 

Q    Okay.  Thank you.  And then, on the Afghan translators: Does the
President believe he has any executive authority to determine where
these Afghan nationals await their visas?  I know that the President
said, yesterday, you guys are working closely with Congress.  I want to
know what that looks like. 

But in addition, does he have any influence on where they wait out this
time period for their visas — as he’s similarly exercised with
immigrants at the southern border by ending the “Remain in Mexico”
policy?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, it’s a different program, obviously — which I know
you’re conveying.  And what we are trying to determine is U.S.
facilities and bases that are located in different parts of the world
where we can house these brave and courageous individuals while their
processing continues. 

So that’s what we’re determining.  We have not made a final
determination of that.  We’re trying to also protect, for security and
operational reasons, what that may look like, even when a final
determination is made.  So I would see it as a different type of a
program.  And — but those are the considerations. 

And it’s already law, so we are — we are in a position where we can make
a decision to — to relocate individuals from Afghanistan to these
third-party countries.

Q    And then, on the vaccine: Pfizer requesting approval for a third
shot from regulators.  CDC, FDA said, at this time, you don’t need a
booster to be considered vaccinated.  But what’s the timeline that you
guys are looking at on when that would be recommended, especially as it
pertains to meeting vaccination requirements to forego things like
masks? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first — and you referenced this, but just for others —
the CDC and the FDA put out a pretty clear statement last night after
the announcement by Pfizer, making clear that Americans who have been
fully vaccinated do not need a booster shot at this time.

I’d also note that they are constantly engaged in a rigorous process to
consider when — when a booster might be necessary.  But it’s — I can’t
make a prediction of that; that’s going to be led by the data and by the
science.  But at this time, that is not a determination that they have
made, and we wanted to make clear that that is not something that the
American people need to plan for at this moment. 

Q    Jen?

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.  I’m just going to jump around because I haven’t
gotten to a bunch of people in this room in a couple days. 

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead, go ahead, go ahead.

Q    Jen, a couple on Afghanistan, just to follow.  Yesterday, the
President said that he den- — he actually denied that the intelligence
community had assessed that Af- — that the Afghan governments could
collapse.  That conflicts with the reporting at the Journal and other
news outlets that said that it could collapse within six months.  Was he
not briefed on that intelligence?  Or are you denying that intelligence
exists at all? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I would say that we, of course, abide by the
intelligence presented by our own intelligence community.  But the way
the question was answered — and, in part, presented — was whether it was
inevitable.  And the President does not believe that it is inevitable. 

The intelligence community has never said it was inevitable for the —
for the Taliban to take over the country.  And so his objective or his —
what he was trying to convey was that there’s a responsibility and the
responsibility now lies in the hands of the Afghans.

We have provided — we have trained over 300,000.  We’ve provided $3.9
billion in humanitarian assistance.  These are brave fighters who have
fought off — taken on casualties and fought off over the course of the
last several years.  We want to equip and empower them, and it is now in
their hands.  But it is not inevitable, nor has any intelligence
assessment predicted it was inevitable.

Q    And just one more.  Yesterday, he also said that the U.S. doesn’t
bear responsibility for any deaths that might occur after the U.S.
withdraws.  Can you explain, you know, how the U.S. doesn’t bear any
responsibility for that? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think what the President was conveying is that we
are doing everything we can to equip, train, empower the Afghan National
Security Forces, and we’re going to continue to remain engaged not just
through the end of August, but then forward.  But it’s going to be up to
them to — it is ultimately their job and responsibility now to
demonstrate their capabilities and their will to defend their country. 
And that was what he was working — attempting to convey yesterday.

Q    And just really briefly on the competition executive order: Was
there any discussion about trying to accomplish those goals through
legislation?  And would that be the President’s preferred approach over
an executive order that could be overturned by his successor? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, there’s certainly value in legislation; it makes it
more permanent.  So there’s no question about that.  But the President
is going to continue to use authorities that every President before him
has had — executive actions, executive — which allow him to take actions
to make industries more competitive, to bring relief to consumers and
the American people.

So I’m not going to rule out future legislative discussions with
Congress should they want to pursue them.  But these are actions he
could take that could have a huge, immediate impact on the American
people. 

Go ahead, in the middle. 

Q    Just two quick questions, Jen.  The first is: I spoke with a number
of justice organizations and families that want to know if the President
is going to address the over 4,000 inmates — low-offending inmates —
that are at home, sent home due to the pandemic, then they have to go
back. 

They’re saying that they want to know: Is he going to make a statement,
how is he going to address it, and is he willing to find a way to keep
them home, whether that’s granting clemency or ordering the DOJ to go
back and revisit that memo that was done under the Trump
administration? 

MS. PSAKI:  Sure, it’s — it’s a great question.  It is something that
President is following closely.  A lot of it is under the purview of the
Department of Justice.  I can see if there’s any new update for you that
I can provide to you after the briefing.

Q    Secondly, on the campaign trail, the President said, “Especially
for those moments when this campaign was at its lowest, the African
American community stood up again for me.”  Then, “They always have my
back and I’ll have theirs.” 

With that said, I know you said on Tuesday he’s going to Philly, but
there are many activists on the ground who feel like the President has
not done all that he can.  Are we going to see him going state to state,
like he did with infrastructure, and having a very in-your-face approach
with many Republicans, like in Arizona, confronting some of these rules
or even pressing Democrats when it comes to nuking the filibuster? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I would say that the speech the President is
delivering is about our fundamental right to vote in the country and the
moral obligation we all have to defend that, stand up for that.  It’s
not about legislative process, and this issue is bigger than that. 

And I would say that: To those who are critics, we stand with you in
wanting to make voting more accessible around the country.  And that’s
why the President signed a historic executive order into law in his
first month in office.  That’s why he — his Department of Justice has
already taken action to double the funding and support around the
country to fighting voter laws and fighting voter suppression.  That’s
why he fought — nominated and fought for the confirmation of Kristen
Clarke and Vanita Gupta, two civil rights activists who are now playing
prominent roles in the Department of Justice. 

He has said this will be the cause of his presidency.  He’s delivering a
speech in Philadelphia — the foundation of democracy — next Tuesday. 
And that’s a continuation of his efforts.

Go ahead. 

Q    Jen, thank you.  Nobody really would expect you to preview what the
United States might do as a retaliatory cyberattack on Russia, but does
the President understand that — assuming Russia would not acknowledge
such an attack, does he understand that for political consumption —
domestic political consumption, perhaps worldwide political consumption
— that we have to make some kind of show of it; we have to point out
that we have to respond and the United States has responded and then the
President has fulfilled what he said he would do? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say the President doesn’t make his global
decisions or his decisions as Commander-in-Chief or a leader in the
global community based on politics; he makes them on what is in the
interests of our national security, in the interests of the American
people. 

And certainly — I know you alluded to this — but I don’t think anyone
expects him or us to preview our punches.  He reserves that option, has
been clear about that, and we’re probably not going to preview that in
advance. 

Go ahead, Karen.

Q    But doesn’t he want to make a show of it, though?

MS. PSAKI:  I think I’ve answered your question. 

Go ahead, Karen.

Q    Thanks.  Two questions on vaccines, and back to Pfizer saying that
the third shot is better.  You’ve mentioned that the FDA and the CDC
came out very quickly with a statement saying it’s not needed at this
time, but is anybody in the administration asking Pfizer to coordinate
on announcements like this so Americans are not confused to see such a
whiplash of headlines? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, they are a private-sector company.  I can’t speak to
their — the origin or the motivation of their announcement; you’d have
to ask them that.  But the role we can play from the U.S. government is
to provide accurate information and public health information, which is
what we ventured to do last night pretty rapidly in response to the
announcement.

Q    And you were asked about this on Wednesday on Air Force One, but I
just want to go back to it because there’s still pushback about the
President’s comments about going door to door to encourage vaccinations.

The South Carolina governor said today that “Enticing, coercing,
intimidating, mandating, or pressuring anyone to take a vaccine is a bad
policy that will deteriorate the public trust and confidence in the
state’s efforts.”  And Governor McMaster said he’s going to prohibit the
state health agency from using the administration’s targeted tactics. 
Can you respond to the governor and explain what it is that is being
done and what is not being done in this outreach?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, let me first say that the failure to provide
accurate public health information, including the efficacy of vaccines
and the accessibility of them to people across the country, including
South Carolina, is literally killing people, so maybe they should
consider that.  But I would say that what this is and what is — it is
not — this is not federal employees going door to door. 

This is grassroots volunteers, this is members of the clergy, these are
volunteers who believe that people across the country, especially in
low-vaccinated areas, should have accurate information, should have
information about where they can get vaccinated, where they can save
their own lives and their neighbors’ lives and their family members’
lives. 

That’s exactly what this is.  It’s something that’s been going on since
April.  And it’s something where we’ve seen an impact in states where
there are lower vaccination rates.  So, it is something we will continue
to — to work with local groups to do.  And it’s a disservice to the
country and to the people who may lose their lives, who may lose family
members to provide inaccurate disinformation at a moment when we’re
still fighting a pandemic.

Go ahead, George. 

Q    Thanks.  Two questions on the President’s trade agenda.  He’s
spoken a lot about “Buy America” and he settled the Airbus thing, but
when can we expect activity on the major things like lifting the Trump
tariffs or the UK talks? 

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  This is, of course, under the purview of Ambassador
Tai, and somebody who is working every day to work with countries around
the world to communicate what our agenda is.  I don’t have anything to
predict for you in terms of additional components of his trade agenda. 

I will note that as he looks at our global approach, our economic
approach, he believes that we need to build the middle class, make sure
we are making decisions through the prism of what’s going to help the
middle class here in the United States. 

Yeah. 

Q    Any reaction to the IMF calling on him to lift the tariffs? 

MS. PSAKI:  We’re continuing to review.  I don’t have any update for you
on a timeline.

Go ahead. 

Q    Thank you.  So, I have a question on vaccine sharing, and then on
Afghanistan.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    On vaccine sharing, many humanitarian organizations say that
despite $1 billion doses pledged by G7, the lion’s share of which is
coming from the U.S., it’s still not nearly enough to get the world
vaccinated, to stop the spread of variants.  My question is: Does the
administration have any plans to expand from the 580 million doses
already pledged?

And jumping off on your Indonesia announcement, the Jakarta government
has just announced that they’re going to use the 3 million Moderna doses
to vaccinate one and a half million healthcare workers who have already
been vaccinated — fully vaccinated with Sinovac.  So, would you care to
comment about that in regards to U.S. vaccine diplomacy versus Chinese
vaccine goals?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, first, I would say that there are no strings
attached to our vaccines that we’re providing.  We’re providing them
around the world to save lives and to be a contributor to the global
effort to fight the pandemic.

You’re absolutely right that there are more doses needed beyond the
billion.  I would note that the United States is far and away the
largest contributor in the world to the fight against the pandemic,
including specific doses of vaccines.  And we have — the President has
made clear that we will continue to build from here, and we’re working
on manufacturing capacity around the world and in the United States, and
we will continue to contribute even beyond the billion doses.

Q    And on Afghanistan, the Taliban has captured a key border crossing
with Iran today — a move that’s designed to choke the Kabul government
economically.  So if the Taliban continues to make military gains to
push the Kabul government towards collapse, at what point would the
President reconsider his strike policy to include airstrikes on the
Taliban rather than just ISIS and al Qaeda?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’m not going to predict an outcome that we are
certainly working to — with the Afghan National Security Forces to push
against.

I can reiterate, of course, why the President made the decision he made
based on a clear-eyed assessment of what the impact could be.

But at this point in time, what our focus is on is ensuring we are
bringing our servicemen and women home from Afghanistan on the timeline
he outlined yesterday; that we are spreading our counterterrorism
capacity out to parts of the world where we see the biggest threats
beyond Afghanistan; that we are continuing to work to empower, equip,
train, support financially the Afghan National Security Forces.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  We’re almost halfway through the 90-day period
that the White House has set for the U.S. intelligence community to
redouble its efforts and analyze information about the origin of
COVID-19.  Is the President receiving or has the President received any
update on that front?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any updates to provide to all of you, but go
ahead.

Q    Thank you.  And then, second question: Delegates to the National
Education Association, they approved a measure last week calling for
support of, quote, “implementation of culturally responsive education,
critical race theory, and ethnic studies curriculum” in preK-through-12
and higher education. 

The President is obviously a big fan of education.  The First Lady is a
teacher; she’s a union teacher.  I’m wondering: What are the President’s
thoughts on anti-racism curriculum in the classroom?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President believes that, in our history, there’s
many dark moments.  And there is not just slavery and racism in our
history; there are systemic racism that is still impacting society
today. 

And he believes — as I believe, as a parent of children — that kids
should learn about our history.  So as the spouse of an educator and as
somebody who is — continues to believe that children should learn not
just the good, but also the challenging in our history.  And that’s part
of what we’re talking about here, even as it’s become politically
charged.

Q    Thank you, Jen.

MS. PSAKI:  Thank you. 

Go ahead.

Q    I just want to follow up on something you said about Pfizer. 
Before, you said this is a private-sector company.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    This is a company that’s gotten billions of dollars from the
federal government, and it’s a key part of probably the most important
effort you’re working on right now.  Given that, is it still not
appropriate to coordinate on messaging that might confuse people?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, the role we can play is to determine how we
communicate from the federal government and how we communicate accurate
public health information to the American people.  And that’s what we
ventured to do as quickly as possible last night after the statement
came out.

Go ahead, Jen.

Q    Just on the EO that the President is about to sign: We’ve seen some
of the business groups that, you know, while not often the allies of
Democrats, have been, especially around the infrastructure deal — groups
like the Chamber of Commerce — expressing concern that government is
just, kind of, inserting itself too much into business dealings. 

The National Association of Manufacturers saying they are “solutions in
search of a problem” and threaten to “undo progress by undermining free
markets \[that\] are premised on the false notion our workers are not
positioned for success.”

And, you know — and more broadly, are you just concerned about the
reaction coming from industry that they will try to push back on this,
that there will likely be lawsuits and all — and all kinds of other
things that can bog down this?  And how are you planning to respond to
all of that?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, there may be, but I think the role and the President’s
role is to — to focus on what’s in the interests of American consumers. 
And his view is that when you have a lack of competition that’s driving
up prices for consumers, driving down wages for workers, a lack of
competition that is costing the median American household $5,000 per
year, that, as the President of the United States — somebody who
represents middle-class Americans across the country — he has a
responsibility to act.  We understand some may be opposed to that, and
that’s okay; it’s a free country.

Q    Can I follow up —

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.  Go ahead, very quickly, Brian.

Q    Thank you.  The follow-up to that is: You said in the statement
today that he’s going to take decisive action against consolidation in a
lot of industries.  Does that include the media industry?  I mean, we
suffer consolidation more than any other.  So is your administration
going to break up the large media conglomerates?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything to predict or preview for you on that
front. 

Go ahead.

Q    I’m from a large media conglomerate.

MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  (Laughter.)

Q    Jen, a question — a question on Haiti. 

(Some members of the press exit the briefing room.)

MS. PSAKI:  Nothing crazy is happening.  The pool has to gather.

Go ahead.  (Laughter.)

Q    A question on Haiti: How will the arrest of two Americans affect
the assistance that the FBI and DHS provides to Haitian authorities?

MS. PSAKI:  Our assistance is to help the people of Haiti and to help
them get through what is a very challenging time and has long been even
before the assassination of the President.  So, the investigation is not
going to impact the assistance we’re providing to the people of Haiti. 

But as you — as I announced at the beginning, we are sending — because
supporting law enforcement efforts on the ground and making sure we are
providing resources — in terms of women- and manpower, but also
financial resources — is part of what our objective is as well.

Q    And how many law enforcement agents are we sending?  And have there
been any requests for any additional aid from the U.S., either from the
State Department or another agency?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, this — this action was in response to a specific
request.  So, that’s what it exactly was.  I don’t have a specific
number.  I can check and see if there’s something more specific we can
provide to you.

Go ahead, Eugene.

Q    Is the Biden administration considering easing travel restrictions
to allow vaccinated people into the U.S.?  The CDC has already said that
you can — it’s safe to travel — I’ve done it; a lot of us have done it —
if you’re fully vaccinated.

MS. PSAKI:  There’s an ongoing process, which I know is to the
frustration of many, which includes working groups with countries so
that we can communicate about and share information about what the
criteria will be for easing these travel restrictions. 

We certainly want to ensure families are reunited, people are reunited,
people can travel — as you have, as you’ve said — but I don’t have
anything to predict in terms of the timeline there.

Q    The question is: If the conditions are the same — they’re otherwise
the same — why does the destination matter?

MS. PSAKI:  They look at a range of criteria, but it’s based on public
health discussions.  Public health experts are a part of these
discussions on all sides from our country and from the others who are
participating.

Q    And last question: In May, the administration came out in support
of the TRIPS Waiver, which would make vaccines more available around the
world by waiving the IP protections.  Angela Merkel will be here next
Thursday.  Germany is against the TRIPS Waiver.  They — and I think it
has to be unanimous.  Is President Biden — is that on the agenda for
President Biden to talk to her about that?

MS. PSAKI:  He is a strong proponent of it.  It’s one tool in our
toolbox.  There are a number of others, including increasing
manufacturing.  Obviously, we’ve already made an announcement about the
number of doses — the 500 million we’re sharing around the world — and
we’ve already started implementing them.

I know — it sounds like there’s a lot of interest in what will be on the
agenda.  Let me see if there’s more about the agenda for the meeting
with the German Chancellor to predict.

Let me go all the way to the — go ahead, in the middle.  Go, in the
middle.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Just two quick questions.  First, on voting rights:
Is the speech next week in Pennsylvania — is it like a one-off speech or
is the President going to, sort of, consistently start to deliver
speeches and have events publicly on this issue?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, he just had a meeting with civil rights leaders
yesterday.  And we provided a readout of that.  So, I can’t predict for
you what the schedule will look like beyond next Tuesday, but this is an
opportunity to go to the birthplace of democracy to make the case for
the moral imperative of making voting more accessible to people across
the country.

Q    And just quickly on — it’s been several months since Neera Tanden
was withdrawn as the nominee to lead OMB.  Is there an update on the
timeline for when the President might nominate a full-time nominee to
lead that department?

MS. PSAKI:  There — I do not have a timeline update for you.

Go ahead.

Q    Yes, thanks, Jen.  As you probably have noticed, gas prices are up
considerably right now all across the U.S.  The average price of
gasoline is $3.14.  In fact, gas prices are up 40 percent since the very
beginning of the year.  What is your message to motorists out there in
the country that are concerned about how much it costs to get to work
every day, how it’s really impacting their family budgets?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I would say that gas prices do historically
rise in the summer, and that’s particularly true even in moments like
this where there’s a spike in people traveling.  And even more people
are hitting the road now because of our success in defeating the
pandemic. 

So, in the last 10 years pre-pandemic, for example, the average price of
gas in July is nearly 30 cents higher than it is in January.  And any
prices are higher now than they were last year because Americans are
finally able to travel. 

I just thought that context was important as it relates, but the
President is quite focused on ensuring that we are doing everything we
can to keep prices low for the — to keep the cost of living low for the
American people, including the cost of gas.  That’s why he was against —
vehemently against a gas tax; why he was against a vehicle mileage tax. 

We are not a member — a party of OPEC, as you know.  We are engaged with
a number of countries, in part because we want to ensure that we are
remaining abreast of what is happening in those discussions as well,
because that will have an impact.

But his direct message to the American people is that he is going to
work — just as he worked to get the virus under control, he’s going to —
and to create jobs — he’s going to work to ensure we are doing
everything we can to keep the gas price low.

Q    Will releasing oil from the SPR have any impact?  Is that a
consideration of the administration?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything to predict on that front. 

Q    Thank you.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure, go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  As a candidate, President Biden said — and I’m
quoting — quote, “I have never spoken to my son about his overseas
business dealings.”  But recently, photographs and documents have called
that into question.  

In 2015, President Biden, as Vice President, met at Cafe Milano with his
son’s Ukrainian, Russian, and Kazakhstani business associates one day
before a Burisma executive thanked the First Son for the opportunity to
meet his father. 

And also, in 2015, as Vice President, the President hosted at the Naval
Observatory Mexican business associates of Hunter Biden before Hunter
Biden emailed these associates from Air Force Two the next year, going
to Mexico. 

So I have kind of a two-part question.  Was President Biden indeed
unaware that his son was pursuing business opportunities with these
people he met?  And also, according to recent reporting, the First Son
still has a stake in a Chinese investment company.  When is he going to
unload that?

MS. PSAKI:  On the last part: He’s working to unload that.  I’d point
you to his representatives.  The President does not discuss business
dealings with family members.  And otherwise, I’m not going to respond
to Rudy Giuliani’s lawyer.

Go ahead, in the back.  Go ahead.  Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  I wanted to ask you about the executive order that
the President is going to sign on competition.  Most of that executive
order, to me, looks like it would be done through regulation at the
agencies —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — and in directing a whole bunch of different rulemaking.  Can you
talk about — so, the office inside OMB that handles regulations still
has no director — or administrator, I believe, is the title.  Can you
talk about how the coordination is going to go to get this all out the
door and make sure that it’s — I mean, cross the T’s and dot the i’s
without someone in that job that would traditionally do that? 

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, first, I would say that OMB has — is one of the
agencies in the federal government that is also staffed by talented men
and women from the Career Service, and they can help make sure we are
continuing to function and implement government actions, and that
continues to be the case in this regard.

As you noted, the order includes several actions that agencies would
take, which — those actions would be implemented within agencies; even
independent agencies, of course, will make their own decisions.  So this
order is encouraging independent agencies to take certain actions, even
as they make those decisions.

But the federal government is designed in a way so that we can function
from administration to administration, even as individuals need to be
nominated and confirmed.  And that is certainly the case in this regard
as well. 

All right, let’s see.  Go ahead.  Go ahead, Nikki.  Go ahead.

Q    Oh, thanks.  So, since Tampa won the Stanley Cup, what is President
Biden —

MS. PSAKI:  All right, that wasn’t on my bingo card today, but that’s
fine.

Q    A fun little segue. 

MS. PSAKI:  Yep.

Q    What is President Biden receiving from Prime Minister Trudeau? 
Because I know that there’s a bet out there. 

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    And then, when are we going to see the Lightning or other, sort of,
bigger events start happening again at the White House?

MS. PSAKI:  Soon.  We’ve already started to have events.  As you all
know, we’ve had some over the course of the last few weeks.  We’ve
already welcomed one sports team here to the White House, and there will
be more to come. 

I don’t have a prediction of the timeline, but we are starting to
schedule and plan those events for the coming months.

Q    And do you know the winnings?  Like what is the President getting
from the Prime Minister? 

MS. PSAKI:  (Laughs.)  I don’t have an update on that specifically, but
we can see if there’s more detail to share.

Why don’t we go all the way in the back.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Can you give us an update on the nuclear talks in
Vienna?  Will we have a seventh round of talks? 

MS. PSAKI:  Sorry, I didn’t hear the last part. 

Q    Nuclear talks in Vienna.

MS. PSAKI:  Yes.

Q    Nuclear talks.  Will we have a seventh round of talks?

MS. PSAKI:  That is certainly the intention, but I don’t have any update
on the timeline of those.

Go ahead, next to you.

Q    Thank you very much, Jen.  On China: Is the White House planning to
hold another phone call with Chinese leader Xi?  At the G20 Summit in
October, is President Biden willing to hold a summit with Xi, on the
sidelines?

MS. PSAKI:  I know the G20 summit is coming up right around Halloween,
but that is quite some time from now in terms of the planning and what
other events may or may not be around it. 

Certainly, we are in touch, at a very high level, with Chinese leaders. 
In terms of an upcoming call with President Xi, I don’t have anything to
predict on that front. 

Why don’t we go all the way — I’m just trying to get all the way to the
back because I’m not great at doing that.  Go all the way in the — yeah,
go ahead.  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  On the competition policy executive order, are
there any additional steps that have already been taken, like at the
interagency level, so that we’re going to see a proposed rule from the
Department of Transportation on airline fees or something —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — next Tuesday?  How much of this is sort of pre-staged versus
starting at the beginning of the process? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, where appropriate, with agencies that — of course, not
independent agencies that we’ve been working closely with — we have been
working with them to develop policies and do that in alignment. 

The timing of proposed rules, I would point you to each agency. 
Obviously, as you know, that takes some time depending on the
complication of the role.  But we developed this through an interagency
process, where appropriate, and there is, of course, broad support for
the competition agenda in the administration.

Q    Can I also just also ask: Because there was another — the
Bipartisan Policy Center had a report the other day on the debt limit. 
Treasury has been unclear on when exactly the “X date” will arrive.  Is
the President going to be pushing Congress to raise the debt limit or
suspend it again before they leave for the August recess in the early
August?

MS. PSAKI:  I think the President certainly expects that Congress will
take steps, as they have three times during the prior administration, to
raise the debt limit. 

All right, I think we have to wrap up because I think you have to —
we’re going to move to the President’s remarks.  Thank you, everyone. 
Have a wonderful weekend.

1:37 P.M. EDT
