---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-07-19'
modified_time: 2021-07-18 20:27:24-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/07/19/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-on-malicious-cyber-activity-attributable-to-the-peoples-republic-of-china/
published_time: 2021-07-19 07:00:00-04:00
title: "Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials on Malicious Cyber\
  \ Activity Attributable to the People\u2019s Republic of\_China"
---
 
6:02 P.M. EDT  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hi, everyone.  Thank you for joining us
on a Sunday evening.  So, we wanted to give you an embargoed preview of
tomorrow’s announcement by the U.S. government and our allies and
partners about the People’s Republic of China and malicious cyber
activities.  
  
This call is on background, attributable to a “senior administration
official,” and the contents will be embargoed until 7:00 a.m. Eastern,
tomorrow, Monday, July 19th.  By joining this call, you are agreeing to
these ground rules.  
  
Just for your awareness and not for reporting, joining us today is
\[senior administration official\].  With that, I’m going to turn it
over to you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you so much.  Good evening,
everyone.  And I echo \[senior administration official\]’s “thanks” for
making Sunday, this evening, a work day, and for joining us this evening
— particularly on a nice, summer day.  Really, really appreciate your
time, and I look forward to hearing your questions.  
  
So, just kicking this off: The United States has long been concerned
about the People’s Republic of China’s irresponsible and destabilizing
behavior in cyberspace.  Tomorrow, the U.S. and our allies and partners
are exposing further details of the PRC’s pattern of malicious cyber
activities and taking further action to counter it, as it poses a major
threat to the U.S. and allies’ economic and national security.   
  
The PRC’s pattern of irresponsible behavior in cyberspace is
inconsistent with its stated objective of being seen as a responsible
leader in the world.   
  
Tomorrow, countries around the world are making it clear that concerns
regarding the PRC’s malicious cyber activity is bringing them together
to call out those activities, promote network defense and cybersecurity,
and act to disrupt threats to our economies and national security. 

So, specifically, for tomorrow, three things.  First, an unprecedented
group of allies and partners — including the European Union, the United
Kingdom, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, Japan, and NATO — are joining
the United States in exposing and criticizing the PRC’s Ministry of
State Security’s malicious cyber activities.  This is the first time
NATO has condemned PRC cyber activities.   
  
We will show how the PRC’s MSS — Ministry of State Security — uses
criminal contract hackers to conduct unsanctioned cyber operations
globally, including for their own personal profit.  Their operations
include criminal activities, such as cyber-enabled extortion,
crypto-jacking, and theft from victims around the world for financial
gain.  In some cases, we’re aware of reports that PRC
government-affiliated cyber operators have conducted ransomware
operations against private companies that have included ransom demands
of millions of dollars. 

Second, the National Security Agency, Cybersecurity and Infrastructure
Security Agency, and Federal Bureau of Investigation — NSA, CISA, and
FBI — will expose over 50 tactics, techniques, and procedures Chinese
state-sponsored cyber actors used when targeting U.S. and allied
networks, along with advice for technical mitigations to confront this
threat.   
Third, the United States government, alongside our allies and partners,
will formally attribute the malicious cyber campaign utilizing the
zero-day vulnerabilities in the Microsoft Exchange Server disclosed in
March — a number of months ago — to malicious cyber actors affiliated
with the MSS with high confidence.   
  
We’ve raised our concerns about both the Microsoft incident and the
PRC’s broader malicious cyber activity with senior PRC government
officials, making clear that the PRC’s actions threaten security,
confidence, and stability in cyberspace.  The U.S. and our allies and
partners are not ruling out further actions to hold the PRC
accountable.   
  
No one action can change China’s behavior in cyberspace and neither can
just one country acting on its own.  Our allies and partners are a
tremendous source of strength and a unique American advantage, and our
collective approach to cyber threat information sharing, defense.  
  
Hence, these efforts — our cooperation with the EU, NATO, and the Five
Eyes countries in this effort — will allow us to enhance and increase
information sharing, including cyber threat intel and network defense
information with public and private stakeholders, and expand diplomatic
engagement to strengthen our collective cyber resilience and security
cooperation.   
  
Moreover, tomorrow’s actions are an example of how we continue to build
on the progress made from the President’s first foreign trip.  From the
G7 and EU commitments around ransomware, to NATO adopting a new cyber
defense policy for the first time in seven years, we’re putting forward
a common cyber approach with our allies and laying down clear
expectations on how responsible nations behave in cyberspace.

And now let me just take a few minutes to talk about how the Biden
administration continues to mitigate the impact of PRC’s malicious cyber
activities and implement an ambitious plan to modernize U.S.
cybersecurity defenses.   
  
In order to protect the American people and interests, the U.S.
government announced in April that it conducted cyber operations and
pursued proactive network defense actions to prevent systems compromised
through the Exchange Server vulnerabilities from being used for
ransomware attacks or other malicious purposes.   
  
The U.S. government also announced previously that we identified
additional vulnerabilities in the Microsoft Exchange Server software and
immediately shared them with the company to facilitate the development
and release of patches to minimize systemic risk.  The contrast between
Chinese and U.S. behavior in this case is notable.  
  
The United States announced and operated under a new model for cyber
incident response by including private-sector entities in our Cyber
Unified Coordination Group — the whole-of-government coordination group,
run from the White House, established in response to a significant cyber
incident — resulting in increased visibility and stronger public-private
collaboration.    
  
We continue to work with likeminded partners and allies to incentivize
technological advancement, deploy trustworthy technologies, like open
standards based secure 5G.   
  
The Biden administration is committed to promoting an open,
interoperable, reliable, and secure Internet that reflects our values of
respect for privacy and civil liberties.   
  
And as you all know, we’re working around the clock to modernize federal
networks and improve the nation’s cybersecurity, including of critical
infrastructure.  
  
The administration has funded five cybersecurity modernization efforts
across the federal government to modernize network defenses to meet the
threat.  These include state-of-the-art endpoint security, improving
logging practices, moving to a secure cloud environment, upgrading
security operations centers, and deploying multi-factor authentication
and encryption technologies.  The latter could be deployed fully within
six months.  
  
You will note, once you see the NSA, CISA, and FBI product, how many of
the Chinese tactics, techniques, and procedures are addressed with these
five cybersecurity modernization efforts.  
  
The administration is implementing President Biden’s executive order to
improve the nation’s cybersecurity and protect federal government
networks.  
  
As you know, the EO contains aggressive but achievable implementation
milestones, and, to date, we have met every milestone on time.  And I
want to highlight four that are particularly meaningful to enduring
cybersecurity improvements across both government and private sector
systems, and highlight the partnerships we’re building with the private
sector.  
  
First, NIST, of the Department of Commerce, convened a workshop with
almost 1,000 participants from industry, academia, and government to get
input on best practices for building secure software.  And then, using
that input, NIST issued guidelines for the minimum standards that should
be used by vendors to test the security of their software.  
  
This shows how we’re leveraging federal procurement to improve the
security of software not only used by the federal government but used by
companies, state and local governments, and individuals.  
  
Third, NTIA, also of Commerce, published minimum elements for a Software
Bill of Materials — a first and core step to improve transparency of
software used by the American public.   
  
And finally, DHS’s CISA established a framework to govern how federal
civilian agencies can securely use cloud services.  
  
We continue to work closely with the private sector to address
cybersecurity vulnerabilities of critical infrastructure.  The
administration announced an Industrial Control System Cybersecurity
Initiative, as you all know, in April, and launched the Electricity
Subsector Action Plan as a pilot.  
  
Using this pilot — under this pilot, we have already seen over 145 of
255 priority electricity entities that the Department of Energy and DHS
identified that service over 76 million American customers adopt ICS
cybersecurity technologies to date, and the number keeps growing.   
  
We’re going to follow this pilot with efforts — similar pilots for
pipelines, water, and chemical because they all face the same threat and
they all have similar gaps in cybersecurity technology rollout.  
  
Next, the Transportation Security Administration issued Security
Directive 1 to require critical pipeline owners and operators to adhere
to cybersecurity standards.  
  
So, recapping: By exposing the PRC’s malicious activity with allies and
partners, we’re continuing the administration’s efforts to inform and
empower system owners and operators to act at home and around the
world.  
  
And we call on private sector companies to follow the federal
government’s lead and take ambitious measures to augment and align
cybersecurity investments with the goal of minimizing future
incidents.  
  
And, with that, again, thanks so much for your time, and I look forward
to your questions.   
  
Q    Hey, \[senior administration official\], thanks for dropping all
this on a Sunday night.  (Laughs.)  Can you tell me a lot more about
this MSS-affiliated ransomware attack?  Is it a ransomware group that we
may be familiar with the name?  Did they attack an American target?  Any
other details?  When did it happen?  Has it been prolific?  We’re just
so used to it being Russian and Eastern European groups.   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  So, first, Kevin, I appreciated
the sardonic nature of your comment.  I do have to smile; we’ve worked —
you know, the team has been working this, especially with other
countries to gain their — to join our attribution for a number of
months, and now we drop it on a Sunday evening.  So, thank you so much
and appreciated the comment.  We’ll try to do better in the future.  
  
With regard to the ransomware activity, that is indeed the case.  This
was surprising to us.  And in fact, one of the reasons that we’ve put so
much work into this attribution is because it really gave us new
insights on the MSS’s work and on the kind of aggressive behavior that
we’re seeing coming out of China.   
  
I can’t speak to further details of the ransomware <s>attack</s>
\[attacks\], but it literally was what we think about with ransomware: a
ransom request — a large ransom request made to an American company. 
And really raised concerns for us with regard to the behavior and,
frankly, as I noted, with regard to the fact that, you know, individuals
affiliated with the MSS conducted it.  
  
Q    Hey there.  Have you confronted China with this information?  And
what was their response?  And what type of punishment are you talking
about doing here?   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you.  So, the U.S. government has
raised its concerns about both this incident and China’s broader
malicious cyber activity with senior Chinese government officials — you
know, making clear that these actions threaten security, confidence, and
stability in cyberspace.  And in fact, this message is sending an
additional strong, united message of accountability to China.   
  
The first important piece is the publicly calling out the pattern of
irresponsible malicious cyber activity, and doing it with allies and
partners.  I noted that this was NATO’s first public attribution to
China of this kind of malicious cyber activity.  So, we think we’re at
that first important stage of bringing awareness and buy-in to this
attribution, and focusing us together on our collective security
efforts, promoting network defense, and other actions needed to disrupt
these threats.   
  
Q    Hi, \[senior administration official\].  Thank you so much for
doing this.  I wanted to ask you about the attribution of the Microsoft
Exchange hack.  There was some thought that perhaps that could have come
earlier than this evening.  And I’m wondering if there’s any sort of
explanation as to whether there was a complicating factor that made this
a process that took, sort of, longer than other attributions that the
administration has made so far.  Thank you.   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, Eric.  Good question, and it’s
a fair one.  Two parts: One is, there was really new attributes in the
Microsoft Exchange hack in the breadth of compromises — tens of
thousands of systems around the world; in the MSS itself; in the fact
that we were also attributing, as I noted, the ransomware and for-profit
funds by individuals on the MSS payroll — that, really, we wanted to
have, you know, high confidence in that assessment.   
  
Second, we really wanted to combine it with network (inaudible)
information — malware signatures, other indicators of compromise.  And
what’s particularly cool, we will see in tomorrow’s CISA, NSA, and FBI
releases is it also includes a JSON file to really allow entities to
visualize the compromises as well, to really make it more than just flat
text.  
  
And then — I think, most importantly — we worked with allies and
partners around the world to share the details of the attribution,
because there were victims globally around the world from this activity,
and to really gain and invite them to join us on the attribution, on the
network defense — collective defense partnership, which we felt was
really critical to conveying our criticism and our concerns about the
irresponsible malicious cyber activities coming out of China.   
  
Q    Thank you.  And thanks so much, \[senior administration official\],
for doing this.  I’m wondering if you can tell us a little bit more
about what this announcement will look like tomorrow.  Are we going to
see press conferences on the part of these various countries or simply
coordinated statements all coming out at the same time?  
  
And then can you tell us how the tactics and goals of these Chinese
actors differ from what you see coming out of Russian cyber-hacking
attempts?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you.  Really good question.  So,
in the morning, you’ll see the EU release; you’ll see the NATO release. 
You will see us release a White House factsheet that describes this
further, and then some potential further related releases coming out
tomorrow morning.   
  
And then, with regard to your second question about how is it different
— really good question.  It was one that I think Kevin was inferring a
bit earlier.  First, showing how the MSS is using criminal contract
hackers to conduct unsanctioned cyber operations globally, including for
their own personal profit.  Now, that’s — that’s very significant. 
Showing the cyber-enabled extortion, crypto-jacking — again, all for
financial gain of PRC-government-affiliated cyber operators — is
significant.   
  
On the Russian side, to your point, we sometimes see individuals
moonlighting.  And we see, you know, some connections between Russian
intelligence services and individuals.  But this kind of — the MSS use
of criminal contract hackers to conduct unsanctioned cyber operations
globally is distinct.  
  
Q    Hi, thanks again for doing this and setting up the call.  Yeah,
just a couple clarifying points.  So, is the information coming out
tomorrow going to specifically blame the Microsoft Exchange Server
attack on these MSS-affiliated hackers?   
  
And, in terms of — you said a couple times now these are, sort of,
criminal contract hackers.  Can you give us — is there any sort of a
better sense about the direct knowledge or insight from the Chinese
government, from the PRC into what was actually going on here in terms
of was this a freelancing operation, was this on the side, versus
something that the government was actually aware of and, in some ways,
you know, actually did okay.  
  
And then, separately from that, I think a lot of folks have wondered why
Russia was hit with such a strong penalty following SolarWinds and some
other malign cyber activity.  And this appears to be really just a
naming and shaming rather than any sort of punitive steps being taken. 
Can you sort of just explain a little bit further why there seems to be
that difference, especially given how reckless it appears this operation
was?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, Dustin.  Appreciate the
question.  So, first, tomorrow, the U.S. government, along with our
allies and partners, will be formally attributing the Microsoft Exchange
campaign, which utilized the — the malicious (inaudible) which utilized
the zero-day vulnerabilities in Exchange to malicious cyber actors
affiliated with the MSS with high confidence.  So, yes.   
  
And MSS is using, knowledgeably, criminal contract hackers to conduct
unsanctioned cyber operations globally.  So, yes, that is very much with
the Ministry of State Security’s knowledge.   
  
And then to your point about SolarWinds and the — really the distinction
between the U.S. approach on SolarWinds with Russia, and with regard to
here: So, we’ve made clear that we’ll continue to take actions to
protect the American people from malicious cyber activity, no matter
who’s responsible.  And we’re not ruling out further actions to hold the
PRC accountable.   
  
We’re also aware that no one action can change the PRC’s behavior, and
neither can one country acting on its own.  So we really focused
initially in bringing other countries along with us.  And this is really
an unprecedented group of allies and partners holding China
accountable.  I mentioned it’s the first time NATO has condemned PRC
cyber activities.   
  
So we’re really — we felt like the core takeaway here is that we’re
making it clear to China that for as long as these irresponsible,
malicious cyber activities continue, it will unite countries around the
world who are all victims to call them out, promote network defense and
cybersecurity working together in that way.   
  
And I think the final piece — and I think you’ve heard me say this many
times before, Dustin — there’s an “us and them” aspect.  And I think
it’s very important that we focus sometimes on the “us” — that we ensure
cybersecurity and resiliency at home.   
  
We’re putting a huge amount of work into an ambitious
whole-of-government, whole-of-nation, and international plan to
modernize U.S. cybersecurity defenses.  We have the EU, NATO, and the
Five Eyes joining us to increase information sharing, increasing cyber
threat intelligence — things like the international coalition we’re
building on ransomware; and really expanding that diplomatic engagement
to strengthen our collective cyber resilience.   
  
So we view that — the gaining the buy-in, the working together on
collective defense — as really key to defending ourselves from the PRC’s
malicious cyber activity and continuing to hold them accountable.   
  
Q    Thank you.  And thank you for doing this on a Sunday night.  I just
wanted to follow up on our conversation from last week.  You did not
want to really get into REvil and where they had gone.  But you did
indicate that that it is beneficial to often talk about operations that
are carried out.  So I was wondering if you could tell us what more you
know about why they have disappeared and any possible role by the U.S.
or Russia?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Absolutely.  So, Alex, you’re using
every opportunity, huh?  Okay.   
  
So, first, we are watching — I think, as many of you are — some of what
we’re seeing in tracking channels that demonstrate that, you know, at
least from looking at the open source information, the REvil’s
spokesperson’s account may have been banned from Russian hacking
channels.  And we continue to see that REvil infrastructure remains
down.   
  
We think that’s a very positive thing.  This is a group that has brought
tremendous negative impact to victims around the world.   
  
We’ve continued to convey to the Russian government that we hold Russia
accountable for activities occurring out of — by criminals operating out
of Russia.  And we continue to look for continued progress — clearly,
not only in infrastructure being down, but in the more enduring way, in
criminals who do these activities being brought to justice as well.   
  
So it’s probably not a satisfying answer.  It’s — as you’ve heard, you
know, \[senior administration official\] and others say multiple times —
we’re not going to turn off this activity like the light switch.   
  
We know this will — it didn’t begin in a week or month; it’s been —
increased tremendously over the last number of years.  And we have our
four-part counter-ransomware strategy — which you all know — from
resilience, to focusing on cryptocurrencies, to working with countries
around the world to build a coalition to hold Russia and other countries
accountable, to really focusing on disrupting actor’s infrastructure,
and funding payments.   
  
So within that four-part strategy, we view this as a very hopeful
progress and steps.  And we’re watching closely for continued
developments in those areas.   
  
Q    Hi, thanks.  Yeah, I’m curious if you could say anything about the
other aspects of the activity that you’re attributing.  You talked about
Exchange, you talked about that particular ransomware example that you
saw.  But anything surprising and in the broader, you know, series of,
you know, the mosaic of campaigns that you’re attributing here?  
  
And then, second, did any countries that you shared this information
with as part of, you know, rounding up other allies to join the
attribution, did any of them decline to join?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  That’s a good question, Eric.  So,
first, anything surprising — I was actually — I think what we saw really
surprising and new here was the use of criminal contract hackers, as I
said, to conduct this unsanctioned cyber operation and the — really, the
criminal activity for financial gain.  That was really eye-opening and
surprising for us.   
  
I think the second thing we would say is, you know, the scope and scale
of the compromises using the Microsoft Exchange zero-day vulnerability —
tens of thousands of computers around the world.  That was really of
real significance and was very eye-opening to us as well.   
  
And then finally, you asked the second question with regard to countries
who turned us down — you know, we’re expecting additional countries in
the coming weeks.  So, as of yet, you know, we’re really excited about
the breadth of this attribution, the first time for NATO, the really
global nature — you see the Five Eyes, you see Japan, you see European
countries.   
  
So that’s really significant.  And I think it highlights just the number
of victims of Chinese malicious cyber activity and the degree to which
countries increasingly recognize that there’s power in collective
defense and that working together will be just far more effective in
countering this activity.   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you.  Thanks, everyone, again,
for joining us today.  Just as a reminder, this call is embargoed until
tomorrow, 7:00 a.m., Monday, July 19th.  It’s attributable to “senior
administration officials.”   
  
I’m sorry if you didn’t get to your question.  But if you do have
further questions, please feel free to reach out to me over email or
phone.   
  
Again, thanks for your time and have a good rest of your Sunday.   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I just echo \[senior administration
official\]’s thanks to you all.  And have a good rest of the Sunday. 
And thanks, as always, for just the partnership on informing the broader
American people about cyber.  We really appreciate it.  Good night.  
  
6:27 P.M. EDT
