---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-07-15'
modified_time: 2021-07-14 22:59:35-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/07/15/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-on-the-official-working-visit-of-chancellor-merkel-of-germany/
published_time: 2021-07-15 05:00:00-04:00
title: Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials on the Official Working
  Visit of Chancellor Merkel of Germany
---
 
Via Teleconference

(July 14, 2021)

2:53 P.M. EDT

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you.  Hi, everyone, and thanks
for joining this afternoon.  Today’s call will be embargoed until 5:00
a.m. tomorrow, July 15, and the contents will be attributed to a “senior
administration official.”  With that, I will turn it over to our
speaker, \[senior administration official\].  Over to you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, \[senior administration
official\].  And hi, everybody.  Thanks for joining this afternoon. 

Tomorrow, as you know, German Chancellor Angela Merkel will be at the
White House for an official working visit, which we very much see as one
that will affirm the deep and enduring bilateral ties between our two
countries.  This is very much a forward-looking visit which will address
our robust partnership on shared global challenges.  And as we look
forward, we’ll be looking for ways to continue strengthening cooperation
between our countries in the months and years ahead. 

It’s also fair to say that, over the course of her long and
distinguished tenure, Chancellor Merkel has been a true friend to the
United States, a strong advocate for the transatlantic partnership, for
multilateral cooperation, as well as for our shared priorities.  In
their meeting, I expect that President Biden will convey gratitude for
her leadership role in Europe and around the world as she prepares to
depart the German political stage following their elections this
September.

In terms of the schedule: In the morning, Vice President Harris will
host Chancellor Angela Merkel for a working breakfast at the Vice
President’s Residence.  Then in the afternoon at the White House, the
President and Chancellor Merkel will have a one-on-one meeting, an
expanded bilateral meeting, followed by a press conference.

And in the evening, President Biden will host Chancellor Merkel for a
small dinner with a range of individuals who have long been strong
supporters of Germany and the bilateral relationship, which will further
demonstrate the close and continuing ties between our countries.

In terms of what is on the agenda in their bilateral meeting, as I said,
this is very much a working visit and we expect them to discuss the full
range of policy issues in our bilateral relationship. 

They’ll address the threat of climate change, including the need for
progress between the Leaders’ Meeting this spring and COP26 in Glasgow
this fall. 

I expect them to discuss the COVID-19 pandemic, including their shared
desire to provide access to vaccines around the world, and to shore up
global health security. 

I expect that they will discuss the full range of shared security
challenges, including Afghanistan, Libya, and the Sahel.

I expect the leaders also will discuss shared ways to respond to
regional challenges, including addressing Russian cyberattacks and
territorial aggression; countering China’s rising influence, non-market
economic practices, and human rights abuses, including forced labor;
support for Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, and also
bolstering the Euro-Atlantic aspirations of the Western Balkan
countries.

And then, finally, their commitment to shoring up democracy at home and
defending human rights, democratic institutions, and the rule of law
around the world.

To make a few general points on the bilateral relationship, Germany is
one of our staunchest allies.  That relationship has long been built on
shared values of freedom, democracy, human rights, and rule of law. 
There is also extensive cultural and economic ties between our
countries.

As I think you all know, the Biden administration has an overarching
goal of revitalizing the transatlantic relationship, which includes
increasing cooperation with NATO and raising the level of ambition with
the EU — two goals that I think the President was able to make good
progress on during his trip to Europe last month, where, of course, he
had the opportunity to engage with Chancellor Merkel on the margins of
the G7 in Cornwall, as well as their shared participation in the NATO
Summit.  And our relationship with Germany, of course, is a very
important foundation for all of that.

On the economic side: Germany is our largest trading partner in Europe,
and the U.S. is Germany’s largest export market.  We’re also a major
source of foreign investment in each other’s economies. 

On the security side, the U.S. cooperates closely with Germany in NATO
to ensure the prosperity and security of citizens on both sides of the
Atlantic.  Germany has approximately 36,000 active duty U.S. service
members, with President Biden announcing earlier this year the
additional deployment of 500 troops, as well as halting the planned
withdrawal by the previous administration of U.S. forces from Germany. 

Germany is also an essential hub for training, operations, and logistics
for U.S. and Allied forces operating in Europe, Africa, and the Middle
East.  Our troops served together, of course, in Afghanistan for nearly
two decades.  We also cooperate in the counter-ISIS campaign, with both
U.S. and German troops on the ground in Iraq as part of the NATO
training mission.

And as I mentioned earlier, we also, of course, have close cultural and
people-to-people ties.

Finally, I want to touch briefly on the deliverables that you can expect
to see coming out on Thursday: We’re expecting the two leaders to
release the Washington Declaration, which will outline their common
vision for cooperation to confront policy challenges. 

So this document is likely to lay out the broad principles and values
that are shaping our relationship and that we believe are going to be
guiding principles for the relationship in the months and years ahead as
we continue to confront the shared challenges that we both face in terms
of our shared commitment to democratic principles, values, and
institutions, and human rights; common dedication to upholding the
international rules-based order and an open world without spheres of
influence; our joint efforts to build strong and equitable market
economies that cultivate resilience and demonstrate that democratic
leadership delivers for the world; and, of course, the importance of
transatlantic cooperation.

We’re also working on developing other initiatives that will solidify
areas of our bilateral relationship that we can continue to strengthen
and develop in the years ahead, including a Futures Forum, which will
bring together Germans and Americans from a wide range of sectors to be
able to analyze and propose solutions to global problems going forward. 

Our two governments will also look at developing an economic dialogue to
further strengthen this part of our bilateral relationship, and we’ll
also look at launching a climate and energy partnership, which will
enable us to work together to address climate change, transformational
energy technologies, and support for energy transitions in emerging
economies. 

So, looking very much forward to the Chancellor being here tomorrow,
expect a very robust discussion between the two leaders on the full
range of policy priorities, and are looking forward to releasing and
announcing deliverables that are very much focused on strengthening and
continuing to deepen the bilateral ties between our countries as well as
our peoples.

So, let me stop there and take some questions.

Q    Hi.  Hi, \[senior administration official\].  Everyone, thanks for
doing this call.  I’m going to try to squeeze in two if it’s possible. 
First, on Nord Stream: Do you anticipate any breakthroughs with
Chancellor Merkel or her team on the Nord Stream issue?  And if not,
could we anticipate any consequences with regard to the Biden
administration’s position on that?  Or does the administration sort of
bite its tongue, for lack of a better expression, and wait to work with
Merkel’s successor and pick up these discussions?  So if you could talk
about how that will work.

And then, if I could just throw in a really Wall Street Journal-ly
question: The U.S. Commerce Department, last week, released a redacted
report regarding the Trump administration’s auto tariffs, and this was
something that made Germany very, very nervous.  We don’t have a lot of
information on that, and I’m wondering if that issue is going to come up
and whether or not auto tariffs are even remotely on the table with this
administration.  Anything you can give us on that would be awesome. 
Thank you so much.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, to take your second question first,
I’m not personally tracking the Commerce report, so would defer on that
to my press colleagues if there’s anything they want to follow up and
share on, on that specific issue.

On the Nord Stream issue, as you know, we’ve been engaging for a while
now with the German government at multiple levels on our concerns about
Nord Stream 2.  This has included engagement by National Security
Advisor Jake Sullivan, by the Secretary of State in their conversations
with the German government. 

I do expect that President Biden will raise his longstanding concerns
with Chancellor Merkel during their meeting about Russia’s geopolitical
project and about the importance of developing concrete mechanisms to
ensure that energy is not used as a coercive tool against Ukraine, our
Eastern Flank allies, or any other country. 

We believe that the sanctions waivers that we announced in May have
given us diplomatic space to be able to work with Germany, to have these
conversations, to try and find ways to address the negative impacts of
the pipeline.  Our teams have been discussing these concerns.  I expect
that they will continue discussing these concerns. 

We are not anticipating any sort of formal announcement or deliverable
coming out of the leaders’ meetings tomorrow on Nord Stream.  But like I
said, the teams have been having very productive conversations on this
set of issues and expect that those will continue.

Q    Hi, \[senior administration officials\].  Thank you so much for
doing this call.  I wanted to, I guess, ask you on — just a quick
follow-up on Nord Stream, and then I have another question.

On Nord Stream, German officials have said they expect this to be
resolved in August.  You know, there have been some hints that it could
come sooner than that.  Can you — since we’re on background here, can
you — or maybe even just off the record — can you say why you weren’t
able to figure this out before this visit?  It seems like, you know,
that that’s usually a big goal.

And then I have a separate question.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Go ahead with your separate question.

Q    Okay.  So the second question has to do with another point of
contention, which is the German position on the WTO waiver.  There have
been protests, balloons, big banners all over D.C.  There’s been
protests in other cities.  Do you — I know that the President is a
strong proponent of the waiver, but do you anticipate this factoring
into the discussion?  Or do you think it will just be the, sort of,
like, “We agree to disagree, and let’s focus on the things we have in
common”?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sorry, I missed a part of what you
said.  I heard the balloons and the banners and the waiver.  Which —
which specific waiver?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  The WTO waiver for intellectual
property — right? — that is being considered at the WTO. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Okay.  Sorry, is this the — sorry, the
TRIPS waiver or is this a different —

Q    Yeah.  Yeah, yeah.  TRIPS waiver.

(Cross-talk.)

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Lots of — lots of protests, so I just
wanted to ensure I was — I was tracking the right question.

Look, I, you know — I take your point on the Nord Stream discussions.  I
mean, like I said, our teams have been having very robust conversations
on this.  You know, I think there’s –there’s a lot of aspects that we
want to work through.  There’s things that we want to discuss in terms
of the energy components of this, the impact that it has potentially on
Eastern Flank allies, on Ukraine, and really believe that that the
waivers that we were able to use in in this case have provided the space
for this. 

And so I wouldn’t read too much into the timing of this.  I think it’s
something that we’ve continued to have good discussions on.  I think
you’re — you know, the August timeframe I think people are tracking on
is when the next report by the State Department is due to Congress.  But
I think we’re not anticipating having anything to announce that at this
visit in particular, but do believe that we are having very productive
conversations with the German government.  And we’ll continue having
those conversations with them in the days ahead.

On the TRIPS waiver, you know, I think the President has been very clear
about his position on a waiver.  He supports it, given the extraordinary
circumstances that call for extraordinary measures.  And we’re
encouraged that our announcement in May has encouraged other countries
to be able to put additional proposals and ideas on the table. 

I think, at the same time, we know that a waiver alone won’t result in
the scale and the speed that we need to make enough vaccines to end the
pandemic.  And that’s why we’re continuing to ramp up our own efforts,
including with the private sector, to expand vaccine manufacturing and
distribution around the world.

And I think that this broad goal is very much one that President Biden
and Chancellor Merkel share in terms of their joint commitment to COVAX,
the contributions that the United States, that Germany, the EU, and
other countries made at the G7  — and do expect that they will continue
to have conversations about how we can ensure the widest distribution of
vaccines on a very rapid timeframe to a number of countries around the
world as the best and most effective way of ultimately ending the
pandemic.

Q    Thank you.  Another Nord Stream-related question: After tomorrow,
President Biden will have met with the main Nord Stream 2 proponents —
President Putin and Chancellor Merkel — but not with the main opponents
— President Zelensky of Ukraine.  I was just wondering, what is the
thinking on sequencing and not meeting with Zelensky first?  And
Zelensky (inaudible) his White House meeting would be taking place in
July after the invitation was extended.  Is that meeting still planned
to happen in July?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I — so thank you for the question.  You
know, I think there has been a lot of engagement at different levels of
the U.S. government not only with Germany, but also with Ukraine.  The
President did have a phone call with President Zelensky right before his
trip to Europe before he met with President Putin.  They were able to
discuss the situation of Russia’s continued aggression against Ukraine,
also an opportunity to discuss Nord Stream and some of those broader
issues.

So the President did actually have conversations with Zelensky before he
went to Europe, before he saw Merkel on the margins of the G7, and
before he met with President Putin there as well.  When — and Chancellor
Merkel, it’s worth flagging, has also been engaging with President
Zelensky who was in Berlin earlier this week.  And so we very much
support the conversations that the Germans and the Ukrainians are having
directly about Ukraine’s concerns about Nord Stream and stuff that the
Germans might be prepared to take in response to that.

When the President spoke with President Zelensky earlier this summer, he
invited him to visit Washington this summer.  We never specified what
month that was going to take place and are still anticipating a visit by
President Zelensky to the White House this summer, but don’t have a date
to announce at this time.

Q    Hey.  Hello, thank you for doing this.  So I have question —
earlier you said the meeting is going to also talk about the challenges
coming out from China.  And China remains to be Germany’s biggest trade
partner in 2020.  I know Biden administration has, you know, proposed
about the supply chain (inaudible) by forced labor, human rights abuse,
protect intellectual property.  However, with that such big amount of
trade partnership between China and Germany, how can President Biden
convince Chancellor Merkel to work with the United States to face the
challenge from China?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I thank you very much for the
question.  I — like I said, I think China very much is going to be part
of the agenda between the two leaders tomorrow.

It’s frankly been something that we have been actively discussing with
our European allies over the first six months of the administration. 
And I think we really saw the fruits of that diplomatic engagement
during the President’s trip to Europe last month, where there was signs
of increasing convergence among our allies in — and partners at the G7.
 

For example, President Biden, Chancellor Merkel agreed with other
leaders on the importance of responding to China’s non-market practices,
the need to speak out against human rights abuses.  The communiqué
coming out of the G7 also addressed the need for action against forced
labor practices. 

At the NATO Summit, there was agreement, for the first time ever, on the
security challenge from China, including plans to include China in the
new strategic concepts that allies are going to be working on over the
next year. 

And then at the U.S.-EU summit, leaders launched the U.S.-EU Trade and
Technology Council, which will enable us to deal with a wide range of
issues — including emerging technologies, competition policies — and
very much expect that dealing with China’s non-market practices,
economic abuses, et cetera will be part of those conversations.

I think we’ve consistently been very clear that we need to engage China
from a position of strength, which includes our alliances and
partnerships.  And Germany, of course, is one of our closest alliances. 
And frankly, we think, to your specific question on economics, that it
actually makes economic sense for us to work together. 

The U.S.-EU trade and investment relationship is the largest in the
world.  As I noted, the U.S. and German relationship is also very
significant.  And we think that we’re going to be much more effective in
terms of harnessing the power of that transatlantic relationship, that
bilateral relationship to set the global rules of the road on issues
that we care about.

Q    Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, everyone.  That concludes our
call.  Reminder that this is on background, attributed to an “SAO.”  And
the contents of this call are embargoed until tomorrow morning at 5:00
a.m.

Have a good afternoon.

3:15 P.M. EDT
