---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-07-01'
modified_time: 2021-07-01 12:45:15-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/07/01/press-gaggle-by-principal-deputy-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-en-route-miami-fl/
published_time: 2021-07-01 12:45:14-04:00
title: "Press Gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre En Route\
  \ Miami,\_FL"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Miami, Florida

8:55 A.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, good morning.  Today in Surfside, the President
and the First Lady will receive a command briefing from Incident
Commander Mayor Daniella Levine Cava, Governor Ron DeSantis, and Unified
Command on the current status of the search-and-rescue efforts and the
federal, state, and local resources being deployed as part of the
response.  Then they will thank the heroic first responders,
search-and-rescue teams, and everyone who has been working around the
clock for their tireless work.

The President and the First Lady will meet with the families who have
been forced to endure this terrible tragedy to offer them comfort during
this unimaginable, difficult time as search-and-rescue efforts
continue. 

At the end of the day, the President will deliver remarks on the
tragedy, how he and the nation stand with the families and survivors,
and the federal government’s response efforts in coordination with our
state and local partners.

On those efforts: As of 6:00 a.m. this morning, FEMA has deployed over
60 FEMA staff to support response efforts in Sunrise, Florida.  FEMA is
also deploying an additional 400 personnel across five urban
search-and-rescue teams to assist with ongoing operation at the request
of local officials. 

Each of the — each of the urban search-and-rescue team has 80 personnel,
and all five deployed US&R teams will arrive on site and be operational
today.  Two additional urban <s>and research</s> \[search and\] rescue
teams are on standby to rapidly deploy and provide relief to the first
responders who are working tireless — tirelessly if needed. 

Last evening, FEMA awarded more than $20 million in federal funding to
the Florida Division of Emergency Management for Emergency Protective
Measures.  Given the circumstances and the unprecedented response
underway, led by the state — by state and local officials, FEMA
expedited this request for funding from the state. 

These funds will support the state and local governments’ on-going,
unbudgeted costs to conduct rescue operations.  This additional fund —
federal support from FEMA is authorized under the emergency declaration
the President approved to coordinate disaster relief efforts, reimburse
response costs, provide equipment and resources to assist with debris
removal and emergency protective measures in order to try to save lives,
and to provide temporary shelter and housing to alleviate the hardship
and suffering for those who have been displaced.

With that, Alex, you want to kick us off?

Q    Sure.   Most Florida counties don’t require condo inspections.  And
I’m wondering if the President believes that there needs to be a change
in local or federal policy to require more inspections and to prevent
future situations like this from occurring?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ll say this, the National Institute of Standards and
Technology — NIST — announced last night that they’re launching a full
investigation into what caused the partial collapse of the Champlain
Towers South building. 

So, as you know, the President supported an investigation in order to
<s>undermine</s> \[understand\] what caused the terrible tragedy and
ensure nothing like it ever happened again.  So, we look forward to
NIST’s conclusions once the investigation is complete.  And so, we’re
going to see what the investigation shows, and that will answer,
hopefully, some questions that we all have on what happened. 

Q    What’s the President’s reaction to the CFO of the Trump
Organization being indicted in New York?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, that’s — so, at this moment, I — you know, we’ve
seen the coverage, clearly, for the past 12 hours or so.  But I refer
you to the parties involved by any further — for any further comment. 
We’re not going to comment on any specific case at this time. 

And generally, this — the President, you know, believes and has made
clear that he — it’s long past due for wealthiest Americans to pay their
fair share.  And he’s announced a number of initiatives to crack down on
tax evasion by high-income individuals and big corporations.  But we
don’t have anything further to say on that.

Q    Does he think fringe benefits is a serious enough issue to justify
going after the organization of a former President?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We don’t have anything to say about — about this
particular case at all.  I refer you to the authorities that are a part
of this. 

Q    (Inaudible.)  It sounds like you’re saying — you’re not — are you
suggesting there was something improper?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I’m saying is — what I’m saying is, in general,
the President believes that the wealthiest among us should pay their
fair share.  And we see that in policies and legislation that he’s put
forward, when we talk about the American Jobs Plan, the American
Families Plan. 

So, he truly believes, as he’s — as we look at his economic policy —
that everyone should pay their fair share, especially the wealthiest
among us.  And so that’s what we’re saying.  I’m not commenting at all
on the particular investigation.  I’m just saying, in general.

Q    How do you know if he paid his fair share? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just saying this is what he believes, in general. 

Q    Karine, does the President today want to get a sense of how the
building collapsed, what factors led to the collapse?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, like I said, there’s going to be an investigation
that was announced last night.  And so, we’re going to see how that goes
and let the — let the invest- — let NI- — NIST, the experts there, do
their investigation, and we’ll see where that takes us. 

But, to just reiterate: The President’s goal today, his message today —
and the First Lady — is to go there and to give — offer up comfort to
the families, thank the first responders for their tireless effort. 
They’ve been working 24/7, around the clock, with this search-and-rescue
effort.  And so he wanted to go there to be — to thank them and also to
send a message of unity to show how state, local, and federal government
are coming together in this time, especially this time of tragedy for
the community.

Q    Is there anything he wants to hear from Governor DeSantis while
he’s there?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, as you know, he’s going to be — he’s going to be
meeting with Governor DeSantis when he lands.  They — we have been — the
President and the governor talked on the phone on Friday, and so the
White House and FEMA have been in close contact with the governor’s team
to coordinate federal assistance throughout the entire process. 

And what we’re — what the President wants to do is continue to offer
whatever assistance that we may provide.  I just listed out what we —
what FEMA announced last night — what we continue to do to help the
community, to help the state. 

And so that’s going to be the focus of today: How — what — how can we
offer up comfort?  What else can we do?  And it’s just a message of
unity to be there for the people, for the community.

Q    Just a question on the schedule.  Are we actually going to the site
of the building collapse?  Or will we be — is the President going to be
meeting with the first responders in Surfside, but not at that location?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, right now, as you can imagine, things have been —
things have been kind of moving in the last — the last couple of hours,
because we want to make sure that we don’t take away any resources and
we do this in a safe way.  So, we’ll have more updates on that for you
all later. 

But, as you know, he’s going to be meeting with the first responders. 
He’s going to be meeting with the family.  And we’ll — guys, we’ll let
you know more of what else that looks like as for the day.

Q    Speaker Pelosi was at the White House yesterday, obviously, for the
bill signing.  Did she and the President have a chance to discuss some
of the legislative strategy forward on the bipartisan bill, on the
reconciliation package?  And would he encourage her to delink those, as
he’s been asked to on several occasions by some of the Republicans?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I’ll say this: I don’t have any — any
conversation to provide to all of you that he had with — you know, any
private conversation that he had with the Speaker.  He trusts the
Speaker.  Right?  He supports the Speaker.  And she’s — she’s been a
tremendous leader and partner over these past several months.

And so, as far as the process, when it comes to the bipartisan
infrastructure framework, he leads that — he leaves that process to
Congress.  He’s going to continue to do what he did in Wisconsin, which
is talk to the American people about the important elements of that
framework.

As you know — we’ve said this over and over again — it is a historic
investment in our country and infrastructure.  And so, this is an
agreement that he’s very proud of, and he’s going to continue to talk
about it and work closely with Congress on getting it done.

Q    There were some questions yesterday about whether the elements of
the hard infrastructure that are included in the bipartisan compromise
preclude the White House from pushing for further elements of his Jobs
Plan in the reconciliation package.

Jen, yesterday, said he will continue to advocate for the full package. 
But can you be clear about whether that includes pushing for more
funding for some of these areas in the reconciliation package?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Like Jen said, he’s going to continue advocating
aggressively.  This is — you know, these are legis- — what he put forth
in his legislative priorities this year is something that he is — he is
committed to and will continue to push for them.  And he’ll do that in
the reconciliation package.   And some of the things that — you know,
that were left out of the package, including incentive rebates for
electric vehicles; clean energy tax credit; and the components of his
American Families Plan, including extension of the Child Tax Credit,
universal pre-K, ensuring community college is a real option for
millions of Americans.

So he’s going to continue pushing what he believes in is incredibly
important and that’s going to help the American people.

Q    Karine, can I ask about the timing of today’s visit?  Because you
all have spoken about the concerns about taking resources away from an
ongoing search-and-rescue effort.  So — and, I mean, the incident was
relatively recent.  So why today?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, so, you know, we have been in regular
consultation with state government and the mayor’s office since — since
early this morning.  And I know it’s like, what, eight o’clock in the
morning, right now — it’s still early — but we have.

And the message that we’ve been given is very clear from the mayor’s
office, from the governor’s office, from local official, which is, like,
they wanted us to come today.  Now is the time to come to offer up, you
know, some — offer up comfort and show unity and from — from not just
from him, but from the country. 

And so this is why he and the First Lady decided to come today.  It was
— a lot was because he was asked to come and he thought this was the
right time to do it. 

Q    When he meets with some of the families, we’re at a point now in
the timeline where those on the ground are saying we’re talking about
simply a recovery mission at this point and not a rescue mission.  Has
the President been briefed about the likelihood of survivors still being
found in the in the rubble there?  And I don’t know if you’ve had a
chance to talk to him, but how does he prepare for the conversations
that he’s going to be having with some of these families today?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, as far as that, you know, as we said, this is a
rescue-and-search mission and continues to be that.  You know, we
haven’t gotten any indication of it not being exactly that, to continue
to search and res- — to do the search and rescue, and looking for loved
ones that — that are there in — in the site.  And search-and-rescue
operations, like I said, are still going on, and we’re hoping for the
best. 

And — but we, you know, we will refer you to the officials on the ground
for anything more specific about what — what the status of what is
happening on the ground.

Q    (Inaudible) organizing those family meetings with 145, I guess,
unaccounted for.  Is it in groups?  Is it any family of anyone who’s
missing or perished?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You know, I don’t — (the interior door to the press
cabin swings open) — careful.  We’re about to lose Mike Memoli.  Oh, my
goodness.  Hold on. 

Q    Perish the thought.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  Perish the thought, indeed.

Look, we’ve been working with local officials on the ground and making
sure that we’re meeting with the families that were impacted by this.  I
don’t have any more — any more to tell them about, like, the process of
it.  But the — the important thing to remember is that the President is
coming here with the First Lady to make sure that they are offering up,
you know, their — you know, their services — their service — or service
and just comfort to the — in this — in this time of tragedy. 

And so that’s the most important thing.  This is about the community. 
This is about the people and everything that they’ve had to endure this
past — this past several days.  You know, this is an incredibly tragic
time.  And this is the President — this is a President that understands
what that means — loss means.  And so that’s going to be his focus. 

And like I said, we’ve worked closely with folks on the ground in making
sure that the families were there when he — when he was — when he —

Q    Do you have any scheduling information over the next few days — the
holiday weekend? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Say that one more time.  I’m so sorry.

Q    Scheduling information over the next few days?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything more to share.  I think we
announced that he’s going to Michigan on Saturday, and then he will be
doing the Fourth of July event with first responders and military
families on Sunday for Fourth of July.  And I don’t have any more
further to share with that, Steve.

Q    (Inaudible) said he was going to speak about voting rights issues
this week, last week.  Obviously, today came up on the schedule and that
wasn’t originally.  Is there something on the decks for next week that
we should be —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t have anything to preview, but clearly,
that is something that’s incredibly important to the President — is the
voting rights issue.  And he is going to speak to that in the upcoming
days.  And so we’ll have more to share once we have — once we have
something locked in.

Q    Karine, is the White House or HUD or any — any other agencies in
the federal government considering any other actions just to prevent
things like what happened in Surfside happening again?  Are there any
executive actions you can take, anything HUD is looking at as you guys
wait for the outcome of the investigation?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, right now, we don’t have anything else to announce
or preview.  I just listed out a bunch of efforts that FEMA is doing, on
the funding that we’ve provided for the efforts on the ground.  And once
— I think the investigation will be incredibly important to kind of
steer us and give us a sense of what could be next that we could do to
prevent this from happening.

Q    Jen was asked yesterday about this situation — unusual situation in
South Dakota with the National Guard where a private donation is being
used to fund a deployment.  I know she said she would get an answer. 
I’m wondering if you had an update on the White House’s view of the
appropriateness of that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  So the White House is focused not on political
gestures but rather on putting in the work and delivering the
solutions.  The progress made at the southern border in the first 150
days under the administration is pretty clear.  And so the
administration has been significant — has made significant progress at
establishing a well-managed and secure border while also treating people
fairly and humanely. The American people support this approach. 

Separately, DHS and CBP continue to leverage their longstanding
relationship with state and local law enforcement, including
deconflicting operations in the border region and responding to call —
callouts from other law enforcement agencies. 

Memoli, we may not — (laughs) — we may not make it to —

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — to Florida.  (Laughter.)

Q    So, Karine, the former President is going to have a rally in
Sarasota on Saturday night.  Have you all taken a position on whether
that should go ahead with? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, we’re in — we are not focused on the former
President at all.  We are focused primarily on the American people, what
can the President do — this is what the President is focused on — what
he can continue to do to make their lives better. 

I mean, right now, today, is all about the community of Surfside: making
sure we’re offering up our condolences, making sure we’re offering up
all the help that we can provide to them at this time, and also lifting
up our first responders who have been working tirelessly around the
clock doing the work that they’re doing in their search and rescue. 

Thanks.  Thanks, everybody.

9:12 A.M. EDT
