---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-07-27'
modified_time: 2021-07-27 16:58:45-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/07/27/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-july-27-2021/
published_time: 2021-07-27 16:58:44-04:00
title: Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen Psaki, July 27, 2021
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

12:51 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.  Okay, I have a couple of notes for you at the
top.  
  
Today, the Department of Health and Human Services, through the Health
Resources and Services Administration, awarded $121 million in American
Rescue Plan funding to support the work of trusted community-based
efforts to increase vaccinations in underserved communities.  
  
This is the second round of funding for community-based groups.  Back in
June, HHS awarded $125 million to similar groups for these efforts.  
  
And these groups will undertake efforts such as mobilizing community
outreach workers to educate and assist individuals in accessing and
receiving COVID-19 vaccinations, organize pop-up or mobile vaccine
locations, and assist in making vaccine appointments or arranging
transportation and childcare assistance for vaccine appointments.  
  
One grantee in Jacksonville, Florida — one of the states where there, as
you know, has been the highest transmission rates — one of the highest
transmission rates — will use the funding to establish a sustainable
community-based workforce and infrastructure to maximize COVID-19
vaccine uptake, minimize disparities, and advance health equities in
vulnerable populations.  
  
Another grantee in Oklahoma will reach rural communities, including
Hispanic community members, and will recruit and train community health
workers.  
  
I also wanted to give you a small preview of the President’s visit to
ODNI this afternoon.  As we announced earlier — last week, I guess it
was — he will visit the Office of the Director of National Intelligence
later this afternoon to meet with leaders of the Intelligence Community
and to thank all of our intelligence professionals for their service to
our nation.  
  
After the meeting — after meeting with Director of National Intelligence
Avril Haines, the President will tour the National Counterterrorism
Center Operations Center with NCTC Director Christy Abizaid to see
firsthand how we remain ever vigilant in fighting threats to our
country.  
  
He’s particularly proud of Director Haines and Director Abizaid, who are
both the first Senate-confirmed women to hold these positions.  
  
He will then address the intelligence community workforce to express his
admiration and appreciation for their service.  In his remarks, he will
highlight the integral role our public servants play in shaping national
security decision-making and protecting the American people.  He will
also underscore the importance of intelligence collection and analysis
that is free from political interference or pressure.  
  
And I think many of you have been on these trips with him.  He’s visited
a number of national security agencies, and it’s part of his effort to
support the workforce.  
  
Another item for you: The Justice Department has successfully blocked a
merger between two of the three largest insurance brokers in the world —
I know this had been reported on — Aon and Willis Tower Watson.  
  
These companies provide insurance brokerage services to thousands of
American businesses and charge billions a year for their services.  
  
The merger would have raised prices for a wide swath of American
businesses that need to use a broker to obtain insurance and benefit
packages for their employers — employees, sorry.  
  
Those higher insurance costs would ultimately have led Americans to pay
more for all kinds of products and services, such as banking services,
hospital care, cars, and trucks.   
  
And the proposed merger, as the Justice Department explained in its
complaint, was a clear and presumptive violation of the antitrust laws
under established law.  
  
So, these actions, which I’m — the reason I’m lifting them up — are very
much in line with the Presi- — what the President was talking about when
he called for more robust enforcement of the antitrust laws in his
executive order to promote competition.  
  
Last piece, I think, here — second to last piece, but hopefully useful:
Tomorrow, the President will travel to Lehigh Valley, in Pennsylvania,
where he will be emphasizing the importance of American manufacturing,
buying products made in America, and supporting good-paying jobs for
American workers during a trip to the Lehigh Valley Operations facility
for Mack Trucks.  The President will take a tour of the Mack Trucks
facility and meet with local union members.  More than 85 percent of the
2,500 employees at the Mack Trucks location are UAW members.  
  
And a little bit about Mack Trucks, as you’re preparing for tomorrow:
The company has been making vehicles for the military since at least
World War One.  There are more than 1,500 Mack Trucks in the federal
fleets used by both military and civilian agencies.  
  
He’ll also receive a briefing on the Mack Trucks electrical refuse
truck.  The company is currently piloting their electric dump trucks in
New York City and North Carolina.  And this is all a part of his effort
to lift up and talk about his “Buy American” agenda as well as the
infrastructure package.  
  
Finally, I just wanted to note that, after additional engagement with a
bipartisan group yesterday, we’re enthusiastic about getting the
bipartisan infrastructure plan across the finish line and confident
we’ll be there soon.  
  
We were encouraged this morning by positive comments by Senator Romney. 
Our team remains hard at work, as do a number of the supporters on the
Hill.  
  
With that, go ahead, Alex.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  I have a few questions on the CDC’s revised
masking guidance —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    — that some vaccinated Americans should wear masks indoors where
there’s risk of high transmission or currently high transmission.  That
covers, according to the CDC, about 63 percent of the country right now,
which has significant or high transmission.  So how will the White House
get Americans to start wearing masks when they’ve gone for more than two
months without them?  Will we see President speak more about this?  I
mean, how exactly do you plan to push this publicly?  
  
And then, along those same lines, on July 4th, the President gave his,
sort of, “independence from the virus” speech.  He declared, quote, “We
are closer than ever to declaring our independence from a deadly virus”
and, quote, “we’ve gained the upper hand on the virus.”  Was that
declaring premature victory?  And are you at all concerned that those
statements will make it tougher for you guys to implement this revised
guidance now?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, first, I know this is slightly awkward timing,
but — and I know there’s a lot of reporting out there about the CDC
guidance.  It is not only appropriate for them to make the decisions,
it’s also appropriate for them to officially announce their own
guidance.  
  
I will say, though, that how we view this, as you asked about, Alex —
implementation of their guidelines that they’ll outline on a call with
all of you later this afternoon — that we are still in the midst of a
once-in-a-generation pandemic battling an ever-evolving virus.   
  
We have said since the beginning of June that the Delta variant — a
rising variant that had increasing — was clear from the beginning had
great — a great deal of transmissibility — was a threat to people who
were unvaccinated.  We did more than a hundred interviews with officials
conveying exactly that.   
  
And the reality is: We are dealing with a much different strain of this
virus than we were even earlier in the spring, back in May, when the
masking guidance was done — provided by the CDC at that time.  
  
That is their job.  Their job is to look at evolving information,
evolving data, an evolving historic pandemic, and provide guidance to
the American public.  That’s exactly what they will do and what they
will provide specific details on later this afternoon.   
  
Q    With respect to the President’s comments, though, do you, in
retrospect, regret those comments?  Do you think that that was wise at
the time, considering, you know, they could make it tougher for
Americans to take this seriously?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I would say that, in the President’s remarks,
he also made clear — and I’m quoting him — that today, “while the virus
hasn’t been vanquished,” we — you know, he made clear that it was not
over; that those who were unvaccinated were still at risk.    
  
He made clear that you were protected from serious illness, disea- — or
hospitalization if you were vaccinated.  That remains the case.  And he
encouraged people who are not vaccinated to get vaccinated.   
  
But, again, the role of the federal government and our public health
officials is to continue to look at evolving data, evolving threats of a
historic virus, provide that public health guidance to the American
people to protect more people and save more lives.  That’s what they’re
doing.  
  
Q    One quick one on infrastructure.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    The President met with Senator Kyrsten Sinema.  Can you tell us
anything about how that meeting went?  And does he have other meetings
planned with any of the primary negotiators or Democratic leadership on
the bill as it gets to the — potentially, the finish line?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would expect — yes, the President saw Senator Sinema
this morning.  They are very much aligned on the path forward.  Both
feel optimistic about the path forward.   
  
And clearly, both understand, having lived through many iterations of
legislating and negotiating before, that it is always at the tail end
when you have, you know, some of the trickiest discussions.   
  
So — but they, again, remain quite positive about the forward momentum
and the path we see the infrastructure package on at this point in
time.  
  
I don’t have any additional meetings to preview for you, but I will tell
you that the President is somebody who just picks up the phone when
somebody tells him it’s going to be constructive.  That certainly, I
think, will continue to happen as we work to get this across the finish
line.  
  
Go ahead, Kelly.  
  
Q    When the President travels, as in Lehigh County, will you be
looking at the rate of infection there?  And will that cause us to see
any change in the President’s own masking posture or that of people in
the entourage there?  
  
And what should Americans — who should they look to for specific
guidance about making these decisions, day to day?  Do they need to be
looking at a CDC website for the positivity rate in their community?  Do
they need to be looking to the White House for that guidance?  What is
your prescription for how Americans should adjust with these mask
guidelines?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Absolutely.  First, we will, of course, be abiding by every
aspect of the CDC guidelines on masking that they will provide this
afternoon.  And that does mean, as you conveyed, that we will be looking
at the rates in different areas where the President may visit, and also
the rates as they — if they move in Washington, D.C., and we will apply
guidance accordingly.   
  
That means we will be prepared to wear masks again if required, if the
guidance is leading to that, as would the President.  And that will
continue to be the case.   
  
And as it relates to the American public — I mean, our hope is certainly
that elected officials, leaders, civic leaders, public health experts
around the country will also look at the CDC guidance and they will be
constructive partners and voices in sharing with their communities what
steps they could take.  
  
The CDC is going to have the map and the guidance to provide to the
public on how this guidance applies to them, and that would be the most
accurate place to seek information.  
  
Q    Is the “summer of freedom,” as the President described it, is that
still operative now, given the change in the Delta variant?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say, first — I have this little handy chart; I
suspected that we might talk a little bit about COVID today,
understandably.  And what I would note is that what has not changed is
the fact that people are — who are vaccinated have a huge deal of
protection from serious illness, from hospitalization, and from death. 
And I know Shannon — actually, I see her in the back there — asked a
good question yesterday about the data, so I wanted to give you a little
bit of a better understanding of how this data process works.   
  
So the data that Dr. Walensky, the CDC Director, spoke to back in July
was based on data up through the beginning of June — or the end of May,
the beginning of June.  That will be updated in August as it relates to
individuals who are hospitalized or get sick, who are vaccinated, and
those who are unvacc- — what hospitalizations look like as the
percentage breaks down.  
  
But this is all based on data from either state officials or health
agencies — or the Florida Hospital Association, as it relates to the
Florida-specific example here.  
  
And how the information flows — to your question earlier yesterday,
Shannon — is it goes from hospitals to states to the CDC.  So I’m using
this example to show you — because this kind of breaks through the
reporting of this data — this is from hospital systems that will go to
states.   
  
And what you can see here: Florida, which is one of the states with the
high- — one of the highest transmiss- — or one of the highest rates of
COVID, I should say — officials have said that more than 95 percent of
those who were hospitalized were not vaccinated.  That is information
from last week, or just a couple of days ago.  
  
North Carolina: Unvaccinated make up more than 99 percent of new COVID
cases in May and June.  That’s from a few weeks ago, but still updated
data.  
  
Colorado: More than 96 percent of Colorado’s COVID hospitalizations,
deaths in the first half of 2021 were among unvaccinated.   
  
I’m using these examples because even as the masking guidance is put out
later today by the CDC, we are still going to be sending a very clear
message to the public that in order to protect yourself or save your
life, save the lives of those around you, you need to get vaccinated. 
Masking is guidance, but —  
  
Q    Yeah, can I follow up —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — just on this data point?  Because, yeah, I appreciate you looking
into this.  It seems the problem, from when I talk to doctors, though,
is that the Delta variant is evolving in this situation so rapidly that
even data from May or June might not be representative of what’s
happening now.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  This is from July.  A number of these examples are from
July.  
  
Q    It was only July 9th, I think, or mid-July — which I know isn’t
that long ago, though, that the Delta variant became the dominant
spread.  So, you know, when I talk to hospitals in places like Nevada,
Missouri, Kansas City, you know, those doctors are saying they’re seeing
more like 1 in 10, which I know is still not a majority, but it’s
different than some of these numbers.  
  
You know, the situation in May and June, for the first half of the year
when most people weren’t vaccinated, is much different than it is now. 
So, are you guys aware of that?  Are you talking to people in some of
the harder-hit areas about, like, what they’re seeing?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, Shannon, one, I think it’s really important to project
data across a spectrum, right?  Not from individual hospitals or
individual cases.  Because what people are really looking at or what
we’re looking at is how it relates to across-state data.  
  
Florida — this data is from four days ago.  Florida is one of the states
that has the highest rate; it accounts for about 20 percent of COVID
cases in the country, from the last data I saw.  This is from four days
ago; 95 percent of those who were hospitalized were not vaccinated. 
That’s across-Florida data from the Florida Hospital Association.  
  
Of course, we absolutely look at data, as does the CDC, and we’re going
to continue to evaluate and assess.  But because this data goes into
what the CDC reports, I thought it would be relevant to all of you to
see and understand how we look at the across-the-state data.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  The CDC data showed, though, on July 6th, that the
Delta variant was the prominent strain: 51.7 percent of cases.  So, what
took so long between then and now?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Even higher now, as you know.  
  
Q    So that’s what led to the change in guidance?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  You — I’m sure you will get on the call with the CDC later
this afternoon, and I think that’s a great question to ask them.   
  
Our guidance is based on the public health experts and what they are
advising in terms of steps that should be taken.  I think it’s, though,
important to note it has always been the case that the guidance has
been, if you are not vaccinated, to wear a mask.  That has not changed. 
That has been the case from the beginning.  And also, to get vaccinated
if you’re not vaccinated.  
  
Q    But the President’s message was get vaxxed *or* masked, and now
it’s get vaxxed *and* masked, in some cases.  So does he regret sending
the message that it was a binary choice there?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, Weijia, I think that those comments were back in May. 
And as I noted at the time, the Delta variant was a — was by no means a
variant — the variant that it is today.  It was not even a — I can look
at the specific data, but it was — 99 percent of cases were not Delta at
the time.  That was based on guidance from the CDC.   
  
Today, they’re changing their guidance, they’re changing their advice to
the American public — their public health advice based on evolving data
and an evolving, historic — vari- — virus.  That’s exactly what they
should be doing.  
  
Q    And what is your message to Americans who are feeling whiplash
right now?  Why should they trust the same group of health officials
who, just two months ago, told them they don’t have to wear a mask
anymore inside?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Because our goal is to save their lives, and our
responsibility and the responsibility of public health officials is to
continue to provide updated guidance, if it warrants, from an evolving
virus.  
  
Q    And one more on something related.  You’ve said many times from the
podium, as recently as Friday, that it is not the federal government’s
role to mandate vaccines.  Can you help us understand what changed
between then and yesterday when that’s exactly what the VA did?  And is
it a sign of what’s to come for other agencies?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think the context of the question, which I think is
important here, is: Can we mandate vaccines across the country?  No,
that’s not a role that the federal government, I think, even has the
power to make.  
  
The federal workforce is part of the workforce of the federal
government; that’s different and very different from the question you
just posed, in important context.   
  
The VA is a huge provider of public health officials and to patients who
are some of the men and women who served our country bravely as parts of
the military — as members of the military.  And this was a decision that
followed, and was aligned with, I should say, the decision by 57
hospitals associations across the country to make sure we were taking —
they were taking every step they could to protect the servicemen and
women who seek health services at the VA.  
  
I will also say, as a big employer — the federal government — it is also
our responsibility to continue to look at ways that we can protect
people and save lives.  And so we will continue to look, agencies will
continue to look, we will continue to look at what steps we need to take
for our workforce.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks Jen.  How closely has the President been monitoring the
January 6th hearing on the Hill?  And what’s his reaction to some of the
testimony from the law enforcement officers today?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I would say — I know you didn’t ask me this
question, but I know a number of us have watched the testimony this
morning, which has been incredibly compelling, heart wrenching, and, you
know, at moments, a reminder of the shameful events of January 6th and
of the incredible bravery of the men and women of law enforcement who
put themselves in harm’s way to protect the Capitol, our democracy, and
members of Congress from both parties.   
  
The President has had a range of meetings and briefings and engagements
this morning.  I know he’s intending to catch updates and clips, and
certainly staff will share with him what they’ve seen as we’ve watched
the briefings, but he has not been in a position, via his schedule, to
watch the hearings this morning.  
  
Q    Should we anticipate a statement from him at the end of the day
after he’s been updated on this?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I would not anticipate that, no.   
  
Q    And then one on vaccines before we move on.  You know, you just
said that the message for unvaccinated Americans has always been to wear
a mask.  But how concerned is the White House that the message that
unvaccinated Americans will hear after this afternoon is that, even if
you’re vaccinated, you now have to wear a mask in some settings, and
then just say, “why bother then” on the vaccine?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, here’s the good news: We’re all here.  You all are all
here.  You’ve got millions of people and Americans who watch your
broadcasts and watch your shows and listen to you to hear what they
should know about how to protect themselves and save their lives.   
  
So our message to the American public is: We are at war.  We continue to
be at war with a virus and evolving pandemic.  Our responsibility here
is to always lead with the science and always lead with the advice of
health and medical experts.  And we’re going to continue to provide
information to all of you about how to protect yourself and save your
lives.   
  
We’re not saying that wearing a mask is convenient or people feel like
it, but we are telling you that that is the way to protect yourself,
protect your loved ones, and that’s why the CDC is issuing this
guidance.  
  
Q    A follow on those two questions.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  What was —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’ll come back to you, April.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    When was the White House told that this CDC guidance was
changing?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  There’s been — it’s obviously a decision the CDC made.  The
President was briefed this morning by Dr. Fauci.  But beyond that, we’ve
been aware of their discussions with our public health officials.   
  
Q    And the CDC is also going to recommend that children in schools all
wear a ma- — that everyone in schools wear a mask regardless of
vaccination status.  But there are at least eight states that actually
prohibit their districts from requiring a mask in schools.  So what are
parents who have children in those schools, in those states supposed to
do?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, look, Kaitlan, I’m happy not to live in a state where
that is the guidance.  And this is new guidance that is being issued by
the CDC today.  I don’t know how it will influence local elected
officials in these states, but I certainly hope, for the health and
wellbeing of the next generation, that they take a close look at the
guidance.  
  
Q    And one more question.  You just said you don’t think the federal
government has the power to mandate vaccinations across the country, but
they do have the power to mandate them within the government.  So why is
everyone who works in the federal government not mandated to get
vaccinated?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say first, Kaitlan, that we — you saw the VA
announcement yesterday, which was really about public health and about
protecting the patients, the men and women who have served our country. 
But we are going to continue to look at ways to protect our workforce
and to save more lives.  I just have nothing to preview for you at this
point.  
  
Q    Should we expect more vaccination mandates from federal agencies?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think a range of agencies and leaders will look at what
steps they should take to protect their workforce and save lives.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  Just explicitly, when President Biden was
presented with this latest guidance from CDC, what was his reaction?  I
mean, he welcomed the guidance back in May.  What was his reaction this
time?  How concerned was he when he was told about this latest
guidance?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Concerned in what way?  
  
Q    Concerned about, you know, how this will impact the
administration’s ability to perhaps vaccinate those who don’t — do not
want to get vaccinated.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I would say, first, that the President has always said that
he is going to be guided by public health experts, by the CDC, and what
our doctors are recommending.  That has always been the case.  And there
have been discussions, as you would expect, for months now, from the
beginning, about what steps need to be taken, should be taken to protect
from an evolving virus.   
  
Q    So he did not explicitly talk about, you know, “Let’s — maybe the
administration should start worrying about, you know, how this impacts
your messaging, the work that you’re doing on the ground”?  Did he have
anything to say about that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  No.  That’s not how he looks at this.  He looks at — as the
President of the United States, at a time where we came in with a
dangerous distrust in science and government and institutions, he felt —
feels it’s important to be led by data and scientists, and will be
helping — le- — helping lead the effort to implement this, of course, in
the federal government.  
  
Q    And I did have a follow-up to Kelly’s question there.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    Not just when he’s traveling, but just when he’s at the White
House, and even for White House staff, is there any decision on whether
he or staff will start wearing masks?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  We will be abiding by public health guidance.  And if that
is where we fall in the geographical guidance given by the CDC, we will
also be following that masking guidance.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, first on crime: As shootings spike in Chicago, the
superintendent of police there is blaming courts for releasing attempted
murderers on electronic surveillance.  Does the President agree with the
superintendent, who was just here earlier this month, that ankle
bracelets do not cut down on attempted murder?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I have to tell you, I have not seen these comments or looked
at the full context of them.  I’m happy to do that after the
briefing.   
  
I think we know — from seeing, broadly, the rising crime or the rising
gun violence across the country, including in cities like Chicago — that
there needs to be greater assistance, greater efforts to make sure guns
don’t get in the hands of criminals who could do harm, and more
assistance to local police forces and community policing programs as
well.  
  
The President doesn’t just use that as rhetoric; he delivers it with
action.   
  
Q    And I know he’s in discussions — or in discussions about reforming
the police, generally.  We’ve got cops now saying that the courts are
too soft.  Some progressives, including Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, are
saying the courts are too strict.  So, what does the President think?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President — I don’t think it’s a secret that the
President disagrees at times with Congresswoman — the congresswoman
about some aspects of policing.   
  
He believes we need to reform our prison system to keep our community
safe while addressing mass incarceration and by diverting nonviolent
drug offenders and taking other steps that will improve rehabilitation
and reduce recimit \[sic\] –recidivism.   
  
If you — but he also believes, let’s be clear, if you commit a violent
crime and are found guilty and pose a threat to society, you should
serve that time.  And when you get out, you should have the support you
need to successfully reenter society.  That’s his view.  
  
Q    And then, on the CDC guidance, why did the President say, “If
you’ve been fully vaccinated, you no longer need to wear a mask.  Let me
repeat: If you are fully vaccinated, you no longer need to wear a mask”
if it was possible that that was going to turn out not to be true?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, Peter, I think we’re all dealing with an evolving
virus where there’s no playbook and no historic precedent.  And what the
American people should feel confident in is that we are going to
continue to be guided by science, look at public health data in order to
provide new guidance, if it’s needed, to save lives, to protect the
American people.  
  
When he made those comments back in May, we were dealing with a very
different strain of the virus than we were — than we are today.  And
Delta is more transmissible.  It’s spreading much more quickly.  It was
nearly non-existent in the United States back in May.   
  
Q    And so my last one would be: You guys have been saying this is a
pandemic of the “unvaccinated.”  If that is coming from the CDC, is the
President satisfied with the leadership at the CDC right now?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  The President is satisfied with the fact that they are
continuing to look at public health data and give — provide public
health guidance to the American public about how they can protect their
lives and the lives of loved ones around them.  
  
Q    And if it’s a pandemic of the unvaccinated still, then why do
vaccinated people need to put the masks back on?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, Peter, first of all, I would say again — just to go
back to this chart, which I will handily point to again: If you are
vaccinated —  
  
Q    Overwhelmingly, the unvaccinated.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  — if you are vaccinated, your li- — it can save your life. 
And I think the clear data shows that this pandemic is killing, is
hospitalizing, is making people very sick who are not vaccinated.  That
co- — still continues to be the case, regardless of what the mask
guidance looks like.  
  
Q    But if the vaccines work, which this sign says that they do, then
why do people who had the vaccine need to now wear masks — the same as
people who have not had it?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Because the public health leaders in our administration have
made the determination, based on data, that that is a way to make sure
they’re protected, their loved ones are protected.  And that’s an extra
step, given the transmissibility of the virus, that people — that
they’re advising people to take.  
  
Go ahead, Steve.  
  
Q    Last year, when we went through this as a national discussion —
talk about social distancing and shutdowns.  Is this White House eyeing
anything other than mask guidance?  I mean, this week, you said you
wouldn’t lift the travel restrictions.  Is anything else coming?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, we’re always going to be guided by the public
health guidance.  That’s how the travel restrictions decision was made. 
But we are not — this is not guidance about businesses shutting down or
communities shutting down.  This is guidance to individuals about how
they can protect themselves.  
  
We’ve seen some communities — L.A. County, for example — where they have
applied versions of mask guidance.  It has not shut businesses down.  It
is meant to protect people’s lives.  That is the goal and the
objective.  
  
Q    Can I ask you about expedited removals —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    — down at the border?  As you know, there are advocates for
immigrants who say that what this administration is now doing is taking
away due process rights by empowering asylum officers to make decisions
in the immediate moment for expedited removal.  What’s your response to
that criticism?   
  
And on the other side of that coin, is it this administration’s view
that most of the people who are claiming credible fear on the border are
not entitled to asylum?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, no, that is certainly not our claim.  We are — of
course, people who are applying for asylum, who will go through the
process, and if their case and their — may — warrants, they will be
granted asylum.  What this is, is that — I should say, those families
process for expedited removal who claim fear will have the opportunity
to present their cases before an immigration judge and request asylum or
other forms of relief or protection from removal.  So even — even those
who are being processed.   
  
What — the processing of migrants for expedited removal is a
traditionally employed, lawful mean to secure our border, and it is a
step toward our broader aim of having a safe and orderly immigration
system.   
  
I will say, at the same time, we continue to work to build a fair,
orderly, and humane immigration system.  We recently expanded the
Central American Minors Program and made 6,000 H-2B visas available to
Central Americans.  
  
But we also want to be crystal clear: Attempting to cross into the
United States between ports of entry or circumventing inspection of
ports of entry is dangerous.  It carries long-term conse- — immigration
consequences.   
  
But, no, we will still, of course — individuals who are applying for
asylum, who warrant asylum, will be treated accordingly.  
  
Go ahead.    
  
Q    Jen, does the President’s economic team see any ramifications to
this masking policy?  Are they concerned at all that it could affect
consumer spending or any of the economic growth projections?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  That’s a great question.  I will say, I don’t think we’re
quite at that point.  The guidance, of course, is not, as you know,
being released until later this afternoon.   
  
I will also say that as we’ve looked at, kind of, the economic impact of
the Delta variant, one of the things we’ve looked at is that we have —
one, we have programs in place that are meant to be implemented over the
course of time to ensure that Americans are getting assistance, getting
additional funding into their pockets as needed, which was a lesson
learned from the past about ensuring that there wasn’t an abrupt halt to
economic assistance as we’re going through a historic pandemic, still at
war with it, and as we’re still going through an economic recovery.   
  
There’s no significant signs at this point of the Delta variant’s impact
in that sense.  And we’d expect that much of the economic impact will be
felt in communities with lower vaccination rates.  But we don’t expect
to turn back the clock to what it was in March of 2020 or even six
months ago.   
  
But in terms of longer-term analysis, I don’t — we’re not at that point
yet.  
  
Q    Just on the infrastructure talks —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — the President obviously met with Senator Sinema, and he’s making
calls on this.  Does he see the end of the week as a more or less
deadline to get a bipartisan deal on this?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m not going to be setting new deadlines today, but what I
will tell you is that we were quite encouraged by the conversations
overnight and into this morning.  We see momentum.  It’s moving in a
positive direction.  You’ve heard that from Democrats and Republicans. 
That certainly is a good sign — and it’s only Tuesday.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Jen, the federal eviction moratorium is scheduled to expire at the
end of the week, and millions of renters are still behind on payments. 
I know the administration has taken other steps to aid with assistance,
but is there any discussion about an extension of that moratorium,
especially as we’re seeing the Delta variant, you know, rear its
head?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, let me just give you — I know you follow this
closely, but for others, just as a reminder: On day one of the
administration, as part of the American Rescue Plan rollout, the
President did call on Congress to extend the eviction moratorium through
September 30th of 2021.  The final plan, of course, did not include that
proposed moratorium extension, and so the CDC extended the moratorium
administratively in January, March, and most recently in June for a
final month.  So it’s in place, as you noted, until <s>January 31st</s>
\[July 31st\].  
  
I don’t have anything to preview for you at this point in time or — but
certainly, we will be watching this closely, ongoing discussions about
how we can continue to help renters.  
  
Q    And then, just on another subject related to January 6th. 
Yesterday, the White House said that it would nominate Matthew Graves to
be U.S. Attorney for D.C., and if confirmed, he would oversee the
prosecutions of hundreds of people who were arrested for what happened
on January 6th at the Capitol.  Did the President or anybody else in the
administration discuss those cases with Graves before his nomination? 
Did they seek any particular position on those cases, such as being
aggressive and charging and prosecuting them?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything more on this.  I’m happy to check and
see if there’s more we can convey about the personnel process.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Just to follow up on Peter’s point: Does President Biden have
confidence right now in Director Walensky’s leadership?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Absolutely.  
  
Q    All right.  And is a reason why Dr. Fauci briefed President Biden
on the new CDC guidance and not Dr. Walensky — or Director Walensky?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think Dr. Fauci is likely in town, but also has provided
briefings to the President on a regular basis, as has Dr. Walensky,
throughout the course of the pandemic.  
  
Q    And on a different topic: What is the White House doing to
specifically win over support from Democrats on the nomination of David
Chipman to lead the ATF?  Senator Durbin just told us this morning that
Democrats don’t have the votes, and Senator Tester also signaled this
morning that the nomination could even be pulled.  So does — is the
White House still pushing through on that nomination?  And what is the
White House doing to whip up votes?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’d first remind people, as you well know, but for
others, that not only is he a veteran of the ATF, but he’s somebody who
has been a supporter of smart gun reform measures that could save lives
of people across the country.  And we — the President felt quite
confident in the — his qualifications and his ability to lead the agency
at a time where it hasn’t been led for many years.   
  
In terms of our specific legislative strategy, I’d really have to talk
to the team and see where things stand with that.  
  
Q    And a quick follow-up: Senate appropriators just announced a deal
on a supplemental on Capitol Police security funding.  It does include
about a billion dollars for the Special Immigrant Visa program.  Does
the White House support that deal between Leahy and Shelby?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  We certainly have supported and advocated for additional
funding for the Special Immigrant Visa program — something that is a
huge priority to the President.  I’d also reiterate, since you gave me
the opportunity, that our first flight of Afghan SIV applicants will be
coming into the United States this week, which is a very exciting step
forward and will be the first of many.  
  
In terms of the amount of funding, I would have to check with our
legislative team on that as well.   
  
Go ahead, April.   
  
Q    Okay.  Jen, a couple of questions.  On COVID: Are we at a point
where we are saying that there’s just no absolutes when it comes to
what’s happening in this moment?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  No.  We’re not at that point.  
  
Q    Because we’re possibly beginning to wear masks again in the
building — in buildings, kids could possibly be wearing masks in
schools, and those who are vaccinated are getting breakthrough COVID
cases.  So you’re saying —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Look, I think — here’s what we all have responsibility to
do: is to provide the guidance and clear information that is being
presented by public health officials to the American public — not to
project confusion, but to alleviate the confusion.  And it is — also,
it’s incumbent upon the public health officials to continue to look at
and evaluate and make recommendations based on data to save people’s
lives and protect people from getting the virus, getting — being
hospitalized or, of course, dying.   
  
Q    Okay.  And a question on Johnson & Johnson and on the testimony
today.   
  
Johnson & Johnson is in the news again.  This time, the National Council
of Negro Women — who the President just had at his table — is suing
Johnson & Johnson because they targeted Black women, starting in the
‘90s, with talcum powder that is said to cause ovarian cancer.  Is this
administration concerned with the credibility, the integrity of Johnson
& Johnson, a company that is administering some of these vaccines in
COVID?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, April, first, it’s ongoing litigation, as you noted,
so of course I can’t speak to that.  But I do think it’s important to
note that the Johnson & Johnson vaccine, which is entirely separate from
baby powder, was approved by the gold standard, the FDA, which requires
a rigorous look at the data and safety guardrails.   
  
The FDA approved the distribution and the use of the Johnson & Johnson
vaccine.  And again, it’s entirely separate from the baby powder, talcum
powder litigation.  
  
Q    But it’s still that same company, the brand.  And people will
associate —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  But the FDA is a U.S. government entity and, again, the gold
standard, and has a rigorous review process, so people should remain
confident in the vir- — in the vaccine.   
  
Q    Thank you.  And lastly, on the January 6th Select Committee: Last
week, President Biden said he “has faith in the American people to
ultimately get to the right place.”  And what is that “right place,”
particularly when you hear testimony today from some of these police
officers who — some are minority — some of the Black officers said Black
officers fought a “different battle.”  One officer said he was called
the N-word — N-I-G-G-E-R — after answering questions of the rioters —
the insurrectionists — as to who he voted for when he said he voted for
Joe Biden.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think, April, as I said a little bit earlier, I
mean, today’s testimony — for anybody who watched it — it was a searing
reminder of the shameful events of January 6th.  And certainly that
testimony, I think, will stick with people for some time to come.   
  
And what the President meant is that he is confident in the American
people to fight for democracy; to fight for voting rights; to fight for,
you know, moving forward from the events that were a dark day in our
democracy.  That’s why he supports — strongly supports the actions by
Speaker Pelosi and the efforts to get to the bottom of what happened on
January 6th so that we can prevent it from ever happening again.   
  
Q    Thank you.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay, we’ve got to wrap up guys, sorry.  You got an event. 
Thanks, everyone.  Have a good day.   
  
1:27 P.M. EDT
