---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-07-02'
modified_time: 2021-07-02 11:19:35-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/07/02/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-on-the-independent-review-commission-on-sexual-assault/
published_time: 2021-07-02 11:19:34-04:00
title: "Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials on the Independent\
  \ Review Commission on Sexual\_Assault"
---
 
5:02 P.M. EDT  
  
MODERATOR:  Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you so much for joining
us.  Today’s call is going to be on background, attributed to “senior
administration officials.”  And the contents of this call are embargoed
until 11:00 tomorrow morning, Friday, <s>June</s> \[July\] 2nd.  
  
With that, I’m happy to turn it over to our speakers, \[senior
administration official\], who is the \[redacted\], and \[senior
administration official\], who is the \[redacted\].  
  
\[Senior administration official\], over to you.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, \[senior administration
official\].  
  
Good afternoon, and thank you all for joining us to discuss the
President’s announcement regarding the findings and recommendations of
the Independent Review Commission on Sexual Assault in the Military.  
  
As most of you probably know, President Biden has a longstanding and
deep-seated commitment to fighting to eliminate all forms of
gender-based violence.  This has really been a central part of his
life’s work, including as an original author of the Violence Against
Women Act in 1994 as a senator.   
  
So at the very early days of his presidency, following up on a promise
he made during the campaign, he asked Secretary of Defense Austin to
create this Independent Review Commission to undertake an in-depth
analysis over a period of 90 days, and to provide its findings and
recommendations to address sexual assault and harassment in the
military.  
  
On March 24th, the Independent Review Commission, chaired by Lynn
Rosenthal and comprised of 12 independent highly qualified experts,
began their work.  They were charged with making recommendations — and
\[senior administration official\] will talk about this more — in four
key areas related to accountability, prevention, climate and culture,
and survivor care and support.  
  
The Commission has met with the Secretary on several occasions to
present their findings and recommendations to him.  Defense Secretary
Austin informs the President that he is endorsing the findings of the
Commission and supports the recommendation to remove cases of sexual
assault, sexual harassment, and related crimes from the military chain
of command, as well as recommendations in the other key areas of
prevention, climate and culture, and victim care and support.  The
President spoke with Secretary Austin about these issues and fully
supports his approach.   
  
President Biden appreciates the leadership Secretary Austin has shown in
taking these bold steps necessary to remedy this persistent problem. 
The President has sought to stamp out the scourge of sexual assault in
the military and believes that in advancing the IRC’s recommendations,
the Department of Defense will be introducing comprehensive changes to
implement his administration’s unwavering commitment to improving both
the response to and prevention of sexual assault and sexual harassment
in the military.  
  
And the President would particularly like to thank the IRC chair, Lynn
Rosenthal, who he has known for a very long time, and the entire
Independent Review Commission for their exemplary work and
dedication.   
  
Most of all, the President is grateful to the hundreds of individuals
across the Services, the many external stakeholders whom the IRC
consulted with, and to the survivors who shared their stories and made
recommendations to the IRC.  And he’s also grateful to countless other
survivors of sexual assault and sexual harassment in the military, who
for decades have shared their stories and their pain, as well as their
courage and their resilience to continue to speak out and advocate for
these much-needed reforms and to improve the pathways to healing and
justice for survivors.  
  
Finally, the President wants to acknowledge and thank Senator Gillibrand
for many years of tireless efforts to shine a light on these deep-seated
problems and for her efforts to build a bipartisan consensus to work for
change, and is also grateful for the leadership of Senator Joni Ernst,
and others, who have amplified the voices of survivors to advocate for
necessary reforms to address assault and harassment in the military.  
  
I’m going to turn it over to \[senior administration official\] now to
provide more information about how the IRC approach their work, as well
as the findings and recommendations of the Commission.  
  
Over to you.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you, \[senior administration
official\].  And I want to begin by just really appreciating the
leadership of President Biden and Secretary Austin in addressing this
longstanding problem.  And I want to acknowledge the support and
cooperation of the Department of Defense and the Services as a part of
this process.  
  
The Independent Review Commission established that independence by
creating a body of highly qualified experts, external to the Department,
as the deliberative body on our recommendations.  We were supported in
that effort, however, by senior leaders from the services and
subject-matter experts across the force.   
  
As a part of our process, we met with over 600 external experts,
including survivors, researchers, former service members, commanders,
junior and senior enlisted members, and advocates.  And while we have
some tough findings in our report, we don’t at all believe that these
represent a lack of concern for this problem.  Everyone we talked to —
senior officials within DOD, senior leaders in the services, and
enlisted junior and senior members — want to see change.  Everyone we
talked to wants to see that change.  There are people working very hard
to make that happen, but they often are not equipped to do so.   
  
We identified that there is a troubling gap between what senior leaders
say about this problem and how junior enlisted members experience the
problem.  We have heard for many years that there is no tolerance for
sexual harassment and sexual assault, but we learned that, in practice,
there is quite a lot of tolerance.   
  
We found that the military justice system is not well equipped to handle
sensitive cases like sexual assault, sexual harassment, and domestic
violence.  We note that there is a strong continuum between sexual
harassment and sexual assault, and the relationship of both these
problems to poor unit climates.  We note also that the cyber domain has
to be prioritized as a part of unit climates.   
  
We found that there are critical deficiencies in the workforce across
the services, including lack of experience and lack of specialization,
which are key elements to addressing sexual assault and sexual
harassment.   
  
Nowhere is this problem more apparent than in the near-total lack of a
prevention workforce.  So we often hear that prevention is the key to
solving this problem.  But we learned that there aren’t actually
prevention specialists working across the services to make that happen. 
There is a lack of an evidence-informed public health approach to
prevention.   
  
And finally, we found that victims carry a very heavy burden.  And they
carry this burden whether they report or not.  Many whom — who did
report regretted doing so because of what they experienced afterwards. 
That includes being ostracized, bullied, and having trouble accessing
quality services.  
  
I must say, and the IRC strongly believes, that leadership is the key to
correcting all of these deficiencies.  We’ve made 28 recommendations and
54 sub-recommendations in those lines of effort that \[senior
administration official\] noted, including accountability, prevention,
climate and culture, and victim care and support.   
  
So I just want to highlight a few.  As you know, we’ve recommended
shifting prosecution decisions to special victims prosecutors outside of
the chain of command.  We’ve also recommended improving the handling of
sexual harassment cases and a series of other improvements to the UCMJ. 
We’ve recommended equipping leaders to understand prevention and the
development of an actual prevention workforce to carry out these
programs.   
  
We’ve made a series of recommendations to improve unit climate,
including better methods to select, develop, and evaluate leaders;
enhancements to the climate survey process; and greater transparency
about disciplinary actions.   
  
We’ve made a series of recommendations to improve victim care and
support, including shifting sexual assault response coordinators and
victim advocates out of the command structure, largely eliminating
part-time and collateral-duty victim advocates, and professionalizing
the sexual assault response workforce across the board.   
  
We’ve also recommended lifting the barrier to victims of sexual
harassment receiving services from sexual assault prevention and
response programs, which is a problem in the services, except for the
Army which handles both of these problems together.   
  
We’ve recommended identifying a structure within the Department of
Defense to provide greater assistance to the Services in addressing
sexual harassment.   
  
Our report includes four separate reports from each line of effort.  So,
depending on what you’re most interested in, when the report is released
tomorrow, you’ll be able to dive into all of these recommendations in
great detail in accountability, prevention, climate and culture, and
victim services.  So everything you want to know about what I just
highlighted is within those four reports.   
  
Finally, I want to note that we found and we believe that commanders are
essential to implementing every one of these recommendations.  Most
importantly, commanders are the key to improving unit climate, to
changing the culture, and to protecting victims from negative
consequences related to reporting sexual assault.  Indeed, commanders
are the key to making it safe for victims to come forward at all.   
  
And I want to say very clearly that we reject the notion that shifting
legal decisions about prosecution from command to prosecutors diminishes
the role of those commanders.  We believe, instead, that it enhances
their role and places them in the lead of taking care of their people —
the number one job of commanders — and creating climates of no tolerance
for sexual assault, sexual harassment, and related crimes.   
  
And with that, I will turn it back over to \[senior administration
official\].   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So I’ll just say a few more words on
the process going forward, which is that the President — the Secretary,
excuse me, has made it clear that he generally accepts all of these
recommendations from the IRC and that now he’s going to move into the
implementation process.   
  
So as you have just heard and as you all know, this is a profound change
for the Department of Defense and, really, a monumental pivot in how the
department does its business.   
  
So the Secretary has asked for the grace to, I think in his own words,
“measure twice and cut once” as he thinks through implementation.  And
the President really fully supports that approach.   
  
So, over the next few months, the White House and the Pentagon will be
in consultation to best understand how to make these recommendations to
reality, and work with Congress to amend the Uniform Code of Military
Justice, as is required to make whatever legislative changes are part of
these recommendations.   
  
MODERATOR:  Great.  Thank you all so much.  With that, we’re happy to
open the line to some press questions.   
  
Q    So, in the recommendations that you made in terms of leadership
selection and how you can do that better to make sure that a command
climate doesn’t support or doesn’t tolerate sexual harassment and sexual
assault, what are some of the specific recommendations that you made for
that sort of selection process?   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Most importantly, we recommend using
narrative and qualitative data to select and evaluate commanders so that
there’s a more — a fuller picture of how they’re actually addressing
these climate issues.   
  
And then we’ve recommended a series of improvements to the climate
survey process so that they can get more on-the-ground information about
the climate specifically related to sexual harassment and specific to
the ability to report sexual assault.  So those are some improvements
we’ve recommended to the climate survey process.   
  
Q    Thanks.  So, I have a question for both of you.  Does the Biden
administration support the Gillibrand legislation that takes all felony
crimes out of the chain of command?  And if you don’t, then don’t you
end up with two legal systems — one that deals with just sex crimes and
then another that deals with felony and murder and other serious
crimes?   
  
And then my other question for you is: You talked about taking victim
advocates out of the chain of command.  Who would they report to?  How
would that work?  Thanks.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I can jump in on the first one.  This
is \[senior administration official\].   
  
So, I think it’s really clear that Senator Gillibrand deserved an
enormous amount of credit for her tireless efforts over many, many years
to address the problem of sexual assault in the military.  And the
President really shares her strong passion to take on this issue.
 That’s why he asked Secretary Austin to stand up this IRC on sexual
assault and sexual harassment immediately upon taking office.   
  
And I think, you know, the President — this review commission has been
squarely focused and was asked just to focus only on addressing the
problem of sexual assault and harassment in the military.  And he is
really pleased to see that there is a growing consensus that these
crimes should be taken out of the chain of command.  And we’re going to
now look to Congress to work out the details for legislating that
change.   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  And this is \[senior administration
official\].  I think that there are a few different models for who the
victim advocates and the sexual assault response coordinators could
report to.  So — it’s better — rather than identifying one specific
component, we should talk about some of those guiding principles.   
  
And we do believe in flexibility for the services because they all
operate a little bit differently, but we think this requirement should
be uniform, and then, within that, the services can develop
implementation plans.   
  
But the key is that sexual assault response coordinators and victim
advocates need to be free of any sort of command influence over what
kind of services a victim receives.   
  
So, certainly, the commander is responsible for making sure that victims
are protected from retaliation, bullying — all of that that can happen
after a report — but actually what kind of services they might want to
need to be developed by a professional victim advocate who can put a
package together.   
  
And we actually recommend a commander’s package, which will include what
the victim has identified as his or her needs, the kind of support they
might need throughout the process, what remedies should be available for
them.  And these could be as simple as having some time off to go to
medical or legal appointments.  So, it’s really very much in the details
of what victims identify that they need.   
  
So you can see, as I laid that out, that those sexual assault response
coordinators and victim advocates should be within a unit where they can
receive some professional supervision.  So that could be within a chain
where social services are happening on an installation or a chain in
which they can receive that sort of support from colleagues.   
  
They also have to be able to provide these independent recommendations,
but, at the same time, they have to have key relationships with
commanders.  So in no way does this sort of separate those
conversations.  What we envision is that the victim advocates are able
to work closely with commanders and serve as key advisors.  
  
Q    Thank you.  I have two questions, one being if we could get a
timeline or an estimated timeline for about how long you think it will
take for some of these recommendations to start being implemented and
maybe, you know, until all of them are implemented.  
  
But then, also, \[senior administration official\], you mentioned in
your remarks that you found that there was a gap between what senior
leaders say is happening and what the junior enlisted service members
are experiencing.  How are these recommendations going to ensure that
that gap is closed and that that won’t continue happening for years to
come — where senior leaders are pointing to these recommendations as
they’re being rolled out, but the junior service members are continuing
to not see that play out at their level?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  That’s really the heart of the matter. 
On the timeline, I think DOD is going to have to identify that.  We’ve
recommended some key priorities for immediate action.  We believe that
because we found such critical deficiencies in victim care and support —
and I might add that, to me, those were surprising findings, as somebody
who’s worked on this for some time.  But because we found those critical
deficiencies, we would like to see — we recommend that manpower study be
conducted on the victim advocacy workforce within three months, with
additional implementation within six months.   
  
So, we think those are priority for near-term actions.  The legislative
changes to the UCMJ will take — should take some time.  So we recommend,
in our report, enactment dates of 2023.  We think that it’s important to
take due care to structure this system in a way that has the best chance
of success.  
  
So, we recommend that there — this is not an area for quick wins or
quick fixes, but rather a plan that will result in sustained change over
time.  And we think that investment of time is what will lead to the
results.  We think that’s what will really move the needle.  
  
And your second question — the gap between what senior leaders say about
the problem and what junior leaders actually experience?  I mean, the
key finding from junior leaders — well, from junior enlisted members —
I’m sorry — is that they experience daily acts of demeaning language and
sexual harassment.  That is ubiquitous.  In many units, that is a part
of the climate, and that women in particular are told this is just what
they should expect.  We spoke with many, many survivors and also junior
enlisted members who witnessed their friends experiencing sexual
harassment and assault, who said that, on one hand, the leaders say
there’s no tolerance, but on the other hand, they’re experiencing that
daily.  
  
So, by focusing on selecting, developing, and evaluating the right
leaders, we should end up with commanders and leaders at all levels who
actually practice no tolerance, which means interrupting these
behaviors, which means setting that standard.  And those things, quite
frankly, while some of our package requires investment in the workforce
and resources, that does not.  That can start on day one — and that is:
Interrupt these behaviors, speak out, and show and practice a real no
tolerance.  That’s how you create a positive climate.  
  
When you take as good care of your people as you do your vehicles,
that’s when we’ll start to see real change.  
  
Q    Just to clarify — thanks for the call — just to clarify: So you’re
not suggesting (inaudible) until 2023 to take this out of the chain of
command?  And then also, if you could just give — just to confirm
that.   
  
And then also, if you just give us a sense of whether or not you think,
once these recommendations are implemented, whether the kind of
situation we all saw play out at Fort Hood could still repeat itself. 
Is it — or is it clear to you that once these changes are implemented,
that kind of thing won’t happen again?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So we recommend that the legislation be
enacted this year, but that the provisions are enacted in 2023 — that
that kind of time is taken to appropriately build a structure which
involves special victims prosecutors reporting outside of the chain of
command — of the military chain of command — and addressing sexual
assault, sexual harassment, domestic violence, and related crimes.   
  
That’s our special victims bucket — the issues that we think should be
addressed.  And we believe it takes some time to establish that system. 
It involves a number of steps forward to do so.   
  
And many of our recommendations parallel the Fort Hood report,
particularly removing the victim advocates from the chain of command. 
So I think that we’ve identified some of those same problems.  I think
that when you have lea- — it’s all about leadership.  It’s all about
commanders stepping forward and leading and having the skills to do
so.  
  
I think, today, we heard from commanders that they don’t always know
what to do to address their — these poor climates — that they’re seeking
out.  And we recommend some steps the Department can take to provide
that kind of help to commanders who step forward and say, “I want to
improve my climate.”  
  
So I think careful implementation of this plan will result in leaders
who are better equipped to address sexual harassment and sexual assault,
and particularly the continuum between the two.  So if commanders are
aggressive, proactive in addressing sexual harassment — that means
stopping the demeaning language, that means addressing those who are
committing the harassment, that means working appropriately through the
steps that will lead to accountability.  When those things happen, we
hope that we can prevent situations like what tragically happened at
Fort Hood.   
  
MODERATOR:  All right, everyone.  That concludes our call.  A friendly
reminder that we are on background, attributed to “senior administration
officials,” and that the contents of this call are embargoed until 11:00
tomorrow morning.   
  
Thanks all for joining.  
  
5:27 P.M. EDT
