---
date: '2025-02-11'
modified_time: 2025-02-12 09:47:26-05:00
published_time: 2025-02-11 19:34:45-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/02/adjusting-imports-of-aluminum-into-the-united-states/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Adjusting Imports of Aluminum into The United States
---
 
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
   
A PROCLAMATION

     1.  On January 19, 2018, the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary)
transmitted to me a report on his investigation into the effect of
imports of aluminum on the national security of the United States under
section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended (19 U.S.C.
1862) (section 232).  The Secretary found and advised me of the
Secretary’s opinion that aluminum is being imported into the United
States in such quantities and under such circumstances as to threaten to
impair the national security of the United States.

     2.  In Proclamation 9704 of March 8, 2018 (Adjusting Imports of
Aluminum Into the United States), I concurred in the Secretary’s finding
that aluminum was being imported into the United States in such
quantities and under such circumstances as to threaten to impair the
national security of the United States, and decided to adjust the
imports of aluminum articles by imposing a 10 percent ad valorem tariff
on such articles imported from most countries.  Proclamation 9704
further stated that any country with which the United States has a
security relationship is welcome to discuss alternative ways to address
the threatened impairment of the national security caused by imports
from that country, and noted that, should the United States and any such
country arrive at a satisfactory alternative means to address the threat
to the national security such that I determine that imports from that
country no longer threaten to impair the national security, I may remove
or modify the restriction on aluminum articles imports from that country
and, if necessary, adjust the tariff as it applies to other countries,
as the national security interests of the United States require.

     3.  In Proclamation 9704, I also directed the Secretary to monitor
imports of aluminum articles and inform me of any circumstances that in
the Secretary’s opinion might indicate the need for further action under
section 232 with respect to such imports.  Pursuant to Proclamation
9704, the Secretary was authorized to provide relief from the additional
duties, based on a request from a directly affected party located in the
United States, for any aluminum article determined not to be produced in
the United States in a sufficient and reasonably available amount or of
a satisfactory quality, or based upon specific national security
considerations.  Proclamation 9776 of August 29, 2018, and Proclamation
9980 of January 24, 2020, similarly authorized the Secretary to provide
relief from certain tariffs on other aluminum products and derivatives
set forth in those proclamations.

     4.  In subsequent proclamations, the President adjusted the tariffs
applicable to aluminum articles imports from Argentina, Australia,
Canada, Mexico, the European Union (EU), and the United Kingdom (UK),
after engaging in discussions with each of those parties on alternative
ways to address the threat to the national security from such imports.

     5.  The Secretary has informed me that, notwithstanding the 10
percent ad valorem tariff imposed by Proclamation 9704 that mitigated
the threatened impairment of our national security, aluminum imports
into the United States have continued at unacceptable levels as the
global aluminum excess capacity crisis continues.  In addition, the
exclusion of certain countries and products from the tariff and efforts
by foreign producers to circumvent the tariff have undermined the
purpose of Proclamation 9704, which was to adjust the level of imports
of aluminum to remove the threatened impairment of the national
security.  This has again resulted in aluminum smelter capacity
utilization rates in the domestic aluminum industry that are well below
the target level recommended in the Secretary’s January 19, 2018,
report.  This indicates that the initial tariff of 10 percent ad valorem
is not high enough to address the threatened impairment to our national
security posed by aluminum imports. 

     6.  In particular, the Secretary has informed me that global
primary aluminum capacity has continued to increase, fueled by
expansions in the People’s Republic of China (China) and South America,
which is seen in rising aluminum imports that continue to weigh on the
price domestic aluminum producers may charge.  There has also been a
significant increase in Chinese investment in Mexico, driven by massive
Chinese government subsidies and the continued ability to exploit
loopholes in U.S. trade policy.  

     7.   Domestic aluminum producers have been forced to idle
additional production and shut down facilities.  Two primary aluminum
smelters within the United States have closed since Proclamation 9704
was promulgated.  In addition, U.S. primary aluminum production
decreased by 30 percent from 2020 to 2024, and U.S. smelter capacity
utilization was only 52 percent in 2024.  Overcapacity for primary
aluminum has harmed downstream aluminum producers, including producers
of aluminum extrusions and aluminum sheet.  To allow U.S. aluminum
producers to restart production and to incentivize new capacity,
additional adjustments to section 232 tariffs on aluminum need to be
made, including limiting exemptions and increasing the tariff rate.

     8.  The Secretary has informed me that imports of aluminum articles
from countries that are excluded from the tariff regime or have
alternative arrangements have remained significantly elevated at levels
that once again threaten to impair the national security of the United
States.  The volume of U.S. imports of aluminum articles from Argentina,
Australia, Canada, Mexico, EU countries, and the UK in 2024 was
approximately 14 percent higher than the average volume of such imports
in 2015 through 2017.  In particular, the volume of U.S. imports of
primary aluminum from Canada in 2024 was approximately 18 percent higher
than the average volume for 2015 through 2017.

Notwithstanding Proclamation 10782 of July 10, 2024, which imposed
higher tariffs on certain aluminum imports from Mexico, imports of
aluminum from Mexico have continued to surge beyond historical
volumes. The volume of U.S. imports of aluminum articles from Mexico in
2024 was approximately 35 percent higher than the average volume for
2015 through 2017. Proclamation 10782 did not resolve the surge of
imports of aluminum from Mexico.  Mexican producers are using unfair
trade to gain market share in the United States and are leveraging their
access to unfairly traded global primary aluminum to do so.  I
understand that Mexican producers are commingling primary aluminum from
China and the Russian Federation (Russia) with primary aluminum from
other countries to produce downstream aluminum articles.  These
practices are distortive and provide continued outlets to absorb the
massive amount of global excess capacity and must be remedied.  The
volume of U.S. imports of primary aluminum from Australia has also
surged and in 2024 was approximately 103 percent higher than the average
volume for 2015 through 2017.  Australia has disregarded its verbal
commitment to voluntarily restrain its aluminum exports to a reasonable
level.

     9.  These volume increases occurred even though demand for aluminum
in the United States and Canada (the market measured by industry) has
generally remained flat, averaging about 20 percent since 2018.

     10.  These increasing import volumes support the conclusion that
aluminum producers in countries subject to the additional ad valorem
tariff proclaimed in Proclamation 9704 are engaging in transshipment or
further processing of upstream aluminum products in countries that have
since been exempted from that tariff.  Foreign producers have shifted
assembly or manufacturing operations to third countries, such as
Mexico.  For example, Chinese producers are using Mexico’s general
exclusion from the tariff to funnel Chinese aluminum to the United
States through Mexico while avoiding the tariff. 

     11.  The Secretary has informed me that producers in countries that
remain subject to the ad valorem tariff have continued to evade the
tariff by processing covered aluminum articles into additional
downstream derivative products that were not included in the additional
ad valorem tariffs proclaimed in Proclamation 9704 and Proclamation
9980.  Foreign producers are continuing to expand downstream production
to absorb the global excess capacity.  Imports of additional derivative
aluminum products have increased significantly since the issuance of
Proclamation 9704 and Proclamation 9980, eroding the domestic industry’s
customer base and resulting in depressed demand for aluminum articles
produced in the United States.

     12.  The Secretary has also informed me of the impact of the
product exclusion process authorized by Proclamation 9704, Proclamation
9776, and Proclamation 9980 and implemented by subsequent regulations. 
This process has resulted in exclusions for a significant volume of
imports, in a manner that undermines the purpose of the section 232
measures and threatens to impair the national security of the United
States.  Certain general approved exclusions remain in effect for entire
tariff lines of aluminum imports, notwithstanding the domestic
industry’s potential to produce many excluded products. 

     13.  I determine that these developments and modifications to the
original tariff regime as proclaimed in Proclamation 9704 have
undermined the regime’s national security objectives by preventing the
domestic aluminum industry (including derivatives) from achieving
sustained production capacity utilization of at least 80 percent, as
determined in the Secretary’s January 19, 2018, report.  I also
determine that the modifications failed to achieve their articulated
objectives.  As a result, I determine that these modifications have
resulted in significantly increasing imports of aluminum articles that
once again threaten to impair the national security of the United
States.

     14.  In light of the Secretary’s findings, I have determined that
it is necessary and appropriate to adjust the tariff proclaimed by
Proclamation 9704, as amended, and the tariff proclaimed by Proclamation
9980, as amended, to increase the tariff rate from 10 percent ad valorem
to 25 percent ad valorem.  These actions are necessary and appropriate
to remove the threatened impairment of the national security of the
United States. 

     15. In light of the Secretary’s findings regarding the alternative
agreements with Argentina proclaimed in Proclamation 9758 of May 31,
2018; Australia proclaimed in Proclamation 9758; Canada proclaimed in
Proclamation 9893 of May 19, 2019, and Proclamation 10106 of October 27,
2020; Mexico proclaimed in Proclamation 9893 and Proclamation 10782 of
July 10, 2024; the European Union proclaimed in Proclamation 10327 of
December 27, 2021, and Proclamation 10690 of December 28, 2023; and the
United Kingdom proclaimed in Proclamation 10405 of May 31, 2022, I have
decided that it is necessary to terminate these agreements as of March
12, 2025.  As of March 12, 2025, all imports of aluminum articles and
derivative aluminum articles from Argentina, Australia, Canada, Mexico,
EU countries, and the UK shall be subject to the additional ad valorem
tariff proclaimed in Proclamation 9704, as amended, with respect to
aluminum articles and Proclamation 9980, as amended, with respect to
derivative aluminum articles.  Imports of aluminum articles and
derivative aluminum articles from Argentina, Australia, Canada, Mexico,
EU countries, and the UK shall be subject to the revised tariff rate of
25 percent ad valorem established in clause 2 of this proclamation,
commensurate with the tariff rate imposed on such articles imported from
most other countries.  In my judgment, these modifications are necessary
to address the significantly increasing imports of aluminum articles and
derivative aluminum articles from these sources, which threaten to
impair the national security of the United States.  Replacing the
alternative agreements with the additional ad valorem tariffs will be a
more robust and effective means of ensuring that the objectives
articulated in the Secretary’s January 19, 2018, report and subsequent
proclamations are achieved.

     16.  In light of the information provided by the Secretary that the
significant increase of imports of certain derivative aluminum articles
has depressed demand for aluminum articles produced by domestic aluminum
producers, I have determined that it is necessary to adjust the tariff
proclaimed in Proclamation 9704 and Proclamation 9980 to apply to
additional derivative aluminum articles.

     17.  I have also determined that it is necessary to terminate the
product exclusion process as authorized in clause 3 of Proclamation
9704, clause 1 of Proclamation 9776, and clause 2 of Proclamation 9980. 

     18.  Section 232, as amended, authorizes the President to take
action to adjust the imports of an article and its derivatives that are
being imported into the United States in such quantities or under such
circumstances as to threaten to impair the national security of the
United States.

     19.  Section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended, authorizes
the President to embody in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United
States (HTSUS) the substance of statutes affecting import treatment, and
actions thereunder, including the removal, modification, continuance, or
imposition of any rate of duty or other import restriction.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States
of America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including section 301 of title 3,
United States Code, section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended,
and section 232, do hereby proclaim as follows:

     (1) The provisions of Proclamation 9758 with respect to imports of
aluminum articles from the Argentina; Proclamation 9758 with respect to
imports of aluminum articles from the Australia; Proclamation 9893 and
Proclamation 10106 with respect to imports of aluminum articles from
Canada; Proclamation 9893 and Proclamation 10782 with respect to imports
of aluminum articles and derivative aluminum articles from Mexico;
Proclamation 10327 and Proclamation 10690 with respect to imports of
aluminum articles and derivative aluminum articles from the European
Union; and Proclamation 10405 with respect to imports of aluminum
articles and derivative aluminum articles from the United Kingdom shall
be ineffective as of 12:01 a.m. eastern time on March 12, 2025.  The
provisions of clause 1 of Proclamation 9980 as applicable to imports of
derivative aluminum articles from Argentina, Australia, Canada, and
Mexico shall be ineffective as of 12:01 a.m. eastern time on March 12,
2025; all imports of aluminum articles and derivative aluminum articles
from these countries shall be subject to the additional ad valorem
tariffs proclaimed in Proclamation 9704, as amended, and Proclamation
9980, as amended.  Imports of aluminum articles and derivative aluminum
articles from Argentina, Australia, Canada, Mexico, EU countries, and
the United Kingdom will be subject to the revised tariff rate of 25
percent ad valorem established in clauses (2) and (3) of this
proclamation, commensurate with the tariff rate imposed on such articles
imported from most countries, as amended by this proclamation.

     (2) As of 12:01 a.m. on March 12, 2025, the tariff proclaimed by
Proclamation 9704, as amended, and the tariff proclaimed by Proclamation
9980, as amended, are adjusted to increase the respective tariff rates
from an additional 10 percent ad valorem to an additional 25 percent ad
valorem. 

     (3) Clause 2 of Proclamation 9704, as amended, is further amended
in the second sentence by deleting “and” before “(k)”; replacing “11:59
p.m. eastern standard time on December 31, 2025” after (k) with “12:01
a.m. eastern time on March 12, 2025”; and inserting before the period at
the end: “, and (l) on or after 12:01 a.m. on March 12, 2025, at a
revised rate of an additional 25 percent ad valorem rate, from all
countries except from Russia.”

     (4) The first two sentences of clause 1 of Proclamation 9980 are
revised to read as follows:

     (5) Except as otherwise provided in this proclamation, all imports
of derivative aluminum articles specified in Annex I to this
proclamation or any subsequent annex published in the Federal Register
pursuant to this Proclamation shall be subject to an additional 25
percent ad valorem rate of duty, with respect to goods entered for
consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after
the Commerce certification date in accordance with clause 9.  For any
derivative aluminum article identified in Annex I that is not in Chapter
76 of the HTSUS, the additional ad valorem duty shall apply only to the
aluminum content of the derivative article.  These rates of duty, which
are in addition to any other duties, fees, exactions, and charges
applicable to such imported derivative aluminum articles, shall apply to
imports of derivative aluminum articles described in Annex I to this
proclamation from all countries, except Russia, but shall not apply to
derivative aluminum articles processed in another country from aluminum
articles that were smelted and cast in the United States.  Further, all
imports of derivative aluminum articles specified in Annex I to this
proclamation that are the product of Russia and all imports of
derivative aluminum articles specified in Annex I to this proclamation
where any amount of primary aluminum used in the manufacture of the
derivative aluminum articles is smelted in Russia, or the derivative
aluminum articles are cast in Russia, shall be subject to the 200
percent ad valorem rate of duty established in Proclamation 10522, with
respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse
for consumption, on or after the Commerce certification date in
accordance with clause 9.  Primary aluminum is defined as new aluminum
metal that is produced from alumina (or aluminum oxide) by the
electrolytic Hall-Heroult process.  The Secretary shall continue to
monitor imports of the derivative articles described in Annex I to this
proclamation, and shall, from time to time, in consultation with the
United States Trade Representative, the Secretary of Defense, or other
officials as appropriate, review the status of such imports with respect
to the national security of the United States.

     (6)  The Secretary shall not consider any new product exclusion
requests under clause 3 of Proclamation 9704, clause 1 of Proclamation
9776, or clause 2 of Proclamation 9980, or renew any such product
exclusions in effect as of the date of this proclamation.  Granted
product exclusions shall remain effective until their expiration date or
until excluded product volume is imported, whichever occurs first.  The
Secretary shall take all actions, including publication in the *Federal
Register*, necessary to terminate the product exclusion process.  In
addition, all general approved exclusions shall be ineffective as of
March 12, 2025, and the Secretary shall publish a notice in the *Federal
Register *to this effect.  I have determined that this is necessary to
ensure that these general exclusions do not allow high volumes of
imports, including of products that the domestic industry can produce
and supply, to undermine the objectives articulated in the Secretary’s
January 2018 report and relevant subsequent proclamations.  Following
the elimination of quantitative restrictions on certain sources pursuant
to this proclamation, and subject to any restrictions set forth in or
pursuant to other provisions of applicable law, imports of any aluminum
article or derivative article from any source and in any quantity will
be available to domestic importers, provided that the additional ad
valorem tariffs are paid upon entry or withdrawal from warehouse for
consumption. For purposes of implementing the requirements in this
proclamation, importers of aluminum derivative articles shall provide to
CBP any information necessary to identify the aluminum content used in
the manufacture of aluminum derivative articles imports covered by this
Proclamation.  CBP is hereby authorized and directed to publish
regulations or guidance implementing this requirement as soon as
practicable.

     (7)  Within 90 days after the date of this proclamation, the
Secretary shall establish a process for including additional derivative
aluminum articles within the scope of the ad valorem duties proclaimed
in Proclamation 9704, as amended, Proclamation 9980, as amended, and
clause 5 of this proclamation.  In addition to inclusions made by the
Secretary, this process shall provide for including additional
derivative aluminum articles at the request of a producer of an aluminum
article or derivative aluminum article within the United States, or an
industry association representing one or more such producers,
establishing that imports of a derivative aluminum article have
increased in a manner that threatens to impair the national security or
otherwise undermine the objectives set forth in the Secretary’s January
19, 2018 report or any Proclamation issued pursuant thereto.  When the
Secretary receives such a request from a domestic producer or industry
association, it shall issue a determination regarding whether or not to
include the derivative aluminum article or articles within 60 days of
receiving the request. 

     (8)  The provisions of clause 3 of Proclamation 9704, clause 1 of
Proclamation 9776, and clause 2 of Proclamation 9980, or any other
provisions authorizing the Secretary to grant relief for certain
products from the additional ad valorem duties or quantitative
restrictions set forth in the prior proclamations described herein are
hereby revoked, except to the extent required to implement clause 5 of
this proclamation. 

     (9) The modifications made by this proclamation with respect to
derivative aluminum articles identified in the annex that are not in
chapter 76 of the HTSUS shall be effective upon public notification by
the Secretary of Commerce, that adequate systems are in place to fully,
efficiently, and expediently process and collect tariff revenue for
covered articles. 

     (10) Any aluminum article or derivative article, except those
eligible for admission under “domestic status” as defined in 19 CFR
146.43, that is subject to the duty imposed by this proclamation and
that is admitted into a U.S. foreign trade zone on or after the Commerce
certification date, in accordance with clause 9, may be admitted only
under “privileged foreign status” as defined in 19 CFR 146.41, and will
be subject upon entry for consumption to any ad valorem rates of duty
related to the classification under the applicable HTSUS subheading.

     (11)  The United States International Trade Commission, in
consultation with the Secretary, the Commissioner of United States
Customs and Border Protection (CBP) within the Department of Homeland
Security, and the heads of other relevant executive departments and
agencies, shall revise the HTSUS so that it conforms to the amendments
and effective dates directed in this proclamation within ten days of the
date of this proclamation.  The Secretary is authorized and directed to
publish any such modifications to the HTSUS in the Federal Register.

     (12) CBP shall prioritize reviews of the classification of imported
aluminum articles and derivative aluminum articles and, in the event
that it discovers misclassification resulting in loss of revenue of the
ad valorem duties proclaimed herein, it shall assess monetary penalties
in the maximum amount permitted by law.In addition, CBP shall promptly
notify the Secretary regarding evidence of any efforts to evade payment
of the ad valorem duties proclaimed herein through processing or
alteration of aluminum articles or derivative aluminum articles as a
disguise or artifice prior to importation.In such circumstances, the
Secretary shall consider the processed or altered aluminum articles or
derivative aluminum articles for inclusion as derivative aluminum
articles pursuant to clause 5 of this proclamation.

     (13) No drawback shall be available with respect to the duties
imposed pursuant to this proclamation.

     (14) The Secretary may issue regulations and guidance consistent
with this proclamation, including to address operational necessity.

     (15)  Any provision of a previous proclamation or Executive Order
that is inconsistent with the actions taken in this proclamation is
superseded to the extent of such inconsistency.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
tenth day of February, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five,
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred
and forty-ninth.
