---
date: '2025-02-10'
published_time: 2025-02-10 19:02:28-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/02/eliminating-the-federal-executive-institute/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Eliminating the Federal Executive Institute
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including section 301 of title 3,
United States Code, and section 4117 of title 5, United States Code, it
is hereby ordered:

Section 1.  Purpose and Policy.  It is the policy of the United States
to treat taxpayer dollars responsibly and advance unifying priorities
like a stronger and safer America.  Accordingly, it is the policy of my
Administration to eliminate, to the greatest extent permitted by law,
executive departments and agencies and programs that do not directly
benefit the American people or further our Nation’s interests.

     In particular, the Federal Executive Institute, which was created
by the Administration of President Lyndon B. Johnson more than 50 years
ago, is a Government program purportedly designed to provide leadership
training to bureaucrats.  But bureaucratic leadership over the past
half-century has led to Federal policies that enlarge and entrench the
Washington, D.C., managerial class, a development that has not benefited
the American family.  The Federal Executive Institute should therefore
be eliminated to refocus Government on serving taxpayers, competence,
and dedication to our Constitution, rather than serving the Federal
bureaucracy.

Sec. 2.  Elimination of the Federal Executive Institute.  (a)  The
Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall take all necessary
steps to eliminate the Federal Executive Institute, in accordance with
applicable law.

\(b\)  All prior Presidential or other executive branch documents
establishing or requiring the existence of the Federal Executive
Institute, including the Presidential Memorandum of May 9, 1968,
regarding the Federal Executive Institute, and any applicable provisions
of Executive Order 11348 of April 20, 1967 (Providing for the Further
Training of Government Employees), are hereby revoked.

Sec. 3.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency,
or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    February 10, 2025.
