---
date: '2025-02-01'
modified_time: 2025-02-03 08:43:31-05:00
published_time: 2025-02-01 08:42:17-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/02/imposing-duties-to-address-the-synthetic-opioid-supply-chain-in-the-peoples-republic-of-china/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Imposing Duties to Address the Synthetic Opioid Supply Chain in the People\u2019\
  s Republic of China"
---
 
     By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States of America, including the International
Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq*.) (IEEPA), the
National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq*.) (NEA), section 604
of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2483), and section 301
of title 3, United States Code,

     I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of America, find
that the sustained influx of synthetic opioids has profound consequences
on our Nation, including by killing approximately two hundred Americans
per day, putting a severe strain on our healthcare system, ravaging our
communities, and destroying our families.  Synthetic opioid overdose is
the leading cause of death for people aged 18 to 45 in the United
States.   
  
     During my first term, I took steps to end the direct flow of
fentanyl and other synthetic opioids from the People’s Republic of China
(PRC) to the United States.  Since then, the Chinese Communist Party
(CCP), which exerts ultimate control over the government and enterprises
of the PRC, has subsidized and otherwise incentivized PRC chemical
companies to export fentanyl and related precursor chemicals that are
used to produce synthetic opioids sold illicitly in the United
States.   
  
     Furthermore, the PRC provides support to and safe haven for
PRC-origin transnational criminal organizations (TCOs) that launder the
revenues from the production, shipment, and sale of illicit synthetic
opioids.  These PRC-origin TCOs coordinate and communicate using PRC
social media software applications in the conduct of their business.  
  
     Many PRC-based chemical companies also go to great lengths to evade
law enforcement and hide illicit substances in the flow of legitimate
commerce.  Some of the techniques employed by these PRC-based companies
to conceal the true contents of the parcels and the identity of the
distributors include the use of re-shippers in the United States, false
invoices, fraudulent postage, and deceptive packaging.   While more than
500,000 pounds of drugs have been seized at the southern border each of
the last 3 fiscal years, in addition, more than 42,000 pounds of drugs
have been seized at the northern border each year on average over the
last 3 years.  Illicit drugs kill tens of thousands of Americans each
year, including 75,000 deaths per year attributed to fentanyl alone.  
  
     The influx of these drugs to our Nation threatens the fabric of our
society.  The PRC plays a central role in this challenge, not merely by
failing to stem the ultimate source of many illicit drugs distributed in
the United States, but by actively sustaining and expanding the business
of poisoning our citizens.  
  
     The flow of contraband drugs like fentanyl to the United States
through illicit distribution networks has created a national emergency,
including a public health crisis in the United States, as outlined in
the Presidential Memorandum of January 20, 2025 (America First Trade
Policy), Proclamation 10886 of January 20, 2025 (Declaring a National
Emergency at the Southern Border of the United States), and Executive
Order 14157 of January 20, 2025 (Designating Cartels and Other
Organizations as Foreign Terrorist Organizations and Specially
Designated Global Terrorists).   
  
     Despite multiple attempts to resolve this crisis at its root source
through bilateral dialogue, PRC officials have failed to follow through
with the decisive actions needed to stem the flow of precursor chemicals
to known criminal cartels and shut down the money laundering TCOs.  The
PRC implements the most sophisticated domestic surveillance network
coupled with the most comprehensive domestic law enforcement apparatus
in the world.  The PRC also routinely exerts extraterritorial reach
across the globe to threaten, harass, and suppress what it views as
political dissent.  As such, the CCP does not lack the capacity to
severely blunt the global illicit opioid epidemic; it simply is
unwilling to do so.  
  
     Immediate action is required to address the national emergency I
declared and to finally end this emergency, including the public health
crisis caused by opioid use and addiction, which will not happen until
the full compliance and cooperation of the PRC government is assured.  
I hereby determine and order:  
     Section 1.  (a)  As President of the United States, my highest duty
is the defense of the country and its citizens.  I will not stand by and
allow our citizens to be poisoned, our laws to be trampled, our
communities to be ravaged, or our families to be destroyed.  
  
     I previously declared a national emergency with respect to the
grave threat to the United States posed by the influx of illegal aliens
and drugs into the United States in Proclamation 10886.  Pursuant to the
NEA, I hereby expand the scope of the national emergency declared in
that proclamation to cover the failure of the PRC government to arrest,
seize, detain, or otherwise intercept chemical precursor suppliers,
money launderers, other TCOs, criminals at large, and drugs.  In
addition, this failure to act constitutes an unusual and extraordinary
threat, which has its source in substantial part outside the United
States, to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the
United States.  I hereby declare and reiterate a national emergency
under the NEA and IEEPA to deal with that threat.  This national
emergency requires decisive and immediate action, and I have decided to
impose, consistent with law, ad valorem tariffs on articles that are
products of the PRC as set forth in this order.  In doing so, I invoke
my authority under section 1702(a)(1)(B) of IEEPA, and specifically find
that action under other authority to impose tariffs is inadequate to
address this unusual and extraordinary threat.  
  
     Sec. 2.  (a)  All articles that are products of the PRC, as defined
by the *Federal Register* notice described in section 2(d) of this order
(the *Federal Register* notice), shall be, consistent with law, subject
to an additional 10 percent ad valorem rate of duty.  Such rate of duty
shall apply with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn
from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on
February 4, 2025, except that goods entered for consumption, or
withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, after such time that were
loaded onto a vessel at the port of loading or in transit on the final
mode of transport prior to entry into the United States before 12:01
a.m. eastern time on February 1, 2025, shall not be subject to such
additional duty, only if the importer certifies to U.S. Customs and
Border Protection within the Department of Homeland Security as
specified in the *Federal Register* notice.   
     (b)  The rates of duty established by this order are in addition to
any other duties, fees, exactions, or charges applicable to such
imported articles.   
     (c)  Should the PRC retaliate against the United States in response
to this action through import duties on United States exports to the PRC
or similar measures, the President may increase or expand in scope the
duties imposed under this Executive Order to ensure the efficacy of this
action.  
     (d)  In order to establish the duty rate on imports of articles
that are products of the PRC, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall
determine the modifications necessary to the Harmonized Tariff Schedule
of the United States (HTSUS) in order to effectuate the objectives of
this order consistent with law and shall make such modifications to the
HTSUS through notice in the *Federal Register*.  The modifications made
to the HTSUS by this notice shall be effective with respect to goods
entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on
or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on February 4, 2025, except as
otherwise noted in subsection 2(a) of this section, and shall continue
in effect until such actions are expressly reduced, modified, or
terminated.  
     (e)  Articles that are products of the PRC, except those that are
eligible for admission under “domestic status” as defined in 19 CFR
146.43, which are subject to the duties imposed by this order and are
admitted into a United States foreign trade zone on or after 12:01 a.m.
eastern time on February 4, 2025, except as otherwise noted in
subsection 2(a) of this section, must be admitted as “privileged foreign
status” as defined in 19 CFR 146.41.  Such articles will be subject upon
entry for consumption to the rates of duty related to the classification
under the applicable HTSUS subheading in effect at the time of
admittance into the United States foreign trade zone*. *  
     (f)  No drawback shall be available with respect to the duties
imposed pursuant to this order.   
     (g)  For avoidance of doubt, duty-free *de minimis* treatment under
19 U.S.C. 1321 shall not be available for the articles described in
subsection (a) of this section.   
     (h)  Any prior Presidential Proclamation, Executive Order, or other
presidential directive or guidance related to trade with the PRC that is
inconsistent with the direction in this order is hereby terminated,
suspended, or modified to the extent necessary to give full effect to
this order.   
     (i)  The articles described in subsection (a) of this section shall
exclude those encompassed by 50 U.S.C. 1702(b).  
  
     Sec. 3.  (a)  The Secretary of Homeland Security shall regularly
consult with the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, the Assistant
to the President for National Security Affairs, the Attorney General,
and the Assistant to the President for Homeland Security on the
situation regarding the PRC.  The Secretary of Homeland Security shall
inform the President of any circumstances that, in the opinion of the
Secretary of Homeland Security, indicate that the PRC government has
taken adequate steps to alleviate the opioid crisis through cooperative
actions.  Upon the President’s determination of sufficient action to
alleviate the crisis, the tariffs described in section 2 of this order
will be removed.  
     (b)  The Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the
Secretary of State, the Attorney General, the Assistant to the President
for National Security Affairs, and the Assistant to the President for
Homeland Security, shall recommend additional action, if necessary,
should the PRC fail to take adequate steps to alleviate the illicit drug
crisis through cooperative enforcement actions.  
  
     Sec. 4.  The Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with
the Secretary of the Treasury, the Attorney General, and the Secretary
of Commerce, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including
adopting rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the
President by IEEPA as may be necessary to implement this order.  The
Secretary of Homeland Security may, consistent with applicable law,
redelegate any of these functions within the Department of Homeland
Security.  All executive departments and agencies shall take all
appropriate measures within their authority to implement this order.  
  
     Sec. 5.  The Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with
the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Commerce, the Assistant
to the President for National Security Affairs, the Attorney General,
and the Assistant to the President for Homeland Security, is hereby
authorized to submit recurring and final reports to the Congress on the
national emergency under IEEPA declared in this order, consistent with
section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of
IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).  
  
     Sec. 6.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:  
     (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department,
agency, or the head thereof; or  
     (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative
proposals.  
     (b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.  
     (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
THE WHITE HOUSE,  
    February 1, 2025.
