---
date: '2025-02-10'
modified_time: 2025-02-17 15:09:59-05:00
published_time: 2025-02-10 23:10:50-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/02/adjusting-imports-of-steel-into-the-united-states/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Adjusting Imports of Steel into The United States
---
 
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
   
A PROCLAMATION

1\. On January 11, 2018, the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary)
transmitted to me a report on the Secretary’s investigation into the
effect of imports of steel mill articles (steel articles) on the
national security of the United States under section 232 of the Trade
Expansion Act of 1962, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1862) (section 232).  The
Secretary found and advised me of his opinion that steel articles are
being imported into the United States in such quantities and under such
circumstances as to threaten to impair the national security of the
United States.

2\. In Proclamation 9705 of March 8, 2018 (Adjusting Imports of Steel
Into the United States), I concurred in the Secretary’s finding that
steel articles, as defined in clause 1 of Proclamation 9705 (as amended
by clause 8 of Proclamation 9711 of March 22, 2018 (Adjusting Imports of
Steel Into the United States)), are being imported into the United
States in such quantities and under such circumstances as to threaten to
impair the national security of the United States, and decided to adjust
the imports of steel articles by imposing a 25 percent ad valorem tariff
on such articles imported from most countries.  Proclamation 9705
further stated that any country with which the United States has a
security relationship is welcome to discuss alternative ways to address
the threatened impairment of the national security caused by imports
from that country, and noted that, should the United States and that
country arrive at a satisfactory alternative means to address the threat
to the national security such that the President determines that imports
from that country no longer threaten to impair the national security, I
may remove or modify the restriction on steel articles imports from that
country and, if necessary, adjust the tariff as it applies to other
countries, as the national security interests of the United States
require.

3\. In Proclamation 9705, I also directed the Secretary to monitor
imports of steel articles and inform me of any circumstances that in the
Secretary‘s opinion might indicate the need for further action under
Section 232, as amended, with respect to such imports.  Pursuant to
Proclamation 9705, the Secretary was authorized to provide relief from
the additional duties, based on a request from a directly affected party
located in the United States, for any steel article determined not to be
produced in the United States in a sufficient and reasonably available
amount or of a satisfactory quality, or based upon specific national
security considerations.

1.  

In subsequent proclamations, I noted the conclusion of discussions or
the agreement on certain measures with the Argentine Republic
(Argentina), Proclamation 9759 of May 31, 2018 (Adjusting Imports of
Steel Into the United States); the Commonwealth of Australia
(Australia), Proclamation 9759; the Federative Republic of Brazil
(Brazil), Proclamation 9759; Proclamation 10064 of August 28, 2020
(Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United States); Canada,
Proclamation 9894 of May 19, 2019 (Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the
United States; the United Mexican States (Mexico), Proclamation 9894;
and the Republic of Korea (South Korea), Proclamation 9740 of April 30,
2018 (Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United States).  President
Biden noted the conclusion of discussions or the agreement on certain
measures with the European Union (EU) on behalf of its member countries,
Proclamation 10328 of December 27, 2021 (Adjusting Imports of Steel Into
the United States); Proclamation 10691 of December 28, 2023 (Adjusting
Imports of Steel Into the United States); Japan, Proclamation 10356 of
March 31, 2022 (Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United States); and
the United Kingdom (UK), Proclamation 10406 of May 31, 2022 (Adjusting
Imports of Steel Into the United States), on alternative ways to address
the threat to the national security.  In addition, then-President Biden
acknowledged the close relationship with Ukraine and exempted steel
articles from Ukraine from the tariff. Proclamation 10403 of May 27,
2022 (Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United States); Proclamation
10588 of May 31, 2023 (Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United
States); Proclamation 10771 of May 31, 2024 (Adjusting Imports of Steel
Into the United States).  In Proclamation 10783 of July 10, 2024
(Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United States), President Biden
noted that imports of steel articles from Mexico had increased
significantly as compared to their levels at the time of Proclamation
9894.  Accordingly, he implemented a melt and pour requirement for
imports of steel articles that are products of Mexico and increased the
section 232 duty rate for imports of steel articles and derivative steel
articles that are products of Mexico that are melted and poured in a
country other than Mexico, Canada, or the United States.

4\. The Secretary has informed me that the initial 25 percent ad valorem
tariff imposed by Proclamation 9705 has been an effective means of
reducing imports, encouraging investment and expansion of production by
domestic steel producers, and mitigating the threatened impairment of
U.S. national security.  Following the initial imposition of 25 percent
ad valorem tariffs, the U.S. steel capacity utilization rate increased
to above 80 percent.

5\. The Secretary has also informed me that, notwithstanding the impact
of the tariff imposed by Proclamation 9705, imports of steel articles
from certain countries exempted from the tariff or subject to
alternative agreements have increased significantly, while excess
capacity in the global steel industry has begun to increase again in
recent years.  For example, imports from Canada increased 18 percent
since Canada was excluded from the section 232 tariffs.  According to
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), global
steel excess capacity is projected to reach approximately 630 million
metric tons by 2026, more than total steel production in all OECD
countries.  At the same time, exports of steel from the People’s
Republic of China (China) have recently surged, exceeding 114 million
metric tons through November 2024 while displacing production in other
countries and forcing them to export greater volumes of steel articles
and derivative steel articles to the United States. 

6\. Total steel imports as a share of U.S. consumption increased
significantly in 2024, reaching nearly 30 percent, similar to the import
share of U.S. consumption at the time the Secretary issued his January
11, 2018, report.  Imports from countries with which the United States
has reached alternative agreements have increased significantly as a
share of total imports, from 74 percent in 2018 to 82 percent in 2024,
while imports from countries subject to quantitative restrictions remain
elevated regardless of changing U.S. demand conditions and the
substantial investments made to expand the capabilities of the domestic
industry.  Increasing and persistently high import volumes from
countries exempted from the duties or subject to other alternative
agreements like quotas and tariff-rate quotas have captured the benefit
of U.S. demand at the domestic industry’s expense and transmitted
harmful effects onto the domestic industry.  As steel import market
share has increased, the domestic industry’s performance has been
depressed, resulting in capacity utilization rates persistently lower
than the 80 percent target level highlighted in the Secretary’s report. 

7\. The Secretary has informed me that imports of steel articles from
Canada and Mexico have increased significantly to levels that once again
threaten to impair U.S. national security.  Volumes from both Canada and
Mexico increased overall, from 7.77 million metric tons in 2020 to 9.14
million metric tons in 2024.  Imports have also surged in excess of
historical norms of trade across numerous key product lines, such as
long reinforcing bars, which have experienced import increases of 1,678
percent from Mexico and 564 percent from Canada.  These surges have
occurred while authorities in those countries have supported otherwise
uncompetitive producers with subsidies and other interventions that have
exacerbated the global excess capacity crisis.  In addition, increasing
import volumes and including Mexico’s imports from China, support a
conclusion that there is transshipment or further processing of steel
mill articles from countries that remain subject to the additional ad
valorem tariff proclaimed in Proclamation 9705, or from countries
seeking to evade quantitative restrictions.

8\. The Secretary has also informed me that alternative agreements with
trading partners including Australia, the members of the EU, Japan, and
the United Kingdom have been less effective in eliminating the
threatened impairment of U.S. national security than the additional ad
valorem tariff proclaimed in Proclamation 9705.  As a result, imports of
steel articles from these countries have increased as a share of total
U.S. steel imports from 18.6 percent in 2020 to 20.7 percent in 2024. 
In addition, from 2022 to 2024, imports from countries subject to quotas
(Argentina, Brazil, and South Korea) increased by approximately 1.5
million metric tons, even as U.S. demand declined by more than 6.1
million tons during the period.  Argentina has continued to export steel
to the United States at unsustainable quantities, especially a recent
surge of semifinished products. Furthermore, Argentina’s lack of data
transparency has continued to be of concern for the United States.  From
official trade statistics released by Argentina, it is difficult to
assess the levels of steel being imported from places like China and
Russia, and other potential sources of excess capacity. Brazilian
imports from countries with meaningful levels of overcapacity,
specifically China have grown tremendously in recent years, more than
tripling since the institution of this quota arrangement. 

9\. At the same time, these alternative agreements have not resulted in
sufficient action by these trading partners to address non-market excess
capacity caused primarily by China, or sufficient cooperation by these
trading partners on issues like trade remedies and customs matters or
monitoring bilateral steel trade.  Some countries have also welcomed
steel industry investments from non-market producers in countries like
China seeking to exploit the agreements to obtain preferential access to
the U.S. market.  The agreements have therefore been detrimental to U.S.
steel production and national security.

10\. The Secretary has informed me of similar problems with respect to
the temporary exemption for imports of steel articles and derivative
steel articles from Ukraine.  Rather than supporting the Ukrainian steel
industry and alleviating the economic harm caused by the ongoing
conflict, the benefits of this temporary exemption have accrued
primarily to producers in EU member countries, which have significantly
increased duty-free exports to the U.S. market of steel articles
processed from Ukrainian semi-finished steel.  Since 2021, imports from
Ukraine have remained steady at 0.5 percent of total U.S. imports, while
imports from the European Union have increased 11.2 percent to 14.8
percent.  As a result of the temporary exemption, these imports enter
the U.S. market subject to neither the ad valorem tariff proclaimed in
Proclamation 9705, nor the tariff-rate-quota system applicable to other
imports of steel articles from EU producers as proclaimed in
Proclamation 10328.  This has facilitated evasion of both the section
232 measures and of antidumping duties that would be paid if the
finished products were imported directly from Ukraine.

11\. The Secretary has informed me that producers in countries that
remain subject to the program have continued to evade the measures by
processing covered steel articles into additional downstream steel
derivative products that were not included in the additional ad valorem
tariffs proclaimed in Proclamation 9705 and Proclamation 9980 of January
24, 2020 (Adjusting Imports of Derivative Aluminum Articles and
Derivative Steel Articles Into the United States).  Imports of products
such as fabricated structural steel, prestressed concrete strand, and
others, have increased significantly since the issuance of Proclamation
9705 and Proclamation 9980, eroding the domestic industry’s customer
base and resulting in depressed demand for steel articles produced in
the United States.

12\. The Secretary has also informed me of certain ongoing challenges
with the product exclusion process authorized by Proclamation 9705,
Proclamation 9777 of August 29, 2018 (Adjusting Imports of Steel Into
the United States), and Proclamation 9980 and implemented by subsequent
regulations.  This process has resulted in exclusions for a significant
volume of imports, in a manner that undermines the purpose of the
section 232 measures and threatens to impair national security.  Certain
general approved exclusions remain in effect for entire tariff lines of
steel articles, notwithstanding the domestic industry’s potential to
produce many excluded products. 

13\. I determine that these developments and modifications to the
tariffs announced in Proclamation 9705 have undermined the program’s
national security objectives by preventing the domestic steel industry
from achieving sustained production capacity utilization of at least 80
percent, as determined necessary in the Secretary’s report of January
11, 2018.  I also determine that they have failed to achieve their
articulated objectives.  As a result, I determine that they have
resulted in significantly increasing imports of steel articles that
threaten to impair the national security.    

14\. In light of the Secretary’s findings regarding the alternative
agreements with South Korea proclaimed in Proclamation 9740; Argentina,
Australia, and Brazil proclaimed in Proclamation 9759; Canada and Mexico
proclaimed in Proclamation 9894; EU countries proclaimed in Proclamation
10328; Japan proclaimed in Proclamation 10356; and the United Kingdom
proclaimed in Proclamation 10406, I have revisited the determinations in
these proclamations.  In my judgment, the arrangements with these
countries have failed to provide effective, long-term alternative means
to address these countries’ contribution to the threatened impairment to
the national security by restraining steel articles exports to the
United States from each of them, limiting transshipment and surges and
distorted pricing, and discouraging excess steel capacity and excess
steel production. Thus, I have determined that steel articles imports
from these countries threaten to impair the national security, and I
have decided that it is necessary to terminate these arrangements as of
March 12, 2025.  As of that date, all imports of steel articles and
derivative steel articles from Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, EU
countries, Japan, Mexico, South Korea, and the United Kingdom shall be
subject to the additional ad valorem tariff proclaimed in Proclamation
9705 with respect to steel articles and Proclamation 9980 with respect
to derivative steel articles.  In my judgment, these modifications are
necessary to address the significantly increasing share of imports of
steel articles and derivative steel articles from these sources, which
threaten to impair U.S. national security.  Replacing the alternative
agreements with the additional ad valorem tariffs will be a more robust
and effective means of ensuring that the objectives articulated in the
Secretary’s January 11, 2018, report and subsequent proclamations are
achieved.

15\. For the same reasons, I have also revisited the determinations in
Proclamation 10403, Proclamation 10558, and Proclamation 10771.  In my
judgment, the arrangement with Ukraine has failed to provide effective,
long-term alternative means to address Ukraine’s contribution to the
threatened impairment to our national security by restraining steel
articles exports to the United States from Ukraine, limiting
transshipment and surges, and discouraging excess steel capacity and
excess steel production. Thus, I have determined that steel articles
imports from Ukraine threaten to impair the national security and have
determined that it is necessary to terminate the temporary exemption for
imports of steel articles and derivative steel articles from Ukraine as
proclaimed in Proclamation 10403, Proclamation 10558, and Proclamation
10771.  In my judgment, terminating this exemption will prevent abuses
that have resulted in significantly increasing imports from sources
other than Ukraine, will prevent evasion of antidumping duties, and will
support the domestic steel industry without harming Ukraine’s economic
recovery. 

16\. In light of the information provided by the Secretary that
significantly increasing imports of certain derivative steel articles
have depressed demand for steel articles produced by domestic steel
producers, I have determined that it is necessary and appropriate in
light of U.S. national security interests to adjust the tariff
proclaimed in Proclamation 9705 and Proclamation 9980 to apply to
additional derivative steel articles.  As of March 12, 2025, the
additional derivative steel articles covered by this proclamation, as
set out in Annex I to this proclamation, shall be subject to the ad
valorem duties proclaimed in Proclamation 9705 and Proclamation 9980,
except for derivative steel articles processed in another country from
steel articles that were melted and poured in the United States.  For
any derivative steel article identified in Annex I that is not in
Chapter 73 of the HTSUS, the additional ad valorem duty shall apply only
to the steel content of the derivative steel article.  The Secretary
shall publish a notice in the *Federal Register* to this effect,
including Annex I to this proclamation. 

17\. The Secretary has informed me that his findings with regard to the
product exclusion process present circumstances that in the Secretary’s
opinion indicate the need for further action by the President under
section 232.  Accordingly, as of the date of this proclamation the
Secretary is no longer authorized to provide relief from the additional
duties set forth in clause 2 of Proclamation 9705 for any steel article
determined not to be produced in the United States in a sufficient and
reasonably available amount or a satisfactory quality or based on
specific national security determinations, and the product exclusion
process as authorized in clause 3 of Proclamation 9705, clause 1 of
Proclamation 9777, and clause 2 of Proclamation 9980 is terminated,
effective immediately.  I have determined that terminating product
exclusions is necessary to ensure that overly broad exclusions do not
allow high volumes of imports to undermine the objectives articulated in
the Secretary’s January 11, 2018, report and relevant subsequent
proclamations.  This change will also relieve the administrative burden
that the process has created.  Following this proclamation, and subject
to any restrictions set forth in or pursuant to other provisions of
applicable law, imports of any steel article or derivative steel article
from any source and in any quantity will be available to U.S. importers,
provided that the additional ad valorem tariffs are paid upon entry or
withdrawal from warehouse for consumption.

18\. Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended,
authorizes the President to take action to adjust the imports of an
article and its derivatives if the President concurs with the
Secretary’s finding that the article is being imported into the United
States in such quantities or under such circumstances as to threaten to
impair the national security. 

19\. Section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2483),
authorizes the president to embody in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of
the United States (HTSUS) the substance of statutes affecting import
treatment, and actions thereunder, including the removal, modification,
continuance, or imposition of any rate of duty or other import
restriction.

1.  

20.  The United States will monitor the implementation and effectiveness
of these actions in addressing our national security needs, and I may
revisit this determination, as appropriate.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States
of America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including section 301 of title 3,
United States Code, section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended,
and section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended, do
hereby proclaim as follows: 

-   \(1\) The provisions of Proclamation 9740 with respect to imports of
    steel articles from South Korea; Proclamation 9759 with respect to
    imports of steel articles from Argentina, Australia, and Brazil;
    Proclamation 10064 with respect to imports of steel articles from
    Brazil; Proclamation 9894 with respect to imports of steel articles
    from Canada and Mexico; Proclamation 10783 with respect to imports
    of steel articles from Mexico; Proclamation 10328 and Proclamation
    10691 with respect to imports of steel articles and derivative steel
    articles from the EU; Proclamation 10356 with respect to imports of
    steel articles and derivative steel articles from Japan;
    Proclamation 10406 with respect to imports of steel articles and
    derivative steel articles from the United Kingdom; and Proclamation
    10403, Proclamation 10558, and Proclamation 10771 with respect to
    steel articles and derivative steel articles from Ukraine shall be
    ineffective as of 12:01 a.m. eastern time on March 12, 2025.  The
    provisions of clause 1 of Proclamation 9740 as applicable to imports
    of steel articles or derivative steel articles from Argentina,
    Australia, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, South Korea, and EU member
    countries shall be ineffective as of 12:01 a.m. eastern time on
    March 12, 2025.  The provisions of clause 1 of Proclamation 9980 as
    applicable to imports of derivative steel articles from Argentina,
    Australia, Canada, Mexico, and South Korea shall be ineffective as
    of 12:01 a.m. eastern time on March 12, 2025.  As of 12:01 a.m.
    eastern time on March 12, 2025, all imports of steel articles and
    derivative steel articles from these countries shall be subject to
    the additional ad valorem tariffs proclaimed in Proclamation 9705
    and Proclamation 9980.
-   \(2\) Clause 2 of Proclamation 9705, as amended, is revised to read
    as follows:

“(2)(a)  In order to establish certain modifications to the duty rate on
imports of steel articles, subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS is
modified as provided in the forthcoming annex to this proclamation set
out in a subsequent *Federal Register* notice and any subsequent
proclamations regarding such steel articles.

     (b)  Except as otherwise provided in this proclamation, or in
notices published pursuant to clause 3 of this proclamation, all steel
articles imports covered by heading 9903.80.01, in subchapter III of
chapter 99 of the HTSUS, shall be subject to an additional 25 percent ad
valorem rate of duty with respect to goods entered for consumption, or
withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, as follows: (i) on or after
12:01 a.m. eastern time on March 23, 2018, from all countries except
Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, South Korea, and the
member countries of the European Union; (ii) on or after 12:01 a.m.
eastern time on June 1, 2018, from all countries except Argentina,
Australia, Brazil, and South Korea; (iii) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern
time on August 13, 2018, from all countries except Argentina, Australia,
Brazil, South Korea, and Turkey; (iv) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern
time on May 20, 2019, from all countries except Argentina, Australia,
Brazil, South Korea, and Turkey; (v) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time
on May 21, 2019, from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil,
Canada, Mexico, and South Korea; (vi) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern
time on January 1, 2022, from all countries except Argentina, Australia,
Brazil, Canada, Mexico, and South Korea, and except the member countries
of the European Union through 11:59 p.m. eastern time on December 31,
2023, for steel articles covered by headings 9903.80.65 through
9903.81.19, inclusive; (vii) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on
April 1, 2022, from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil,
Canada, Mexico, and South Korea, and except the member countries of the
European Union through 11:59 p.m. eastern time on December 31, 2023, for
steel articles covered by headings 9903.80.65 through 9903.81.19,
inclusive, and from Japan, for steel articles covered by headings
9903.81.25 through 9903.81.80, inclusive; (viii) on or after 12:01 a.m.
eastern time on June 1, 2022, from all countries except Argentina,
Australia, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, South Korea, and Ukraine through
11:59 p.m. eastern time on June 1, 2023, and except the member countries
of the European Union through 11:59 p.m. eastern time on December 31,
2023, for steel articles covered by headings 9903.80.65 through
9903.81.19, inclusive, and from Japan and the United Kingdom (UK), for
steel articles covered by subheadings 9903.81.25 through 9903.81.78 and
heading 9903.81.80, and from the member countries of the European Union,
for steel articles covered by heading 9903.81.81; (ix) on or after 12:01
a.m. eastern time on June 1, 2023, from all countries except Argentina,
Australia, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, South Korea, and Ukraine through
11:59 p.m. eastern time on June 1, 2024, and except the member countries
of the European Union through 11:59 p.m. eastern time on December 31,
2023, for steel articles covered by headings 9903.80.65 through
9903.81.19, inclusive, and from Japan and the UK, for steel articles
covered by subheadings 9903.81.25 through 9903.81.78 and heading
9903.81.80, and from the member countries of the European Union, for
steel articles covered by heading 9903.81.81, and from the member
countries of the European Union where the steel used in the manufacture
of the steel article is melted and poured in Ukraine through 11:59 p.m.
eastern time on June 1, 2024, (x) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on
January 1, 2024, from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil,
Canada, Mexico, and South Korea, and except for Ukraine in accordance
with the relevant proclamation as amended, and except the member
countries of the European Union in accordance with the relevant
proclamation as amended, for steel articles covered by headings
9903.80.65 through 9903.81.19, inclusive, and from Japan and the UK , in
accordance the relevant proclamation as amended, for steel articles
covered by subheadings 9903.81.25 through 9903.81.78 and heading
9903.81.80, and from the member countries of the European Union in
accordance with the relevant proclamation as amended, for steel articles
covered by heading 9903.81.81, and from the member countries of the
European Union where the steel used in the manufacture of the steel
article is melted and poured in Ukraine in accordance with the relevant
proclamation as amended, and (xi) from all countries on or after 12:01
a.m. eastern time on March 12, 2025, unless suspended. Further, except
as otherwise provided in notices published pursuant to clause 3 of this
proclamation, all steel articles imports from Turkey covered by heading
9903.80.02, in subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS, shall be
subject to a 50 percent ad valorem rate of duty with respect to goods
entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on
or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on August 13, 2018, and prior to 12:01
a.m. eastern time on May 21, 2019.  These rates of duty, which are in
addition to any other duties, fees, exactions, and charges applicable to
such imported steel articles, shall apply to imports of steel articles
from each country as specified in the preceding three sentences.“

-   \(3\) The first two sentences of clause 1 of Proclamation 9980 are
    revised to read as follows:

“In order to establish increases in the duty rate on imports of certain
derivative articles, subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS is
modified as provided in Annex I and Annex II to this proclamation.
 Except as otherwise provided in this proclamation, all imports of
derivative aluminum articles specified in Annex I to this proclamation
shall be subject to an additional 10 percent ad valorem rate of duty,
and all imports of derivative steel articles specified in Annex II to
this proclamation shall be subject to an additional 25 percent ad
valorem rate of duty, with respect to goods entered for consumption, or
withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, as follows: (i) on or after
12:01 a.m. eastern time on February 8, 2020, these rates of duty, which
are in addition to any other duties, fees, exactions, and charges
applicable to such imported derivative aluminum articles or steel
articles, shall apply to imports of derivative aluminum articles
described in Annex I to this proclamation from all countries except
Argentina, the Commonwealth of Australia (Australia), Canada, and the
United Mexican States (Mexico), and to imports of derivative steel
articles described in Annex II to this proclamation from all countries
except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, and South Korea;
(ii) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on January 1, 2022, these rates
of duty, which are in addition to any other duties, fees, exactions, and
charges applicable to such imported derivative aluminum articles or
steel articles, shall apply to imports of derivative aluminum articles
described in Annex I to this proclamation from all countries except
Argentina, Australia, Canada, the member countries of the European
Union, and Mexico, and to imports of derivative steel articles described
in Annex II to this proclamation from all countries except Argentina,
Australia, Brazil, Canada, the member countries of the European Union,
Mexico, and South Korea; (iii) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on
April 1, 2022, these rates of duty, which are in addition to any other
duties, fees, exactions, and charges applicable to such imported
derivative aluminum articles or steel articles, shall apply to imports
of derivative aluminum articles described in Annex I to this
proclamation from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Canada, the
member countries of the European Union, and Mexico, and to imports of
derivative steel articles described in Annex II to this proclamation
from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, the
member countries of the European Union, Japan, Mexico, and South Korea;
(iv) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on June 1, 2022, these rates of
duty, which are in addition to any other duties, fees, exactions, and
charges applicable to such imported derivative aluminum articles or
steel articles, shall apply to imports of derivative aluminum articles
described in Annex I to this proclamation from all countries except
Argentina, Australia, Canada, the member countries of the European
Union, Mexico, and the UK, and to imports of derivative steel articles
described in Annex II to this proclamation from all countries except
Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, the member countries of the
European Union, Japan, Mexico, South Korea, and the UK, and except from
Ukraine through 11:59 p.m. eastern time on June 1, 2023; (v) on or after
12:01 a.m. eastern time on March 10, 2023, these rates of duty, which
are in addition to any other duties, fees, exactions, and charges
applicable to such imported derivative aluminum articles or steel
articles, shall apply to imports of derivative aluminum articles
described in Annex I to this proclamation from all countries except
Argentina, Australia, Canada, the member countries of the European
Union, Mexico, the UK, and Russia, and to imports of derivative steel
articles described in Annex II to this proclamation from all countries
except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, the member countries of the
European Union, Japan, Mexico, South Korea, and the UK, and except from
Ukraine through 11:59 p.m. eastern time on June 1, 2023; (vi) on or
after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on June 1, 2023, these rates of duty,
which are in addition to any other duties, fees, exactions, and charges
applicable to such imported derivative aluminum articles or steel
articles, shall apply to imports of derivative aluminum articles
described in Annex I to this proclamation from all countries except
Argentina, Australia, Canada, the member countries of the European
Union, Mexico, the UK, and Russia, and to imports of derivative steel
articles described in Annex II to this proclamation from all countries
except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, the member countries of the
European Union, Japan, Mexico, South Korea, and the UK, and except from
Ukraine om accordance with the relevant proclamation as amended; and
(vii) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on March 12, 2025,
unless suspended, these rates of duty, which are in addition to any
other duties, taxes, fees, exactions, and charges applicable to such
imported derivative steel articles, shall apply to imports of derivative
steel articles described in Annex II to this proclamation from all
countries.”

-   \(4\) Except as otherwise provided in this proclamation, all imports
    of derivative steel articles specified in Annex I to this
    proclamation or in any subsequent annex to this proclamation, as set
    out in a subsequent notice in the Federal Register, shall be subject
    to an additional 25 percent ad valorem rate of duty, with respect to
    goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for
    consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on the
    Commerce certification date in clause 8. These rates of duty, which
    are in addition to any other duties, taxes, fees, exactions, and
    charges applicable to such imported derivative steel articles, shall
    apply to imports of derivative steel articles described in Annex I
    to this proclamation from all countries, but shall not apply to
    derivative steel articles processed in another country from steel
    articles that were melted and poured in the United States. The
    Secretary shall continue to monitor imports of the derivative
    articles described in Annex I to this proclamation, and shall, from
    time to time, in consultation with the United States Trade
    Representative, review the status of such imports with respect to
    the national security of the United States.
-   \(5\) For purposes of implementing the requirements in this
    proclamation, importers of steel derivative articles shall provide
    to U.S. Customs and Border Patrol within the Department of Homeland
    Security (CBP) any information necessary to identify the steel
    content used in the manufacture of steel derivative articles
    imports, covered by this Proclamation. CBP shall implement the
    information requirements as soon as practicable.
-   \(6\) Within 90 days after the date of this proclamation, the
    Secretary shall establish a process for including additional
    derivative steel articles within the scope of the ad valorem duties
    proclaimed in Proclamation 9705, Proclamation 9980, and clause 4 of
    this proclamation.  In addition to inclusions made by the Secretary,
    this process shall provide for including additional derivative steel
    articles at the request of a producer of a steel article or
    derivative steel article, or an industry association representing
    one or more such producers, where the request establishes that
    imports of a derivative steel article have increased in a manner
    that threatens to impair the national security or otherwise
    undermine the objectives set forth in the Secretary’s January 11,
    2018, report or any Proclamation issued pursuant thereto.  When the
    Secretary receives such a request from a domestic producer or
    industry association, the Secretary shall issue a determination
    regarding whether or not to include the derivative steel article or
    articles within 60 days of receiving the request. 
-   \(7\) The provisions of clause 3 of Proclamation 9705, clause 1 of
    Proclamation 9777, clause 2 of Proclamation 9980, or any other
    provisions authorizing the Secretary to grant relief for certain
    products from the additional ad valorem duties or quantitative
    restrictions set forth in prior proclamations are hereby revoked. 
    As of 11:59 p.m. eastern time on the date of this proclamation, the
    Secretary shall not consider any product exclusion requests or renew
    any product exclusion requests in effect as of that date.  The
    Secretary shall take all necessary action to rescind the product
    exclusion process, including publication in the *Federal Register*. 
    Granted product exclusions shall remain effective until their
    expiration date or until excluded product volume is imported,
    whichever occurs first.  The Secretary shall terminate all existing
    general approved exclusions as of March 12, 2025.   
-   \(8\) The modifications made by this proclamation in clause 4 shall
    be effective upon public notification by the Secretary of Commerce,
    that adequate systems are in place to fully, efficiently, and
    expediently process and collect tariff revenue for covered articles.
-   \(9\) Any steel article or derivative article, except those eligible
    for admission under “domestic status” as defined in 19 CFR 146.43,
    that is subject to the duty imposed by this proclamation and that is
    admitted into a U.S. foreign trade zone on or after 12:01 a.m.
    eastern daylight time on March 12, 2025, must be admitted as
    “privileged foreign status” as defined in 19 CFR 146.41, and will be
    subject upon entry for consumption to any ad valorem rates of duty
    related to the classification under the applicable HTSUS
    subheading.  Any steel article or derivative steel article, except
    those eligible for admission under “domestic status” as defined in
    19 CFR 146.43, that is subject to the duty imposed by this
    proclamation, and that was admitted into a U.S. foreign trade zone
    under “privileged foreign status” as defined in 19 CFR 146.41, prior
    to 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on March 12, 2025 , will
    likewise be subject upon entry for consumption to any ad valorem
    rates of duty related to the classification under the applicable
    HTSUS subheading added by this proclamation.  Pursuant to clause 8,
    the duties on steel derivatives established by clause 4 of this
    Proclamation shall be suspended until public notification by the
    Secretary of Commerce that adequate systems are in place to fully,
    efficiently, and expediently process and collect tariff revenue
    applicable to covered articles.
-   \(10\) Any product listed in Annex Ito this proclamation or any
    subsequent annex published in the Federal Register pursuant to this
    Proclamation, that is subject to the additional duties imposed by
    this proclamation, and that is admitted into a U.S. foreign trade
    zone, except any product that is eligible for admission under
    “domestic status” as defined in 19 CFR 146.43, may only be admitted
    as “privileged foreign status,” as defined in 19 CFR 146.41,
    effective as of the date that the additional duties are imposed.
-   \(11\) The Secretary, in consultation with the Commissioner of CBP,
    Security, and the heads of other relevant executive departments and
    agencies, shall revise the HTSUS so that it conforms to the
    amendments and effective dates directed in this proclamation within
    ten days of March 12, 2025.  The Secretary is authorized and
    directed to publish any such modification and future modifications
    to the HTSUS in the *Federal Register*.
-   \(12\) CBP shall prioritize reviews of the classification of
    imported steel articles and derivative steel articles and, in the
    event that it discovers misclassification resulting in non-payment
    of the ad valorem duties proclaimed herein, it shall assess monetary
    penalties in the maximum amount permitted by law and shall not
    consider any evidence of mitigating factors in its determination. 
    In addition, CBP shall promptly notify the Secretary regarding
    evidence of any efforts to evade payment of the ad valorem duties
    proclaimed herein through processing or alteration of steel articles
    or derivative steel articles prior to importation.  In such
    circumstances, the Secretary shall consider the processed or altered
    steel articles or derivative steel articles for inclusion as
    derivative steel articles pursuant to clause 5 of this proclamation.
-   \(13\) No drawback shall be available with respect to the duties
    imposed pursuant to this proclamation.
-   (14)  The Secretary may issue regulations and guidance consistent
    with this proclamation, including to address operational necessity.
-   \(15\) Any provision of a previous proclamation or Executive Order
    that is inconsistent with the actions taken in this proclamation is
    superseded to the extent of such inconsistency.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this

tenth day of February, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five,
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred
and forty-ninth.
