---
date: '2025-02-01'
modified_time: 2025-02-03 08:38:40-05:00
published_time: 2025-02-01 20:36:39-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/02/imposing-duties-to-address-the-flow-of-illicit-drugs-across-our-national-border/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Imposing Duties to Address the Flow of Illicit Drugs Across Our Northern Border
---
 
     By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States of America, including the International
Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq*.) (IEEPA), the
National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq*.) (NEA), section 604
of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2483), and section 301
of title 3, United States Code,

I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of America, find that
the sustained influx of illicit opioids and other drugs has profound
consequences on our Nation, endangering lives and putting a severe
strain on our healthcare system, public services, and communities.

This challenge threatens the fabric of our society.  Gang members,
smugglers, human traffickers, and illicit drugs of all kinds have poured
across our borders and into our communities.  Canada has played a
central role in these challenges, including by failing to devote
sufficient attention and resources or meaningfully coordinate with
United States law enforcement partners to effectively stem the tide of
illicit drugs.

Drug trafficking organizations (DTOs) are the world’s leading producers
of fentanyl, methamphetamine, cocaine, and other illicit drugs, and they
cultivate, process, and distribute massive quantities of narcotics that
fuel addiction and violence in communities across the United States. 
These DTOs often collaborate with transnational cartels to smuggle
illicit drugs into the United States, utilizing clandestine airstrips,
maritime routes, and overland corridors. 

The challenges at our southern border are foremost in the public
consciousness, but our northern border is not exempt from these issues. 
Criminal networks are implicated in human trafficking and smuggling
operations, enabling unvetted illegal migration across our northern
border.  There is also a growing presence of Mexican cartels operating
fentanyl and nitazene synthesis labs in Canada.  The flow of illicit
drugs like fentanyl to the United States through both illicit
distribution networks and international mail — due, in the case of the
latter, to the existing administrative exemption from duty and taxes,
also known as *de minimis*, under section 1321 of title 19, United
States Code — has created a public health crisis in the United States,
as outlined in the Presidential Memorandum of January 20, 2025 (America
First Trade Policy) and Executive Order 14157 of January 20, 2025
(Designating Cartels and Other Organizations as Foreign Terrorist
Organizations and Specially Designated Global Terrorists).  With respect
to smuggling of illicit drugs across our northern border, Canada’s
Financial Transactions and Reports Analysis Centre recently published a
study on the laundering of proceeds of illicit synthetic opioids, which
recognized Canada’s heightened domestic production of fentanyl, largely
from British Columbia, and its growing footprint within international
narcotics distribution.  Despite a North American dialogue on the public
health impacts of illicit drugs since 2016, Canadian officials have
acknowledged that the problem has only grown.  And while U.S. Customs
and Border Protection (CBP) within the Department of Homeland Security
seized, comparatively, much less fentanyl from Canada than from Mexico
last year, fentanyl is so potent that even a very small parcel of the
drug can cause many deaths and destruction to America families.  In
fact, the amount of fentanyl that crossed the northern border last year
could kill 9.5 million Americans.

Immediate action is required to finally end this public health crisis
and national emergency, which will not happen unless the compliance and
cooperation of Canada is assured.

I hereby determine and order:

    <span style="text-decoration: underline"> Section 1.</span>  (a)  As
President of the United States, my highest duty is the defense of the
country and its
citizens.<span style="text-decoration: underline"> </span> A Nation
without borders is not a nation at all.  I will not stand by and allow
our sovereignty to be eroded, our laws to be trampled, our citizens to
be endangered, or our borders to be disrespected anymore.

I previously declared a national emergency with respect to the grave
threat to the United States posed by the influx of illegal aliens and
illicit drugs into the United States in Proclamation 10886 of January
20, 2025 (Declaring a National Emergency at the Southern Border). 
Pursuant to the NEA, I hereby expand the scope of the national emergency
declared in that Proclamation to cover the threat to the safety and
security of Americans, including the public health crisis of deaths due
to the use of fentanyl and other illicit drugs, and the failure of
Canada to do more to arrest, seize, detain, or otherwise intercept DTOs,
other drug and human traffickers, criminals at large, and drugs.  In
addition, this failure to act on the part of Canada constitutes an
unusual and extraordinary threat, which has its source in substantial
part outside the United States, to the national security and foreign
policy of the United States.  I hereby declare and reiterate a national
emergency under the NEA and IEEPA to deal with that threat.  This
national emergency requires decisive and immediate action, and I have
decided to impose, consistent with law, ad valorem tariffs on articles
that are products of Canada set forth in this order.  In doing so, I
invoke my authority under section 1702(a)(1)(B) of IEEPA and
specifically find that action under other authority to impose tariffs is
inadequate to address this unusual and extraordinary threat.

    <span style="text-decoration: underline"> Sec. 2. </span> (a)  All
articles that are products of Canada as defined by the *Federal
Register* notice described in subsection (e) of this section (*Federal
Register* notice), and except for those products described in subsection
(b) of this section, shall be, consistent with law, subject to an
additional 25 percent ad valorem rate of duty.  Such rate of duty shall
apply with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from
warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on
February 4, 2025, except that goods entered for consumption, or
withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, after such time that were
loaded onto a vessel at the port of loading or in transit on the final
mode of transport prior to entry into the United States before 12:01
a.m. eastern time on February 1, 2025, shall not be subject to such
additional duty, only if the importer certifies to CBP as specified in
the *Federal Register* notice. 

(b)  With respect to energy or energy resources, as defined in section 8
of Executive Order 14156 of January 20, 2025 (Declaring a National
Energy Emergency), and as otherwise included in the *Federal Register*
notice, such articles that are products of Canada as defined by the
*Federal Register* notice shall be, consistent with law, subject to an
additional 10 percent ad valorem rate of duty.  Such rate of duty shall
apply with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from
warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on
February 4, 2025, except that goods entered for consumption, or
withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, after such time that were
loaded onto a vessel at the port of loading or in transit on the final
mode of transport prior to entry into the United States before 12:01
a.m. eastern time on February 1, 2025, shall not be subject to such
additional duty, only if the importer certifies to CBP as specified in
the *Federal Register* notice.  

(c)  The rates of duty established by this order are in addition to any
other duties, fees, exactions, or charges applicable to such imported
articles. 

(d)  Should Canada retaliate against the United States in response to
this action through import duties on United States exports to Canada or
similar measures, the President may increase or expand in scope the
duties imposed under this order to ensure the efficacy of this action.

(e)  In order to establish the duty rate on imports of articles that are
products of Canada, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall determine
the modifications necessary to the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the
United States (HTSUS) in order to effectuate this order consistent with
law and shall make such modifications to the HTSUS through notice in the
*Federal Register*.  The modifications made to the HTSUS by this notice
shall be effective with respect to goods entered for consumption, or
withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern
time on February 4, 2025, and shall continue in effect until such
actions are expressly reduced, modified, or terminated.

(f)  Articles that are products of Canada, except those that are
eligible for admission under “domestic status” as defined in 19 CFR
146.43, which are subject to the duties imposed by this order and are
admitted into a United States foreign trade zone on or after 12:01 a.m.
eastern time on February 4, 2025, except as otherwise noted in
subsections (a) and (b) of this section, must be admitted as “privileged
foreign status” as defined in 19 CFR 146.41.  Such articles will be
subject upon entry for consumption to the rates of duty related to the
classification under the applicable HTSUS subheading in effect at the
time of admittance into the United States foreign trade zone*. *

(g)  No drawback shall be available with respect to the duties imposed
pursuant to this order. 

(h)  For avoidance of doubt, duty-free *de minimis* treatment under 19
U.S.C. 1321 shall not be available for the articles described in
subsection (a) and subsection (b) of this section.

     (i)  Any prior Presidential Proclamation, Executive Order, or other
Presidential directive or guidance related to trade with Canada that is
inconsistent with the direction in this order is hereby terminated,
suspended, or modified to the extent necessary to give full effect to
this order. 

     (j)  The articles described in subsection (a) and subsection (b) of
this section shall exclude those encompassed by 50 U.S.C. 1702(b).

     <span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 3. </span> (a)  The
Secretary of Homeland Security shall regularly consult with the
Secretary of State, the Attorney General, the Assistant to the President
for National Security Affairs, and the Assistant to the President for
Homeland Security on the situation at our northern border.  The
Secretary of Homeland Security shall inform the President of any
circumstances that, in the opinion of the Secretary of Homeland
Security, indicate that the Government of Canada has taken adequate
steps to alleviate this public health crisis through cooperative
enforcement actions.  Upon the President’s determination of sufficient
action to alleviate the crisis, the tariffs described in section 2 of
this order shall be removed.

(b)  The Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the
Secretary of State, the Attorney General, the Assistant to the President
for National Security Affairs, and the Assistant to the President for
Homeland Security, shall recommend additional action, if necessary,
should the Government of Canada fail to take adequate steps to alleviate
the illegal migration and illicit drug crises through cooperative
enforcement actions.

     <span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 4. </span> The
Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of
the Treasury, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Commerce, is
hereby authorized to take such actions, including adopting rules and
regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA
as may be necessary to implement this order.  The Secretary of Homeland
Security may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these
functions within the Department of Homeland Security.  All executive
departments and agencies shall take all appropriate measures within
their authority to implement this order.

    <span style="text-decoration: underline"> Sec. 5. </span> The
Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the Secretary of
the Treasury, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Commerce, the
Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, and the
Assistant to the President for Homeland Security, is hereby authorized
to submit recurring and final reports to the Congress on the national
emergency under IEEPA declared in this order, consistent with section
401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of IEEPA (50
U.S.C. 1703(c)).

    <span style="text-decoration: underline"> Sec. 6.</span>  General
Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or
otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    February 1, 2025.
