---
date: '2025-02-04'
published_time: 2025-02-04 21:15:44-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/02/withdrawing-the-united-states-from-and-ending-funding-to-certain-united-nations-organizations-and-reviewing-united-states-support-to-all-international-organizations/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Withdrawing the United States from and Ending Funding to Certain United Nations
  Organizations and Reviewing United States Support to All International Organizations
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered:

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section 1.  Purpose.</span> 
The United States helped found the United Nations (UN) after World War
II to prevent future global conflicts and promote international peace
and security.  But some of the UN’s agencies and bodies have drifted
from this mission and instead act contrary to the interests of the
United States while attacking our allies and propagating anti-Semitism. 
As in 2018, when the United States withdrew from the UN Human Rights
Council (UNHRC), the United States will reevaluate our commitment to
these institutions.

Three UN organizations that deserve renewed scrutiny are the UNHRC; the
UN Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO); and the
UN Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East
(UNRWA).

UNRWA has reportedly been infiltrated by members of groups long
designated by the Secretary of State (Secretary) as foreign terrorist
organizations, and UNRWA employees were involved in the October 7, 2023,
Hamas attack on Israel.  UNHRC has protected human rights abusers by
allowing them to use the organization to shield themselves from
scrutiny, while UNESCO has demonstrated failure to reform itself, has
continually demonstrated anti-Israel sentiment over the past decade, and
has failed to address concerns over mounting arrears.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 2.  UNHRC and UNESCO
Participation.</span>  (a)  The United States will not participate in
the UNHRC and will not seek election to that body.  The Secretary shall
terminate the office of United States Representative to the UNHRC and
any positions primarily dedicated to supporting the United States
Representative to the UNHRC. 

\(b\)  The United States will also conduct a review of its membership in
UNESCO.  This review shall be led by the Secretary, in coordination with
the United States Representative to the United Nations (UN Ambassador),
and must be completed within 90 days of the date of this order.  The
review will include an evaluation of how and if UNESCO supports United
States interests.  In particular, the review will include an analysis of
any anti-Semitism or anti-Israel sentiment within the organization.  

<u>Sec</u><span style="text-decoration: underline">. 3.
 Funding.</span>  (a)  Executive departments and agencies shall not use
any funds for a contribution, grant, or other payment to UNRWA,
consistent with section 301 of title III, division G, of Public Law
118-47 (March 23, 2024).  The Secretary shall withdraw the determination
previously made under section 7048(c)(1) of title VII, division F, of
Public Law 118-47.  Accordingly, of the funds appropriated for a
contribution to the UN Regular Budget under the heading “Contributions
to International Organizations” of Public Law 118-47, as most recently
continued by Public Law 118-158 (December 21, 2024), the Secretary shall
withhold the United States proportionate share of the total annual
amount of UN Regular Budget funding for the UNHRC, consistent with
section 7048(c) of title VII, division F, of Public Law 118-47.

\(b\)  Within 180 days of the date of this order, the Secretary, in
consultation with the UN Ambassador, shall conduct a review of all
international intergovernmental organizations of which the United States
is a member and provides any type of funding or other support, and all
conventions and treaties to which the United States is a party, to
determine which organizations, conventions, and treaties are contrary to
the interests of the United States and whether such organizations,
conventions, or treaties can be reformed.  Upon the conclusion of that
review, the Secretary shall report the findings to the President,
through the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs,
and provide recommendations as to whether the United States should
withdraw from any such organizations, conventions, or treaties. 

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 4.  Notification</span>. 
The Secretary shall inform the UN Secretary General and the leadership
of UNRWA and the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights that the United
States will not fund UNRWA or the UNHRC and that the United States will
not satisfy any claims to pay 2025 assessments or prior arrears by these
organizations.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 5.  General
Provisions.</span>  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to
impair or otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    February 3, 2025.
