---
date: '2025-02-03'
modified_time: 2025-02-03 17:19:38-05:00
published_time: 2025-02-03 17:19:37-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/02/american-heart-month-2025/
tags: presidential-actions
title: American Heart Month, 2025
---
 
Every day, untold numbers of our friends, relatives, neighbors, and
coworkers are affected by the devastating affliction of heart disease. 
As the Nation’s leading cause of death, cardiovascular disease has
stolen infinite lives, crushed countless families, and imposed
unimaginable heartbreak upon Americans of every walk of life.  This
American Heart Month, we mourn and pray for those we have lost and
recommit ourselves to ending the deadly plight of heart disease once and
for all.  
  
Thanks to advancements in medicine, science, and technology, our Nation
has made tremendous strides in combatting heart disease — and the
American people are now better equipped than ever before to receive
lifesaving treatments, respond to medical complications, and modify
behavior and habits to ensure they can lead long and healthy lives.    
  
But even one soul lost to heart disease is a tragedy beyond
comprehension.  To that end, my Administration will work diligently to
save lives, lower healthcare costs, and foster a stronger, safer, and
healthier future for every citizen.  For as long as I am President, I
will always be an unwavering advocate for improving the health of every
American.  
  
The first step in confronting the cardiac disease crisis is taking
concrete action to lower the odds of diagnosis — and encouraging those
in our lives to take all necessary measures to root out unhealthy
habits.  Research has consistently shown that risk factors contributing
to heart disease include obesity, high blood pressure and cholesterol,
lack of exercise, excessive alcohol use, and smoking.  Making small
adjustments to our health and routines can yield extraordinary and even
life-saving results.  My Administration is also steadfastly committed to
cracking down on Big Pharma and ending the chronic disease epidemic.
 And we will fulfill our pledge to investigate what has caused the
decades-long increase in health problems and childhood diseases —
including obesity, autoimmune disorders, infertility, and autism.  As
Americans, we owe it to ourselves and our families to take care of our
bodies — and to cherish God’s gift of life for as long and as vigorously
as we can.  
  
As we enter into this American Heart Month, let us seek to improve our
health, lengthen our lives, and nurture a culture, a government, and a
Nation that upholds the dignity of life and protects the human heart.  
  
In acknowledgement of the importance of the ongoing fight against
cardiovascular disease, the Congress, by Joint Resolution approved on
December 30, 1963, as amended (36 U.S.C. 101), has requested that the
President issue an annual proclamation designating February as American
Heart Month.  
  
NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, do hereby proclaim February 2025 as American Heart Month, and I
invite all Americans to participate in National Wear Red Day on February
7, 2025.  I also invite the Governors of the States, the Commonwealth of
Puerto Rico, officials of other areas subject to the jurisdiction of the
United States, and the American people to join my Administration in
recognizing and restating our pledge to fighting heart disease in all
its forms.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
third day of February, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five,
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred
and forty-ninth.  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
THE WHITE HOUSE,  
    February 3, 2025.
