---
date: '2025-02-25'
modified_time: 2025-02-25 17:42:42-05:00
published_time: 2025-02-25 17:40:32-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/02/addressing-the-threat-to-nationalsecurity-from-imports-of-copper/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Addressing the Threat to National Security from Imports of Copper
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including section 232 of the Trade
Expansion Act of 1962, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1862) (Trade Expansion
Act), it is hereby ordered:

<u>Section</u> <u>1</u>.  <u>Policy</u>*.*  Copper is a critical
material essential to the national security, economic strength, and
industrial resilience of the United States.  Copper, scrap copper, and
copper’s derivative products play a vital role in defense applications,
infrastructure, and emerging technologies, including clean energy,
electric vehicles, and advanced electronics.  The United States faces
significant vulnerabilities in the copper supply chain, with increasing
reliance on foreign sources for mined, smelted, and refined copper.

The United States has ample copper reserves, yet our smelting and
refining capacity lags significantly behind global competitors.  A
single foreign producer dominates global copper smelting and refining,
controlling over 50 percent of global smelting capacity and holding four
of the top five largest refining facilities.  This dominance, coupled
with global overcapacity and a single producer’s control of world supply
chains, poses a direct threat to United States national security and
economic stability.

It is the policy of the United States to ensure a reliable, secure, and
resilient domestic copper supply chain.  The United States’ increasing
dependence on foreign sources of copper, particularly from a
concentrated number of supplier nations, along with the risk of foreign
market manipulation, necessitate action under section 232 of the Trade
Expansion Act to determine whether imports of copper, scrap copper, and
copper’s derivative products threaten to impair national security.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">2</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Investigation Into the
National Security Impact of Copper Imports</span>*.*  (a)  The Secretary
of Commerce shall initiate an investigation under section 232 of the
Trade Expansion Act to determine the effects on national security of
imports of copper in all forms, including but not limited to:

(i)    raw mined copper;

(ii)   copper concentrates;

(iii)  refined copper;

(iv)   copper alloys;

(v)    scrap copper; and

(vi)   derivative products.

\(b\)  In conducting the investigation described in subsection (a) of
this section, the Secretary of Commerce shall assess the factors set
forth in 19 U.S.C. 1862(d), labeled “Domestic production for national
defense; impact of foreign competition on economic welfare of domestic
industries,” as well as other relevant factors, including:

(i)     the current and projected demand for copper in United States
defense, energy, and critical infrastructure sectors;

(ii)    the extent to which domestic production, smelting, refining, and
recycling can meet demand;

(iii)   the role of foreign supply chains, particularly from major
exporters, in meeting United States demand;

(iv)    the concentration of United States copper imports from a small
number of suppliers and the associated risks;

(v)     the impact of foreign government subsidies, overcapacity, and
predatory trade practices on United States industry competitiveness;

(vi)    the economic impact of artificially suppressed copper prices due
to dumping and state-sponsored overproduction;

(vii)   the potential for export restrictions by foreign nations,
including the ability of foreign nations to weaponize their control over
refined copper supplies;

(viii)  the feasibility of increasing domestic copper mining, smelting,
and refining capacity to reduce import reliance; and

(ix)    the impact of current trade policies on domestic copper
production and whether additional measures, including tariffs or quotas,
are necessary to protect national security.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.<span style="text-decoration: underline">
3</span>.  <span style="text-decoration: underline">Required
Actions</span>*.*  (a)  The Secretary of Commerce shall consult with the
Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of
Energy, and the heads of other relevant executive departments and
agencies as determined by the Secretary of Commerce to evaluate the
national security risks associated with copper import dependency.

\(b\)  Within 270 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of
Commerce shall submit a report to the President that includes:

(i)    findings on whether United States dependence on copper imports
threatens national security;

(ii)   recommendations on actions to mitigate such threats, including
potential tariffs, export controls, or incentives to increase domestic
production; and

(iii)  policy recommendations for strengthening the United States copper
supply chain through strategic investments, permitting reforms, and
enhanced recycling initiatives.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">4</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">General Provisions</span>*.*
 (a)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise
affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    February 25, 2025.
