---
date: '2025-02-01'
modified_time: 2025-02-03 08:41:46-05:00
published_time: 2025-02-01 08:38:46-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/02/imposing-duties-to-address-the-situation-at-our-southern-border/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Imposing Duties to Address the Situation at Our Southern Border
---
 
          By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States of America, including the
International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq*.)
(IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq*.) (NEA),
section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2483), and
section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

          I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of America,
find that the sustained influx of illegal aliens and illicit opioids and
other drugs has profound consequences on our Nation, endangering lives
and putting a severe strain on our healthcare system, public services,
communities, and schools.  Since the end of my first term, U.S. Customs
and Border Protection (CBP) within the Department of Homeland Security
has recorded more than three times as many inadmissible encounters
nationwide as during my first term.  
  
     These challenges threaten the fabric of our society.  Gang members,
smugglers, human traffickers, and illicit drugs of all kinds have poured
across our borders and into our communities.  Mexico has played a
central role in these challenges, including by failing to devote
sufficient attention and resources to meaningfully stem the tide of
unlawful migration and illicit drugs.  
  
     Mexican drug trafficking organizations (DTOs) are the world’s
leading traffickers of fentanyl, methamphetamine, cocaine, and other
illicit drugs, and they cultivate, process, and distribute massive
quantities of narcotics that fuel addiction and violence in communities
across the United States.  These DTOs collaborate and conspire with
transnational cartels and other global partners to smuggle drugs into
the United States, utilizing clandestine airstrips, maritime routes,
tunnels, and overland corridors, and both willing and unwilling human
couriers.  

     The Mexican DTOs have an intolerable alliance with the government
of Mexico. This alliance endangers the national security of the United
States, and we must eradicate the influence of these dangerous cartels
from the bilateral environment. The government of Mexico has afforded
safe havens for the cartels to engage in the manufacturing and
transportation of illicit drugs, which collectively have led to the
overdose deaths of hundreds of thousands of American victims.

     Mexican cartels are also implicated in human trafficking and
smuggling operations, enabling the illegal migration of millions across
our borders.  These operations are often tied to organized crime, and
they create pathways for cartel activities to expand into the United
States.  Furthermore, violent criminals originating from Central and
South America easily transit into and through Mexico, and into the
United States, where they cause irreparable harm to our citizens.  These
dangerous criminals are involved in drug-related violence, gang
activity, and other crimes that endanger the safety of American
communities.  
   
     Immediate action is required to address the national emergency I
declared in Proclamation 10886 of January 20, 2025 (Declaring a National
Emergency at the Southern Border of the United States), and to finally
end the public health crisis caused by opioid use and addiction, which
will not happen unless the compliance and cooperation of the government
of Mexico is assured.  
  
     I hereby determine and order:  
     Section 1.  (a)  As President of the United States, my highest duty
is the defense of the country and its citizens.  A Nation without
borders is not a Nation at all.  I will not stand by and allow our
sovereignty to be eroded, our laws to be trampled, our citizens to be
endangered, or our borders to be disrespected anymore.  
  
     I previously declared a national emergency with respect to the
grave threat to the United States posed by the influx of illegal aliens
and illicit drugs into the United States in Proclamation 10886. 
Pursuant to the NEA, I hereby expand the scope of the national emergency
declared in that proclamation to cover the failure of Mexico to arrest,
seize, detain, or otherwise intercept DTOs, other drug and human
traffickers, criminals at large, and illicit drugs.  In addition, this
failure to act on the part of the government of Mexico constitutes an
unusual and extraordinary threat, which has its source in substantial
part outside the United States, to the national security, foreign
policy, and economy of the United States.  I hereby declare and
reiterate a national emergency under the NEA and IEEPA to deal with that
threat.  This national emergency requires decisive and immediate action,
and I have decided to impose, consistent with law, ad valorem tariffs on
articles that are products of Mexico as set forth in this order.  In
doing so, I invoke my authority under section 1702(a)(1)(B) of IEEPA,
and specifically find that action under other authority to impose
tariffs is inadequate to address this unusual and extraordinary
threat.  
  
     Sec. 2.  (a)  All articles that are products of Mexico, as defined
by the *Federal Register* notice described in section 2(d) of this order
(the *Federal Register* notice), shall be, consistent with law, subject
to an additional 25 percent ad valorem rate of duty.  Such rate of duty
shall apply with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn
from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on
February 4, 2025, except that goods entered for consumption, or
withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, after such time that were
loaded onto a vessel at the port of loading or in transit on the final
mode of transport prior to entry into the United States before 12:01
a.m. eastern time on February 1, 2025, shall not be subject to such
additional duty, only if the importer certifies to CBP as specified in
the *Federal Register* notice.   
     (b)  The rates of duty established by this order are in addition to
any other duties, fees, exactions, or charges applicable to such
imported articles.   
     (c)  Should the government of Mexico retaliate against the United
States in response to this action through import duties on United States
exports to Mexico or similar measures, the President may increase or
expand in scope the duties imposed under this Executive Order to ensure
the efficacy of this action.   
     (d)  In order to establish the duty rate on imports of articles
that are products of Mexico, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall
determine the modifications necessary to the Harmonized Tariff Schedule
of the United States (HTSUS) in order to effectuate this order
consistent with law and shall make such modifications to the HTSUS
through notice in the *Federal Register*.  The modifications made to the
HTSUS by this notice shall be effective with respect to goods entered
for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or
after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on February 4, 2025, except as otherwise
noted in subsection 2(a) of this section, and shall continue in effect
until such actions are expressly reduced, modified, or terminated.  
     (e)  Articles that are products of Mexico, except those that are
eligible for admission under “domestic status” as defined in 19 CFR
146.43, which are subject to the duties imposed by this order and are
admitted into a United States foreign trade zone on or after 12:01 a.m.
eastern time on February 4, 2025, except as otherwise noted in
subsection 2(a) of this section, must be admitted as “privileged foreign
status” as defined in 19 CFR 146.41.  Such articles will be subject upon
entry for consumption to the rates of duty related to the classification
under the applicable HTSUS subheading in effect at the time of
admittance into the United States foreign trade zone*. *  
     (f)  No drawback shall be available with respect to the duties
imposed pursuant to this order.  
     (g)  For avoidance of doubt, duty-free *de minimis* treatment under
19 U.S.C. 1321 shall not be available for the articles described in
subsection (a) of this section.  
     (h)  Any prior Presidential Proclamation, Executive Order, or other
presidential directive or guidance related to trade with Mexico that is
inconsistent with the direction in this order is hereby terminated,
suspended, or modified to the extent necessary to give full effect to
this order.   
     (i)  The articles described in subsection (a) of this section shall
exclude those encompassed by 50 U.S.C. 1702(b).  
  
     Sec. 3.  (a)  The Secretary of Homeland Security shall regularly
consult with the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, the Assistant
to the President for National Security Affairs, and the Assistant to the
President for Homeland Security on the situation at our southern
border.  The Secretary of Homeland Security shall inform the President
of any circumstances that, in the opinion of the Secretary of Homeland
Security, indicate that the government of Mexico has taken adequate
steps to alleviate the illegal migration and illicit drug crisis through
cooperative actions.  Upon the President’s determination of sufficient
action to alleviate the crisis, the tariffs described in section 2 of
this order will be removed.  
     (b)  The Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the
Secretary of State, the Attorney General, the Assistant to the President
for National Security Affairs, and the Assistant to the President for
Homeland Security shall recommend additional action, if necessary,
should the government of Mexico fail to take adequate steps to alleviate
the illegal migration and illicit drug crises through cooperative
enforcement actions.  
  
     Sec. 4.  The Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with
the Secretary of the Treasury, the Attorney General, and the Secretary
of Commerce, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including
adopting rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to me
by IEEPA as may be necessary to implement this order.  The Secretary of
Homeland Security may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of
these functions within the Department of Homeland Security.  All
agencies shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to
implement this order.

  
       Sec. 5.  The Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with
the Secretary of the Treasury, the Attorney General, the Secretary of
Commerce, the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs,
 and the Assistant to the President for Homeland Security, is hereby
authorized to submit recurring and final reports to the Congress on the
national emergency under IEEPA declared in this order, consistent with
section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of
IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).  
  
     Sec. 6.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:  
     (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department,
agency, or the head thereof; or  
     (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative
proposals.  
     (b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.  
     (c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
THE WHITE HOUSE,   
    February 1, 2025.
