---
date: '2025-02-05'
modified_time: 2025-02-05 17:09:30-05:00
published_time: 2025-02-05 17:09:29-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/02/keeping-men-out-of-womens-sports/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Keeping Men Out of Women\u2019s Sports"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, and to protect opportunities for
women and girls to compete in safe and fair sports, it is hereby
ordered:

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section 1.  Policy and Purpose.
</span> In recent years, many educational institutions and athletic
associations have allowed men to compete in women’s sports.  This is
demeaning, unfair, and dangerous to women and girls, and denies women
and girls the equal opportunity to participate and excel in competitive
sports.

Moreover, under Title IX of the Education Amendments Act of 1972 (Title
IX), educational institutions receiving Federal funds cannot deny women
an equal opportunity to participate in sports.  As some Federal courts
have recognized, “ignoring fundamental biological truths between the two
sexes deprives women and girls of meaningful access to educational
facilities.”  *Tennessee v. Cardona*, 24-cv-00072 at 73 (E.D. Ky. 2024).
*See also* *Kansas v. U.S. Dept. of Education*, 24-cv-04041 at 23 (D.
Kan. 2024) (highlighting “Congress’ goals of protecting biological women
in education”). 

Therefore, it is the policy of the United States to rescind all funds
from educational programs that deprive women and girls of fair athletic
opportunities, which results in the endangerment, humiliation, and
silencing of women and girls and deprives them of privacy.  It shall
also be the policy of the United States to oppose male competitive
participation in women’s sports more broadly, as a matter of safety,
fairness, dignity, and truth.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 2.  Definitions.</span>
 The definitions in Executive Order 14168 of January 20, 2025 (Defending
Women from Gender Ideology Extremism and Restoring Biological Truth to
the Federal Government), shall apply to this order.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec.3.  Preserving Women’s
Sports in Education.</span>  (a)  In furtherance of the purposes of
Title IX, the Secretary of Education shall promptly:

\(i\)    in coordination with the Attorney General, continue to comply
with the vacatur of the rule entitled “Nondiscrimination on the Basis of
Sex in Education Programs or Activities Receiving Federal Financial
Assistance” of April 29, 2024, 89 FR 33474, *see Tennessee v. Cardona*,
24-cv-00072 at 13-15 (E.D. Ky. 2025), and take other appropriate action
to ensure this regulation does not have effect;

\(ii\)   take all appropriate action to affirmatively protect all-female
athletic opportunities and all-female locker rooms and thereby provide
the equal opportunity guaranteed by Title IX of the Education Amendments
Act of 1972, including enforcement actions described in subsection
(iii); to bring regulations and policy guidance into line with the
Congress’ existing demand for “equal athletic opportunity for members of
both sexes” by clearly specifying and clarifying that women’s sports are
reserved for women; and the resolution of pending litigation consistent
with this policy; and

\(iii\)  prioritize Title IX enforcement actions against educational
institutions (including athletic associations composed of or governed by
such institutions) that deny female students an equal opportunity to
participate in sports and athletic events by requiring them, in the
women’s category, to compete with or against or to appear unclothed
before males.

\(b\)  All executive departments and agencies (agencies) shall review
grants to educational programs and, where appropriate, rescind funding
to programs that fail to comply with the policy established in this
order.

\(c\)  The Department of Justice shall provide all necessary resources,
in accordance with law, to relevant agencies to ensure expeditious
enforcement of the policy established in this order. 

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 4.  Preserving Fairness
and Safety in Women’s Sports*.*</span>  Many sport-specific governing
bodies have no official position or requirements regarding
trans-identifying athletes.  Others allow men to compete in women’s
categories if these men reduce the testosterone in their bodies below
certain levels or provide documentation of “sincerely held” gender
identity.  These policies are unfair to female athletes and do not
protect female safety.  To address these concerns, it is hereby ordered:

\(a\)  The Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy shall, within
60 days of the date of this order:

(i)   convene representatives of major athletic organizations and
governing bodies, and female athletes harmed by such policies, to
promote policies that are fair and safe, in the best interests of female
athletes, and consistent with the requirements of Title IX, as
applicable; and

(ii)  convene State Attorneys General to identify best practices in
defining and enforcing equal opportunities for women to participate in
sports and educate them about stories of women and girls who have been
harmed by male participation in women’s sports.

\(b\)  The Secretary of State, including through the Bureau of
Educational and Cultural Affairs’ Sports Diplomacy Division and the
Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations,
shall:

(i)   rescind support for and participation in people-to-people sports
exchanges or other sports programs within which the relevant female
sports category is based on identity and not sex; and

(ii)  promote, including at the United Nations, international rules and
norms governing sports competition to protect a sex-based female sports
category, and, at the discretion of the Secretary of State, convene
international athletic organizations and governing bodies, and female
athletes harmed by policies that allow male participation in women’s
sports, to promote sporting policies that are fair, safe, and in
furtherance of the best interests of female athletes.

\(c\)  The Secretary of State and the Secretary of Homeland Security
shall review and adjust, as needed, policies permitting admission to the
United States of males seeking to participate in women’s sports, and
shall issue guidance with an objective of preventing such entry to the
extent permitted by law, including pursuant to section 212(a)(6)(C)(i)
of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(6)(C)(i)).

\(d\)  The Secretary of State shall use all appropriate and available
measures to see that the International Olympic Committee amends the
standards governing Olympic sporting events to promote fairness, safety,
and the best interests of female athletes by ensuring that eligibility
for participation in women’s sporting events is determined according to
sex and not gender identity or testosterone reduction.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 5.  General
Provisions</span>.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to
impair or otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

\(d\)  If any provision of this order, or the application of any
provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the
remainder of this order and the application of its provisions to any
other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    February 5, 2025.
