---
date: '2024-06-14'
modified_time: 2024-06-14 16:46:44-04:00
published_time: 2024-06-14 16:46:43-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/06/14/a-proclamation-on-fathers-day-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Father\u2019s Day,\_2024"
---
 
Every Father’s Day, we pay tribute to the fathers and father figures in
our lives who shower us with unconditional love and support.  These men
shape our character, help us reach our full potential, and believe in us
so that we can believe in ourselves.  Today, we honor their tremendous
sacrifices, their unwavering devotion, and their tireless work to build
better futures for our families. 

When I was growing up, my father, Joseph Robinette Biden Sr., taught me
lifelong values that I have tried to pass down to my own children and
grandchildren.  Among these many values, he taught me that every person
deserves to be treated with dignity and respect.  He taught me that our
character is not measured by how many times or how hard we get knocked
down; rather, it is measured by how quickly we get back up.  He taught
me that a job is not just about a paycheck — it is about dignity, pride,
and self-worth.  All these principles have not only shaped my
perspective in life — they are also at the heart of my commitment to
building an economy where every father can thrive.

That commitment begins by building an economy from the middle out and
bottom up.  Toward that aim, my Administration is creating new jobs in
manufacturing, construction, clean energy, and more.  We are rebuilding
American infrastructure with American products built by American
workers.  We are creating good-paying jobs in people’s hometowns so they
can support a family without having to move. 

At the same time, we also lowered the cost of health insurance premiums
for millions of families, giving them some breathing room.  We are
cutting the cost of prescription drugs, giving Medicare the power to
negotiate lower prices just like the Department of Veterans Affairs does
for our veterans.  We are trying hard to make child care more affordable
and paid leave more accessible.  We are working to ensure that our
elderly fathers and grandfathers can live their lives with the dignity
they deserve by protecting Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid while
strengthening access to home care services. 

This Father’s Day, my heart is also with all the children who have
tragically lost a father figure and the fathers who have tragically lost
a child.  Though the grieving process never truly ends, I know from my
own experience that the day will come when the memory of your loved one
brings a smile to your lips before it brings a tear to your eye.  As we
honor all that they meant to us, we recommit to safeguarding their
legacies and building a future of possibilities for generations to
come.  Today and every day, let us remember to cherish the precious
moments we have with our dads, stepdads, grandfathers, and father
figures and to thank them for all they do to enrich our lives, our
families, and our Nation.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, in accordance with a joint resolution of the Congress
approved April 24, 1972, as amended (36 U.S.C. 109), do hereby proclaim
June 16, 2024, as Father’s Day.  I direct the appropriate officials of
the Government to display the flag of the United States on all
Government buildings on this day.  Let us honor our fathers, living and
deceased, and show them the love and gratitude they deserve.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day
of June, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
