---
date: '2024-06-21'
modified_time: 2024-06-21 11:17:05-04:00
published_time: 2024-06-21 11:17:04-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/06/21/a-proclamation-to-further-facilitate-positive-adjustment-to-competition-from-imports-of-certain-crystalline-silicon-photovoltaic-cells-whether-or-not-partially-or-fully-assembled-into-other-products/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation To Further Facilitate Positive Adjustment to Competition From\
  \ Imports of Certain Crystalline Silicon Photovoltaic Cells (Whether or Not Partially\
  \ or Fully Assembled Into Other\_Products)"
---
 
1.  On January 23, 2018, pursuant to section 203 of the Trade Act of
1974, as amended (the “Trade Act”) (19 U.S.C. 2253), the President
issued Proclamation 9693, imposing a safeguard measure for a period of 4
years that included both a tariff-rate quota (TRQ) on imports of certain
crystalline silicon photovoltaic (CSPV) cells, not partially or fully
assembled into other products, provided for in subheading 8541.40.60
(currently 8541.42.00) of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United
States (HTS), and an increase in duties (safeguard tariff) on imports of
CSPV cells exceeding the TRQ and all imports of other CSPV products,
including modules provided for in subheading 8541.40.60 (currently
8541.43.00) of the HTS.  Proclamation 9693 exempted imports from certain
designated beneficiary countries under the Generalized System of
Preferences from the application of the safeguard measure.

     2.  Clause (4) and Annex I of Proclamation 9693 directed the United
States Trade Representative (USTR) to establish procedures for
interested persons to request the exclusion of particular products from
the safeguard measure.  Pursuant to the procedures that the USTR
enacted, effective June 13, 2019, the USTR excluded bifacial solar
panels that absorb light and generate electricity on each side of the
panel and that consist of only bifacial solar cells that absorb light
and generate electricity on both sides of the cells (bifacial modules). 
Exclusion of Particular Products From the Solar Products Safeguard
Measure, 84 FR 27684 (June 13, 2019).

     3.  After taking into account the United States International Trade
Commission’s (USITC) report on the results of its monitoring of
developments with respect to the domestic solar industry (USITC,
Crystalline Silicon Photovoltaic Cells, Whether or Not Partially or
Fully Assembled Into Other Products:  Monitoring Developments in the
Domestic Industry, No. TA-201-075 (Monitoring)) and the USITC’s report
regarding the probable economic effect on the domestic CSPV cell and
module manufacturing industry of modifying the safeguard measure (USITC,
Crystalline Silicon Photovoltaic Cells, Whether or Not Partially or
Fully Assembled Into Other Products:  Advice on the Probable Economic
Effect of Certain Modifications to the Safeguard Measure, No. TA-201-075
(Modification)), and after receiving a petition from a majority of the
representatives of the domestic industry with respect to each of the
following modifications, on October 10, 2020, the President issued
Proclamation 10101 under section 204(b)(1)(B) of the Trade Act (19
U.S.C. 2254(b)(1)(B)).  In Proclamation 10101, the President determined
that the domestic industry had begun to make a positive adjustment to
import competition, as shown by the increases in domestic module
production capacity, production, and market share.  Proclamation 10101
also:

     (a)  revoked the exclusion of bifacial modules from application of
the safeguard measure on the basis that it had impaired and was
likely to continue to impair the effectiveness of the safeguard action;
and

     (b)  adjusted the safeguard tariff for the fourth year of the
safeguard measure from 15 percent to 18 percent on the basis that the
exclusion of bifacial modules from application of the safeguard tariff
had impaired the remedial effectiveness of the 4-year action proclaimed
in Proclamation 9693, and to achieve the full remedial effect envisaged
in that action.

     4.  On November 16, 2021, the United States Court of International
Trade (CIT) held in *Solar Energy Industries Association et al. v.
United States* that the President acted outside of his statutory
authority in issuing Proclamation 10101, and enjoined the Government
from enforcing that proclamation.  However, in November 2023, a panel of
the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit reversed the
CIT’s decision.

5.  After receiving the USITC’s December 8, 2021, determination and
report pursuant to section 204(c) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2254(c)),
which found that the safeguard action continues to be necessary to
prevent or remedy the serious injury to the domestic industry and that
there was evidence that the domestic industry was making a positive
adjustment to import competition (USITC, Crystalline Silicon
Photovoltaic Cells, Whether or Not Partially or Fully Assembled Into
Other Products, Investigation No. TA-201-75 (Extension)), and after
taking into account the information provided in the USITC’s report and
the information received from the public through the process published
in the *Federal Register* on September 30, 2021 (86 FR 54279), pursuant
to section 203(e)(1)(B) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2253(e)(1)(B)), I
issued Proclamation 10339 on February 4, 2022.  In Proclamation 10339, I
determined that the safeguard action on imports of CSPV cells, whether
or not partially or fully assembled into other products, continued to be
necessary to prevent or remedy the serious injury to the domestic
industry, and that there was evidence that the domestic industry was
making a positive adjustment to import competition.  I further
determined to extend the safeguard measure proclaimed in Proclamation
9693, as modified by Proclamation 10101, in relevant part, as follows:

(a)  continuation of the increase in duties on imports of modules
described in paragraph 1 of Proclamation 10339 for an additional period
of 4 years, with annual reductions in the fifth, sixth, seventh, and
eighth years, as described in Annex I to Proclamation 10339; and

(b)  exclusion of bifacial panels from the extension of duties
proclaimed in paragraph 9 of Proclamation 10339. 

6\.  If an extension of an action taken under section 203 of the Trade
Act (19 U.S.C. 2253) exceeds 3 years, section 204(a)(2) of the Trade Act
(19 U.S.C. 2254(a)(2)) requires the USITC to issue a report to the
President and the Congress on its monitoring of developments with
respect to the domestic industry, including the progress and specific
efforts made by workers and firms in the domestic industry to make a
positive adjustment to import competition, no later than the midpoint of
the period of the extension. 

7.  On February 6, 2024, the USITC issued its second midterm report
pursuant to section 204(a)(2) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2254(a)(2)) on
its monitoring of developments within the industry producing CSPV
products since the President’s imposition of the safeguard measure
(USITC, Crystalline Silicon Photovoltaic Cells, Whether or Not Partially
or Fully Assembled Into Other Products:  Monitoring Developments in the
Domestic Industry, No. TA-201-075 (Second Monitoring)).  In its report,
the USITC found that the safeguard measure has resulted in positive
adjustments from the domestic industry in light of increased actual and
planned module production; various announcements of planned domestic
cell production; and improvements in several of the domestic industry’s
financial, trade, and employment indicators.  The USITC’s report also
noted a shift in imports from non-bifacial CSPV cells and panels toward
primarily bifacial CSPV cells and modules from 2020-2022 and, when
comparing the first half of 2023 with the first half of 2022, with
bifacial cells and panels increasingly used in traditionally
non-bifacial applications.

8.  On February 23, 2024, a majority of the representatives of the
domestic industry submitted a petition under section 204(b) of the Trade
Act (19 U.S.C. 2254(b)(1)(B)) to modify the safeguard measure by
revoking the exclusion of bifacial products from safeguard relief
proclaimed in Proclamation 10339, thus subjecting bifacial modules to
the remedy under section 201 of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2251).  The
petition explains how the domestic industry has continued to make a
positive adjustment to import competition.  It also explains how the
exclusion of bifacial panels has led to large import volumes of bifacial
modules competing in all sectors of the United States market, thus
negatively impacting the domestic industry’s efforts to increase
substantially its market share notwithstanding the increase in apparent
United States consumption.

9.  Section 204(b)(1)(B) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2254(b)(1)(B))
authorizes the President, upon submission of a petition from a majority
of the representatives of the domestic industry, to reduce, modify, or
terminate an action taken under section 203 of the Trade Act when the
President determines that the domestic industry has made a positive
adjustment to import competition.

10.  After taking into account the information provided in the USITC’s
second midterm report, and after receiving a petition from a majority of
the representatives of the domestic industry with respect to the
aforementioned modification, I have determined that the domestic
industry has been making and is continuing to make a positive adjustment
to import competition, shown by increased actual and planned module
production; various announcements of planned domestic cell production;
and improvements in several of the domestic industry’s financial, trade,
and employment indicators.  Furthermore, I have determined that imports
of bifacial panels have surged in recent years, such that the exclusion
of bifacial panels proclaimed in Proclamation 10339 has impaired the
effectiveness of the action taken in Proclamation 9693, as extended by
Proclamation 10339, and that to achieve the full remedial effect
envisaged for that action, it is necessary to modify the section 201
action by revoking the exclusion of bifacial panels and applying the
safeguard tariff to bifacial panels. 

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States, including sections 203, 204, and 604 of
the Trade Act, do proclaim that:

     (1)  In order to modify the action applicable to imports of CSPV
cells under HTS subheading 8541.42.0010 and other CSPV products, such as
modules under HTS subheading 8541.43.0010, subchapter III of chapter 99
of the HTS is modified as set forth in Annex I to this proclamation.

     (2)  The modifications to the HTS made by this proclamation,
including Annex I hereto, shall be effective with respect to goods
entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on
or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time 5 days after the date of this
proclamation, and shall continue in effect as provided in Annex I to
this proclamation, unless such actions are earlier expressly reduced,
modified, or terminated.  

     (3)  Bifacial panels that are subject to the modifications
described in clause (1) of this proclamation shall be exempt from the
safeguard tariff, provided that:

\(i\)    the imported bifacial panels are fulfilling in whole or in part
a contract for sale, purchase, or delivery in the United States that was
in effect and dated as executed prior to May 17, 2024, that provides for
importation to or delivery within the United States within 90 days after
the effective date of this proclamation, and that has not been modified
on or later than May 17, 2024, with regard to importation or delivery
date;

\(ii\)   the bifacial panels are entered into the United States within
90 days after the effective date of this proclamation;

\(iii\)  the bifacial panels are declared and entered under heading
9903.45.29 of the HTS, and meet the conditions thereof; and

\(iv\)   the importer completes the certification in Annex II to this
proclamation and provides the completed certification as part of the
importer’s electronic entry summary to U.S. Customs and Border
Protection (CBP) by uploading it to the Document Imaging System in the
Automated Commercial Environment at the time that classification is
declared under heading 9903.45.29 of the HTS.

     (4)  Where bifacial panels that are subject to the modifications
described in clause (1) of this proclamation are entered for
consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after
the effective date of this proclamation and do not satisfy the
requirements specified in clause (3) of this proclamation, such bifacial
panels shall be subject to the safeguard tariff.

     (5)  CBP shall take such actions as are necessary to ensure
compliance with the requirements in clauses (3) and (4) of this
proclamation.  Such actions may include requiring the provision of any
additional information deemed necessary by CBP, including a copy of the
pre-existing contract described in subsection (i) of clause (3) of this
proclamation, in order to verify such compliance.  

     (6)  One year from the termination of the safeguard measure
referenced in this proclamation, as modified by this proclamation, the
U.S. note and tariff provisions established in Annex I to this
proclamation shall be deleted from the HTS.

     (7)  Any provision of previous proclamations and Executive Orders
that is inconsistent with the actions taken in this proclamation is
superseded to the extent of such inconsistency.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-first
day of June, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
