---
date: '2024-06-26'
published_time: 2024-06-26 09:12:18-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/06/26/a-proclamation-on-granting-pardon-for-certain-violations-of-article-125-under-the-uniform-code-of-military-justice/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Granting Pardon for Certain Violations of Article 125 Under\
  \ the Uniform Code of Military\_Justice"
---
 
     Our Nation has made tremendous progress in advancing the cause of
equality for LGBTQI+ Americans, including in the military.  Despite
their courage and great sacrifice, thousands of LGBTQI+ service members
were forced out of the military because of their sexual orientation or
gender identity.  Many of these patriotic Americans were subject to a
court-martial.  While my Administration has taken meaningful action to
remedy these problems, the impact of that historical injustice remains. 
As Commander in Chief, I am committed to maintaining the finest fighting
force in the world.  That means making sure that every member of our
military feels safe and respected.

     Accordingly, acting pursuant to the grant of authority in Article
II, Section 2, of the Constitution of the United States, I, Joseph R.
Biden Jr., do hereby grant a full, complete, and unconditional pardon to
persons convicted of unaggravated offenses based on consensual, private
conduct with persons age 18 and older under former Article 125 of the
Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ), as previously codified at 10
U.S.C. 925, as well as attempts, conspiracies, and solicitations to
commit such acts under Articles 80, 81, and 82, UCMJ, 10 U.S.C. 880,
881, 882.  This proclamation applies to convictions during the period
from Article 125’s effective date of May 31, 1951, through the December
26, 2013, enactment of section 1707 of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66).

     The purpose of this proclamation is to pardon only offenses based
on consensual, private conduct between individuals 18 and older that do
not involve any aggravating factor, including:  

     (1)  conduct that would violate 10 U.S.C. 893a, prohibiting
activities with military recruits or trainees by a person in a position
of special trust;  
     (2)  conduct that was committed with an individual who was coerced
or, because of status, might not have felt able to refuse consent;  
     (3)  conduct on the part of the applicant constituting
fraternization under Article 134 of the UCMJ;  
     (4)  conduct committed with the spouse of another military member;
or  
     (5)  any factors other than those listed above that were identified
by the United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces in *United
States v. Marcum* as being outside the scope of *Lawrence v. Texas* as
applied in the military context, 60 M.J. 198, 207–08 (2004).

     The Military Departments (Army, Navy, or Air Force), or in the case
of the Coast Guard, the Department of Homeland Security, in conjunction
with the Department of Justice, shall provide information about and
publicize application procedures for certificates of pardon.  An
applicant for a certificate of pardon under this proclamation is to
submit an application to the Military Department (Army, Navy, or Air
Force) that conducted the court-martial or, in the case of a Coast Guard
court-martial, to the Department of Homeland Security.  If the relevant
Department determines that the applicant satisfies the criteria under
this proclamation, following a review of relevant military justice
records, the Department shall submit that determination to the Attorney
General, acting through the Pardon Attorney, who shall then issue a
certificate of pardon along with information on the process to apply for
an upgrade of military discharge.  My Administration strongly encourages
veterans who receive a certificate of pardon to apply for an upgrade of
military discharge.  

     Although the pardon under this proclamation applies only to the
convictions described above, there are other LGBTQI+ individuals who
served our Nation and were convicted of other crimes because of their
sexual orientation or gender identity.  It is the policy of my
Administration to expeditiously consider and to make final pardon
determinations with respect to such individuals.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-sixth
day of June, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
  
  
  
                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
