---
date: '2024-06-04'
modified_time: 2024-06-04 14:12:04-04:00
published_time: 2024-06-04 14:12:03-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/06/04/a-proclamation-on-securing-the-border/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Securing the\_Border"
---
 
   There are more people around the world who are displaced from their
homes today than at any point in time since World War II.  Many factors
have contributed to this problem.  Failing regimes and dire economic
conditions afflict many countries, including several in the Western
Hemisphere.  Violence linked to transnational criminal organizations has
displaced substantial numbers of people in Latin America.  The global
COVID-19 pandemic upended societies around the globe.  Natural disasters
have forced people from their homes.  

     As a result of these global conditions, we have been experiencing
substantial levels of migration throughout the Western Hemisphere,
including at our southwest land border.  In 2019, encounters nearly
doubled from their 2018 level to almost 1 million.  In 2020, the global
COVID-19 pandemic led countries throughout the world to shut their
borders and suspend international travel; however, once the pandemic
began to recede, international travel resumed, and we again experienced
elevated levels of migration throughout the Western Hemisphere,
including at our southwest land border.

     On May 11, 2023, as part of my Administration’s work to prepare for
the end of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s public
health order under title 42, United States Code, and to return to
processing all noncitizens under immigration authorities under title 8,
United States Code (title 8), the Department of Homeland Security (DHS)
and the Department of Justice (DOJ) issued a final rule, entitled
Circumvention of Lawful Pathways (Lawful Pathways rule), encouraging the
use of lawful pathways and imposing a rebuttable presumption of asylum
ineligibility on those who do not use them. 

    The Lawful Pathways rule was designed to address the high levels of
migration throughout the Western Hemisphere and further discourage
irregular migration by encouraging migrants to use lawful, safe, and
orderly processes for entering the United States or to seek protection
in other partner nations; imposing a presumptive condition on asylum
eligibility for those who fail to do so; and supporting the swift return
of those who do not have valid protection claims.

     As a complement to the Lawful Pathways rule and associated
enforcement efforts, the Department of State and DHS have taken
significant steps to expand safe and orderly pathways for migrants to
enter the United States lawfully.  Those steps include establishing Safe
Mobility Offices in Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, and Guatemala to
facilitate access to lawful pathways; expanding country-specific and
other available processes to seek parole on a case-by-case basis for
urgent humanitarian reasons or significant public benefit; expanding
access to visa programs for seasonal employment; establishing a
mechanism for noncitizens to schedule a time and place to present at
ports of entry in a safe, orderly, and lawful manner through the CBP One
mobile application; and expanding refugee admissions from the Western
Hemisphere from 5,000 in Fiscal Year 2021 to up to 50,000 in Fiscal Year
2024.

     The Lawful Pathways rule and these complementary measures have made
a substantial impact.  On May 12, 2023, DHS returned to processing all
noncitizens under title 8 immigration authorities and is processing
noncitizens at record scale and efficiency.  Since then, my
Administration has maximized the use of expedited removal to the
greatest extent possible given limited resources, placing more than 970
individuals encountered at and between ports of entry at the southwest
land border into the process each day on average and conducting more
than 152,000 credible fear interviews, both of which are record highs.
 As a result, from May 12, 2023, to May 1, 2024, my Administration
removed or returned more than 720,000 noncitizens who did not have a
lawful basis to remain in the United States, the vast majority of whom
crossed the southwest land border.  Total removals and returns in the 12
months following May 12, 2023, exceeded removals and returns in every
full Fiscal Year since 2010.  The majority of all individuals
encountered at the southwest land border from Fiscal Year 2021 to Fiscal
Year 2023 were removed, returned, or expelled.

     Despite these efforts, and after months of reduced encounter levels
following the changes put in place after May 12, 2023, encounter levels
increased toward the end of 2023, and December 2023 saw the highest
level of encounters between ports of entry in history, as increasing
numbers of people migrated through the Western Hemisphere.  The
challenges presented by this surge in migration, which would have been
even worse had the Lawful Pathways rule and other measures not been in
place, were compounded by the fact that the surge was focused
increasingly on western areas of the border in California and Arizona
that are geographically remote, challenging to address, and without
sufficient pre-existing infrastructure or resources to respond to the
surge.  From January to March 2024, encounters decreased from and have
remained below levels experienced in November and December 2023,
including as a result of increased enforcement by the United States and
partner countries.  However, the factors that are driving the
unprecedented movement of people in our hemisphere remain, and there is
still a substantial and elevated level of migration that continues to
pose significant operational challenges.  

    The current situation is also the direct result of the Congress’s
failure to update an immigration and asylum system that is simply broken
— and not equipped to meet current needs.  While my Administration has
vigorously enforced the law within the constraints imposed by the
existing system, the statutory framework put in place by the Congress is
outdated.  For the vast majority of people in immigration proceedings,
the current laws make it impossible to quickly grant protection to those
who require it and to quickly remove those who do not establish a legal
basis to remain in the United States.  This reality is compounded by the
fact that the Congress has chronically underfunded our border security
and immigration system and has failed to provide the resources or
reforms it needs to be able to deliver timely consequences to most
individuals who cross unlawfully and cannot establish a legal basis to
remain in the United States.  

     Despite the strengthened consequences in place at our border
through the Lawful Pathways rule and the related measures that have led
to record returns and removals, encounter levels are exceeding our
capacity to deliver those consequences in a timely manner due to the
outdated laws and limited resources we have available.  

     My Administration has repeatedly asked the Congress to update the
outdated and inadequate immigration statutes, to create a legal
framework that is functional and addresses current realities, and to
provide additional resources so that we can more effectively deliver
consequences at the border.  In August 2023, I requested more than $4
billion in additional funding for border security and related migration
issues, including more than $2 billion for urgent DHS border management
requirements.  The Congress failed to act. In October 2023, I requested
$13.6 billion for border enforcement and migration management.  This
request included more than $5 billion for DHS to manage conditions on
the southern border, as well as funding for critical capacity
enhancements to keep the southern border secure.  The Congress once
again failed to provide our border and immigration system with the
resources it needs to deliver timely consequences to those who cross
unlawfully.

     In early February 2024, a bipartisan group of Senators introduced
legislation (bipartisan legislative proposal) containing the toughest
and fairest reforms of our asylum laws in decades that would have
provided new authorities to significantly streamline and speed up
immigration enforcement proceedings for individuals encountered at the
border, including those who are seeking protection.  Critically, the
bipartisan legislative proposal included nearly $20 billion in
additional resources for DHS and other departments to implement those
new authorities, such as:  
     (a)  over 1,500 new U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP)
personnel, including Border Patrol agents and CBP officers;   
     (b)  over 4,300 new asylum officers and additional U.S. Citizenship
and Immigration Services staff to facilitate timely and fair
decisions;   
     (c)  100 new immigration judge teams to help reduce the asylum
caseload backlog and adjudicate cases more quickly;   
     (d)  shelter and critical services for newcomers in our cities and
States; and  
     (e)  1,200 new U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement personnel
for functions including enforcement and deportations. While the
bipartisan legislative proposal did not include everything we wanted,
senior officials from my Administration worked closely with the
bipartisan group of Senators to ensure that the reforms would adequately
address the challenges that we have been facing at our southern border
for more than a decade. However, the Congress failed to move forward
with this bipartisan legislative proposal.  

     The Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2024 (Public Law
118-47) increased funding for DHS over Fiscal Year 2023, but it did not
address the needs identified in various related supplemental requests,
nor did it equip the Federal Government with the new authorities from
the bipartisan legislative proposal.  In May 2024, when the Senate again
considered the bipartisan legislative proposal, the Senate failed to
advance the measure. 

     Our broken immigration system is directly contributing to the
historic migration we are seeing throughout the Western Hemisphere,
exacerbated by poor economic conditions, natural disasters, and general
insecurity, and this fact, combined with inadequate resources to keep
pace, has once again severely strained our capacity at the border.  The
result is a vicious cycle in which our United States Border Patrol
facilities constantly risk overcrowding, our detention system has
regularly been at capacity, and our asylum system remains backlogged and
cannot deliver timely decisions, all of which spurs more people to make
the dangerous journey north to the United States.

     The Congress’s failure to deliver meaningful policy reforms and
adequate funding, despite repeated requests that they do so, is a core
cause of this problem.  Under current law, whenever a noncitizen in
expedited removal indicates an intention to apply for asylum or a fear
of persecution, they are referred for an interview with an asylum
officer and cannot be removed through expedited removal if there is a
significant possibility that they could establish eligibility for
asylum.  This screening standard is a requirement imposed by the
Congress, but it has not functioned well in predicting ultimate success
in asylum proceedings.  From 2014 to 2019, 83 percent of individuals
referred for an interview with an asylum officer passed the screening
stage, meaning that they were not removed pursuant to expedited removal,
but less than 25 percent of cases ultimately resulted in a grant of
asylum or other protection, often after waiting years to reach a final
decision. By imposing a rebuttable presumption of asylum ineligibility
on those who cross the border unlawfully, the Lawful Pathways rule has
made a meaningful impact in reducing this disparity.  The screen-in rate
from May 12, 2023, to March 31, 2024, dropped to 52 percent for
individuals who are subject to the rebuttable presumption of asylum
ineligibility.  However, the Lawful Pathways rule alone is inadequate
during times of record encounter levels and cannot change the underlying
statutory limitations.

     Data confirm that the system has been badly strained for many years
and is not functioning to provide timely relief for those who warrant it
or timely consequences for those without viable protection claims.  Due
to an outdated and inefficient system and insufficient resources that do
not allow for prompt adjudication of claims, too many people have had to
be processed by the Border Patrol and released with a notice to appear
in removal proceedings before an immigration judge since May 2023.  The
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service affirmative asylum backlog is
now over 1 million cases and growing, with over 300,000 applications
filed prior to 2021 still pending.  At the end of Fiscal Year 2023,
there were over 2.4 million cases pending in the immigration courts.
Pending cases more than doubled from the end of Fiscal Year 2016 to the
end of Fiscal Year 2020 and doubled again between that time and the end
of Fiscal Year 2023.  Between Fiscal Year 2006 and the end of Fiscal
Year 2023, in tandem with historic increases in filings to initiate
immigration court proceedings, the immigration courts’ pending caseload
increased from approximately 170,000 to approximately 2.46 million.
 During Fiscal Year 2023, immigration judges completed more cases than
they ever had before in a single year, but more than twice as many cases
were received by the immigration courts than were completed.

     The status quo system — the result of outdated laws and inadequate
resources — has become a driver for unlawful migration throughout the
region and an increasingly lucrative source of income for dangerous
transnational criminal organizations and other criminal smuggling
organizations that, without countermeasures, will continue to grow in
strength and pose significant threats to the safety and security of
United States communities and migrants, as well as countries throughout
the region. 

     Considering these trends and the decades-long failure of the
Congress to address the problem through systemic reform and adequate
funding, and following the Congress’s failure to pass the bipartisan
legislative proposal, I must exercise my executive authorities to meet
the moment.  This proclamation answers the call by suspending entry of
noncitizens across the southern border during this time of high border
crossings.  Appropriate exceptions are provided, such as for those who
are particularly vulnerable or present pursuant to a process the
Secretary of Homeland Security determines is appropriate to allow for
safe and orderly processing into the United States.  That process will
continue to allow for individuals to seek entry to this country each day
in a safe and orderly manner, and following their arrival, to seek
protection through the appropriate process.  This proclamation, in
conjunction with steps to be taken by DOJ and DHS, is needed to enhance
our ability to address the historic levels of migration and more
efficiently process migrants arriving at the southern border given
current resource levels.

     These actions do not change or fully compensate for the fact that
our immigration system is under-resourced and broken, nor do they change
the fact that there are significant limits to what can be achieved
without the Congress fulfilling its responsibility to help solve the
unprecedented challenge that we are facing.  No executive action can
deliver the significant policy reforms and additional resources that
were in the bipartisan legislative proposal.  But I will continue to
take actions, within these constraints, to address the situation at our
southern border.

    NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws
of the United States of America, including sections 212(f) and 215(a) of
the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(f) and 1185(a)) and
section 301 of title 3, United States Code, hereby find that, absent the
measures set forth in this proclamation, the entry into the United
States of persons described in section 1 of this proclamation under
circumstances described in section 2 of this proclamation would be
detrimental to the interests of the United States, and that their entry
should be subject to certain restrictions, limitations, and exceptions.
 I therefore hereby proclaim the following:

     Section 1.  Suspension and Limitation on Entry.  The entry of any
noncitizen into the United States across the southern border is hereby
suspended and limited, subject to section 3 of this proclamation.  This
suspension and limitation on entry shall be effective at 12:01 a.m.
eastern daylight time on June 5, 2024.  The suspension and limitation
directed in this proclamation shall be discontinued pursuant to
subsection 2(a) of this proclamation, subject to subsection 2(b) of this
proclamation.

     Sec. 2.  Applicability of Suspension and Limitation on Entry. (a)
 The Secretary of Homeland Security shall monitor the number of daily
encounters and, subject to subsection (b) of this section, the
suspension and limitation on entry pursuant to section 1 of this
proclamation shall be discontinued at 12:01 a.m. eastern time on the
date that is 14 calendar days after the Secretary makes a factual
determination that there has been a 7-consecutive-calendar-day average
of less than 1,500 encounters, not including encounters described in
subsection 4(a)(iii) of this proclamation.  
     (b)  Notwithstanding a factual determination made under subsection
(a) of this section, the suspension and limitation on entry pursuant to
section 1 of this proclamation shall apply at 12:01 a.m. eastern time on
the calendar day immediately after the Secretary has made a factual
determination that there has been a 7-consecutive-calendar-day average
of 2,500 encounters or more, not including encounters described in
subsection 4(a)(iii) of this proclamation, until such suspension and
limitation on entry is discontinued pursuant to subsection (a) of this
section.  
     (c)  For purposes of subsection (a) and subsection (b) of this
section, unaccompanied children (as defined in section 279(g)(2) of
title 6, United States Code) from non-contiguous countries shall not be
included in calculating the number of encounters.

     Sec. 3.  Scope and Implementation of Suspension and Limitation on
Entry.  (a)  The suspension and limitation on entry pursuant to section
1 of this proclamation shall apply across the southern border to
noncitizens, other than those described in subsection (b) of this
section, during such times that the suspension and limitation on entry
is in effect.  
     (b)  The suspension and limitation on entry pursuant to section 1
of this proclamation shall not apply to:  
          (i)    any noncitizen national of the United States;  
          (ii)   any lawful permanent resident of the United States;  
          (iii)  any unaccompanied child as defined in section 279(g)(2)
of title 6, United States Code;  
          (iv)   any noncitizen who is determined to be a victim of a
severe form of trafficking in persons, as defined in section 7102(16) of
title 22, United States Code;  
          (v)    any noncitizen who has a valid visa or other lawful
permission to seek entry or admission into the United States, or
presents at a port of entry pursuant to a pre-scheduled time and place,
including:   
                    (A)  members of the United States Armed Forces and
associated personnel, United States Government employees or contractors
on orders abroad, or their accompanying family members who are on their
orders or are members of their household;   
                    (B)  noncitizens who hold a valid visa or who have
all necessary documents required for admission consistent with the
requirements of section 1182(a)(7) of title 8, United States Code, upon
arrival at a port of entry;  
                    (C)  noncitizens traveling pursuant to the visa
waiver program as described in section 1187 of title 8, United States
Code; and  
                    (D)  noncitizens who arrive in the United States at
a southwest land border port of entry pursuant to a process the
Secretary of Homeland Security determines is appropriate to allow for
the safe and orderly entry of noncitizens into the United States;  
          (vi)   any noncitizen who is permitted to enter by the
Secretary of Homeland Security, acting through a CBP immigration
officer, based on the totality of the circumstances, including
consideration of significant law enforcement, officer and public safety,
urgent humanitarian, and public health interests at the time of the
entry or encounter that warranted permitting the noncitizen to enter;
and  
          (vii)  any noncitizen who is permitted to enter by the
Secretary of Homeland Security, acting through a CBP immigration
officer, due to operational considerations at the time of the entry or
encounter that warranted permitting the noncitizen to enter.  
(c)  An exception under subsection (b) of this section from the
suspension and limitation on entry pursuant to section 1 of this
proclamation does not affect a noncitizen’s inadmissibility under the
Immigration and Nationality Act for a reason other than the
applicability of this proclamation.  
(d)  The Secretary of Homeland Security and the Attorney General are
authorized to issue any instructions, orders, or regulations as may be
necessary to implement this proclamation, including the determination of
the exceptions in subsection (b) of this section, and shall promptly
consider issuing any instructions, orders, or regulations as may be
necessary to address the circumstances at the southern border, including
any additional limitations and conditions on asylum eligibility that
they determine are warranted, subject to any exceptions that they
determine are warranted.  
(e)  Nothing in this proclamation shall limit the statutory processes
afforded to unaccompanied children upon entering the United States under
section 279 of title 6, United States Code, and section 1232 of title 8,
United States Code.

     Sec. 4.  Definitions.  (a)  The term “encounter” refers to a
noncitizen who:  
     (i)    is physically apprehended by CBP immigration officers within
100 miles of the United States southwest land border during the 14-day
period immediately after entry between ports of entry;  
     (ii)   is physically apprehended by DHS personnel at the southern
coastal borders during the 14-day period immediately after entry between
ports of entry; or  
     (iii)  is determined to be inadmissible at a southwest land border
port of entry.  
(b)  The term “southern coastal borders” means all maritime borders in
Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, and Florida; all maritime
borders proximate to the southwest land border, the Gulf of Mexico, and
the southern Pacific coast in California; and all maritime borders of
the United States Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico.  
(c)  The term “southwest land border” means the entirety of the United
States land border with Mexico.  
(d)  The term “southern border” means the southwest land border and the
southern coastal borders.

     Sec. 5.  Severability.  It is the policy of the United States to
enforce this proclamation to the maximum extent possible to advance the
interests of the United States.  Accordingly, if any provision of this
proclamation, or the application of any provision to any person or
circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this proclamation
and the application of its provisions to any other persons or
circumstances shall not be affected thereby. 

     Sec. 6.  General Provisions. (a)  Nothing in this proclamation
shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

     (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or  
     (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative
proposals.  
(b)  This proclamation shall be implemented consistent with applicable
law and subject to the availability of appropriations.  
(c)  This proclamation is not intended to, and does not, create any
right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in
equity by any party against the United States, its departments,
agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other
person.  
  
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
third day of June, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                        JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
