---
date: '2024-06-14'
published_time: 2024-06-14 16:52:33-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/06/14/a-proclamation-on-world-elder-abuse-awareness-day-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on World Elder Abuse Awareness Day,\_2024"
---
 
Older Americans are the heart and soul of our families, our communities,
and our Nation.  But every year, up to five million older Americans face
some form of abuse.  Around the world, too many are denied the
opportunity to age with dignity and security.  During World Elder Abuse
Awareness Day, we recommit to standing with elder abuse survivors,
shedding light on this important issue, and creating a world in which no
older person has to live in fear of violence, abuse, or neglect.

Elder abuse comes in many forms.  It can include physical or emotional
abuse and neglect, sexual violence, or financial exploitation.  These
and other abuses can leave older Americans with scars, both visible and
invisible, that impact them for the rest of their lives.  They can
happen anywhere — at home, at a care facility, at work, or online. 

Elder abuse goes against everything we stand for as a Nation — and my
Administration is working relentlessly to stop it.  To date, my
Administration has dedicated over $430 million to Adult Protective
Services, making it easier to investigate reports of elder abuse and
give survivors the resources they need to heal — from emergency
resources like food, shelter, and law enforcement protection to medical
and mental health treatment, legal services, and financial assistance. 
My new Budget proposes a $30 million investment to sustain and
strengthen these resources.  Furthermore, I reauthorized the Violence
Against Women Act and increased its funding to the highest levels to
date — which includes funding for service providers, law enforcement,
and prosecutors to respond to domestic and sexual violence experienced
by older adults. 

Concurrently, we are working to protect the savings that older Americans
have worked their entire lives to build up.  Last year alone, Americans
over 60 years old lost over $3 billion to scams.  In response, the
Federal Trade Commission, the Federal Communications Commission, the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and other regulatory agencies are
taking aggressive action to identify and crack down on loan scams,
mortgage scams, junk fees, and price gouging, which too often prey on
older Americans.  

Meanwhile, my Administration is working to ensure that older Americans
have access to the quality care they deserve — whether they are at home
or in another residential setting.  By signing an Executive Order on
Increasing Access to High-Quality Care and Supporting Caregivers, I took
the most comprehensive set of executive actions in history to support
family caregivers and care workers.  Additionally, we are helping home
care workers get a larger share of Medicaid payments.  We are ensuring
nursing homes have enough staff to guarantee every resident a safe,
quality environment.  My new Budget would also significantly expand
Medicaid home care services to reduce the long waitlist, ensure nursing
homes can be regularly audited for safety and quality, and empower more
older Americans to live full lives in settings of their choice. 

Globally, my Administration is ensuring that our partnerships with
nations abroad reflect the same care for older people that we prioritize
here at home.  Through the Department of State, local law enforcement
agencies are training their foreign counterparts in best practices to
investigate elder abuse and support survivors.  We are also working to
implement our Strategy on Global Women’s Economic Security, which
includes a focus on expanding opportunities and protections for
caregivers around the world, including older women.  With our Strategy
to Prevent and Respond to Gender-Based Violence Globally, we are
tackling violence that affects older adults, particularly older women
and widows. 

This World Elder Abuse Awareness Day, let us remember the integral and
irreplaceable role that older Americans have in our families, our
communities, and our society.  Let us recommit to ensuring that they can
live with the comfort, dignity, and respect they earned and deserve.
 Let us celebrate the blessings of their wisdom, their contributions,
and their love, which nurture who we are as people and shape all that we
are as a Nation.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim June 15, 2024, as
World Elder Abuse Awareness Day.  I encourage all Americans to be
diligent; work together to strengthen existing partnerships; and develop
new opportunities to improve our Nation’s prevention of and response to
elder abuse, neglect, and exploitation.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day
of June, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
