---
date: '2024-06-07'
modified_time: 2024-06-07 12:59:05-04:00
published_time: 2024-06-07 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/06/07/letter-to-the-speaker-of-the-house-of-representatives-and-president-pro-tempore-of-the-senate-war-powers-report/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Letter to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and President pro tempore\
  \ of the Senate \u2014 War Powers\_Report"
---
 
Dear Mr. Speaker:   (Dear Madam President:)

I am providing this supplemental consolidated report, prepared by my
Administration and consistent with the War Powers Resolution (Public Law
93-148), as part of my efforts to keep the Congress informed about
deployments of United States Armed Forces equipped for combat.

MILITARY OPERATIONS IN SUPPORT OF UNITED STATES COUNTERTERRORISM EFFORTS

In furtherance of counterterrorism efforts, the United States continues
to work with partners around the globe, with a particular focus on the
United States Central and Africa Commands’ areas of responsibility.  In
this context, the United States has deployed forces to conduct
counterterrorism operations and to advise, assist, and accompany
security forces of select foreign partners on counterterrorism
operations.  In the majority of these locations, the mission of United
States military personnel is to facilitate counterterrorism operations
of foreign partner forces and does not include routine engagement in
combat.  In many of these locations, the security environment is such
that United States military personnel may be required to defend
themselves against threats or attacks, and, to that end, the United
States may deploy United States military personnel with weapons and
other appropriate equipment for force protection.  Specific information
about counterterrorism deployments to select countries is provided
below, and a classified annex to this report provides further
information.

Military Operations Conducted Pursuant to the 2001 Authorization for Use
of Military Force and in Support of Related United States
Counterterrorism Objectives

Since October 7, 2001, United States Armed Forces, including Special
Operations Forces, have conducted counterterrorism combat operations,
including against al-Qa’ida and associated forces.  Since August 2014,
these operations have included targeting the Islamic State of Iraq and
Syria (ISIS), also known as the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant
(ISIL), which was formerly known as al-Qa’ida in Iraq.  In support of
these and other overseas operations, the United States has deployed
combat-equipped forces to several locations in the United States
Central, European, Africa, Southern, and Indo-Pacific Commands’ areas of
responsibility.  Such operations and deployments have been reported
previously, consistent with Public Law 107-40, Public Law 107-243, the
War Powers Resolution, and other statutes.  These ongoing operations,
which the United States has carried out with the assistance of numerous
international partners, have been successful in seriously degrading ISIS
capabilities in Syria and Iraq.  If necessary, in response to terrorist
threats, I will direct additional measures to protect the people and
interests of the United States.  It is not possible to know at this time
the precise scope or the duration of the deployments of United States
Armed Forces that are or will be necessary to counter terrorist threats
to the United States.

**Afghanistan. ** United States military personnel remain postured
outside Afghanistan to address threats to the United States homeland and
United States interests that may arise from inside Afghanistan.

**Iraq and Syria. ** As part of a comprehensive strategy to defeat ISIS,
United States Armed Forces are working by, with, and through local
partners to conduct operations against ISIS forces in Iraq and Syria and
against al-Qa’ida in Syria to limit the potential for resurgence of
these groups and to mitigate threats to the United States homeland.  A
small presence of United States Armed Forces remains in strategically
significant locations in Syria to conduct operations, in partnership
with local, vetted ground forces, to address continuing terrorist
threats emanating from Syria.  United States Armed Forces in Iraq
continue to advise, assist, and enable select elements of the Iraqi
security forces, including Iraqi Kurdish security forces.  United States
Armed Forces also provide limited support to the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization mission in Iraq.  United States Armed Forces, as part of
the Global Coalition to Defeat ISIS, remain present in Iraq at the
invitation of the Government of Iraq.

As reported on December 27, 2023, I directed United States forces to
conduct discrete strikes on the night of December 25, 2023, against
three facilities in Iraq used by Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard
Corps (IRGC) and IRGC-affiliated groups for training, logistics support,
and other purposes.  As reported on January 25, 2024, I directed United
States forces to conduct discrete strikes on the night of January 23,
2024, against facilities in Iraq used by IRGC-affiliated militia groups
for training, logistics support, and other purposes.  As reported on
February 4, 2024, I directed United States forces to conduct discrete
strikes against facilities in Syria and Iraq used by the IRGC and
affiliated militia groups for headquarters and command and control,
weapons storage, training, logistics support, and other purposes.  These
strikes followed attacks perpetrated by the IRGC and affiliated militia
groups against United States personnel and facilities in Iraq and Syria
that threatened the lives of United States personnel and Coalition
forces operating alongside United States forces.  These included an
attack in northeastern Jordan, where an attack by IRGC-affiliated
militia groups killed three United States service members.  I directed
these discrete military actions consistent with my responsibility to
protect United States citizens both at home and abroad and in
furtherance of United States national security and foreign policy
interests, pursuant to my constitutional authority as Commander in Chief
and Chief Executive and to conduct United States foreign relations and
in accordance with the 2001 Authorization for Use of Military Force
(Public Law 107-40) and the Authorization for Use of Military Force
Against Iraq (Public Law 107-243).

**Arabian Peninsula Region.**  The United States military continues to
work closely with the Republic of Yemen government and regional partner
forces to degrade the terrorist threat posed by al-Qa’ida in the Arabian
Peninsula and ISIS.

United States Armed Forces, in a non-combat role, continue to provide
military advice and limited information to the Saudi-led Coalition for
defensive and training purposes only as they relate to territorial
defense.  Such support does not involve United States Armed Forces in
hostilities with the Houthis for the purposes of the War Powers
Resolution. 

United States Armed Forces are deployed to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
to protect United States forces and interests in the region against
hostile action by Iran and Iran-backed groups.  These forces, operating
in coordination with the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia,
provide air and missile defense capabilities and support the operation
of United States military aircraft.  The total number of United States
forces in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is approximately 2,321.

Since at least November 2023, Yemen-based Houthi militants have engaged
in a series of attacks against United States military forces, including
ships and aircraft, and against maritime commercial shipping, operating
in the Red Sea, the Bab al-Mandeb Strait, and the Gulf of Aden.  These
attacks have posed a threat to the safety of United States forces and
commercial ships and their crews, regional political and economic
stability, and navigational rights and freedoms.  The Houthi militants
continue to pose a threat of future attacks against United States forces
and military vessels and against other maritime traffic in the region. 
As previously reported on January 12, 2024, January 24, 2024, February
5, 2024, and February 26, 2024, I directed United States forces, as part
of a multinational operation, to conduct discrete strikes on January 11,
2024, January 22, 2024, February 3, 2024, and February 24, 2024, against
targets in Yemen that facilitate Houthi militants’ attacks in the Red
Sea region.  I directed the strikes in order to protect and defend
United States personnel and assets, to degrade and disrupt the ability
of the Houthi militants to carry out future attacks against the United
States and against vessels operating in the Red Sea region that could
further destabilize the region and threaten United States strategic
interests.  The strikes were conducted in a manner designed to limit the
risk of escalation and avoid civilian casualties.

**Jordan.**  At the request of the Government of Jordan, approximately
3,813 United States military personnel are deployed to Jordan to support
Defeat-ISIS operations, to enhance Jordan’s security, and to promote
regional stability.

**Lebanon.**  At the request of the Government of Lebanon, approximately
75 United States military personnel are deployed to Lebanon to enhance
the government’s counterterrorism capabilities and to support the
counterterrorism operations of Lebanese security forces.

**Turkey.**  United States Armed Forces remain deployed to Turkey, at
the Turkish government’s request, to support Defeat-ISIS operations and
to enhance Turkey’s security.

**East Africa Region. ** United States Armed Forces continue to counter
the terrorist threat posed by ISIS and al-Shabaab, one of al-Qa’ida’s
most well-resourced affiliates.  Since the last periodic report, United
States Armed Forces have conducted two strikes against al-Shabaab
high-value targets and a number of airstrikes in Somalia against
al-Shabaab in defense of our Somali partner forces when engaged with
al-Shabaab and our support is requested to defend them against attack. 
United States Armed Forces remain prepared to conduct airstrikes in
Somalia against ISIS and al-Shabaab terrorists.  United States military
personnel conduct periodic engagements in Somalia to train, advise, and
assist regional forces, including Somali and African Union Transition
Mission in Somalia forces, in connection with counterterrorism
operations.  United States military personnel are deployed to Kenya to
support counterterrorism operations in East Africa.  United States
military personnel continue to partner with the Government of Djibouti,
which has permitted use of Djiboutian territory for basing of United
States Armed Forces.  United States military personnel remain deployed
to Djibouti, including for purposes of staging for counterterrorism and
counter-piracy operations in the vicinity of the Horn of Africa and the
Arabian Peninsula, and to provide contingency support for embassy
security augmentation in East Africa, as necessary.

**Lake Chad Basin and Sahel Region. ** United States military personnel
in the Lake Chad Basin and Sahel Region continue to monitor violent
extremist organizations and provide support to African and European
partners conducting counterterrorism activities in the region, including
by advising, assisting, and accompanying these partner forces. 
Approximately 700 United States military personnel are currently
deployed to Niger.  However, the Department of Defense is in the process
of withdrawing United States military personnel from Niger, and the
withdrawal will be completed over the next several months.

**Cuba.**  United States Armed Forces continue to conduct humane and
secure detention operations for detainees held at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba,
under the authority provided by the 2001 Authorization for Use of
Military Force (Public Law 107-40), as informed by the law of war. 
There are 30 such detainees as of the date of this report.

**Philippines.**  United States military personnel deployed to the
Philippines are providing support to the counterterrorism operations of
the armed forces of the Philippines.

MILITARY OPERATIONS IN EGYPT IN SUPPORT OF THE MULTINATIONAL FORCE AND
OBSERVERS

Approximately 363 United States military personnel are assigned to or
are supporting the United States contingent of the Multinational Force
and Observers, which have been present in Egypt since 1981.

UNITED STATES AND NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION OPERATIONS IN
KOSOVO

The United States continues to contribute forces to the Kosovo Force
(KFOR), led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization in cooperation
with local authorities, bilateral partners, and international
institutions, to deter renewed hostilities in Kosovo.  Approximately 576
United States military personnel are among KFOR’s approximately 4,500
personnel.

UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES IN NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION
COUNTRIES

Approximately 80,000 United States Armed Forces personnel are assigned
or deployed to North Atlantic Treaty Organization countries in Europe,
including those deployed to reassure our allies and to deter further
Russian aggression.

UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES IN HAITI TO AUGMENT SECURITY OF THE UNITED
STATES EMBASSY

As reported on March 14, 2024, I directed a security force of military
personnel to deploy to Port-au-Prince, Haiti, on March 12, 2024, to
strengthen United States Embassy security in light of the instability in
the country.  Although this military security force was equipped for
combat, its movement was undertaken as a precautionary measure solely
for the purpose of protecting United States diplomatic facilities and
diplomatic personnel.  The forces equipped for combat have since
departed Haiti.

I have directed the participation of United States Armed Forces in all
of the above-described operations pursuant to my constitutional and
statutory authority as Commander in Chief and as Chief Executive
(including the authority to carry out Public Law 107-40, Public Law
107-243, and other statutes), as well as my constitutional and statutory
authority to conduct the foreign relations of the United States. 
Officials of my Administration and I communicate regularly with
congressional leadership, relevant congressional committees, and other
Members of Congress with regard to these deployments, and we will
continue to do so.

                             Sincerely,

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
