---
date: '2024-11-11'
modified_time: 2024-11-12 12:28:04-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-11 05:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/11/11/fact-sheet-to-mark-veterans-day-biden-harris-administration-highlights-historic-care-benefits-new-actions-to-support-veterans-and-their-families-2/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: To Mark Veterans Day, Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Highlights\
  \ Historic Care, Benefits & New Actions to Support Veterans and Their\_Families"
---
 
*Administration announces record-low number of veterans experiencing
homelessness nationwide, expands eligibility for disability benefits and
sets record for care and benefits delivered to veterans through
President Biden’s Unity Agenda*

President Biden believes we have a sacred obligation to care our
nation’s veterans and their families. Simply put, we owe them a debt we
can never fully repay. Supporting those who wear the uniform is a
commitment that unites all Americans and it’s why the President has made
supporting our veterans a core pillar in his Unity Agenda for the
nation. Since taking office, President Biden has signed into law over 34
bipartisan bills that address some of the most important issues facing
veterans today, including the PACT Act, which is most significant
expansion of benefits and services for toxic exposed veterans in more
than 30 years. The Biden Harris Administration and Congress have worked
together to expand access to health care, address veteran homelessness,
improve access to child and long-term care, and support education and
workforce opportunity for veterans and their families.

To mark this Veterans Day, President Biden will announce that his
Administration has delivered more benefits and health care, more
quickly, to more veterans than ever before. In 2024 alone, the
Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) delivered $187 billion in earned
benefits to 6.7 million veterans and survivors, and processed a record
2.51 million disability claims. VA delivered more than 131 million
health care appointments, over 6 million dental procedures, and provided
services and assistance to more than 88,095 family caregivers. Veterans’
trust in VA also reached an all-time high in 2024. 

The Administration is building on this historic progress and announcing
new actions to address toxic exposures for veterans, including by
expanding the types of cancers considered presumptive for VA disability
benefits. Today, [new data were also
released](https://www.usich.gov/news-events/news/under-biden-harris-administration-veteran-homelessness-drops-lowest-record)
showing that veteran homelessness has reached its lowest point on
record, marking a 7.5% reduction in veteran homelessness in the last
year alone and 55.6% percent reduction since 2010. Additionally, the
Department of Education is
[announcing](https://www.ed.gov/grants-and-programs/grants-higher-education/improvement-postsecondary-education/center-of-excellence-for-veteran-student-success)
$9 million in funding to support student veterans.

**Expanding benefits for toxic exposed veterans.** For far too long it
has taken too much time for the government to acknowledge and address
the harms associated with military related toxic exposures. In part due
to the PACT Act, VA now has the ability to act more swiftly and in the
interest of veterans. Last week, VA announced it would proceed with an
accelerated review to support rulemaking that would create a presumption
for Gulf War deployed veterans, including those who deployed to
Karshi-Khanabad (K2) in Uzbekistan, a location
[described](https://news.va.gov/press-room/national-press-club-4/) as a
“toxic soup of exposures,” and are diagnosed with rare conditions that
could be related to the many [contaminants of
concerns](https://www.publichealth.va.gov/docs/exposures/K2_Contaminants.pdf)
found at K2. Rulemaking would commence this year. VA also
[announced](https://news.va.gov/press-room/national-press-club-4/) it
will be moving forward with rulemaking to add four cancers, including
bladder cancer, ureter cancer, multiple myeloma, and leukemias, to the
list of conditions presumed to be related to burn pit exposure for all
veterans deployed to the Southwest Asia area of operations, including
for K2 veterans.

**Ending veteran homelessness.** Thanks to the efforts of the Department
of Housing and Urban Development and VA, the number of veterans
experiencing homelessness [has reached a record
low](https://www.usich.gov/news-events/news/under-biden-harris-administration-veteran-homelessness-drops-lowest-record)
since measurement began in 2009. This reflects a 7.5% reduction in
veterans experiencing homelessness since 2023, an 11.7% decrease since
2020, and a 55.6% reduction since 2010.  In 2024 alone, VA has
permanently housed nearly 48,000 veterans and awarded over $800 million
in grants to help veterans experiencing homelessness. VA also [expanded
access to legal assistance for homeless
veterans](https://www.va.gov/HOMELESS/LSV-H_Toolkit.asp) and helped more
than 158,000 veterans and their families retain their homes or otherwise
avoid foreclosure. Additionally, so far in 2024, nearly 90,000 veterans
were under lease with vouchers through the HUD-VA Supportive Housing
Program (HUD-VASH) – the most veterans served at any point in the
program’s history. President Biden has also called on Congress
to [triple the number of
veterans](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/07/fact-sheet-in-state-of-the-union-president-biden-to-outline-vision-to-advance-progress-on-unity-agenda-in-year-ahead/) who
receive housing vouchers – a critical tool to help prevent veteran
homelessness in the first place.

**Supporting student veterans.** It has been 80 years since the
enactment of the Montgomery GI Bill. This law and the post-9/11 GI bill,
allow veterans and eligible family members to receive educational
benefits to help them obtain higher education and job training. Today,
to support students returning to college, the Department of Education
announced $9 million in awards to 13 grantees across 10 states under the
[Centers of Excellence for Veteran Student
Success](https://www.ed.gov/grants-and-programs/grants-higher-education/improvement-postsecondary-education/center-of-excellence-for-veteran-student-success)
(CEVSS) program which funds model programs to support veteran student
success in postsecondary education by coordinating comprehensive and
targeted services to address the academic, financial, physical and
mental health, and social needs of veteran students. Funds are being
used for a variety of activities, including to enhance data systems to
identify and track services and impact, including program completion,
hire dedicated veteran success coaches, mentors, and coordinators,
increase outreach, communication, and continuity of services, and
provide professional development to faculty and staff on supporting
veteran students.

These new announcements build on Administration-wide actions to support
veterans and their families, including: 

**Lowering health care costs and expanding health care eligibility for
veterans.** President Biden believes access to health care is a right
not a privilege. Today, millions of veterans are eligible for VA health
care, thanks to the efforts of the Biden-Harris Administration. Since
passage of the PACT Act, over 796,000 veterans have newly enrolled in VA
health care. And, beginning last March, VA made all veterans who were
exposed to toxins and other hazards while serving our country—at home or
abroad—eligible for VA health care without any need to first apply for
VA benefits. This includes all veterans who served in the Vietnam War,
Gulf War, Iraq, Afghanistan, or any other combat zone after 9/11. In
addition to expanding care, veterans trust in VA reached 80.4% this
year, an all-time record and an increase of 25% since 2016. Survey data
also found that veteran trust in VA outpatient care increased to 91.8%,
an all-time high. And, today, VA
[announced](https://news.va.gov/press-room/va-proposes-to-eliminate-copays-for-telehealth-expand-access-to-telehealth-for-rural-veterans/)
it plans to eliminate copayments for all telehealth care visits,
building upon its September
[announcement](https://news.va.gov/press-room/va-makes-tele-emergency-care-available-nationwide-offering-veterans-more-virtual-care-options/#:~:text=This%20expansion%20is%20a%20part,the%20VA%20Health%20Chat%20app.)
which made tele-emergency care available nationwide, making it easier
for veteran to receive timely access to virtual care when needed. These
actions make it faster and easier for millions of veterans to access
quality health care that they’ve earned and deserve.

**Providing benefits to address toxic exposures.** The [bipartisan
Sergeant First Class Heath Robinson Honoring our Promise to Address
Comprehensive Toxics (PACT)
Act](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/10/fact-sheet-president-biden-signs-the-pact-act-and-delivers-on-his-promise-to-americas-veterans/) represents
the most significant expansion in benefits and services for veterans in
over thirty years. At President Biden’s direction, VA expedited health
care and benefits eligibility under the PACT Act by several years,
ensuring that they did not need to wait any longer for the care and
benefits they deserved. VA has also conducted the largest outreach
campaign in the history of the department, driving all-time record
benefits applications and a sharp increase in health care enrollments.
Since enactment, VA has received over 2 million PACT Act related claims
and has granted toxic exposure benefits to more than 1.1 million
veterans and over 11,000 survivors. Additionally, nearly 360,000
veterans eligible under the PACT Act have newly enrolled in VA health
care and more than 5.82 million veterans have been screened for toxic
exposure.  More than 60,000 Veterans have enrolled in VA health care
thanks to the expediting of the PACT Act, and more than 350,000 Veterans
have granted PACT claims due to the elimination of the phase in
approach.

**Understanding the harms of toxic exposures.** VA has ongoing efforts
to research and understand the health conditions that veterans
experience so that VA can provide them with all of the benefits and care
they deserve. Last month, VA
[announced](https://news.va.gov/press-room/va-to-review-possible-service-connection-between-pfas-exposure-and-kidney-cancer/)
a new scientific assessment to determine if there is a relationship
between per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) exposure during
military service and kidney cancer among veterans. This review helps
advance the President’s [Unity Agenda and Biden Cancer
Moonshot](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/cancermoonshot/) goals to
understand and address environmental and toxic exposures and end cancer
as we know it.

**Reducing veteran suicide.** Since releasing a comprehensive public
health strategy for [reducing military and
veteran](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/Military-and-Veteran-Suicide-Prevention-Strategy.pdf) suicide,
the Biden-Harris Administration has continued to improve suicide
prevention efforts. As of October 2024, VA has provided no-cost
life-saving care to more than 82,000 veterans at risk of suicide since
the program began. VA awarded over [$150
million](https://news.va.gov/press-room/va-awards-veteran-suicide-prevention-grants/) in
grants for community-based organizations to deliver or coordinate
suicide prevention programs and services for veterans and their family
members. In September, VA
[announced](https://news.va.gov/press-room/va-awards-4-3m-in-cooperative-agreements-to-states-territories-to-help-understand-and-prevent-veteran-suicide/)
more than $4.3 million in cooperative agreements to states and
territories to help fund and provide technical assistance to better
inform veteran suicide prevention suicide. Because economic and
financial uncertainty can increase the risk of suicide, VA launched the
[National Veterans Financial Resource
Center](https://www.mirecc.va.gov/visn19/finvet/) earlier this year to
provide veterans and their families with a one-stop website to locate
tools and resources to improve financial wellbeing.

**Improving access to child and long-term care options.** Last year,
President Biden signed an historic [Executive
Order](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/18/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-most-sweeping-set-of-executive-actions-to-improve-care-in-history/) calling
for more than 50 administrative actions that would improve access to and
quality of child care and long-term care for Americans, including for
our nation’s heroes. Thanks to these actions, each VA medical center
offers veterans and their families with self-directed care options
through the Veteran Directed Care (VDC) program. More than 700 Veterans
are now receiving VDC services through the new programs.

**Protecting veterans and their families from predatory actors and
scams.** In 2023, veterans, military personnel, and their families
reported $477 million in losses to fraud. Last November, the President
[announced](https://news.va.gov/press-room/va-and-the-biden-harris-administration-announce-new-government-wide-website-call-center-to-protect-veterans-from-fraud-and-scams/)
the new Veteran Scam and Fraud Evasion (VSAFE) Task Force to better
protect veterans and their families against these scams. In 2024, VSAFE
released several resources to cut down on any confusion, and get
veterans, Service members, and their family members routed to the best
support as effectively and efficiently as possible. A centralized
website, VSAFE.gov, is a fraud prevention, response, and reporting
information hub. Information from across federal agencies can be
accessed in one place, making it easy for veterans, Service members, and
their families to find out more about different kinds of fraud, to get
assistance, and to report. A single shared call line, 833-38V-SAFE, will
connect veterans, Service members, and their families with the best
agency to handle their report and get help.

**Improving Equity.** Women are the fastest growing group of veterans
who use VA services and the Administration is committed to addressing
and providing resources for their specialized health care needs. In
October 2023, to improve health outcomes for mothers and their newborn
children, VA expanded [access to its maternity care
coordination](https://news.va.gov/press-room/va-expands-maternity-care-coordination-for-veterans/) from
8 weeks to 12 months post-partum. In total, VA is now serving more women
than ever before, with nearly 750,000 receiving disability compensation
benefits from VA in 2024. To ensure that all LGBTQ+ veterans can access
the benefits they have earned, the Department of Defense
[announced](https://www.defense.gov/News/Releases/Release/Article/3531561/)
it would proactively review and consider discharge upgrades for veterans
who were discharged under Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell and VA [expanded access
to care and
benefits](https://news.va.gov/press-room/va-rule-amending-regulations-discharge-determinations/)
for those with other than honorable discharges. Additionally, VA
released its [2024 Agency Equity Action
Plan](https://department.va.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/02/Department-of-Veterans-Affairs-Equity-Action-Plan.pdf)
to help ensure that VA delivers on its promise to provide world-class
care and benefits to all veterans, their families, caregivers, and
survivors ― regardless of their age, race, ethnicity, sex, gender
identity, religion, disability, sexual orientation, or geographic
location.

**Advancing economic security for military and veteran spouses,
caregivers, and survivors.** Since Day One of the Biden-Harris
Administration, First Lady Jill Biden, through her [*Joining
Forces*](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/joiningforces/) initiative, has
worked to eliminate barriers to employment and increase economic
opportunity for military-connected families. In June 2023, the
President, alongside the First Lady, signed an [Executive
Order](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/06/09/executive-order-on-advancing-economic-security-for-military-and-veteran-spouses-military-caregivers-and-survivors/) that
included nearly 20 new actions to enhance career stability, expand
employment resources, and improve transition assistance support for
military and veteran spouses, caregivers, and survivors. In February
2024, the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) published a
government-wide plan to [tackle employment barriers and expand
opportunities for military-connected spouses, caregivers, and
survivors](https://chcoc.gov/content/government-wide-military-connected-strategic-plan-fiscal-years-fys-2024-2028).
And, in April 2024, the Administration
[announced](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/09/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-sweeping-executive-actions-to-strengthen-economic-opportunity-for-military-and-veteran-spouses-caregivers-and-survivors/)
a permanent memorandum of agreement between the Department of Defense
and State Department to strengthen the Domestic Employees Teleworking
Overseas (DETO) program for military spouses who work for the federal
government. These actions represent the Biden-Harris Administration’s
holistic commitment to ensuring that the Federal government is a leader
among employers, modeling approaches to recruit, hire, and retain
military spouse talent.

**\###**
