---
date: '2024-11-25'
published_time: 2024-11-25 15:06:14-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/11/25/statement-by-president-joe-biden-on-the-occasion-of-international-day-for-the-elimination-of-violence-against-women-4/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement by President Joe\_Biden on the Occasion of International Day for\
  \ the Elimination of Violence Against\_Women"
---
 
Today, as we commemorate the 25<sup>th</sup> anniversary of the
International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women, we
recommit ourselves to the urgent work of ending gender-based violence in
the United States and around the world. Gender-based violence is a human
rights abuse and a public health crisis that impacts one in three women
and girls. We also know that whenever and wherever women and girls are
under threat, so too are peace, stability, and economic progress.

Working to end violence against women and girls has been the cause of my
life.  In the U.S. Senate, I wrote and championed the Violence Against
Women Act, working across the aisle and with courageous survivors to
strengthen the law four times.  As President, I was proud to sign into
law the Violence Against Women Act Reauthorization Act, which expanded
access to safety and support for survivors, increased prevention
efforts, and established new federal protections against online
harassment and abuse. Under my Administration’s leadership, the United
States secured the highest-ever funding levels to implement the Violence
Against Women Act, and, globally, we have maintained the highest-ever
level of investment to address gender-based violence at $250 million per
year.

My Administration issued the first-ever U.S. National Plan to End
Gender-Based Violence, updated the U.S. Strategy to Prevent and Respond
to Gender-Based Violence Globally, and worked tirelessly to prevent and
address gender-based violence in all its forms, including through the
White House Task Force to Address Online Harassment and Abuse and the
Global Partnership for Action on Gender-Based Online Harassment and
Abuse, which has grown to a 15-country membership. We’ve advanced
policies within the United States and globally to address online safety;
invested in efforts to prevent technology-facilitated gender-based
violence—including countering its chilling effects on women’s civic and
political participation; and supported survivors of image-based sexual
abuse.

We have also taken historic steps to strengthen justice and
accountability for conflict-related sexual violence. In 2022, I issued a
Presidential Memorandum on Promoting Accountability for Conflict-Related
Sexual Violence—directing federal agencies to leverage sanctions
authorities, assistance restrictions, and other tools to promote
accountability for perpetrators of this human rights abuse. Since the
release of that memorandum, the United States issued nearly two dozen
sanctions, including for the first time several issued solely on the
basis of sexual violence. And earlier this year, we announced the
Dignity in Documentation Initiative, which supports civil society-led
efforts to investigate and document sexual violence in conflict.

Today we reflect on the tremendous progress we’ve made since the first
International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women a
quarter century ago.  We also recommit ourselves to the work ahead to
achieve a world in which all women and girls can live free from fear,
free from violence, and free from abuse.

\###
