---
date: '2024-11-21'
published_time: 2024-11-21 19:55:24-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/11/21/fact-sheet-delivering-for-the-international-development-association/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Delivering for the International Development\_Association"
---
 
This week, President Biden announced the U.S. intent for a substantial
increase in the U.S. contribution to the International Development
Association (IDA), the arm of the World Bank that supports the poorest
and most vulnerable countries.  The United States will pledge $4 billion
over three years to the ongoing IDA replenishment, subject to
Congressional approval, sustaining the U.S. position as the largest
historical donor to IDA and joining other countries that are stepping up
to assist IDA recipients with critical, sustainable investments in their
development.

Just as President Biden has championed a domestic economic agenda built
around investing at home, he is determined to unlock the resources
needed for developing countries to similarly invest in their futures. 
High debt burdens, exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic and the food
insecurity crisis fueled by Russia’s war against Ukraine, have put these
critical investments out of reach for too many developing countries.  As
a result, many countries are facing difficult choices between paying
back creditors and making critical investments in their economy and
people—like vaccinating children, building more resilient and
sustainable food systems, and addressing the damaging effects of climate
change.  At this moment of need, we need to scale up the amount of
concessional finance available to these countries, while all other
creditors need to step up to keep money flowing as well.

IDA is a key source of grants and highly concessional lending that
provides net positive flows and helps to fill the investment gap.  It is
the single largest source of concessional finance to the poorest and
most vulnerable countries, and a vital provider of financing for
countries with heavy debt burdens.  IDA offers support for policy
reforms in conjunction with financing, with this replenishment
sharpening the focus on boosting resilience by addressing the impacts of
climate change, pandemics, and fragility and conflict, while continuing
to invest in sustainable infrastructure, quality jobs, inclusion, gender
equality, good governance, food security and nutrition, and access to
basic services.  A strong IDA builds on the initiative that the
Biden-Harris Administration has spearheaded to equip the multilateral
development banks to help countries better address global challenges so
that they can accelerate progress on reducing poverty and achieving the
Sustainable Development Goals.

In addition to the U.S. pledge, President Biden is urging existing
donors to follow his example by stepping up support and calling on new
donors to start contributing.  The leaders of developing countries have
been loud and clear in calling for more concessional financing.  IDA
represents the most impactful opportunity for the international
community to respond to this urgent request.

To complement his support for IDA, President Biden has pursued a bold
agenda calling on the international financial institutions, bilateral
creditors, and the private sector to step up support for countries with
ambitious investment and reform plans that are unable to invest in their
own futures due to debt service burdens.  President Biden outlined this
agenda in the [Nairobi-Washington
Vision](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/23/the-nairobi-washington-vision/) he
launched with President Ruto of Kenya in May.  At the Rio Summit, he
pressed the G20 to take action on this plan so that developing
countries’ stepped-up investments supported by IDA and other
multilateral assistance providers are not undermined by free-riding
creditors.  As part of this strategy, the U.S. government is deploying
its multilateral and bilateral tools to step up financing for countries
with heavy debt burdens, providing a pathway for sustainable growth and
development.

\###
