---
date: '2024-11-29'
modified_time: 2024-11-27 15:32:58-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-29 09:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/11/29/fact-sheet-ahead-of-small-business-saturday-the-biden-harris-administration-takes-new-actions-to-increase-federal-support-for-small-businesses/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Ahead of Small Business Saturday, the Biden-\u2060Harris Administration\
  \ Takes New Actions to Increase Federal Support for Small\_Businesses"
---
 
*The Biden-Harris Administration is increasing small business lending
limits and helping small businesses compete for federal contracting
opportunities*

Small businesses are the engines of our economy and the heart and soul
of our communities. Today, the White House announced new actions by the
Small Business Administration (SBA) and the Office of Management and
Budget (OMB) to increase access to federal lending and contracting
opportunities for small businesses. SBA is announcing it is making it
easier for traditionally underserved small businesses to access capital
from mission-oriented lenders by increasing the cap on their SBA 7(a)
loans from $350,000 to $500,000. OMB is releasing procurement guidance
on both upcoming contracts and subcontracting opportunities to better
enable federal agencies to support small business trying to compete for
the over $700 billion in federal contracts. And federal agencies are
leveraging small disadvantaged businesses at record rates to improve
resilience in federal research and development (R&D) supply chains.

President Biden and Vice President Harris invested a record [$56 billion
in SBA-backed capital in small
businesses](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/11/14/fact-sheet-a-record-20-million-new-business-applications/)
last year—and have overseen a small business boom. American
entrepreneurs have filed over [20 million new business
applications](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/11/14/statement-from-president-biden-on-a-record-20-million-new-business-applications/),
the most in any single Presidential term in history. And these
applications are leading historic business creation, with new
establishment growth higher under President Biden than at any point in
the last quarter-century. Entrepreneurs are thriving across communities,
with business ownership doubling among Black families, hitting a 30-year
high for Hispanic families, exceeding a 30-year high for Asian
Americans, and surpassing pre-pandemic levels for women business owners.
The Biden-Harris agenda continues to make sure that small businesses in
every corner of the country—rural, suburban, urban, and everywhere in
between—have the resources they need to grow and thrive.

In advance of Small Business Saturday, the Biden-Harris Administration
is doubling down on investments in entrepreneurs by taking the following
actions:

-   **Expanding caps on critical lending programs.** Today, the SBA is
    announcing an increase of the maximum loan amount backed by their
    Community Advantage Small Business Lending Companies (CA SBLCs) from
    $350,000 to $500,000 for active lenders in good standing. These
    mission-based non-depository lenders—often Community Development
    Financial Institutions (CDFIs)—focus on providing access to capital
    to underserved businesses and underinvested businesses, ensuring
    that women, people of color, veterans, rural, and low- and
    moderate-income communities have access to SBA-backed capital. This
    step builds on prior action by the Biden-Harris Administration to
    support small businesses through CA SBLCs, including [making the
    program
    permanent](https://www.sba.gov/article/2023/10/20/biden-harris-administration-expands-access-capital-underserved-small-businesses-through-mission)
    following a successful pilot launched by the Obama-Biden
    Administration.

<!-- -->

-   **Improving forecasting of upcoming federal contracting
    opportunities.** OMB is issuing guidance to federal procurement
    officials to strengthen government-wide procurement forecasts.
    Agencies have long been required to prepare annual forecasts of
    upcoming federal contract opportunities for businesses, but variance
    in the quality and timeliness has made it difficult for small
    businesses to prepare their proposals and more effectively compete
    against larger businesses. Today’s memo will help align timelines
    and expectations, better enabling small business to understand when
    new opportunities will become available and plan ahead to compete
    for federal awards.

<!-- -->

-   **Increasing access to federal subcontracting opportunities.** In
    2023, small businesses received a record [$86 billion in subcontract
    awards](https://www.sba.gov/article/2024/04/29/biden-harris-administration-awards-record-breaking-178-billion-federal-procurement-opportunities)
    from the federal government. Building on this success, OMB is
    issuing guidance to federal agencies on ways to continue to expand
    subcontracting opportunities for small businesses, the primary
    gateway for them to compete as prime contractors. This also improves
    the resilience of supply chains for critical government needs by
    increasing competition and expanding the pool of businesses engaged
    in federal contracts. This guidance describes promising policies and
    strategies adopted by forward-thinking agencies, and encourages
    federal procurement officials to recognize prime contractors who
    meet or exceed their subcontracting plan goals and work to
    strengthen their small business supply chains.

<!-- -->

-   **Leveraging Small Disadvantaged Businesses (SDBs) to meet research
    and development (R&D) Needs.** Federal R&D investments are integral
    to maintaining American leadership in emerging science and
    technology. The Biden-Harris Administration has made significant
    progress in leveraging the talents of SDBs for federal R&D
    contracts, with two-year average annual spending at $2.5 billion in
    Fiscal Years 2022 and 2023—an all-time high and nearly $450 million
    a year more than in 2020. Following [OMB’s call for
    agencies](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/02/M-23-11-Creating-a-More-Diverse-and-Resilient-Federal-Marketplace.pdf) to
    strategically build out resilience within specific supply chains,
    the White House, SBA, and the National Aeronautics and Space
    Administration (NASA) released an internal set of best practices to
    help agencies reach even greater heights in the R&D sector,
    including actions to strengthen planning, outreach, and use of the
    resources available through the 8(a) Program.

Both of OMB’s actions build on significant work by the Biden-Harris
Administration to help small and underserved businesses access federal
contract opportunities, including awarding a record [$178.6 billion in
federal contracting
opportunities](https://www.sba.gov/article/2024/04/29/biden-harris-administration-awards-record-breaking-178-billion-federal-procurement-opportunities)
to small businesses (28.4% of eligible federal dollars) and a record
[$76.2 billion to small disadvantaged
businesses](https://www.sba.gov/article/2024/04/12/sba-statement-biden-harris-administration-exceeding-small-disadvantaged-business-contracting-goal)
(12.1% of eligible federal dollars).

\###
