---
date: '2024-11-19'
modified_time: 2024-11-19 18:33:23-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-19 08:15:06-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/11/19/fact-sheet-continuing-a-legacy-of-leadership-at-the-g20/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Continuing a Legacy of Leadership at the\_G20"
---
 
From day one of his Administration, President Biden pledged
to restore U.S. leadership and strengthen our partnerships to make
America more secure and prosperous. Taking office amid a devastating
pandemic that had upended the global economy, President Biden recognized
that we needed to work with partners to tackle big cross-border
challenges.  

President Biden’s leadership at the G20 has demonstrated the dividends
that U.S. engagement yields for America and the world.  Through the G20,
the Biden-Harris Administration has delivered a landmark agreement to
stop the race to the bottom in corporate taxation; launched a new fund
to address pandemic threats; and helped unlock hundreds of billions of
dollars of resources at the international financial institutions
to advance development progress and tackle global challenges.

At the Rio Summit, President Biden continued this legacy of
leadership by rallying his fellow leaders to unlock space for developing
countries to invest in their futures, accelerate the global clean energy
transition, tackle global health threats, and champion an inclusive
digital transformation.  He also built on the United States’
longstanding leadership on food security by joining the Global Alliance
Against Hunger and Poverty.

President Biden continued his push for peace and stability around the
world.  He condemned Russia’s brutal invasion of Ukraine – which has
exacerbated the crises facing developing countries – and affirmed the
United States’ strong support for Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial
integrity and called on his fellow leaders to do the same.  President
Biden also affirmed Israel’s right to defend itself while emphasizing
that how it defends itself – even as Hamas cruelly hides among civilians
– matters.  He highlighted U.S. humanitarian aid to Gaza and made clear
that the United States is pushing for a ceasefire deal that ensures
Israel’s security, brings the hostages home, and ends the suffering of
Palestinians in Gaza.  President Biden asked his fellow leaders to
increase pressure on Hamas to stop refusing this deal.

**<u>Driving sustainable growth and development in developing
countries</u>**

President Biden has built his economic agenda around the United States
investing at home and unlocking additional resources to support
investments in developing countries around the world.  

**Championing concessional finance from the World Bank for the poorest
countries.  **President Biden announced the U.S. intent for a
substantial increase in the U.S. contribution to the International
Development Association (IDA), the arm of the World Bank that supports
the poorest and most vulnerable countries.  The Biden Administration
intends to pledge $4 billion over three years to the ongoing IDA
replenishment, subject to Congressional approval.  A better and bigger
IDA is critical to unlocking space for developing countries to invest in
their futures.  President Biden has heard loud and clear the calls from
developing countries for more concessional financing and a strong IDA
replenishment in December.  This pledge will sustain U.S. leadership as
the largest historical donor to IDA and joins other countries that are
stepping up to support IDA recipients with critical, sustainable
investments in their development.  At the Rio Summit, President Biden
called on existing donors to follow the U.S. example by increasing
support and on new donors to start contributing.  

**Equipping the multilateral development banks (MDBs) to address global
challenges.**  The Biden-Harris Administration has spearheaded a broad
coalition to equip the MDBs to better address global challenges like
climate change, pandemics, and fragility and conflict.  Over the last
two years, this leadership has led to enormous strides in reforming the
MDBs’ visions, incentives, and operations to make them more efficient
and responsive to countries’ development needs.  Reforms already
identified could boost lending capacity by up to nearly $360 billion
over the next decade, giving the MDBs the resources they need to tackle
global challenges with greater speed and scale.  At the Rio Summit,
President Biden reiterated his request for Congress to approve funding
to boost World Bank lending capacity by $36 billion, recognized the G20
members that have made their own contributions to this U.S.-led effort,
and called on fellow leaders to match this with their own contributions.
  

**Unlocking space for developing countries to invest in sustainable
growth and development.  **High debt service burdens are preventing
developing countries from making critical investments in their futures –
many low-income countries spend more servicing their debt than on
health, education, and social programs combined.  Building on the
Nairobi-Washington Vision that he launched with President Ruto of Kenya
in May 2024, President Biden called on the G20 to provide a pathway for
sustainable growth for these countries that would bring together the
international community to provide stepped-up support for countries
facing constraints from debt servicing burdens, but whose debts are
sustainable.  Under this plan, the IMF and MDBs would deliver enhanced
support packages that incorporate ambitious reform and investment
agendas; bilateral creditors would provide net positive financial
flows to end free-riding; and MDBs and G20 countries would deploy their
tools to unlock private financing.  As part of this plan, the U.S.
government is employing its multilateral and bilateral tools to step up
financing for vulnerable countries.  This includes finalizing the U.S.
contribution of $21 billion to the IMF’s Poverty Reduction and Growth
Trust.

**Calling for faster debt relief for countries with unsustainable
burdens.  **President Biden pushed for making the debt
restructuring process faster and more predictable to reduce the hardship
on the people of indebted countries.  President Biden called on G20
countries to swiftly provide debt relief to countries who need it and
advocated for accelerating the restructuring process, including by
improving the G20 Common Framework.  

**<u>Furthering the global clean energy transition</u>**

After a historic visit to the Amazon that highlighted his legacy of
spearheading the most significant domestic climate and conservation
action in history and leading global efforts to tackle the climate
crisis through a historic pledge to increase U.S. international climate
finance to over $11 billion a year by 2024, President Biden rallied G20
leaders in Rio to raise their climate ambition and develop innovative
solutions to support the clean energy transition.

**Launching the Brazil-U.S. Partnership for the Energy
Transition.**  Presidents Biden and Lula announced [a new
partnership](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/11/19/fact-sheet-new-brazil-u-s-partnership-for-the-energy-transition/)
to elevate ongoing bilateral efforts in clean energy production, clean
energy supply chain development, and green industrialization.
 This partnership builds on longstanding efforts under the U.S.-Brazil
Energy Forum and the Strategic Minerals Dialogue. This partnership will
also help mobilize private sector investment in the energy transition
through engagement under the Clean Energy Industry Dialogue and the
recently signed cooperation framework agreement between the U.S.
International Development Finance Corporation (DFC) and BNDES, the
Brazilian Development Bank. 

**Globalizing the U.S. clean energy industrial strategy.  **The United
States has demonstrated that investing in the energy transition is a
once-in-a-generation opportunity to unlock clean growth, good jobs,
high-standard investment, and energy security.  This vision is reflected
in a number of bilateral clean energy industrial partnerships President
Biden has established, including the new Brazil-U.S. Partnership for the
Energy Transition, [Roadmap For U.S.-India Initiative to Build Safe and
Secure Global Clean Energy Supply
Chains](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/21/roadmap-for-u-s-india-initiative-to-build-safe-and-secure-global-clean-energy-supply-chains/),
and [U.S.-Kenya Climate and Clean Energy Industrial
Partnership](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/23/united-states-kenya-joint-leaders-statement/).
 These efforts are further cemented in the multilateral Clean Energy
Finance Mission Statement released on the margins of the G20 under the
leadership of the United Kingdom and Brazil to mobilize finance
in emerging markets and developing economies (EMDEs) for green
industrialization and building resilient and diverse clean energy supply
chains. 

**U.S. leadership in financing the global clean energy
transition. ** Alongside the Clean Energy Finance Mission Statement, the
United States announced a major $325 million contribution to the Clean
Technology Fund, a highly concessional fund designed to support the
scaling and diversification of clean energy supply chains in eligible
EMDEs.  The United States has also separately extended $2 billion in
shareholder guarantees through the World Bank to catalyze India’s and
Indonesia’s investments in the clean energy economy.

**Reforming the multilateral climate funds.**  After leading the effort
to equip the MDBs to better address global challenges like climate
change, the United States is working with others to reform the vertical
climate and environmental funds as the next frontier in the evolution of
the international financial architecture.  Building on an independent
review of the funds launched by the G20 this year, G20 leaders
encouraged the funds to work together to unlock their full potential and
improve access, including through enhanced cooperation with the MDBs.
 This call to action can pave the way for the funds to deliver finance
at the speed and scale the climate crisis demands.

**<u>Strengthening the global health architecture</u>**

When he came into office, President Biden prioritized ending the
COVID-19 pandemic and preparing for future pandemics.  At the Rio
Summit, President Biden built on this legacy to continue tackling the
threat of pandemics and delivering for global health.

**Delivering for the Pandemic Fund.**  President Biden led the G20 to
establish the Pandemic Fund in 2022 to help developing countries build
capacity to prepare, prevent, and respond to the next pandemic.  In its
first two years, the Pandemic Fund has awarded $885 million in grants
across 75 countries, including nearly $129 million for countries
affected by the mpox public health emergency, and mobilized an
additional $6 billion in co-financing and co-investment for project
implementation, delivering support that is making America – and the
world – safer from the next pandemic threat.  The United States is
championing an ambitious $2 billion replenishment of the Pandemic Fund
and leading the way by pledging up to $667 million by 2026, subject to
Congressional approval.  At the Rio Summit, the United States led a G20
call for new and increased contributions to reach the funding goal.

**Responding to the threat of mpox.**  The United States galvanized the
G20 to commit political and financial support to the mpox response and
support the World Health Organization (WHO) and the World Bank in
creating a global mpox response financing tracker to identify and
address gaps.  The financing tracker, which will be launched soon, shows
that countries have stepped up quickly, providing 90 percent of the
resources needed to respond, including more than $540 million from the
United States.  The United States has also pledged to provide more than
one million mpox vaccine doses to the response.  Nearly 400,000 doses
have already been allocated through WHO and Africa CDC’s Access and
Allocation mechanism; the remaining doses will be allocated as guided by
country requirements.  

**Restoring immunization services to better than pre-pandemic levels.
 **In June, the United States pledged at least $1.58 billion over the
next five years to Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, the first-ever five-year
pledge and the largest-ever U.S. pledge.  In Rio, President Biden
called on other countries to come forward with their own ambitious
pledges in support of Gavi’s goal of vaccinating an additional 500
million children and saving at least 8 million lives.  In September
2024, DFC expanded its donor liquidity partnership with
Gavi, building on support put in place during COVID-19.  The $1 billion
Rapid Financing Facility will allow Gavi to access funds from donors
making new pledges for pandemic response or routine immunization much
faster. 

**Ending HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria as public health threats by
2030.  **The Biden-Harris Administration has invested more than
$26 billion in the HIV/AIDS response.  Through the President’s Emergency
Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR), the Administration has supported more
than 20 million people on lifesaving treatment and reached millions more
with effective HIV prevention programs.  In 2022, President Biden led
the largest ever replenishment for the Global Fund to Fight AIDS,
Tuberculosis, and Malaria (Global Fund), raising more than $15.7 billion
in donor pledges, including a U.S. pledge of $6 billion over three
years.  President Biden also sustained robust bilateral funding for the
President’s Malaria Initiative, which provided more than $3 billion for
malaria to support 30 countries who together account for around 90
percent of all malaria cases and deaths globally. 

**Addressing the environmental determinants of health.**  President
Biden led G20 members to emphasize the importance of addressing One
Health (human-animal-plant-environment) challenges such as antimicrobial
resistance (AMR) and climate change.  On AMR, the Administration has
invested $1 billion to prevent infections and detect and respond to
AMR and has finalized policies aimed at preventing the rise of AMR due
to crop pesticide use.  On climate and health, the Administration has
included health as one of four key sectors for its PREPARE action
plan. The over $3 billion invested through PREPARE supports resilient
health systems while also supporting key life support systems such as
food, water, and infrastructure.  At home, the Administration has
launched a first-of-its kind National Heat Strategy and secured the
commitment of more than 960 health care companies to address their
emissions and climate resilience.  

**<u>Leading the fight against poverty and hunger</u>**

President Biden built on the United States’ longstanding leadership on
global food security.

**Accelerating progress on global food security.  **In the face
of a protracted global food security crisis, the Biden-Harris
Administration has led the fight against global hunger.  Since 2021, the
United States has committed more than $20 billion in funding in more
than 47 countries to support emergency interventions and build more
resilient and sustainable food systems to mitigate against future global
food shocks.  In 2022, the Biden-Harris Administration rallied more than
100 countries to endorse the UN Roadmap for Global Food Security,
affirming the importance of tackling global food insecurity as an
economic and national security imperative.

**Launching G20 action on hunger and poverty.  **At the Rio Summit,
President Biden joined G20 leaders to launch the Global Alliance Against
Hunger and Poverty to provide sustained political
momentum and facilitate better alignment of financial resources and
knowledge-sharing in support of efforts with a proven track record of
impact in accelerating the eradication of poverty.  As a member of the
Alliance, the United States highlighted existing U.S.-led
efforts to reduce malnutrition, increase women’s access to land
tenure, and promote private sector investments in improved seed
varieties globally.  President Biden also highlighted a number of
domestic efforts to lift millions of people in the United States out of
poverty through the Social Security program, nutrition assistance,
refundable tax credits, and benefits for disabled Americans.

**Combatting corruption to drive sustainable and equitable
development**.  Recognizing that corruption and weak
governance impede the Sustainable Development Goals, the United States
is working with partners to press for stronger action to prevent and
counter corruption, including better enforcement by all G20 countries of
foreign bribery laws and ensuring transparent, inclusive, and
accountable public institutions.

**<u>Empowering workers</u>**

In September 2023, Presidents Biden and Lula launched the Partnership
for Workers’ Rights, the first joint U.S.-Brazil initiative to advance
the rights of working people around the world.  The Partnership has
tangibly improved the lives of workers through new initiatives
and over $20 million of programming supported by the United
States that: 

**Facilitated collaboration to prevent heat-related illnesses **and
promoted the use of mobile apps and other tools to help workers know
when they are at risk of heat-related illnesses.   

**Advanced collaborative efforts with businesses, governments, and
unions to tackle the root causes of forced labor and promote forced
labor remediation**, including in the cattle, coffee, gold mining,
charcoal production, and other industries and supply chains. 

**Supported efforts to strengthen worker engagement **in climate policy
and promoted unionization and collective bargaining in the manufacturing
and agriculture sectors.  

**<u>Supporting an inclusive and equitable digital future for all</u>**

Recognizing the potential of the digital transformation to empower
people globally, President Biden advocated for an inclusive and
equitable digital future for all in Rio.  

**Leveraging artificial intelligence (AI) for sustainable
development and worker empowerment.**  President Biden joined other G20
Leaders in advocating to leverage the potential of AI to help solve
global challenges, enable worker well-being, and ensure AI technologies
are developed and used responsibly.  The United States has demonstrated
its commitment to achieving this goal by delivering on President Biden’s
Executive Order on AI, particularly the [AI in Global Development
Playbook](https://www.usaid.gov/digital-development/ai-global-development-playbook) and
the [Global AI Research
Agenda](https://www.state.gov/global-ai-research-agenda/). 

**Making progress on universal and meaningful connectivity.**  President
Biden proudly joined other G20 leaders in recognizing universal and
meaningful connectivity as key to achieving digital inclusion.  To help
achieve this, DFC has approved a combined $630 million in financing for
the Brazilian digital infrastructure company V.tal Rede Neutra De
Telecomunicacoes S.A. (V.tal) to support the expansion of its fiber
optic network across Brazil.  DFC’s financing will enable more than 1
million homes and 4,000 schools to be connected to the Internet by 2027.

**Investing through the Women in the Digital Economy Initiative. ** G20
leaders reaffirmed the historic commitment from the 2023 G20 Leaders’
Summit to halve the digital gender gap by 2030.  In furtherance of this
commitment, the United
States [announced](https://widef.global/widef-announces-first-awardees-of-funding-to-close-the-gender-digital-divide/) the
first round of global funding awards through the Women in the Digital
Economy Initiative’s aligned fund.  Ten organizations, spanning eight
countries across East Africa, West Africa, South Asia, and Latin
America, have been selected for their innovative solutions and impact in
tackling the gender digital divide.  These organizations will address
barriers to equitable digital inclusion, such as access to affordable
devices and online experiences; availability of relevant products and
tools; digital literacy and skills; safety and security; and data and
insights.  

\###
