---
date: '2024-11-14'
modified_time: 2024-11-14 12:58:58-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-14 15:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/11/14/president-biden-announces-nominees-5/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces\_Nominees"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve as key leaders in his administration:

-   Carol Kellermann, Nominee to be a Member of the Board of Directors
    of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting
-   Loida Lewis, Nominee to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the
    Millennium Challenge Corporation

Additionally, President Biden announced his intent to nominate the
following individuals to serve as Republican members of boards and
commissions that are required, by statute or longstanding practice, to
include bipartisan membership:

-   Adam White, Nominee to be a Member (Republican) of the Board of
    Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting
-   Devin Anderson, Nominee to be a Member (Republican) of the Board of
    Directors of the State Justice Institute

**<u>Carol Kellermann, Nominee to be a Member of the Board of Directors
of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting</u>**

An expert in launching, managing and turning around nonprofits, Carol
Kellermann has guided large and small organizations through periods of
significant growth and transformation. With deep experience in
Washington, D.C. and New York, Kellermann has also advised leading
elected officials and led the half-billion-dollar assistance program for
victims of the September 11 terrorist attacks.

Most recently, Kellermann was President of the Citizens Budget
Commission, the respected independent watchdog that recommends changes
and improvements in the New York City and New York State government
budgets and services. Following the 2001 terrorist attacks in New York
City, she served as the CEO of The September 11 Fund, a $500 million
fund created by charities and foundations to help victims of those
attacks. Over two million donors contributed to the Fund. Earlier in her
career, Kellermann was Chief of Staff to then-Congressman, now Senate
Majority Leader Chuck Schumer. She held several positions in New York
City government including as Deputy Commissioner of Finance and Special
Assistant to the Commissioner of Housing Preservation and Development.  

Kellermann also led several nonprofits, including: Learning Leaders, the
oldest school volunteer program in the country; The Leonard Stern
Foundation, to help homeless families in New York City; and the Alliance
for Young Artists & Writers, which recognizes artistically-talented
teenagers. 

A graduate of Harvard College and Harvard Law School, she practiced law
early in her career for the New York Legal Aid Society and Weil, Gotshal
& Manges LLP. She lives in New York City.  

**<u>Loida Lewis, Nominee to be a Member of the Board of Directors of
the Millennium Challenge Corporation</u>**

Loida Lewis is Chair and CEO of TLC Beatrice, LLC, a family investment
firm. A lawyer by profession, admitted to practice in the Philippines
and New York, Lewis was the first Filipino woman to pass the New York
bar without attending law school in the United States. When she won her
discrimination case against the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service, she integrated the agency and worked as General Attorney in the
New York Federal office from 1978 to 1988.

Lewis also served as Chair and CEO of TLC Beatrice International, a $2
billion multinational food company with operations across Europe, from
1994-2007. She assumed its leadership after the death of her husband,
attorney and Wall Street financier Reginald F. Lewis, who in 1987
engineered a leveraged buyout for $985 million of Beatrice International
Foods, thus becoming the first African American to acquire a
billion-dollar company.

Lewis is Chair of the Reginald F. Lewis Foundation, which is a
benefactor of Harvard Law School, the Museum of Maryland African
American History & Culture, Virginia State University, and the Lewis
College in Sorsogon, her hometown in the Philippines. Lewis is
co-founder of several advocacy organizations: Asian American Legal
Defense & Education Fund, National Federation of Filipino American
Associations and U.S. Filipinos for Good Governance.

Lewis has two daughters and five grandchildren.

**<u>Adam White, Nominee to be a Member (Republican) of the Board of
Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting</u>**

Adam White is a Senior Fellow at the American Enterprise Institute
(AEI), where he holds the inaugural Laurence Silberman Chair in
Constitutional Governance. He is part of AEI’s “America at 250”
initiative, a multi-year program bringing scholars together to write and
speak on the American founding. He also directs the C. Boyden Gray
Center for the Study of the Administrative State at George Mason
University’s Antonin Scalia Law School.

In 2021, President Biden appointed him to the Presidential Commission on
the Supreme Court of the United States; he also is a Senior Fellow at
the Administrative Conference of the United States, a federal advisory
body. He has served on the boards of directors of various nonprofits
focused on conservation, free speech, and the rule of law. Previously he
practiced law at Baker Botts LLP and at Boyden Gray & Associates; he
clerked for Judge David Sentelle on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia Circuit; and he was a Research Fellow at Stanford
University’s Hoover Institution.

Born in Dubuque, Iowa, he graduated from Wahlert High School, the
University of Iowa, and Harvard Law School. He and his wife Liz are
raising their family in Loudoun County, VA.

**<u>Devin Anderson, Nominee to be a Member (Republican) of the State
Justice Institute</u>**

Devin Anderson is a litigation partner at Kirkland & Ellis LLP in Salt
Lake City, Utah, where he works on trial and appellate litigation, with
an emphasis on cybersecurity and class actions.

Raised in Mesa, Arizona, Anderson attended Mesa High School. Anderson
served a two-year mission for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints in Rostov-na-Donu, Russia. He then graduated magna cum laude from
Brigham Young University in Provo, Utah, with a double major in
Economics and Russian. He became interested in the law and attended The
George Washington University Law School in Washington, D.C., where he
graduated with highest honors. Following graduation, Anderson clerked
for Judge G. Murray Snow on the U.S. District Court for the District of
Arizona in Phoenix, Arizona, and then for Judge Sandra Ikuta on the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in Pasadena, California. He then
began practicing with Kirkland & Ellis, first in Kirkland’s Washington,
D.C. office, and then Anderson helped to open Kirkland’s Salt Lake City
office in late 2021.

Anderson resides in the Salt Lake area with his wife Marian, who is a
speech-language pathologist, and his three children: Claire, Caleb, and
Emma.

\###
