---
date: '2024-11-13'
modified_time: 2024-11-13 16:26:46-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-13 16:45:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/11/13/remarks-by-president-biden-and-first-lady-jill-biden-at-the-classroom-to-career-summit/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and First Lady Jill\_Biden at the Classroom to\
  \ Career\_Summit"
---
 
East Room

10:09 A.M. EST

THE FIRST LADY:  Hello.  (Applause.)  (Laughs.)  Hey, Kate.  Hey,
Randi.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  Hello!  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank
you very much.  Please be seated.  (Applause.)  
  
Well, Joe, that started our day off right, didn’t it?  (Laughter.)  
  
So, welcome to the White House.

Several years ago, a student of mine came running into my classroom and
breathlessly said that she had seen me on TV.  (Laughter.)  She had
said, “Mom!  Mom!  That’s my English teacher!”  And her mother said,
“That’s not your English teacher.  That’s the second lady.”

So, when Joe was elected as vice president, people assumed that I would
stop teaching.  But, you know, I just couldn’t give it up.  I am first,
foremost, and forever a teacher.  (Applause.)  So, I — I did both: Wh- —
the White House and teaching.

In the morning, I’d stand in front of my community college students for
th- — (applause) — (laughs) — for — for their 8:00 a.m. English comp
class.  Actually, I’m still doing it.  (Laughter.)  And by — and by the
evening, I was at a White House state dinner or boarding Air Force
Two.  

Then, one day in 2010, some White House advisers were trying to figure
to — out and determine, you know, who could highlight the role of
community colleges in our economy.  Then someone had this revelation —
you know, so- — (laugher) — “Wait, doesn’t the second lady work at a
community college?”  (Laughter.)

So, this might be surprising, but I think I had gotten so good at
stitching t- — the two worlds together, and sort of hiding the seams,
that I never considered using my experience to become an advocate.  But
I said yes. 

And at the time, I called community colleges America’s best-kept
secret.  And I knew that they deserved to be seen and celebrated and
championed at every level of government. 

And Joe knows this too.  So, when he became president, Joe put community
colleges front and center in his workforce strategy.  (Applause.) 

And from day one as first lady, I knew that community colleges would be
a priority for me.  So, part of that means pushing to make them tuition
free.  And — (applause).   

So, I’ve been so proud to work alongside dedicated leaders like my
friend Martha Kanter — (applause) — where’s Martha? —  Walter Bumphus,
and Jee Hāng Lee, who have put — who have been dedicated partners in
this work.

So, today, less than a decade after we launched the effort to make cuni-
— community college free, 34 states — plus Washington, D.C. — and
counting offer tuition-free community college and job training
programs.  (Applause.) 

We came close to making community college free for everyone across the
country, but a few senators — I’m not going to name them — (laughter) —
blocked our way.  But that wasn’t the end.  This movement continues to
gain momentum.  We must keep fighting for free community college. 
(Applause.) 

As first lady, I’ve also focused on strengthening the pathways between
classrooms and careers.  Nearly — and you probably all know this — but
nearly 60 percent of graduating high school students don’t go directly
to a four-year degree.  We know that — 6 out of every 10 students.  Some
will start working.  Some will go to community college or technical
colleges.  Some won’t even know what they want to do next. 

So, we continue to keep transforming education to bridge the gap between
what students learn and the careers that they can enter. 

We’ve had amazing partners in high schools across the country and in
advocates like Becky Pringle and Randi Weingarten.  (Applause.)

Together, we’re making sure that high school graduation isn’t a s- — y-
— a sudden halt in a student’s education but rather like the seamless
step forward, whether that’s on a college campus, a registered
apprenticeship, or another career opportunity.  And we’ve partnered with
the leaders of unions and businesses and school districts, colleges, and
universities and — to match what — local employers and the workers that
they need. 

And that’s what we’ve ab- — been able to do with our Investing in
America Workforce Hubs.  And it’s a model that communities across the
country can replicate.

Community colleges are no longer America’s best-kept secret.  Thanks to
the progress of Joe’s administration and what they’ve created, we’re on
our way to making them America’s best-kept promise.  Thank you. 
(Applause.) 

But there’s more ground to cover, and it will take all of us to get
there.  If we work together, we can build a future where more high
school students will graduate with credits and skills that they can
apply to their future careers, where community college is free for every
student in every state of America, and where all students have a clear
pathway to jobs that pay well right in the communities where they grew
up.

This semester is coming to a close.  My students are starting to write
their last assignments, and they’re signing up for new classes, or some
are going to graduate. 

Joe and I are also preparing for what’s coming next.  (Laughter.)   
  
(The president makes the sign of the cross.)  (Laughter and applause.) 

  
It has been the honor of our lives to serve in the White House and to
work alongside, really, all of you in this room.  So, as you keep
pushing forward to make our country shine with opportunity, know that
you will always have a partner in us. 

And now, I’d like to introduce a longtime champion of our nation’s
students.  Not only has Joe always supported my career as an educator,
but as president, he wakes up every day with a mission to lift up all
Americans through the endless possibility of education. 

Please welcome your president, my husband and hero, Joe Biden. 
(Applause.) 

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank you.

Thank you, thank you, thank you.  Thank all of you.  (Applause.) 
Please. 

I’m Joe Biden.  I’m Jill Biden’s husband.  (Laughter.)  And you can see
she doesn’t have any strong notions or ideas.  (Laughter.)

You know, teaching is not what Jill does; it’s who she is — and I mean
that — like many of you teachers.  It’s — it’s just built in her DNA. 
She was surprised when we got elected vice president, and she said she
wanted to keep teaching.  I said, “Of course.”  She looked at me like,
“Really?  You’re going to do that?”  And we did it.   
  
But the point is that this is a passion.  It’s a passion for Jill.  And
the way I look at it is it’s a simple proposition: How can we be the
greatest nation in the world and not have the best education system in
the world?  (Applause.)  No, I mean it.  Think about it.  It’s pretty
straightforward.

  
So, I’m honored to host this White House Classroom <s>of</s> \[to\]
Career Summit.    
  
Look, 15 years ago, when Jill hosted the first one during our vice
presidency, to state the obvious, as I said, what Jill is — for Jill,
being an educator is just what she is.  Period.  And I believe the work
she’s done to connect students and good-paying jobs will prove one of
the most important efforts of our presidency, and I mean it.

Look, that’s why we’re all here today.  And I want to thank Congressman
Norcross of New Jersey.  I keep reminding — my Jersey guys, we do really
well in Jersey.  Jill is a Jersey girl, born and raised.  (Laughter.) 
And I tell him, though, there was actually a case a long time ago. 
Delaware is the second smallest state in the nation, and we own the
Delaware River up to the high-water mark in New Jersey.  (Laughter.)  It
was a Supreme Court decision, for real.  And so, I’m — I just want you
to know.  That’s why we’re so close.  (Laughter.)  You just step off of
— (laughs) — anyway.  (Laughter.)  You’re a good man, pal.  You really
are.

And to members of my Cabinet who are here, thank you, thank you, thank
you, thank you — and leaders of business, education, unions,
philanthropy, nonprofits, and more, you know, for being here and for
your leadership.  And I mean it sincerely.

You know, when we came into office, the pandemic was raging and the
economy was reeling.  And from day one, I was determined not only to
vaccinate the nation, to deliver immediate economic relief for the folks
who needed it the most, but I also determined to transform the way our
economy works for everyone, to write a new economic playbook — and I
mean it sincerely — a new economic playbook from — build the economy
from the middle out and the bottom up, not from the top down. 

My dad used to have an expression.  He’d say, “You know, Joey, when you
talk about trickle-down economics, not a whole hell of a lot trickles
down on our kitchen table.”

Well, when we do that, the poor have a ladder up and the middle class do
well, and the wealthy still will be able to do very well.  And we all do
well.

It’s a playbook based on a value set that my dad taught me.  He used to
say — and I mean this sincerely — “Joey, a job is about a lot more than
a paycheck.  It’s about your dignity.  It’s about your place in the
community.  It’s about being able to look your kid in the eye and say,
‘Honey, it’s going to be okay,’ and mean it — and mean it.”  It
matters. 

Well, not everyone has felt the progress, because it takes time.  We’ve
emerged from a crisis.  We have the strongest economy in the world. 
More to — much more to do.  Working families and the middle class are —
are the center of a strong, equitable, and sustainable recovery. 

And the big reason why is that I call the Investing in American agenda. 
You know, it’s a page from our economic playbook that invests in all of
America and all Americans, creating pathways for millions of good-paying
jobs being created in our economy. 

You know, the key pieces of the Investing in America include historic
laws that I’ve signed, historic investments in modernizing our roads and
bridges, our ports, airports, public transit. 

We’re — we’re replacing poisonous lead pipes.  We’re delivering clean
water to every American.  It’s taking time — it’s going to, but it’s t-
— beginning.  It’s real.  It’s there. 

We’re delivering affordable, high-speed Internet and so much more. 

Roosevelt talked about the need to electrify America during that
(inaudible).  Well, how can — how can you have access to being able to
participate in everything — in fact, you don’t have access to affordable
Internet?  You don’t have access to — anyway.  Don’t get me going. 
(Laughter.) 

But — but, look, we’re also making sure that the supply chain — I don’t
think Americans heard much about supply chains before we came to office
— (applause) — but the supply chain st- — starts in America.  We can no
longer — for the longest time — for the longest time, corporate America
decided to export the jobs because of cheaper labor and import the
product.  Well, not us.  We’ve changed that dynamic. 

For example, semiconductors — those little computer chips, smaller than
the tip of my little finger, you know, they power everything from our
smartphones to automobiles to weapon systems.  America invented those
chips.  We, in the United States, invented them.  We modernized them. 
We did all the work on it, but we stopped making them.  We used to have
over 40 percent of the market, and we got down to virtually none of it. 

But not anymore.  Today, we’re making once-in-a-generation investments
in American science and innovation that are building chip factories all
across America, and they’re going to be creating tens of thousands of
good-paying jobs — and that’s not hyperbole.  But it takes time to build
them. 

The one thing we — you know, I was all excited about how much we’ve
invested and how much is g- — coming, but it’s taken time.  You have to
build those so-called fabs.  These, quote, “fabs” — these factories to
build these things are as long — as big as football fields.  And guess
what?  They pay about an average of $105,000 a year, and you don’t need
a college degree to get there.  And that doesn’t even count the tens of
billions of dollars being spent to build these facilities and attract
other businesses. 

And I signed the most significant climate law ever in American history
but — in the history of the world.  (Applause.)

The congressman will tell you, we were told we couldn’t get it done, but
we got it done.  We got it done. 

And, you know, it’s leading us into a clean energy future with even more
good-paying clean energy jobs and American workers.

As a result of these laws and other things we’ve done — I won’t take all
your time, but the key actions — the end result is: We’ve created, in
the four years we’ve been — almost four years we’ve been here, we’ve
created 16 million new jobs — brand-new jobs — since I took office —
(applause) — and in — the most in any single U.S. presidential term.

Inflation is at 2.6 percent — close to the pre-pandemic rate. 

Unemployment is down to 4.1 percent — longest stretch for a long, long
time, that low.

Despite the critics saying we had to lower ambitions to get the economy
going, we’ve attracted off the sidelines from private enterprise over $1
trillion — $1 trillion in private investment in clean energy and
manufacturing that are creating good-paying jobs and building factories
here in America, where they belong.

Now, all this historic investment is happening in every part of the
country.  You know, you may re- — recall saying, “I’m a president for
all Americans no matter who they voted for.”  Well, keeping that
commitment, the majority of the investments are actually in red states,
not blue states, because they got hurt the most by the policies early on
— all those factories shutting down. 

How many times did you come from places where you’d have, “Mom and my
grandpop and grandmom worked in that factory, and my mom and dad worked
there, my — but I got to move, Mom, because there’s no job.  The factory
is gone”?  They got hurt very badly.  It takes away the soul of the — of
community.

And we’re making sure these Americans have access to good-paying jobs
that are being created. 

“Buy America” has been the law of the land since the ‘30s, which hardly
anybody knew, hardly anybody paid attention to. 

When Franklin Roosevelt was trying to make it fair for i- — for unions
to be able to organize so the business couldn’t just crush them because
they started, there was a provision in the law in the early ‘30s that
said when a president is authorized by Congress to spend money on a
project, he has to do it — two things: He has to use that money to hire
American workers, and he has to use American products.  Well, this
administration — past administrations failed to do that.  Like I said,
so much was exported overseas.  Well, not — not on my watch. 

My administration buys American.  We’re making sure the federal projects
we’re building — roads, bridges, highways, and more — are getting made
with American products, built by American workers, and creating
good-paying American jobs — jobs that don’t require a four-year college
degree, jobs you can raise a family on.  In fact, my administration is
requiring many of these kinds of projects to pay what — a union wage
called a Davis-Bacon prevailing wage. 

We’re expanding registered apprenticeships, resulting in hiring more
than 1 million apprentices since we’ve come into office.  Remember,
business came along and said, “We’ll do the apprenticeships.” 
(Laughs.)  Yeah, right.  (Laughter.)  Well, guess what?  They’re not.

A lot of folks don’t realize that an apprenticeship is like earning a
college degree.  You know, you spend up to four, five years training —
wh- — you get paid while you’re doing it — to learn a trade to lead you
to a good-paying job, like going to school before you can be registered
in that particular expertise.  They’re among the best workers in the
world. 

Today, I’m proud to announce that for the first time ever, the number of
women in apprenticeships has reached 100,000 — (applause) — 100,000 —
three times the number from a decade ago. 

When I took office, not a single state had a registered apprenticeship
program for teachers.  Today, 46 states, plus Puerto Rico and D.C., have
launched registered apprenticeship programs for teachers.  (Applause.)

Some will say I did that because I feared for my life, but — (laughter)
— but not true.  I wanted to do it anyway.  (Laughter.)  
  
I’m also proud to announce that we’ve committed more than $80 billion —
$80 billion — toward strengthening and expanding our workforce. 

As Jill just described, that includes supporting free community college
programs so students and workers can train for good jobs without the
burden of student debt. 

It also described what we launched — the Workforce Hubs, where we
collaborate with local leaders, community colleges, unions, local
businesses to train and connect Americans to good-paying jobs.  And it’s
good for students and workers.  It grows the economy for everyone. 

I know I’m listed as the most pro-union president in American history. 
I’m very proud of that.  But guess what?  (Applause.)  Guess what,
folks?  Business is now acknowledging tha- — it helps them too.  
  
I had Treasury Department do a study: What’s the effect of focusing on
unions?  Everybody — everybody’s standard of living is raised —
everybody’s.   
  
We’ve also — really proud to have launched the American Climate Corps,
you know, patterned after the Peace Corps and the AmericaCorps
\[AmeriCorps\], to put tens of thousands of young people on a path to
good-paying clean energy apprenticeships and jobs.  That’s the future.  

And with the support of the private sector, we’re also bringing business
into the high schools so younger students can learn about and train for
good-paying jobs, including those that that don’t require a four-year
degree, as Jill pointed out. 

There’s so much more that you’ll learn about at today’s summit.  And you
— many of you will bring more information as well.  But, look, it really
matters. 

Let me close with this.  You heard Jill speak about incredible
students.  Well, joining us today is another American worker who
embodies the incredible character that we see all over the country:
Maurice Bogard, Jr. — Maurice, I’m going to ask you to come up here in a
second — a father of two young children, one of whom I work for. 
(Laughter.)   
  
He — he’s going to actually come up?  (Applause.)  
  
(Mr. Bogard and two children join the president on stage.) 
(Applause.)  
  
Now, look, Maurice is from Cleveland, Ohio.  From the day his children
were born, he had a survival mindset to do whatever he could to improve
the positive cir- — circumstances for his family: 12-to-16-hour days at
multiple jobs, even working out of town for months at a time just to get
by, just — it meant fewer hours with his children, as well, and his
family. 

Last year, his sister, who is also with him today — sis, stand up —
(applause) — every man like me needs a strong sister — (laughter) — I
have one — sent him to a link to a — about a pre-apprentice program
where you can learn a trade, funded by my American Re- — by the American
Rescue Plan that I signed into law as soon as I came to office.  Well,
Maurice signed up.  Within hours, he had an appointment.  He soon
started a four-week training program to connect him with his local IBEW,
the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers. 

Today, he’s on his way to becoming a journeyman electrician, working —
(applause) — working at the stadium of his hometown baseball team, the
Cleveland Guardians.  (Laughter).

MR. BOGARD:  Yes, sir.

THE PRESIDENT:  A good-paying job with good hours, good benefits, and a
lifelong career and a sense of dignity and pride to be the father he
always wanted to be.  
  
MR. BOGARD:  Yes, sir.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  And it’s not just him.  Millions of workers and families
have more opportunity today than they did four years ago in an economy —
economy that’s growing from the middle out and bottom up.   
  
(Addressing Mr. Bogard.)  You — he can — put him down.  He can do
whatever he wants.  (Laughter.)  
  
(Addressing child.)  All you got to do — look, you can do anything you
want, pal.  (Laughter.)  Okay?  You want to make a speech later, you
can.  All right?  (Laughter.)  All right.   
  
An economy where everyone has a fair shot, we leave nobody behind, and
invest in America and all Americans — that’s what we’ve done together by
reminding ourselves who we are.   
  
For Lord’s sake, we’re the United States of America.  There is nothing —
I mean this from the bottom of my heart — there’s nothing beyond our
capacity when we do it together.  And there’s no b- — group I’d rather
be doing it with than all of you.  
  
So, God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.  Thank you,
thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
10:33 A.M. EST
