---
date: '2024-11-13'
modified_time: 2024-11-14 14:44:52-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-13 05:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/11/13/fact-sheet-white-house-hosts-classroom-to-career-summit-celebrates-successful-efforts-to-expand-high-quality-career-pathways-and-workforce-development-programs-in-every-community/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Fact Sheet: White\_House Hosts \u201CClassroom to Career\u201D Summit, Celebrates\
  \ Successful Efforts to Expand High-Quality Career Pathways and Workforce Development\
  \ Programs in Every\_Community"
---
 
Today, President Joe Biden and First Lady Jill Biden will welcome
approximately 200 education and workforce leaders to the White House for
the Biden-Harris Administration’s “Classroom to Career” Summit. The
Administration’s [Investing in
America](https://www.whitehouse.gov/invest/) agenda is creating millions
of good-paying jobs—many of which do not require a four-year college
degree—and its investments will continue to drive job creation for years
to come. The Summit will highlight record progress to expand career
pathways to these good-paying jobs in infrastructure, clean energy,
advanced manufacturing, and more.

The Summit will bring together Cabinet members and other senior
Administration officials, state and local elected officials, community
college presidents, K-12 leaders, unions, workforce development leaders
from the nine [White House Workforce
Hubs](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/25/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-new-workforce-hubs-to-train-and-connect-american-workers-to-good-jobs-created-by-the-presidents-investing-in-america-agenda/)
and other communities across the country, business leaders,
representatives of philanthropic organizations, and students.

At the Summit, **President Biden will announce that more than $80
billion from his American Rescue Plan has now been committed to
strengthening and expanding the American workforce**, helping to meet
the promise of these historic investments—from supporting high-quality
free community college programs in high-demand fields, to expanding
Registered Apprenticeships, to attracting and retaining a skilled,
diverse workforce in critical industries. These efforts are helping
students and workers—including those without four-year degrees—access
good-paying opportunities spurred by the Investing in America agenda.

The Summit will take place nearly fifteen years after Dr. Biden, a
lifelong educator and community-college champion, led the first-ever
White House Summit on Community Colleges as Second Lady, where she set
the path forward for community colleges to be a critical part of
America’s economic vision for the future.

Senior Administration officials, federal agencies, and key external
stakeholders will announce new actions and recent achievements during
the Summit, including:

**Expanding quality career and technical education (CTE) and community
college training**

During today’s Summit, Administration officials will highlight efforts
to expand access to evidence-based, high-quality CTE programs and
affordable community college pathways:

-   **First Lady Jill Biden** will
    [announce](https://sites.ed.gov/ous/2024/11/expanding-free-community-college-to-develop-americas-workforce-progress-over-a-decade/)
    that 34 states and Washington, DC now have a free community college
    program. In total, over 400 colleges, cities, and states now offer
    tuition-free college and job training—up from about 50 programs when
    she, President Obama, and then-Vice President Biden launched the
    America’s College Promise Initiative in 2015. Several of the newest
    free community college plans were launched with support from
    American Rescue Plan funds. As First Lady, Dr. Biden has championed
    community colleges and workforce training programs, traveling the
    country to highlight evidence-based models and promising practices
    that connect high school and community college students to
    good-paying jobs.

<!-- -->

-   **The Department of Education (ED)** will
    [publish](https://sites.ed.gov/ous/2024/11/investing-in-america-agenda-translates-into-educational-investment/)
    new analysis of ED data on postsecondary programs that provide
    pathways to jobs created or fueled by the Investing in America
    agenda. The Department will also release a mapping tool to help the
    public find those programs and a public-use data set that will allow
    researchers and policymakers to further explore these connections.
    This analysis comes on the heels of a years-long effort to better
    connect both high schools and postsecondary programs to career
    pathways through the Unlocking Career Success Initiative, which
    [invested](https://cte.ed.gov/unlocking-career-success/news-and-guidance/CCHS-grants)
    $31 million in building model career-connected programs in high
    schools that will provide up to 120,000 students with pathways to
    high-wage, high-demand careers. 

<!-- -->

-   **The Department** **of** **Commerce (DOC)** will announce that over
    one-quarter of states and territories have proactively allocated
    more than $300 million in Broadband Equity, Access and Deployment
    (BEAD) funding towards workforce development initiatives. These
    states are building the skilled construction workforce needed to
    connect every American to reliable and affordable high-speed
    Internet by investing in community college job training programs,
    Registered Apprenticeships, and sectoral partnership training
    models.

<!-- -->

-   **DOC** will also announce that more than 80 community colleges
    across 22 states have created or expanded programming to train
    semiconductor workers for advanced manufacturing jobs spurred by the
    President’s CHIPS and Science Act. In addition, ten states have
    announced new dedicated state funding for workforce development
    investments to support CHIPS facilities.

***Additional new announcements:***

-   **Scholarship America, ECMC Foundation, GoFundMe.org, Trellis
    Foundation, Ascendium Education Group, and the Crimsonbridge
    Foundation** will launch a new national emergency aid program to
    assist students, including students who are single mothers, in 2025.
    Nearly 10 percent of undergraduates—1.7 million students—are single
    mothers, and while single moms earn higher GPAs than their
    non-parenting peers, they experience greater rates of financial
    distress. Research shows emergency grants are effective at keeping
    financially distressed students on track to complete their degrees.

<!-- -->

-   **Invest in Our Future** will support expansion of **YouthBuild’s**
    new solar panel training and certification pilot program to 16 new
    locations in 2025. YouthBuild’s solar program, which launched its
    first three locations in October, partners with industry to prepare
    youth ages 16 to 24 for good clean energy jobs spurred by the
    Inflation Reduction Act.

<!-- -->

-   **The Association of Community College Trustees (ACCT),** with
    support from **Ascendium**, will launch an initiative to help
    community colleges design processes to build capacity to create new
    Registered Apprenticeship programs in occupational sectors that have
    not traditionally used apprenticeship as a training pathway. ACCT
    will engage 20 community colleges from across the country in
    designing and implementing new Registered Apprenticeship programs,
    demonstrating the potential for community colleges to serve as
    apprenticeship intermediaries in addition to instructional
    providers.

**Growing Registered Apprenticeships and other high-quality workforce
programs**

The Administration has made record high-quality workforce development
models, including Registered Apprenticeships—the gold-standard
earn-and-learn pathway—as well as industry-led sector partnerships that
bring together employers, unions, community colleges, and other partners
to develop high-quality training programs.

-   **The Department of Labor (DOL)** will announce that more than one
    million Americans have started a Registered Apprenticeship since
    President Biden took office—and this month, the number of women in
    apprenticeships will surpass 100,000 for the first time ever.

<!-- -->

-   **DOL** will also announce that 46 states, Washington D.C., and
    Puerto Rico now have K-12 teacher Registered Apprenticeship
    programs. Not a single state had a teacher Registered Apprenticeship
    program when the Administration took office.

<!-- -->

-   **DOC** will announce that [12,000
    participants](https://www.commerce.gov/news/press-releases/2024/11/us-department-commerce-announces-12000-american-workers-placed-jobs)
    have been successfully trained and placed into good jobs in the
    first wave of the Good Jobs Challenge, a flagship sector strategies
    program funded by President Biden’s American Rescue Plan.

<!-- -->

-   **The Department of Transportation (DOT)** will announce that it has
    invested $93 million to support the rail workforce since the start
    of the Administration through the Consolidated Rail Infrastructure
    and Safety Improvements (CRISI) Program. These funds, which include
    $54 million
    [awarded](https://railroads.dot.gov/about-fra/communications/newsroom/press-releases/investing-america-biden-harris-administration-1)
    in October, invest in the hardworking Americans who will help
    maintain and operate the nation’s rail networks into the future by
    creating new apprenticeship programs, expanding training
    opportunities, establishing partnerships with universities, and
    advancing innovative research.

<!-- -->

-   **DOT** will also announce it has awarded a total of $137 million in
    workforce funding to transit agencies in over 100 communities since
    the Administration took office through the Federal Transit
    Administration (FTA) Low or No Emission grant program. This program
    gives transit agencies the option to set aside up to 5 percent of
    grant funds to train workers on new electric vehicle fleets.

<!-- -->

-   **DOT** will also publish new case studies on three
    states—California, Maryland, and Oregon—that are developing skilled,
    diverse infrastructure workforces by investing their flexible
    federal highway funds. Michigan and Pennsylvania have also announced
    workforce development initiatives that will lead to significant
    workforce investments from their state departments of
    transportation. This comes six months after the Administration
    [called on
    states](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/04/readout-of-white-house-state-workforce-day-convening/)
    to invest at least 0.5 percent of eligible highway formula funds in
    high-quality workforce development approaches such as Registered
    Apprenticeship, pre-apprenticeship, and supportive services like
    child care and transportation for workers.

<!-- -->

-   **DOT** will highlight how hundreds of projects are now using local
    (geographic) and economic hiring preferences—an order of magnitude
    more than a decade ago. Local and economic hiring preferences are an
    important tool to expand hiring of underrepresented populations into
    good construction jobs, by establishing hiring goals for workers
    from disadvantaged circumstances or distressed neighborhoods.
    President Biden’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law (BIL) made local and
    economic hiring preferences newly allowable, and DOT has [strongly
    encouraged](https://www.transportation.gov/sites/dot.gov/files/2024-02/Best%20Practices%20to%20Expand%20Accessto%20Jobs%20and%20Economic%20Opportunity%20final_.pdf)
    these preferences through its discretionary grant process, technical
    assistance, and place-based initiatives. Prior to BIL, only 16 pilot
    projects had preferences, all of them in highway and transit. Today,
    the Federal Highway Administration alone has approved 74 projects
    with project labor agreements and local hiring preferences—totaling
    nearly $4.6 billion—and preferences also cover rail, port, and
    airport projects.

***Additional new announcements:***

-   **The Families and Workers Fund (FWF)** will announce it has
    surpassed $45 million in aligned funding commitments—matched by
    nearly $60 million from peer funders—to expand pathways to good jobs
    and build an inclusive, competitive workforce. These resources
    support initiatives like **PowerCorpsPHL’s** Climate Corps in
    Philadelphia, which collaborates with employers to offer paid
    workforce training and supportive services—such as transportation
    and mental health resources—to connect out-of-school and out-of-work
    young people with good-paying jobs in climate resilience and clean
    energy. The program transitions 92 percent of its graduates to
    quality career paths and substantially reduces recidivism among
    justice-involved young people. With support from FWF, PowerCorpsPHL
    will scale Climate Corps models to ten additional cities, serving an
    additional 1,300 young people.

<!-- -->

-   **The State of Maryland** will soon issue a call for applications
    under its new [$24 million,
    six-year](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/17/fact-sheet-on-one-year-anniversary-of-president-bidens-care-eo-the-biden-harris-administration-celebrates-new-progress-toward-providing-care-and-other-supportive-services-for-workers/)
    workforce investments using federal highway funds. The state will
    seek applications to provide high-quality workforce approaches to
    help fill good-paying transportation infrastructure jobs—including
    those created through the Baltimore Workforce Hub—such as Registered
    Apprenticeship and pre-apprenticeship programs, integrated education
    and training, and supportive services such as child care and
    transportation assistance.

<!-- -->

-   **The** **Washington Education Association (WEA)** launched the
    first educator-led, union-run teacher Registered Apprenticeship
    program in the nation in 2022–and last month, WEA successfully
    transitioned its innovative teacher residency program to an
    apprenticeship model. The WEA Apprenticeship Residency in Teaching
    (WEA-ART), which addresses acute special education teacher shortages
    in the state, was developed with a grant from U.S. DOL. The 18-month
    program trains future teachers in ten school districts across
    Washington using a school-based, clinical preparation model, with
    resident apprentices earning at least $40,000 with benefits during
    their full-year co-teaching placement.  

<!-- -->

-   **Safal Partners** will announce commitments from its partners to
    provide cybersecurity Registered Apprenticeship opportunities for
    2,000 Americans by the end of 2025. This follows the nearly 3,000
    cybersecurity apprentices Safal has already served, 82 percent of
    whom came from underserved and underrepresented communities.

<!-- -->

-   **OpenClassrooms** will train up to 300 Registered Apprentices in
    cybersecurity and other technical career paths by 2026, in
    partnership with **Wright Resource Group** and other affiliates.

**Spreading skills-based and skills-first hiring**

Millions of Americans already possess the skills and capabilities to
succeed at family-sustaining jobs but are held back because they lack a
four-year college degree. Under the Biden-Harris Administration, the
Federal government is leading the way in implementing skills-based
practices, opening up pathways to good-paying jobs for more Americans by
valuing their skills and abilities—regardless how they acquired those
skills. At the Summit, Administration officials will urge employers in
all sectors—public, private, and nonprofit—to remove unnecessary degree
requirements, and to recognize the value of and provide high-quality
alternative pathways such as registered apprenticeship and community
college programs.

-   **The General Services Administration (GSA)** will announce it
    intends to apply a skills-based hiring approach to an estimated $100
    billion of federal agency task orders, by eliminating unnecessary
    degree and experience requirements for IT cybersecurity jobs at the
    Master Contract level in its planned Polaris and Alliant 3
    Governmentwide Acquisition Contracts.

<!-- -->

-   **The Department of Energy** **(DOE)** will modify its
    multi-billion-dollar, enterprise-wide IT contract to remove degree
    requirements for cyber and IT jobs—impacting over 1,000
    full-time-equivalent positions by December 2024.

<!-- -->

-   **The Department of Defense** **(DOD)** will apply a skill-based
    approach to more than 75 jobs created through its $40 million Naval
    Air Systems Command (NAVAIR) contract, recognizing education,
    training, certifications, or years of experience—including
    experience gained through on-the-job training.

<!-- -->

-   **DOL** and **DOC** will publish [*The Skills-First Hiring Starter
    Kit*](https://www.dol.gov/sites/dolgov/files/OPA/GoodJobs/Toolkit/skills-first-starter-kit.pdf)—a
    plain-language, practical guide to help talent-hungry employers
    broaden candidate pools, boost retention, and improve worker
    engagement. The guide, which can be read in less than 15 minutes, is
    a user-friendly resource on hiring and promoting workers based on
    the skills they have instead of unnecessary education, degree, or
    other requirements. The guide was developed in consultation with a
    diverse group of 15 organizations, including the Business
    Roundtable, North America’s Building Trades Unions (NABTU),
    LinkedIn, AFL-CIO, Opportunity@Work, Indeed, the American Federation
    of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME), and SHRM
    Foundation.  

***Additional new announcements:***

-   **Leidos** launched the Leidos Skills Taxonomy, which the company
    will apply to its full workforce of 48,000 employees as part of its
    comprehensive skills strategy. Leidos is also pledging to share best
    practices and outcomes from its skills strategy across the industry,
    and to hire 15,000 Veterans and military spouses by 2030.

<!-- -->

-   **Palo Alto Networks** has successfully mapped the capabilities and
    skills of over 8,500 employees and developed targeted learning
    programs to enhance these workers’ skills. Since March 2024, the
    company has used this skills-first approach to onboard 400 new
    hires. The company now commits to mapping capabilities and skills of
    an additional 4,000 employees by the end of 2025, and will expand
    upskilling opportunities to over 5,000 existing employees, focusing
    initially on sales and technical solutions roles.    

<!-- -->

-   **Opportunity@Work** will publish a [new
    analysis](https://opportunityatwork.org/our-solutions/stars-insights/impact-of-state-actions/)
    of skills-first practices implemented by state governments in 2022
    and 2023. The analysis finds that in 15 states that took action to
    remove unnecessary four-year degree requirements from job postings,
    7% more middle- and high-wage state jobs—or 3,000 additional job
    postings—became open to workers without four-year degrees.

**Leading the way in the White House Workforce Hubs**

In May 2023, First Lady Jill Biden
[announced](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/16/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-strategies-to-train-and-connect-american-workers-to-jobs-created-by-the-presidents-investing-in-america-agenda/)
five White House Workforce Hubs in regions where the Administration’s
Investing in America agenda is catalyzing historic public- and
private-sector investments—
[Augusta](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/08/fact-sheet-biden-%E2%81%A0harris-administration-holds-workforce-hub-convenings-in-augusta-and-pittsburgh-announces-commitments-to-expand-pathways-into-good-paying-jobs/),
[Baltimore](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/13/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-holds-workforce-hub-convening-in-baltimore-announces-commitments-to-train-and-hire-local-residents-to-support-major-infrastructure-projects/),
[Columbus](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/12/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-launches-workforce-hub-in-columbus-ohio-and-announces-new-commitments-to-help-more-workers-access-good-jobs/), 
[Pittsburgh](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/08/fact-sheet-biden-%E2%81%A0harris-administration-holds-workforce-hub-convenings-in-augusta-and-pittsburgh-announces-commitments-to-expand-pathways-into-good-paying-jobs/),
and
[Phoenix](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/01/25/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-holds-workforce-hub-convening-in-phoenix-announces-commitments-to-support-talent-pipelines-into-good-jobs-in-semiconductor-manufacturing/).
Since then, President Biden
[designated](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/25/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-new-workforce-hubs-to-train-and-connect-american-workers-to-good-jobs-created-by-the-presidents-investing-in-america-agenda/)
four additional Workforce Hubs in
[Milwaukee](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/08/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-holds-workforce-hub-convening-in-milwaukee-announces-commitments-to-expand-pathways-into-good-paying-jobs/),
[Upstate New
York](https://www.commerce.gov/news/fact-sheets/2024/09/fact-sheet-upstate-new-york-workforce-hub-maximizing-federal-investments),
[Philadelphia](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/07/11/fact-sheet-biden-%e2%81%a0harris-administration-announces-record-federal-investments-in-registered-apprenticeships-holds-workforce-hub-convening-in-philadelphia-with-new-commitments-to-train-and-hir/),
and the state of
[Michigan](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/23/fact-sheet-taking-action-to-support-auto-workers-and-manufacturers-including-in-michigan/).
In these Workforce Hubs, the Administration has partnered with state and
local officials, employers, unions, community colleges, K-12 schools,
and other stakeholders to ensure a diverse and skilled workforce can
meet the demand for labor driven by these investments. The President,
First Lady, and other senior Administration officials have traveled to
the Workforce Hubs, convened Hub partners, and celebrated progress to
expand career pathways and high-quality workforce approaches.

The White House Workforce Hubs have continued to lead the way on
equitable workforce development between convenings, taking actions such
as:

-   **In** **Columbus**, anchor institution Columbus State Community
    College, and partners Intel and the Ohio Semiconductor Collaboration
    Network, completed the July 2023
    [commitment](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/12/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-launches-workforce-hub-in-columbus-ohio-and-announces-new-commitments-to-help-more-workers-access-good-jobs/)
    to develop a new certificate program for good semiconductor
    technician jobs. In January, the partners launched the
    [Semiconductor Fundamentals
    Certificate](https://explore.cscc.edu/programs/SEMICONFND.ICRT/semiconductor-fundamentals-certificate)
    program, a stackable credential that builds to an Electro-Mechanical
    Engineering Technology AAS degree, which has already enrolled 100
    students.

<!-- -->

-   **In Baltimore,** Amtrak has put a memorandum of understanding in
    place with the Maryland Philanthropy Network and the Mayor’s Office
    of Employment Development to provide $5 million over four years for
    pre-apprenticeship training and supportive services for apprentices,
    helping Amtrak to meet its Hub
    [commitment](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/13/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-holds-workforce-hub-convening-in-baltimore-announces-commitments-to-train-and-hire-local-residents-to-support-major-infrastructure-projects/)
    to ensure at least 50 percent of apprentice hours for Baltimore City
    residents in the ZIP codes immediately impacted by the Frederick
    Douglass Tunnel Project.

<!-- -->

-   **In** **Augusta**, Hub anchor institutions Augusta Technical
    College and Aiken Technical College deepened their partnerships with
    local building and construction trades unions to expand inclusive
    access to local trades apprenticeship programs. Augusta Technical
    College is newly partnering with the UA Local 150 Plumbers and
    Steamfitters to co-deliver Registered Apprenticeship, opening a
    co-branded training facility to deliver a plumbing and steamfitting
    apprenticeship program, and expanding the co-delivered Registered
    Apprenticeship program with the IBEW Local 1579 to serve an
    additional 200 apprentices. Aiken Technical College, in partnership
    with the local building and construction trades, launched a
    pre-apprenticeship program with preferential entry to apprenticeship
    programs across 17 trades, with the first cohort starting in October
    2024.

<!-- -->

-   **In** **Pittsburgh,** Hub partners cut the ribbon on the
    first-in-the-nation EV Automotive Technician Registered
    Apprenticeship Program in October, fulfilling a commitment made at
    the Hub’s November 2023
    [convening](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/08/fact-sheet-biden-%E2%81%A0harris-administration-holds-workforce-hub-convenings-in-augusta-and-pittsburgh-announces-commitments-to-expand-pathways-into-good-paying-jobs/)
    with First Lady Jill Biden and expanding training opportunities for
    good clean energy jobs. The program is a true public-private
    partnership—hosted at a new EV lab at the Community College of
    Allegheny County, with support for technical instruction provided by
    a $3.75 million DOL Building Pathways to Infrastructure Jobs grant
    to anchor institution Partner4Work; employer contributions in the
    form of apprentices’ wages and benefits; and equipment purchased
    with support from the Hillman Family Foundations. The program will
    include outreach and recruitment of apprentices from underserved
    communities. The first cohort will begin in spring 2025.

<!-- -->

-   Today, the City of **Philadelphia** will announce three upcoming
    projects that will be covered by the new Geographic and Economic
    Hiring Preferences Pilot Program. These include two federally funded
    transportation projects identified by the Streets Department and one
    lead service line project from the Philadelphia Water Department,
    with collective costs greater than $87 million. Today’s announcement
    marks the first phase in Philadelphia-wide adoption of these hiring
    preferences—a commitment made at the Hub’s convening in July
    2024—which will expand opportunities for Philadelphia residents by
    requiring that at least half apprentices on publicly funded projects
    come from disadvantaged ZIP codes in the City.

<!-- -->

-   Building on efforts
    [launched](https://www.commerce.gov/news/fact-sheets/2024/09/fact-sheet-upstate-new-york-workforce-hub-maximizing-federal-investments)
    in the **Upstate New York Hub**, the American Federation of Teachers
    (AFT) and Micron will scale their innovative partnership on AFT’s
    Advanced Technology Framework to the **Michigan Hub** and Minnesota,
    with support from a new $1.7 million grant from Natcast, established
    by the CHIPS and Science Act. AFT’s Framework provides
    industry-based career exploration to prepare high school students
    for technical careers in the semiconductor supply chain. The
    Framework is already being implemented across 10 school districts in
    New York.

<!-- -->

-   Today, **in** **Milwaukee**, BuildUS announced it will commit
    $250,000 to the Wisconsin Regional Training Partnership (WRTP) | BIG
    STEP, given its proven track record in connecting people across
    Wisconsin, especially those from disadvantaged backgrounds, into
    family-sustaining, union jobs. BuildUS funding will support
    increased capacity for clean water infrastructure and lead service
    line coordination, outreach, program development, and operation, as
    well as support instruction and additional services for students.

<!-- -->

-   **In** **Phoenix**, TSMC successfully launched the state of
    Arizona’s first semiconductor technician Registered Apprenticeship
    program in April with support from the City of Phoenix and the
    Arizona State Apprenticeship Office, following its commitment to
    establish the program at the Hub’s January convening. TSMC
    anticipates expanding the program to hundreds of apprentices in
    2025.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

\###
