---
date: '2024-11-21'
modified_time: 2024-11-21 14:16:26-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-21 15:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/11/21/president-biden-announces-nominees-6/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces\_Nominees"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individual to serve as a key leader in his administration:

-   Jim Coughlan, Nominee to be a Member of the United States
    International Trade Commission

Additionally, President Biden announced his intent to nominate the
following individuals to serve as members of boards and commissions that
are required, by statute or longstanding practice, to include bipartisan
membership:

-   Beth Harwell, Nominee to be a Member of the Board of Directors of
    the Tennessee Valley Authority
-   Brian Noland, Nominee to be a Member of the Board of Directors of
    the Tennessee Valley Authority
-   Halie Craig, Nominee to be a Member (Republican) of the United
    States International Trade Commission

**<u>Jim Coughlan, Nominee to be a Member of the United States
International Trade Commission</u>**

Jim Coughlan is currently Senior Vice President and General Counsel at
the Export-Import Bank of the United States. He was previously an
attorney in private practice where he focused on litigation before the
United States International Trade Commission (ITC), most recently as
Partner at Holland & Knight LLP. Coughlan has been recognized by
Chambers Global and Chambers USA, as well as being chosen as a Crain’s
Chicago Business Notable Gen X Leaders in Law honoree. He was formerly a
Senior Staff Attorney at the ITC, served as Legal Counsel for Senator
Carl Levin (D-MI) and was a judicial law clerk for the Judge Marion T.
Bennett of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. Coughlan
has a B.S. in mechanical engineering from Bradley University, a J.D.
from the DePaul University College of Law and an LLM from the University
of Illinois, Chicago School of Law. He is from Oak Park, Illinois.

**<u>Beth Harwell, Nominee to be a Member of the Board of Directors for
the Tennessee Valley Authority</u>**

Beth Harwell has served as a member of the Tennessee Valley Authority
Board of Directors since 2021. She represented Tennessee’s 56th District
in the state’s House of Representatives for nearly 30 years, including
seven years as Speaker of the House, a position to which she was elected
with bipartisan support. Previously, Harwell chaired the Tennessee
Republican Party and served as an Assistant Professor of Political
Science at Belmont University. Harwell moved to Nashville, Tennessee to
attend David Lipscomb University, and subsequently completed her
graduate work at Vanderbilt University. She is married to Sam Harwell,
with whom she has three children.

**<u>Brian Noland, Nominee to be a Member of the Board of Directors of
the Tennessee Valley Authority</u>**

Brian Noland became the ninth president of East Tennessee State
University (ETSU) in January 2012. During his tenure, ETSU has achieved
its highest graduation, retention, and employee satisfaction rates in
history and secured record-breaking levels of research funding. Noland
has secured resources for and overseen some of the institution’s largest
and most transformative capital projects, including the complete
renovations of the D.P. Culp Student Center, Brown Hall, and Lamb Hall,
as well as the construction of Greene Stadium, the Martin Center for the
Arts, Bishop Hall, a new humanities building, and a new integrated
health services center.

Sustaining ETSU’s focus on regional stewardship, Noland has partnered
with civic and corporate entities to position the university as a
national leader in interprofessional health care and rural health. Under
his leadership, ETSU has launched several health research and care
centers, including the Ballad Health Strong BRAIN Institute, a
first-of-its-kind institute dedicated to promoting the awareness and
study of adverse childhood experiences; the Center for Applied Research
and Evaluation (CARE) in Women’s Health; the Addiction Science Center;
the Center for Rural Health and Research; the ETSU/NORC Rural Health
Equity Research Center; the Center for Cardiovascular Risk Research; and
the Tennessee Center for Nursing Advancement. Noland has guided ongoing
innovations within ETSU’s academic portfolio and curricula. This
includes the launch of the BlueSky Institute, a 27-month computer
science program developed hand-in-hand with BlueCross BlueShield of
Tennessee through which students receive training and mentoring onsite
at BCBS’s headquarters and earn job offers immediately following
graduation. 

Noland has served as a board member for the American Council on
Education, the American Association of State Colleges and Universities,
the NCAA Division I Board of Directors, Ballad Health, Bank of
Tennessee, and the Tennessee Valley Authority.

**<u>Halie Craig, Nominee to be a Member (Republican) of the United
States International Trade Commission</u>**

Halie Craig currently serves as the Policy Director, Tech for the U.S.
Senate Commerce Committee Republican staff, where she oversees all
aspects of technology policy for Ranking Member Ted Cruz (R-TX). Prior
to the U.S. Senate Commerce Committee, she held various positions on the
staff of former U.S. Senator Pat Toomey (R-PA), including serving on the
U.S. Senate Banking Committee and leading the senator’s trade policy
portfolio during the negotiation of the United States-Mexico-Canada
Agreement, various Section 232 investigations, and the imposition of
Section 301 duties on imports from China. In addition to her service in
the U.S. Senate, Craig spent two years at Meta, where she handled
content policy for News Feed, recommendations, and behavioral abuse
issues. Craig also previously served as an Associate Fellow with the R
Street Institute, where she provided commentary and published research
on trade policy issues. Craig earned her B.A. in Political Science at
the University of Pennsylvania and is a native of Bucks County,
Pennsylvania.

\###
