---
date: '2024-11-19'
modified_time: 2024-11-19 14:28:40-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-19 14:28:11-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/11/19/u-s-brazil-partnership-for-workers-rights/
tags: statements-releases
title: "U.S.-Brazil Partnership for Workers\u2019\_Rights"
---
 
Our Administrations reaffirm the central and critical role that working
people play in achieving a sustainable, democratic, equitable, and
peaceful world. Everyone benefits when workers and their trade unions
are empowered to fight for better conditions in the workplace, fairness
in the economy, and democracy in our societies. Putting workers’
interests at the heart of our economic policies grows the middle class
and builds a brighter future in line with the 2030 Agenda for
Sustainable Development and the Sustainable Development Goals. 

Last year, the United States and Brazil launched the Partnership for
Workers’ Rights to catalyze action at the highest levels to empower
and uplift workers’ rights around the world. Today we welcome South
Africa as a new partner in this endeavor.

In its first year, the Partnership for Workers’ Rights has helped keep
workers safe from life-threatening heat stress, fought to combat forced
labor, fostered inclusivity in the workplace, built worker
power, endorsed principles for a just green transition, and
promoted high-road investment that can deliver on the promise of decent
work. As a result of the Partnership, workers and unions gained new
training, tools, and resources to advance worker safety, shape policy
development, and promote racial equality and justice.  

These successes serve as the basis for ongoing, future efforts designed
to tangibly improve the lives of workers around the world. We affirm our
commitment to promote equal employment opportunities and better working
conditions for women as well as men. Next year we plan to strengthen
our efforts to eliminate forced labor and remediate the harms it
causes. We will fight for a world of work free from discrimination,
harassment, and gender-based violence. And we will continue
to strengthen workers’ collective voice in the clean energy
transition by promoting social dialogue in clean energy investment,
including through community benefit agreements, project labor
agreements, sectoral bargaining, and partnerships with unions. We intend
to further advance our efforts to educate and empower the next
generation of union leaders to carry forward this work in the years to
come. 

Labor leaders remain our steadfast partners in this effort.
Their perspectives and recommendations will continue to guide our
efforts under the Partnership to create durable, shared prosperity for
workers, their families, and their communities. We thank Germany, Chile,
and Spain for contributing to the Partnership’s work this year, and
we call on other countries that share our vision to join us. Together,
we will strive towards a future of decent work and labor rights for all.

\###
