---
date: '2024-11-23'
modified_time: 2024-11-24 21:37:47-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-23 21:01:09-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/11/23/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-conclusion-of-cop29-conference-in-baku-azerbaijan/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on Conclusion of COP29 Conference in Baku,\_\
  Azerbaijan"
---
 
In 2015, the world came together to finalize the Paris Agreement, a
historic commitment made by nearly every country in the world to address
the climate crisis and protect the planet for future generations. On my
very first day in office, I took action to return the United States to
that agreement, restore America’s global climate leadership, and
recommit to international climate ambition. 

Since then, my Administration has leveraged our Nation’s leadership on
climate action at home to accelerate global efforts – including at COPs
26, 27, and 28 – to reduce emissions, lower energy costs, create
good-paying jobs, protect ecosystems, and strengthen resilience – all of
which has also helped grow our economy.

Today at COP29, thanks in part to the tireless efforts of a robust US
delegation, the world reached agreement on another historic outcome. In
Baku, the United States challenged countries to make an urgent choice:
either consign vulnerable communities to ever more catastrophic climate
disasters, or step up and place all of us on a safer path toward a
better future. 

Together, countries set an ambitious 2035 international climate finance
goal. It will help mobilize the level of finance – from all sources –
that developing countries need to accelerate the transition to clean,
sustainable economies, while opening up new markets for
American-made electric vehicles, batteries, and other products. 

In the years ahead, we are confident that the United States will
continue this work: through our states and cities, our businesses, and
our citizens, supported by durable legislation like the Inflation
Reduction Act, the largest investment in climate and clean energy in
history. While some may seek to deny or delay the clean energy
revolution that’s underway in America and around the world, nobody can
reverse it — nobody. 

I congratulate the Parties and the COP29 Presidency on reaching this
outcome. While there is still substantial work ahead of us to achieve
our climate goals, today’s outcome puts us one significant step closer.
On behalf of the American people and future generations, we must
continue to accelerate our work to keep a cleaner, safer, healthier
planet within our grasp.  

\###
