---
date: '2024-11-12'
modified_time: 2024-11-12 18:52:06-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-12 18:52:05-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/11/12/fact-sheet-biden-%e2%81%a0harris-administration-leverages-historic-u-s-climate-leadership-at-home-and-abroad-to-urge-countries-to-accelerate-global-climate-action-at-the-29th-u-n-climate-change-con/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Leverages Historic U.S. Climate\
  \ Leadership at Home and Abroad to Urge Countries to Accelerate Global Climate Action\
  \ at the 29th U.N. Climate Change Conference\_(COP29)"
---
 
**<u>FACT SHEET: Biden-</u><u>⁠</u><u>Harris Administration Leverages
Historic U.S. Climate Leadership at Home and Abroad to Urge Countries to
Accelerate Global Climate Action at the 29<sup>th</sup> U.N. Climate
Change Conference (COP29)</u>**

Since Day One, President Biden has treated climate change as not only
one of the greatest challenges of our time, but also as a
once-in-a-generation opportunity to unleash a new era of economic
growth, good-paying union jobs, historic investment, and energy
security. The United States heads into the 29th U.N. Climate Change
Conference (COP29) in Baku, Azerbaijan with a four-year record of
spearheading the most significant climate action in history at home and
leading efforts to tackle the climate crisis abroad.  At COP29, the
Biden-Harris Administration will highlight global economic opportunities
afforded by accelerating climate action in this decisive decade and will
announce new initiatives to galvanize global efforts to keep a
resilient, 1.5°C future within reach.  
  
At home, actions like the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) – the largest
ever investment by any country in clean energy and climate action – and
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law (BIL) have unleashed an unprecedented wave
of investment and ignited a clean manufacturing boom.  These actions
have stimulated over $450 billion in announced private investment in
clean energy manufacturing and deployment since the start of the
Biden-Harris Administration and created over 330,000 clean energy jobs
in just over two years, with an additional 1.5 million jobs projected to
be created over the next decade.  Hard-hit communities are reaping the
biggest economic benefits – since the IRA passed, 75% of private clean
energy investments have occurred in counties with lower than median
household incomes, and clean energy investment in energy communities has
doubled. This government-enabled, private-sector led approach,
complemented by increased action from state and local governments, has
set the United States on a path to achieve our 1.5°C-aligned emissions
target under the Paris Agreement.  And historic investments in climate
and disaster resilience are making communities across the country safer
and stronger in the face of extreme weather events, which we know are
getting more frequent and more dangerous because of climate change.

The investments the United States is making at home are catalyzing
progress abroad, lowering the cost of clean energy for everyone and
saving hundreds of billions of dollars globally.  The IRA is projected
to produce more than $5 trillion in global economic benefits from
reduced climate pollution between now and 2050.  Over the next seven
years, according to analysis from the Department of Energy (DOE), twice
as much U.S. wind, solar, and battery deployment is expected than would
have been without the IRA.  This progress complements U.S. efforts to
rally other countries to accelerate the clean energy transition and
enhance their climate ambition.

At COP29, the U.S. delegation will promote U.S. efforts to seize the
economic opportunities of the clean energy transition, address the risks
climate change [poses to our national
security](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/09/20/a-u-s-framework-for-climate-resilience-and-security/?),
and accelerate climate action in this decisive decade.  Key
announcements include:

-   **Powering Forward with Ambitious Domestic Climate Action** – by
    announcing the finalization of a new rule to reduce economically
    wasteful methane emissions; establishing new, bold targets for
    expanding U.S. nuclear energy capacity and releasing a framework to
    achieve them; and highlighting new actions to unlock potential for a
    new source of clean baseload power: enhanced geothermal.  
      
-   **Accelerating Global Climate Action to Keep the 1.5°C Goal Within
    Reach** – by [driving progress on reducing
    methane](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/US-Methane-Action-Plan-2024-Update.pdf)
    and other high-impact non-carbon dioxide (CO<sub>2</sub>) greenhouse
    gas (GHG) emissions (“super pollutants”) at a COP29 Summit on
    Methane and Non-CO2 GHGs alongside China and Azerbaijan and
    announc**ing** new efforts to implement **the over** $1 billion in
    grant funding unveiled at COP28 as part of the Methane Finance
    Sprint; by announcing new members of the Carbon Management Challenge
    that President Biden launched in 2023; and by announcing new
    investments and initiatives to help partners transition away from
    unabated coal, deploy renewables, and reduce emissions in
    hard-to-abate sectors.

<!-- -->

-   **Mobilizing Finance at Scale** – including by scaling up U.S.
    international climate finance for developing countries from $1.5
    billion in FY21 to $9.5 billion in FY23, a more than sixfold
    increase that was enabled by record-high levels of investment across
    the USG, including the U.S. International Development Finance
    Corporation (DFC) and the Export-Import Bank of the United States
    (EXIM).  This increase puts the United States on track to meet
    President Biden’s pledge to work with Congress to scale up our
    support to over $11 billion per year by 2024.  The United States is
    also announcing a new $1 billion guarantee for the Asian Development
    Bank’s (ADB) Innovative Finance Facility for Climate in Asia and the
    Pacific (IF-CAP), which will unlock over $4.5 billion in investment,
    and supporting the launch of the Climate Investment Funds Capital
    Markets Mechanism, which is projected to raise $5 billion or more
    over 10 years.

<!-- -->

-   **Bolstering Global Climate Resilience** – by scaling up U.S.
    support for vulnerable developing countries to over $3 billion in
    FY23 to implement the President’s Emergency Plan for Adaptation and
    Resilience (PREPARE), achieving President Biden’s pledge to do so by
    2024 one year early; by expanding access to cutting-edge climate
    information, data, and early-warning systems in over 80 countries;
    and by marshalling over $3 billion in additional resources since
    2022 from 40 U.S. and global companies and partners in response to
    the PREPARE Private Sector Call to Action.

<!-- -->

-   **Advancing Women’s and Girls’ Leadership in Tackling the Climate
    Crisis** – by announcing new investments to support the [Women in
    the Sustainable Economy (WISE)
    Initiative](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/16/fact-sheet-vice-president-harris-launches-women-in-the-sustainable-economy-initiative-totaling-over-900-million-in-commitments/),
    a public-private partnership launched by Vice President Harris in
    2023 through which the United States has galvanized over $2 billion
    in commitments by governments, private sector companies,
    foundations, and civil society to bolster women’s economic
    participation in sectors such as clean energy, fisheries, recycling,
    forest management, and environmental conservation.

**<u>POWERING FORWARD WITH AMBITIOUS DOMESTIC CLIMATE ACTION</u>**

-   **Reducing Wasteful Methane Emissions** – Today, the U.S.
    Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) [announced a final rule to
    reduce methane
    emissions](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/epa-finalizes-rule-reduce-wasteful-methane-emissions-and-drive-innovation-oil-and-gas)
    from the oil and gas sector, following the directive from Congress
    in the IRA to collect a Waste Emissions Charge to better ensure
    valuable natural gas reaches the market rather than polluting the
    air.  Today’s final rule delivers on this directive and incentivizes
    companies to take near-term action to conserve valuable energy
    resources and reduce methane emissions – a potent GHG that is
    responsible for approximately one-third of the global warming we are
    now experiencing. EPA estimates that this rule alone will result in
    cumulative emissions reductions of 34 million metric tons
    CO2-equivalent by 2035, with cumulative climate benefits of up to $2
    billion. Today’s final rule is just [one of more than 100 actions
    that U.S. Federal agencies have taken in 2024
    alone](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/US-Methane-Action-Plan-2024-Update.pdf)
    to sharply reduce methane emissions under the U.S. Methane Emissions
    Reduction Action Plan, helping to deliver on the Global Methane
    Pledge. U.S. actions this year have included plugging leaks and
    regulating emissions in the oil and gas sector, remediating
    pollution from abandoned coal mines, curbing food waste and
    emissions from agriculture practices, investing in cleaner
    industrial processes and buildings, and building a new, integrated
    system of satellite, aerial, and on-the-ground detections to stop
    major methane emissions events.

<!-- -->

-   **Establishing Bold Targets for Expanding Domestic Nuclear Energy
    and Announcing  a Framework for Action to Achieve Them** –
    acknowledging the crucial role that nuclear power will play to
    support energy security and clean economic growth, the United States
    is establishing a national goal to build 200 GW of new nuclear power
    generation capacity by 2050, as our Nation’s contribution to the
    global “Declaration to Triple Nuclear Energy” from 2020 levels
    endorsed by 25 countries at COP28.  The United States is also
    establishing nearer-term targets to jumpstart the expansion of
    nuclear energy deployment with 35 GW of new domestic nuclear energy
    capacity built or under construction by 2035 and ramping-up to a
    sustained pace of producing 15 GW per year by 2040.  These targets
    are part of “[*Safely and Responsibly Expanding U.S. Nuclear Energy
    to Tackle the Climate Crisis and Invest in America: Deployment
    Targets and* *a Framework for
    Action*](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ostp/news-updates/2024/11/12/biden-%e2%81%a0harris-administration-establishes-bold-u-s-government-targets-for-safely-and-responsibly-expanding-u-s-nuclear-energy-and-announces-framework-for-action-to-achieve-these-targets/)”
    that establishes a set of guiding principles for successfully
    scaling up nuclear energy in the United States in a manner that
    advances core values and commitments—including ensuring public
    health and safety protecting the environment, ensuring energy
    affordability, meaningfully engaging with communities and delivering
    local community benefits, honoring Tribal sovereignty, advancing
    environmental justice, and promoting national security.  The
    Framework also and identifies more than 30 key actions the U.S.
    government can take, along with the U.S. nuclear energy industry,
    power customers, and civil society, to meet this moment.  To help
    inform implementation of this Framework, the Administration is
    launching Tribal consultation and will issue a Request for
    Information to ensure that governmental, public and community
    engagement inform implementation of this Framework.

<!-- -->

-   **Doubling the Number of Scalable Clean Baseload Power Sources by
    Rapidly Commercializing Geothermal Energy** – The Administration’s
    recent actions are enabling enhanced geothermal to become a key
    source of clean baseload power and heat in the United States. Last
    month, the U.S. Bureau of Land Management approved in record time
    the development of the world’s largest next-generation geothermal
    project, which has the potential to generate up to 2 GW, proposed a
    new environmental review tool to facilitate confirmation of
    geothermal resources on federal lands, and hosted the largest lease
    sale of federal lands for geothermal electricity projects in more
    than 15 years. This year, the Department of Energy (DOE) also made
    the first federal investment of $60 million under BIL to support
    novel demonstration projects for next-generation geothermal
    technologies. As a result of these efforts, within one year of the
    first 3.5 MW enhanced geothermal project’s delivery of power in
    November 2023, over 600 MW of power purchase agreements have been
    signed for geothermal power using this pioneering
    technology—presenting new pathways to leverage oil and gas industry
    expertise and workforces to support a robust, resilient, and secure
    energy grid with good jobs.

<!-- -->

-   **Leading by Example by Reducing U.S. Government Emissions** – by
    announcing a new suite of actions to reduce the U.S. government’s
    indirect (“Scope 3”) emissions and engage other governments and
    suppliers.  This includes launching a new target to reduce the
    Federal Government’s Scope 3 emissions by 30% by 2030 – the
    equivalent of 40 million metric tons of CO2 annually – and releasing
    the first comprehensive measurement of the federal Scope 3
    footprint. The United States is also launching the Government Scope
    3 Alliance, a coalition of national and state governments whose
    members commit to set Scope 3 targets for government operations and
    report annually on progress.

<!-- -->

-   **Releasing a National Marine Carbon Dioxide Removal Research
    Strategy** – Today, the White House is releasing a [new national
    strategy](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ostp/news-updates/2024/11/12/white-house-office-of-science-and-technology-policy-releases-national-marine-carbon-dioxide-removal-research-strategy/)
    to advance research on the benefits, risks, and tradeoffs associated
    with marine carbon dioxide removal, a set of innovative technologies
    that could help address the climate crisis in concert with
    substantial cuts to carbon emissions.  Marine CO<sub>2</sub> removal
    uses ocean processes to increase the amount of atmospheric carbon
    dioxide the ocean removes from the atmosphere, but it requires
    additional research to determine if it is a safe and effective
    climate tool.  The strategy, which responds to a key objective of
    the [Ocean Climate Action
    Plan](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/03/Ocean-Climate-Action-Plan_Final.pdf),
    provides recommendations to guide accountable research, ensure
    community engagement, and clarify the regulatory process for
    scientific researchers.

**<u>ACCELERATING GLOBAL CLIMATE ACTION</u>**

President Biden has rallied world leaders to accelerate action in key
areas that the latest science has identified as critical to keeping the
goal of limiting average warming to 1.5°C within reach.  At COP29, the
United States announced progress in each of these key areas, including:

-   **Reducing Methane and Other Non-CO2 GHG Super Pollutants:**

<!-- -->

-   **Hosting a COP29 Summit on Methane and Non-CO2 GHGs** – The Summit,
    co-hosted with China and Azerbaijan, showcased new actions to cut
    emissions of these climate super-pollutants that account for over
    half of warming, including national commitments to cover all GHGs in
    national climate targets, new policy and regulatory actions, and new
    scientific progress.  As the two largest emitters in the world,
    responsible for roughly 10% and 30% of global GHG emissions,
    respectively, the United States and China have helped catalyze
    global attention on non-CO2 GHGs. These efforts include the Global
    Methane Pledge (GMP), which more than 155 countries have now
    endorsed and are taking steps to meet the goal to cut global methane
    emissions by 30% by 2030. At COP29, with announcements from new
    countries, there are now nearly 100 methane action plans completed
    or underway, including China’s national action plan on methane and
    the United States’s Methane Emissions Reduction Action Plan update.
    The Climate and Clean Air Coalition, which serves as GMP
    Secretariat, is funding implementation projects in 65 countries. 

<!-- -->

-   **Mobilizing billions to tackle super pollutants** – At the COP29
    Non-CO2 Summit, partners announced implementation steps for over $1
    billion in grant funding previously announced at COP28 as part of
    the Methane Finance Sprint. This grant funding is already mobilizing
    billions more in methane-related project investment by the World
    Bank, International Fund for Agricultural Development, and regional
    multilateral development banks, among others.

<!-- -->

-   **Leveraging new action and science to cut nitrous oxide (N2O) and
    Tropospheric Ozone** – The United States and partners announced new
    global action and science on cutting super pollutants like N2O and
    tropospheric ozone, which account for roughly one-fifth of today’s
    warming, with significant impacts on public health and agricultural
    productivity. New steps include the release of aGlobal N2O
    Assessment, the United Nations  Environment Program’s new commitment
    to advance science on reducing climate impacts of tropospheric
    ozone, and private sector steps to tackle N2O and tropospheric ozone
    precursors.

<!-- -->

-   **Leading Global Efforts to Accelerate Nuclear Energy Deployment:**

<!-- -->

-   **Implementing and expanding the effort to triple nuclear energy**
    –by co-leading a coalition of countries working to [advance the
    global goal of tripling nuclear energy capacity from 2020 levels by
    2050](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ostp/news-updates/2024/11/12/biden-%e2%81%a0harris-administration-establishes-bold-u-s-government-targets-for-safely-and-responsibly-expanding-u-s-nuclear-energy-and-announces-framework-for-action-to-achieve-these-targets/),
    including by setting an example that shows how the United States
    will do its part, by establishing 2050 and nearer-term domestic
    nuclear energy deployment targets and outlining a Framework for
    Action.  Thirty countries from four continents now endorse the
    Declaration to Triple Nuclear Energy, after an additional five
    countries joined the effort at COP29.  Endorsers also highlighted
    recent stakeholder support for the effort, including from 14 major
    global financial institutions that announced support for the
    tripling goal during New York Climate Week in September 2024.

<!-- -->

-   **Supporting Ukraine’s leadership in safe and secure nuclear
    energy** –by announcing $30 million in funding from the U.S.
    Department of State for cooperation with Ukraine under the
    Foundational Infrastructure for Responsible Use of Small Modular
    Reactor (SMR) Technology (FIRST) program to develop: (1) a Clean
    Fuels from SMRs Pilot Plant, which will demonstrate the production
    of clean hydrogen and ammonia, a key ingredient in fertilizers, in
    Ukraine using simulated SMR technology; (2) Project Phoenix, to
    facilitate the conversion of Ukraine’s coal plants to SMRs by
    developing a comprehensive strategy, conducting feasibility studies,
    and providing advisory services; and (3) the Clean Steel from SMR
    Roadmap, which will help rebuild, modernize, and decarbonize
    Ukraine’s steel industry using clean electricity, process heat, and
    hydrogen from SMRs for steel manufacturing.

<!-- -->

-   **U.S. – Romania Partnership to Create Over 1.5 GW of Clean Energy**
    –Sargent & Lundy (U.S.), AtkinsRealis (Canada), and Ansaldo (Italy)
    reached a new milestone in the Cernavoda nuclear power plant
    project, and finalized a contract for an international consortium to
    complete two new reactors at Romania’s Cernavoda site, which, once
    completed, will generate over 1.5 GW of clean power for the region.
    The U.S. Department of Energy and the Romania Ministry of Energy
    facilitated the agreement and catalyzed the project by signing an
    intergovernmental agreement between the U.S. and Romania**.**

<!-- -->

-   **Decarbonizing the Energy Sector by Scaling Technologies Critical
    to Achieving the 1.5°C Goal:**

<!-- -->

-   **Advancing the goal to triple renewable energy and double energy
    efficiency** –including by co-leading the effort to establish
    international goals at COP29 to increase energy storage and expand
    and modernize grids, two key ingredients needed to scale up
    renewable energy in line with keeping the 1.5°Cgoal within reach.
     Endorsers of the Energy Storage and Grids Pledge will set global
    goals to achieve 1500 GW of energy storage and 25 million km of
    built or refurbished grids by 2030, with an additional 65 million km
    by 2040.  The United States also provided over $4.5 billion in
    support for international clean energy projects in FY23, which will
    significantly advance efforts to triple renewable energy and double
    efficiency by 2030.

<!-- -->

-   **Zero Emissions and Resilient Buildings Accelerator (ZERB
    Accelerator)** – which brings together a cohort of leading cities,
    states, and regions committed to ambitious climate mitigation and
    resilience goals in the buildings sector, including the collective
    reduction of annual emissions by at least 50 million metric tons
    below 2020 levels, by 2030.  Incubated by the Subnational Climate
    Action Leaders’ Exchange (SCALE) partnership, the initiative will
    strengthen multilevel collaboration between these subnational
    jurisdictions and their national governments and will mobilize a
    broad coalition of organizations offering support in the areas of
    policy and technical assistance, financing, and measuring,
    reporting, and verification capacity to move the building sector to
    zero emissions and resiliency.

<!-- -->

-   **Advancing the Carbon Management Challenge** – Since President
    Biden announced the Carbon Management Challenge (CMC) last year at
    the Major Economies Forum on Energy and Climate, 22 countries and
    the European Commission have joined the initiative.  This includes 5
    new members since COP28: Bahrain, Kenya, Mauritania, Nigeria, and
    Senegal.  In the past year, the CMC established a Secretariat to
    advance carbon management at the billion-ton scale by delivering
    outcomes on (1) developing country finance; (2) project deployment
    and tracking; and (3) strategic communications and engagement.

<!-- -->

-   **Launching the U.S-India Low Carbon Comfort Cooling Collective** –
    a new initiative aimed at harnessing the power of the public and
    private sectors to mobilize large-scale private investment towards a
    50% reduction in cooling-related emissions in India by 2030.  At
    COP29, U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) announced
    $1 million to support this new partnership.  In the face of
    intensifying extreme heat, the activity aims to reduce carbon
    emissions from cooling, decrease stress on electricity networks, and
    lower the cost of efficient cooling and alternative cooling
    solutions.

<!-- -->

-   **Mobilizing Investment for Early Retirement of Indonesia Coal-fired
    Power Plant** –USAID is assisting a consortium in Indonesia, led by
    the country’s sovereign wealth fund, to establish an approximately
    $255 million equity investment in the first coal power, early
    phase-out transaction under the Indonesia Just Energy Transition
    Partnership.  USAID will support an agreement between Indonesia’s
    sovereign wealth fund and public infrastructure company, PT Sarana
    Multi Infrastruktur, and private investors to finalize the early
    retirement of the 660 MW Cirebon coal-fired power plant.

<!-- -->

-   **Accelerating clean energy deployment and decarbonization in the
    power and industrial sectors** – through the Power Sector Program
    and Energy and Mineral Governance Program, the Department of State
    is committing $10.6 million to strengthen grid infrastructure to
    improve reliability and resiliency, deploy clean energy technologies
    to decarbonize the power and industrial sectors,expand cross border
    power trade, and create opportunities for private sector investment.
    The Energy and Mineral Governance Program is committing a further $5
    million to expand technical support to enable emissions reductions
    in the oil and gas sector through methane abatement and
    decarbonization technologies, in support of the Global Methane
    Pledge.

<!-- -->

-   **Advancing the Agriculture Innovation Mission for Climate (AIM for
    Climate)** –At COP29, AIM for Climate will announce $2.9 billion in
    new investments, innovation sprints, and partners.  Launched by
    President Biden at COP26, [AIM for
    Climate](http://www.aimforclimate.org) is a 5-year initiative co-led
    by the United States and the United Arab Emirates (UAE).  In just 4
    years, AIM for Climate partners have mobilized $29.2 billion in
    increased investment in climate-smart agriculture and food systems
    innovation, over a 2020 baseline, including over $4.3 billion by the
    United States.  On the margins of COP29, the United States and the
    UAE will host the 3rd AIM for Climate Ministerial, a strategic
    opportunity to highlight the institutional legacy of AIM for
    Climate, including the recent  [AIM for Climate
    Report](https://www.aimforclimate.org/report/).

**<u>MOBILIZING FINANCE AT SCALE</u>**  
  
From Day One, the Biden-Harris Administration has been committed to
boosting international climate finance.  This includes scaling-up our
own bilateral finance, fully leveraging multilateral financial
institutions, and mobilizing private investment.  These efforts are also
in direct support of the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and
Investment.  As a result of these efforts over the last three years**,
the United States significantly scaled** **up our climate finance – from
$1.5 billion in FY21 to over** **$9.5 billion in FY23, a more than
sixfold increase. ** These actions build on domestic efforts to catalyze
investments in game-changing [climate
mitigation](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ostp/news-updates/2022/11/18/raising-ambition-for-a-rapid-and-just-net-zero-transition-with-game-changing-innovations/)
and [climate
resilience](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ceq/news-updates/2024/07/25/catalyzing-american-innovation-in-climate-resilience/)
innovations.  At COP29, the Biden-Harris Administration is announcing
new efforts to mobilize investment at the speed and scale the climate
crisis requires, including:

-   **Announcing a $1 billion guarantee for ADB’s Innovative Finance
    Facility for Climate in Asia and the Pacific (IF-CAP)** – a $2.5
    billion climate finance platform for Asia and the Pacific, making
    the United States the Facility’s largest donor.  The U.S. guarantee
    will enable $4.5 billion in new lending from ADB, which will start
    this month.

<!-- -->

-   **Supporting the Launch of the Climate Investment Funds (CIF)
    Capital Markets Mechanism** –an innovative new mechanism that will
    allow the CIF to raise funds directly in the capital markets, where
    it estimates it could raise $5 billion or more over 10 years.

<!-- -->

-   **Achieving Record-Levels of Climate Investments through DFC and
    EXIM** –with DFC reaching$3.71 billion in FY24 and mobilizing
    significant private investment to support over 1 GW of new clean
    energy capacity, improving U.S. partners’ energy security and
    access.  In line with its congressional mandate, EXIM has more than
    doubled its investments in clean energy and other environmentally
    beneficial exports – from $1.1 billion in FY23 to a record $1.6
    billion in FY24.  These new investments, which represent over
    one-fourth of EXIM’s transactions this year, supported $1.7 billion
    in clean energy and other environmentally beneficial exports, EXIM’s
    highest-ever levels.

<!-- -->

-   **Pioneering Innovative Approaches to Mobilize Private Investment**
    –working with Congress, USAID is investing $41.1 million to drive
    private finance into hard-to-reach geographies and sectors.  This
    includes a $7.25 million investment through the Enterprises for
    Development, Growth, and Empowerment (EDGE) Fund to incentivize
    private investment in impact funds and mobilize investment in
    natural climate solutions which includes $2.75 million in grants to
    enable two new investment fund managers under the PREPARE Adaptation
    Finance Window that aim to catalyze additional public partners to
    co-invest.  USAID will also commit $27.7 million for the Colombia
    Invest for Climate activity, which aims to transform markets and
    financial systems and direct public and private funds into
    climate-smart businesses.  Finally, USAID is committing $6.1 million
    to the Partnerships for Green Investment initiative [announced at
    COP28](https://www.usaid.gov/climate/cop28/announcements) last year
    to mobilize at least $200 million to achieve 50 million tons of
    emissions reductions, climate resilience, biodiversity protection,
    and benefit sharing across Southeast Asia.    

<!-- -->

-   **Supporting the Development of the Cambodia Climate Financing
    Facility (CCFF)** –USAID provided technical assistance to support
    the development of the CCFF, a $100 million green bank that will
    fill a critical funding gap for climate projects in Cambodia.  Once
    operationalized, the facility will provide concessions to local
    banks and businesses to stimulate investment in climate adaptation
    and mitigation projects, assisting Cambodia in meeting its
    Nationally Determined Contribution.

<!-- -->

-   **Investing in Clean Energy and Critical Minerals Value Chains in
    Africa** –as part of collaboration with Denmark, Finland, Sweden,
    and Norway, the United States, working with Congress, will make an
    initial commitment of $10 million over two years into the Investment
    Mobilization Collaboration Alliance’s third funding window through
    Power Africa, supporting clean energy and critical mineral
    investments in Africa.  This investment will improve critical
    minerals value chains and increase access to and use of energy to
    advance industrialization.  In joining this impactful, innovative
    international partnership, Power Africa will leverage partner funds
    and support proposals to advance clean energy across the continent.

**<u>BOLSTERING GLOBAL CLIMATE RESILIENCE</u>**

The Administration is announcing new efforts to accelerate the
implementation of the President’s Emergency Plan for Adaptation and
Resilience (PREPARE), which aims to help more than half a billion people
in developing countries adapt to and manage the impacts of climate
change this decade.  Through these efforts, the United States has
provided over $3 billion in adaptation finance in FY23, achieving
President Biden’s pledge to work with Congress to increase U.S.
international public adaptation finance to $3 billion by FY24 to help
implement PREPARE one year early.  This includes the following
additional efforts across PREPARE:

-   **Scaling-Up DFC’s Adaptation Investments to Record-High Levels**
    –DFC invested $1.3 billion in adaptation in FY24, including projects
    that will strengthen food and water security and sustainable
    practices to adapt to and increase resilience to the threat of
    climate change.  
-   **The $458 million Zambia Farm-to-Market Compact** –MCC’s $458
    million Zambia Farm-to-Market Compact, signed in October 2024, aims
    to improve Zambia’s agriculture and agro-processing sectors. The
    compact will focus on rural road infrastructure, increasing access
    to finance for irrigation, electricity, storage and processing
    facilities, and supporting agricultural policy reform initiatives.
    The Improving Roads Activity will improve road conditions, quality,
    access, and climate resilience for selected segments within the
    identified agricultural corridors through the design, construction,
    expansion, rehabilitation, upgrades, and strengthening in key
    agricultural corridors It also focuses on integrated planning,
    climate-resilient road infrastructure, building a local
    green/climate finance market, and improving agricultural
    productivity through better management of soils, irrigation, and
    watersheds.

<!-- -->

-   **Expanding Access to Cutting-Edge Climate Information and Early
    Warnings through PREPARE** –The United States has invested billions
    to develop world-leading weather and climate-related information and
    service capabilities – from launching leading-edge satellites,
    amassing relevant observational data from a global network of
    sensors, and developing advanced modelling technology.  The United
    States is using these capabilities to support vulnerable developing
    countries to better understand, anticipate, and prepare for climate
    impacts.  At COP29 the United States is announcing several new
    efforts, including working with Congress to announce a new the
    SERVIR Central America Hub that will launch in December and will
    bolster the resilience of over 50 million people to reduce
    vulnerability to climate impacts and environmental degradation. NOAA
    is announcing $4.7 million to bolster multi-hazard early warning
    capabilities in Pacific Islands, including through capacity
    building, data sharing, and expansion of sea-level rise monitoring
    stations to help with coastal inundation. The United States is also
    launching the Global Sea Level Explorer– anew earth.gov platform
    that will provide foundational information about global sea level
    and flooding to help inform decision-making, resource management,
    and emergency operations for each coastal country across the globe.

<!-- -->

-   **Climate Smart and Disaster Ready** –as part of its Climate Smart
    and Disaster Ready initiative, USAID announced $11.8 million in new
    awards to strengthen localized climate adaptation for communities at
    the greatest risk of climate-related disasters in current and
    foreseeable humanitarian contexts, bringing the total investment
    under this initiative to date to $16.2 million.  Under this program,
    USAID has funded five multi-year initiatives in West Africa, Central
    America, Southeast Asia, South Asia, and the Pacific Islands,
    including the [previously
    announced](https://www.usaid.gov/climate/our-ocean-2024) $4.4
    million to support young people in the Pacific Islands to advance
    disaster risk reduction and climate adaptation efforts in their own
    communities.

<!-- -->

-   **Climate Finance for Agriculture in Africa** –USAID will invest
    $9.3 million to accelerate climate finance for climate-resilient and
    low emissions development investments in agriculture and food
    systems across Africa, working with Congress.  In Zambia, USAID is
    supporting the country’s first climate-focused investment fund,
    aiming to mobilize $70 million for climate adaptation in critical
    sectors, including agriculture. In Ghana, USAID created a $2.6
    million co-investment program to incentivize private sector
    investment in climate adaptation and mitigation in agriculture,
    complementing cooperation with the government on national carbon
    market development. Finally, through the Africa Trade and Investment
    activity, USAID is supporting a pan-Africa Fund to finance African
    microfinance institutions and agricultural entities, aiming to
    leverage an additional $5 million in commercial investments for
    climate-smart agriculture, with a total investment leverage ratio of
    6:1. 

<!-- -->

-   **Expanding Technical Support for SIDS through the Local2030 Islands
    Network** – the National Ocean and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
    and the U.S. Department of State will invest nearly $500K to expand
    technical support to the Local2030 Islands Network for peer-to-peer
    learning, engagement and training to bolster the use of adaptive
    solutions and scientific data and planning.  This announcement
    builds on a prior investment of approximately $12 million into the
    Local2030 Islands Network, a global island-led network committed to
    net zero emissions and strengthening island resilience to climate
    change, with an emphasis on advancing the United Nations Sustainable
    Development Goals.

<!-- -->

-   **$144 million in new partnership agreements in Mozambique** –MCC’s
    $144 million in new partnership agreements in Mozambique with local
    non-governmental partners Biofund and ProAzul for MCC’s Coastal
    Livelihoods and Climate Resilience Project will leverage
    nature-based low carbon infrastructure to restore coastal ecosystems
    and their functions.

<!-- -->

-   **Bolstering the Resilience of Critical Infrastructure: Enhancing
    Grid Resilience in Africa** – The U.S. Trade and Development Agency
    awarded a feasibility study grant to Côte d’Ivoire Energies to help
    develop a smart grid control system that will increase stability of
    the national grid and reduce potential blackouts in the face of
    extreme weather events or climate disruptions.  USTDA is also
    supporting a grid resilience and efficiency event series, which will
    connect officials from public and private entities in sub-Saharan
    Africa’s power sector to the latest U.S. technologies services, and
    equipment for improved electricity transmission and distribution
    systems.

**<u>ADVANCING WOMEN AND GIRLS’ LEADERSHIP IN CLIMATE ACTION</u>**

  
Recognizing that no economy can get ahead if half of its population is
left behind, the Biden-Harris Administration is committed to preparing
women for leadership roles in the industries of the future, including
through efforts that advance the Women in the Sustainable Economy (WISE)
Initiative—an over $2 billion public-private partnership that aims to
close gender gaps in access to training, jobs, leadership roles, and
finance in green and blue sectors.  At COP29, the Administration
announced:

-   **Advancing Women’s Leadership in the Clean Energy Economy** –At
    COP29, USAID is announcing $10.8 million to champion women as
    decision-makers, stakeholders, educators, and experts in responding
    to the climate crisis.  USAID is investing in programs that support
    women’s equitable access to land; integrate gender-based violence
    prevention in fisheries conservation; and promote women’s
    participation and economic empowerment in green industries and clean
    energy sectors. 

<!-- -->

-   **Accelerating Women’s Leadership in Climate Action** – One year
    after the release of the [U.S. Strategy to Respond to the Effects of
    Climate Change on
    Women](https://www.state.gov/reports/united-states-strategy-to-respond-to-the-effects-of-climate-change-on-women-2023/),
    the State Department is releasing a [progress
    report](https://www.state.gov/state-department-celebrates-one-year-of-the-u-s-women-climate-strategy-at-cop-29/)
    outlining initiatives and programs worth $10.7 million to empower
    women and girls as climate leaders while addressing the
    disproportionate impacts they face from the climate crisis.  These
    initiatives include efforts to train and connect women leading the
    clean energy transition, building climate-smart agricultural
    systems, and promoting Indigenous management of natural resources.

<!-- -->

-   **Women In Agriculture Gain Economic Security (WAGES)** –This
    program supports women in agricultural cooperatives across Tunisia
    to address the impacts of climate change, increase profitability,
    and improve food security.  The project focuses on optimizing
    natural resource use and enhancing the business operations of
    women-led cooperatives.  The $2.1 million project tackles women’s
    limited access to training and resources by forming partnerships
    with regional stakeholders and adapting approaches to address the
    needs of local women leaders. 

<!-- -->

-   **Supporting Women Environmental Defenders** –The Department of
    State is expanding support for women environmental defenders through
    the EMPOWER and WE-Defend programs, enabling their safe and
    meaningful participation in environmental governance and policy
    making. The EMPOWER program, now totaling $1.7 million, supports
    defenders globally, while WE-Defend, with a total investment of $1.2
    million, focuses on empowering Filipina environmental defenders in
    decision-making processes related to environmental policies.

<!-- -->

-   **Advancing Women in Clean Energy and Minerals (AWCEM) Program** –
    The Department of State announced $1.25 million to increase women’s
    leadership in the clean energy and critical mineral mining sectors
    in Latin America, empowering women to become leaders and agents for
    change to support decarbonization and the clean energy transition.

\###
