---
date: '2024-11-16'
modified_time: 2024-11-16 21:54:19-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-16 18:27:51-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/11/16/readout-of-president-joe-bidens-meeting-with-president-xi-jinping-of-the-peoples-republic-of-china-3/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of President Joe\_Biden\u2019s Meeting with President Xi Jinping of\
  \ the People\u2019s Republic of\_China"
---
 
President Joseph R. Biden Jr. met with President Xi Jinping of the
People’s Republic of China (PRC) in Lima, Peru today.  This meeting is
the third between the two Presidents and follows their April 2, 2024,
telephone call.  The two leaders had a candid, constructive discussion
on a range of bilateral, regional, and global issues, including areas of
cooperation and areas of difference.

President Biden underscored that U.S. investment in sources of strength
at home and alignment with partners and allies around the world have
been central to his Administration’s foreign policy approach.  He
welcomed efforts to maintain open channels of communication with the PRC
to manage competition responsibly and prevent it from veering into
conflict or confrontation. 

The two leaders reviewed the bilateral relationship over the past four
years and took stock of efforts to responsibly manage competitive
aspects of the relationship and advance areas of cooperation since the
Woodside Summit in November 2023, including counternarcotics,
military-military communication, artificial intelligence-related risks,
climate change, and people-to-people exchanges.

On counternarcotics, both sides affirmed the importance of continued
coordinated law enforcement actions, information exchanges to identify
new and emerging drug trends, and regulatory actions.  President Biden
welcomed the PRC’s scheduling of 55 dangerous synthetic drugs and
precursor chemicals, closure of online platforms and companies that
supply precursor chemicals, and arrests connected to the illicit
chemical industry, and he called for additional steps in the period
ahead.  Both sides welcomed the resumption over the last year of
high-level military-to-military communications, the U.S.-China Defense
Policy Coordination Talks, U.S.-China Military Maritime Consultative
Agreement meetings, and engagements between theater commanders.  Both
leaders affirmed the need to continue these channels of communication.

Building on a candid and constructive dialogue on AI and co-sponsorship
of each other’s resolutions on AI at the United Nations General
Assembly, the two leaders affirmed the need to address the risks of AI
systems, improve AI safety and international cooperation, and promote AI
for good for all. The two leaders affirmed the need to maintain human
control over the decision to use nuclear weapons.  The two leaders also
stressed the need to consider carefully the potential risks and develop
AI technology in the military field in a prudent and responsible manner.

The two leaders also exchanged views on key regional and global
challenges.  President Biden condemned the deployment of thousands of
DPRK troops to Russia, a dangerous expansion of Russia’s unlawful war
against Ukraine with serious consequences for both European and
Indo-Pacific peace and security. He expressed deep concern over the
PRC’s continued support for Russia’s defense industrial base.  President
Biden emphasized the United States’ commitment to upholding
international law and freedom of navigation, overflight, and peace and
stability in the South China Sea and East China Sea. On Taiwan,
President Biden underscored that the United States’ one China policy
remains unchanged, guided by the Taiwan Relations Act, the three Joint
Communiques, and the Six Assurances.  He reiterated that the United
States opposes any unilateral changes to the status quo from either
side, that we expect cross-Strait differences to be resolved by peaceful
means, and that the world has an interest in peace and stability in the
Taiwan Strait.  He called for an end to destabilizing PRC military
activity around Taiwan.

President Biden raised concerns about the PRC’s unfair trade policies
and emphasized that the United States will continue to take necessary
actions to prevent advanced U.S. technologies from being used to
undermine the national security of the United States or its partners,
without unduly limiting trade and investment. The President noted the
importance of human rights and the responsibility of all nations to
respect their human rights commitments.  He emphasized that it remains a
priority to resolve the cases of American citizens who are unjustly
detained or subject to exit bans in China.  The President raised deep
concerns about ongoing PRC cyberattacks targeting civilian critical
infrastructure and threatening the safety and security of Americans.

Building on the Bali and Woodside meetings, the two leaders stressed the
importance of responsibly managing competitive aspects of the
relationship, preventing conflict, maintaining open lines of
communication, cooperating on areas of shared interest, upholding the UN
Charter, and all countries treating each other with respect and finding
a way to live alongside each other peacefully.  Both leaders reiterated
the importance of maintaining a strategic channel of communication to
responsibly manage the relationship and called for continued use of
diplomatic, military, law enforcement, commercial, and financial
channels.

\###
