---
date: '2024-11-17'
modified_time: 2024-11-16 23:43:15-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-17 05:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/11/17/fact-sheet-president-biden-marks-historic-climate-legacy-with-trip-to-brazils-amazon-rainforest/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Marks Historic Climate Legacy with Trip to Brazil\u2019\
  s Amazon\_Rainforest"
---
 
*President Biden Announces U.S. has surpassed his goal of providing $11
billion per year in international climate financing*

*President Biden to sign a proclamation designating International
Conservation Day; becomes first sitting U.S. president to visit the
Amazon*

Since Day One of the Biden-Harris Administration, the fight against
climate change has been a defining cause of President Biden’s leadership
and presidency. These past four years, the Administration has created a
bold new playbook that has turned tackling the climate crisis into an
enormous economic opportunity – both [at
home](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/23/fact-sheet-president-biden-commemorates-historic-climate-legacy-during-climate-week-nyc/)
and
[abroad](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/11/12/fact-sheet-biden-%E2%81%A0harris-administration-leverages-historic-u-s-climate-leadership-at-home-and-abroad-to-urge-countries-to-accelerate-global-climate-action-at-the-29th-u-n-climate-change-con/).
After spearheading the most [significant domestic climate and
conservation
action](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/22/fact-sheet-president-biden-marks-earth-day-2024-with-historic-climate-action/)
in history and [leading global
efforts](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/12/02/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-leverages-historic-u-s-climate-leadership-at-home-and-abroad-to-urge-countries-to-accelerate-global-climate-action-at-u-n-climate-conference-cop28/)
to tackle the climate crisis, today President Biden is traveling to
Manaus, Brazil, where he will meet with Indigenous and other leaders and
become the first sitting U.S. president to visit the Amazon rainforest.

The President has leveraged our Nation’s leadership on domestic climate
and conservation action to help accelerate global efforts to combat and
reverse deforestation and deploy nature-based solutions that reduce
emissions, enhance biodiversity, and build resilience to a changing
climate. As part of advancing this ambitious climate and conservation
agenda, the Administration is investing in Amazon conservation efforts,
sustainable land management, and wildfire prevention, while also
strengthening our Nation’s collaboration with Brazil, support for
Indigenous communities, and efforts to combat illegal deforestation in
the Amazon and around the world.

**Today, as part of his historic trip to the Amazon, President Biden
will announce that the United States has fulfilled his historic pledge
to increase U.S. international climate finance to over $11 billion a
year by 2024 –** **making the United States the largest bilateral
provider of climate finance in the world.**  This represents a more than
six-fold increase from the $1.5 billion in climate finance the U.S.
provided in FY21, underscoring the success of President Biden’s
whole-of-government effort to scaling-up U.S. climate finance over the
last four years.  This also includes achieving for the second year in a
row his pledge to scale-up U.S. adaptation finance six-fold to over $3
billion per year to help vulnerable countries around the world build
resilience to the impacts of climate change, as part of implementing the
President’s Emergency Plan for Adaptation and Resilience (PREPARE). 
This also included achieving record-levels of climate investments
through the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (DFC) and
U.S. Export Import Bank (EXIM) – with DFC reaching $3.71 billion in FY24
and EXIM increasing its investments to a record $1.6 billion in FY24.

**President Biden will also sign a U.S. proclamation designating
November 17<sup>th</sup> as International Conservation Day.** The
proclamation recognizes that conservation is critical to protecting the
livelihoods of the people who depend on our world’s natural wonders,
conserving our ecosystems and wildlife, ensuring our lands and waters
can be enjoyed for generations to come, and helping avoid the worst
impacts of climate change.  

Central to today’s trip is President Biden’s commitment to conserving
our forests and combatting global deforestation. Over the past four
years, the Administration has led efforts to conserve more than 45
million acres of lands and waters; safeguard mature and old-growth
forests on Federal lands here at home; strengthen reforestation
partnerships across the country to support local economies; combat
global deforestation; and deploy nature-based solutions that reduce
emissions, enhance biodiversity, and build resilience in the face of
increasing climate threats.  **Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is
announcing new efforts to accelerate global action to conserve lands and
waters, protect biodiversity, and tackle the climate crisis,
including:**

-   **Announcing $50 Million for the Amazon Fund**. The United States is
    announcing $50 million for the Amazon Fund, which will bring U.S.
    total contributions to the Amazon Fund to $100 million, subject to
    Congressional notification.

<!-- -->

-   **Launching the Brazil Restoration & Bioeconomy Finance
    Coalition**. The United States, BTG Pactual, and over 12 partners
    are announcing the launch of the Brazil Restoration and Bioeconomy
    Finance Coalition.  This Coalition intends to mobilize at least $10
    billion in public and private investment for land restoration and
    bioeconomy-related projects by 2030, supporting the conservation and
    restoration of at least 5.5 million hectares during this period, and
    contributing to 1.5 gigatons of emissions reductions and removals
    through 2050. At least $500 million is expected to be invested in
    projects that support Indigenous peoples and local communities in
    the Brazilian Amazon.

<!-- -->

-   **Announcing a New DFC Investment in the Largest Reforestation
    Projects in the Amazon**. DFC is providing a $37.5 million loan to
    Mombak Gestora de Recursos Ltda., to support the large-scale
    planting of native tree species on degraded grasslands in Brazil,
    which will sequester carbon and enable biodiversity conservation.
    Mombak has designed an innovative and large-scale approach to
    generating high-quality “Verified Emission Reduction (VER)” credits
    by acquiring large tracts of degraded grassland in the Brazilian
    state of Pará and surrounding regions, which it will plant with
    native tree species. This activity is expected to sequester
    approximately 5 million metric tons of CO2 over 50 years while
    preserving biodiversity in the Amazon region.

<!-- -->

-   **Announcing Support for the Tropical Forest Forever Facility**. The
    United States today announced its support for President Lula’s bold
    vision of creating the TFFF – a pathbreaking new $125 billion fund
    that reflects both the urgency and the scale of the challenge of
    conserving the world’s most important forests.  TFFF will attract
    substantial private capital and make a meaningful contribution to
    tropical forest conservation.  The United States is announcing
    support to help finalize the necessary technical and analytical work
    needed to design and setup the Facility.

These announcements supplement additional efforts the United States is
taking to support climate resilience and biodiversity in critical
ecosystems like the Amazon and others around the world, including:

**<u>Scaling</u>** **<u>Finance to Restore and Conserve These Important
Landscapes</u>**

-   **Leveraging Demand for High-Integrity Forest Carbon Credits.** The
    Lowering Emissions through Advancing Forest finance (LEAF)
    Coalition, co-founded by the United States as a coalition of private
    sector and government buyers, recently announced a $180 million
    agreement on high-integrity forest carbon credits with the Brazilian
    state of Pará. Revenues from the transaction of credits generated at
    the scale of the entire state, at the pathbreaking price of
    $15/tonne of avoided emissions, will support the conservation of the
    Amazon Rainforest. The agreement is LEAF’s first deal in the
    Amazon. Next steps include full consultations with stakeholders,
    program validation and verification of results under the ART-TREES
    standard. Agreements with additional Amazon region states are
    expected in the coming months, starting with Acre, with significant
    demand-side interest for high-integrity credits from Brazilian
    states. 

<!-- -->

-   **New Cooperation Framework Agreement Between DFC and BNDES**. Last
    month, DFC and Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econômico e Social
    (BNDES), the Brazilian Development Bank, signed a cooperation
    framework agreement to enhance and deepen co-investment
    opportunities in Brazil in climate-related sectors. This new
    partnership hopes to expand support for conservation and restoration
    investments at scale in the Amazon’s arch of reforestation and other
    important biodiversity-rich biomes.

<!-- -->

-   **Launching a Nature-Based Solutions Investment Lab**. Instituto
    Itausa, BB Asset, Bloomberg Philanthropies, and Instituto Clima e
    Sociedade are partnering with USAID to structure a nature-based
    solutions (NbS) Investment Lab with $2 million from USAID. The lab
    will foster an enabling environment to unlock private investment in
    NbS projects by creating interaction and collaboration among
    different sources of funds, sources of capital, and NbS stakeholders
    to create innovative financial instruments and transactions;
    identifying and designing appropriate business models, standardized
    projects and assessment of impacts of NbS projects in Brazil; and
    addressing regulatory challenges and advocate for policy
    enhancements**.**

<!-- -->

-   **Launching Alliances for the Amazon.** This initiative will build
    on an existing partnership with the International Center for
    Tropical Agriculture (CIAT) that created a collective action
    platform to join private sector and civil society organizations to
    develop and identify innovative solutions for sustainable
    development and conservation of the Brazilian Amazon. In its prior
    phase with USAID support, the Partnership accelerated 123
    biodiversity-supportive businesses, leveraged $7.5 million in
    private funding, and supported conservation of 39 million hectares.
    The new AFA partnership will expand USAID-CIAT’s ground-breaking
    TerraBio scientific methodology for measuring biodiversity impact
    for Amazon-based impact investment projects.

<!-- -->

-   **USAID will Provide $2.6 Million to the Rainforest Wealth
    Project**, led by IMAFLORA in collaboration with Instituto
    Socioambiental (ISA), which seeks to establish scalable economic
    models to conserve standing forests, meet legal requirements,
    enhance local community welfare, and achieve responsible market
    standards. The project aims to expand the Origens Brasil network to
    facilitate fair trade for community-produced goods, increasing
    corporate participation and commitment within the network. It also
    focuses on strengthening the value chains for non-timber forest
    products and promoting agroecology among family farmers, traditional
    communities, settlers, and quilombolas across northern and
    southeastern Pará, bringing them into the Origens Brasil network.

**<u>Building the</u>** **Bioeconomy**

-   **Announcing $4 million to Support New Business Models that Keep
    Forests Standing While Benefitting Local Businesses and Families**.
    USAID is announcing $4 million to support a program that it is
    codesigning with local organization Conexsus to strengthen the
    bioeconomy business ecosystems in the Brazilian Amazon, bolstering a
    new economic model that keeps the forest standing and aligns
    biodiversity conservation with economic growth for local businesses
    and families to thrive.  This initiative builds on a Memorandum of
    Understanding signed last March between the Skoll Foundation and
    USAID that recognized their shared commitment to advance locally led
    development and expand coordination to address deforestation issues
    and promote gender equality globally.

<!-- -->

-   **USAID is Investing $1.4 Million in Assobio: The Call for
    Socio-Biodiversity.** This project will strengthen bioeconomy value
    chains that hold potential for forest and biodiversity conservation
    while increasing income generation and addressing food security in
    the state of Mato Grosso. The project’s aim is to strengthen a
    thriving forest-based economy by creating new public-private
    arrangements that attract financing and promoting diversified
    strategies to support regenerative land management, entrepreneurial
    knowledge, and access to financial resources and markets for family
    farming and Indigenous people in Mato Grosso’s Amazon region. This
    will significantly contribute to the conservation of approximately
    one-third of the forest in Mato Grosso, an area of 8.9 million
    hectares.

**<u>Supporting Low-Carbon, Climate-Resilient Supply Chains</u>**

-   **USAID is Investing $2.8 Million in the Regenerative Agriculture
    for the Conservation of the Amazon (ARCA) Activity**. The ARCA
    program promotes nature-based solutions and restoration in buffer
    zones around conservation units, Indigenous lands, quilombolas, and
    land reform settlements in seven territories in three of Brazil’s
    Amazonian states—Mato Grosso, Maranhão, and Pará, all of which are
    located in the Brazilian Amazon’s Arc of Deforestation. ARCA’s aim
    is to promote sustainable land use, biodiversity conservation, and
    the socio-environmental resilience of traditional communities
    through capacity building, collaboration, and innovation. ARCA aims
    to help improve the management of more than 19 million hectares of
    land in the Amazon, working with 40 Indigenous Territories and
    Quilombola Areas.

<!-- -->

-   **The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) is Supporting Efforts to
    Improve Fertilizer Efficiency**.USDA has partnered with Brazilian
    and U.S. institutions on a groundbreaking joint research project to
    improve fertilizer efficiency, with the goal of combatting climate
    change and food insecurity. The project, called “Fertilize for
    Life,” currently funded at $1.2 million is part of USDA’s Fertilize
    Right Initiative, launched in 2023 with support from the U.S.
    Department of State’s Global Fertilizer Challenge, and focuses on
    enabling cooperation on more efficient, climate-friendly land use
    has significant potential to scale sustainable agriculture, improve
    productivity and farmers’ livelihoods, while reducing nitrous oxide
    emissions**.**

<!-- -->

-   **The Department of State, through a $2.5 million award to the
    Nature Conservancy (TNC), is supporting efforts to reduce
    deforestation** associated with the Brazilian cattle sector by
    improving traceability of cattle throughout the entire supply chain.
    These interventions aim to support the cattle industry in avoiding
    400 million metric tons of carbon emissions per year from
    deforestation and habitat loss, alongside reductions in methane
    emissions. This effort is anchored in the State of Para, which has
    set a goal of achieving full cattle traceability by 2025.

**<u>Leveraging Technology to Support Forest Conservation and
Management</u>**

-   **Partnering with the Government of Brazil to Combat Illegal Logging
    and Associated Trade.**  The U.S. is cooperating to ensure Brazil
    possesses state-of-the-art technology and operational capacity for
    timber identification via Mass Spectrometry (*DART-TOFMS: Direct
    Analysis in Real Time Time-of-Flight Mass Spectrometry*). This
    technology identifies a unique chemical “fingerprint” to identify
    wood species, strengthening capacity to monitor and enforce legality
    in timber supply chains.

<!-- -->

-   **The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)** **is
    Supporting Near Real-Time Burn Area Mapping Efforts to the Remote
    Sensing Laboratory at Rio de Janeiro Federal University**, providing
    key satellite observations used by *Sistema Alarmes*. The system
    generates daily burned area mapping updates for major endangered
    biomes in Brazil, helping inform decision making at the Brazilian
    Ministry for the Environment and Climate Change. For more than 15
    years NOAA has also supported the satellite-based wildfire
    monitoring program at the Brazilian Institute for Space Research.
    That program provides critical near real-time fire detection
    information for most of South America using a suite of satellite
    datasets.

<!-- -->

-   **USAID is Investing $7.8 million in its Longstanding Partnership
    with the U.S. Forest Service to Strengthen Brazilian Fire
    Management.** USAID and the U.S. Forest Service support Brazilian
    agencies with wildfire prevention and response. Standardized fire
    curricula ensure all firefighters share a common language and
    standardized approaches like the Incident Command System. USFS
    promotes inclusive fire management, training women and Indigenous
    communities, including the first-ever all-women Indigenous fire
    brigade in Tocantins and Maranhão. 

**<u>Delivering for Local and Indigenous Communities</u>**

-   **USAID is Investing $1.9 Million to Launch the Alliance of
    Indigenous Peoples for the Forests of the Eastern Amazon**. This
    alliance will bring together organizations representing Indigenous
    people to conserve, protect, and restore natural resources in 14
    Indigenous territories in Maranhão and Tocantins states. The project
    will cover a total combined area of approximately 2.5 million
    hectares of land that is home to a population of roughly 35,000
    individuals from 11 ethnic groups, as well as a group in voluntary
    isolation.

<!-- -->

-   **Expanding Support for Existing U.S. Programs Including the
    Indigenous Peoples Finance Access Facility (IPFAF).** This project
    aims to increase access to financing for Indigenous communities for
    forest conservation, restoration, and management with a focus on
    Indigenous peoples in the Amazon basin, as well as the Congo Basin,
    and Southeast Asia. IPFAF is also working to enhance the capacity of
    Indigenous peoples and their representative organizations to protect
    and sustainably manage natural resources in 27 million hectares of
    forested landscapes of southern Amazonas state, and across savannah
    and forested landscapes of Roraima state.

<!-- -->

-   **USAID Is Investing $4 Million to Launch the Tapajós for Life
    Activity,** which aims to reduce threats to Amazon biodiversity by
    improving sustainable use and conservation of 7 million hectares of
    protected areas and Indigenous peoples’ lands and local communities’
    lands in the Tapajós river basin. It will expand the sustainable
    value chains for forest products, support community-based tourism,
    and improve territorial management within the river basin.

<!-- -->

-   **USAID will Invest $1.4 Million to Launch the Well-Being and
    Territorial Management in the Rio Negro and Xingu River Basins
    Project**. This activity seeks to strengthen the capacity of
    Indigenous peoples of the Xingu and Rio Negro River basins—and their
    networks of partnerships—to implement Brazil’s National Policy for
    the Territorial and Environmental Management of Indigenous Lands
    (PNGATI) and its management instruments, such as the Territorial and
    Environmental Management Plans. Strengthening the environmental
    management of these Indigenous territories in the Rio Negro and
    Xingu basins could help sustainably manage approximately 26 million
    hectares of land that are strategically important for the
    conservation of biodiversity in the Brazilian Amazon. 

<!-- -->

-   **USAID is investing $2.6 million to launch the Integrated
    Indigenous Territorial Management activity**, which will support
    Indigenous representative organizations to develop territorial and
    environmental management plans that incorporate policy advocacy on
    Indigenous lands, enhancing the capacity of Indigenous peoples and
    their representative organizations to protect and sustainably manage
    natural resources in a total combined area of 27 million hectares in
    forested landscapes of southern Amazonas state, and across the
    savannah and forested landscapes of Roraima state.

**<u>Leveraging U.S.-Brazil Science and Technology Partnerships</u>**

-   **Launching Zero Carbon Advanced Energy Systems in the Amazon.** The
    U.S. Department of Energy will execute an assessment of renewable
    mini-grid deployment in the Legal Amazon region with the goal of
    supporting Brazil’s Energies of the Amazon Program. A flagship
    program for President Lula, Energies of the Amazon intends to
    decrease the region’s negative social and environmental impacts
    associated with reliance on fossil fuels. By supporting the
    deployment of reliable, clean power to vulnerable communities in the
    Amazon, this project will contribute to faster social and economic
    development in the region.

<!-- -->

-   **Advancing One Health Cooperation in Brazil and the Amazon Basin**:
    The National Science Foundation and its partners will announce $17
    million for Belmont Forum grants focused on climate, environment,
    and health cooperation.  Of these, nearly $3 million in funding is
    for projects across Brazil and the Amazon Basin. 

<!-- -->

-   **Provided $1.4 Million to Reduce Organized Criminal Activity
    Related to Illegal Mining and Trafficking of Mercury**. The U.S. is
    promoting the rule of law and economic development in the Brazilian
    Amazon.  Illegal mining, often marked by its affiliation with
    organized crime groups, poses a significant threat to peace,
    stability, and the rule of law, as well as for the environment,
    ranging from illegal deforestation and water source contamination to
    air pollution and land degradation.

\###
