---
date: '2024-11-21'
modified_time: 2024-11-21 15:55:22-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-21 16:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/11/21/president-biden-announces-a-presidential-emergency-board-names-members-2/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces a Presidential Emergency Board, Names\_Members"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden signed an Executive Order
creating a Presidential Emergency Board to help resolve an ongoing
dispute between New Jersey Transit and the Brotherhood of Locomotive
Engineers and Trainmen (BLET). The appointment of the Board is required
under the Railway Labor Act because a party to the dispute has requested
an Emergency Board.

The Presidential Emergency Board will provide a structure that allows
the two sides to attempt to resolve their disagreements. In the 60 days
following its establishment, the Presidential Emergency Board will
produce a report to the President that selects the offer that the Board
finds to be the most reasonable. The Board’s report is not binding, but
the party whose offer is not selected would be prohibited by law from
receiving certain benefits if a work stoppage subsequently occurs.

President Biden also announced that he intends to appoint the following
members to Presidential Emergency Board No. 252:

-   Ira F. Jaffe, Chair, Presidential Emergency Board No. 252
-   Sidney Moreland, Member, Presidential Emergency Board No. 252
-   Thomas Pontolillo, Member, Presidential Emergency Board No. 252

**Ira F. Jaffee, Chair, Presidential Emergency Board No. 252**

Ira F. Jaffe has served as a full-time arbitrator and mediator of labor
and employment disputes since 1981 and has presided over more than 6,000
cases in a wide variety of industries in the private and public sectors
and serves on over 80 permanent arbitration panels. Jaffe has served on
six prior PEBs – PEB 236 (2001), PEB 241 (2007), and PEB 242 (2007), and
served as Chair on PEB 243 (2011), PEB 244 (2013), and PEB 250
(2022). Jaffe is a member and former Vice-President of the National
Academy of Arbitrators (NAA), served as the National President of the
Society of Federal Labor Relations Professionals in 1990, and taught
several courses as an Adjunct Professor at the George Washington
University Law School. He is a Charter Fellow in the American College of
Employee Benefits Counsel and has arbitrated and mediated a wide variety
of employee benefits disputes. He is also a Fellow in the College of
Labor and Employment Lawyers. Jaffe received a B.S. from the Cornell
University School of Industrial and Labor Relations and a J.D. from the
George Washington University Law School.

**Sidney Moreland, Member, Presidential Emergency Board No. 252**

Sidney Moreland has been a professional arbitrator for 40 years, during
which he has helped resolve hundreds of civil and labor disputes in all
industrial sectors and professional sports. Moreland serves on multiple
arbitration rosters and panels including the American Arbitration
Association, the National Mediation Board, and the Federal Mediation
Conciliation Service. He currently serves as Arbitrator for the National
Football League and the Players Association, as well as for Southwest
Airlines and multiple Unions serving that airline. Moreland has vast
experience on transportation issues presiding over 70 Public Law Boards
serving every Class 1 railroad in the United States—a form of tribunal
established by the National Mediation Board for the arbitration of
disputes between unions, airlines, and rail carriers. 

**Thomas Pontolillo, Member, Presidential Emergency Board No. 252**

Thomas Pontolillo has served as a professional arbitrator since 2022,
and has been appointed to the arbitrators’ rosters of the Federal
Mediation and Conciliation Service and the National Mediation Board.
Prior to 2022, Pontolillo served as Assistant to the National President
and Director of Research for the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers and
Trainmen, a major railroad labor union. He began his career as a member
of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers and Trainmen, working as a
locomotive fireman and a locomotive engineer for Penn Central railroad,
Consolidated Rail Corporation, and New Jersey Transit Rail Operations.

\# \# \#
