---
date: '2024-11-15'
published_time: 2024-11-15 15:42:15-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/11/15/joint-statement-of-japan-the-republic-of-korea-and-the-united-states/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Joint Statement of Japan, the Republic of Korea, and the United\_States"
---
 
We, the leaders of Japan, the Republic of Korea (ROK), and the United
States, convened in the spirit of Camp David to commemorate the
remarkable progress our three countries have made since our Trilateral
Leaders’ Summit in 2023. Japan, the ROK, and the United States stand
united in our dedication to promote human rights, democracy, security,
and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region and beyond. We remain
determined to align our collective efforts to ensure the continued
success of our peoples, the region, and the world. We remain steadfast
in our support for a free and open rules-based international order. The
actions that we take together will continue to bolster regional and
global peace and security well into the future.

\*\*\*

During the past 15 months, we have constructed a trilateral partnership
that is built to last. Today, we announce the establishment of the
Trilateral Secretariat responsible for coordinating and implementing our
shared commitments. This new secretariat will seek to ensure that the
work we do together further aligns our objectives and actions to make
the Indo-Pacific a thriving, connected, resilient, stable, and secure
region.

We applaud our expanding trilateral security cooperation, including the
successful first two iterations of the trilateral multi-domain exercise
Freedom Edge and the signing of the Memorandum of Cooperation on the
Trilateral Security Cooperation Framework to institutionalize trilateral
cooperation among our defense authorities. Our trilateral defense
engagements are expanding to annual Chiefs of Defense and ministerial
meetings that build upon existing senior-level policy consultations,
information sharing, trilateral exercises, and defense exchanges. Japan,
the ROK, and the United States are promoting trilateral interoperability
by sharing data in real time about ballistic missile launches by the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK) and by working to
strengthen our ballistic missile defense capabilities. We are enhancing
junior officer exchanges to further build interoperability and
people-to-people ties among our defense forces. President Biden
reiterates that the U.S. commitments to the defense of the ROK and Japan
are ironclad and reaffirms the U.S. commitment to strengthen extended
deterrence cooperation through the ROK-U.S. and Japan-U.S. alliances.
These actions underscore our three countries’ shared commitment to
consult on regional challenges, provocations, and threats affecting our
collective interests and security.

We strongly condemn violations of multiple United Nations Security
Council (UNSC) resolutions by the DPRK and Russia, especially in light
of the DPRK’s decision to deploy troops to Russia for combat against
Ukraine. Japan, the ROK, and the United States strongly condemn the
decisions by the leaders of the DPRK and Russia to dangerously expand
Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine. Deepening military
cooperation between the DPRK and Russia, including munitions and
ballistic missile transfers, is particularly egregious given Russia’s
status as a Permanent Member of the UN Security Council. We remain
resolute as ever in supporting Ukraine as it exercises its inherent
right to self-defense as enshrined in Article 51 of the UN Charter.

We reaffirm our commitment to the complete denuclearization of the
Korean Peninsula, consistent with UNSC resolutions. We commit to respond
firmly to violations and evasions of DPRK-related UNSC resolutions as
well as any attempt to undermine the global non-proliferation regime.
Japan, the ROK, and the United States are committed to the work of the
new Multilateral Sanctions Monitoring Team responsible for conducting
comprehensive and effective sanctions monitoring and reporting efforts
regarding UNSC sanctions on the DPRK. We express grave concern over the
DPRK’s illicit revenue generation methods, including its use of arms
transfers, malicious cyber activities, and the dispatch of workers
abroad, to fund its unlawful weapons of mass destruction and ballistic
missile programs. We are committed to expanding trilateral efforts to
counter the DPRK’s malicious cyber program and illicit revenue
generation, including by collaborating to build capacity across the
Indo-Pacific region to better protect against illicit DPRK activities.
Our three countries continue to call for adherence to shared
international norms and responsible behavior in the cyber domain to
protect public critical infrastructure placed at risk by disruptive or
destabilizing cyber activities. Prime Minister Ishiba and President
Biden acknowledge their support for President Yoon’s vision of a free,
peaceful, and prosperous Korean Peninsula and reiterate their support
for a unified Korean Peninsula that is free and at peace. With a clear
recognition of the inextricable link between DPRK human rights issues
and international peace and security, we promote the advancement of
human rights in the DPRK and call for the immediate resolution of the
issues of abductees, detainees, and unrepatriated prisoners of war.

We reaffirm the importance of maintaining peace and stability throughout
the Indo-Pacific region. We reaffirm our unwavering support for ASEAN
centrality and unity and for the ASEAN-led regional architecture. We are
committed to working closely with ASEAN to support robust implementation
and mainstreaming of the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific. We express
concerns about illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing, and we take
this opportunity to announce a new Trilateral Maritime Security and Law
Enforcement Cooperation Framework that will strengthen our cooperation
on shared regional challenges and protect rules-based approaches to the
maritime domain.

We strongly oppose any unilateral attempts to change the status quo in
the waters of the Indo-Pacific, and we recognize the importance of
opposing unlawful maritime claims in the South China Sea. We steadfastly
oppose the dangerous use of coast guard and maritime militia vessels and
coercive activities in the South China Sea. We express support for the
global maritime order, including the freedoms of navigation and
overflight, based on international law, as reflected in the UN
Convention on the Law of the Sea. We recognize that peace and stability
across the Taiwan Strait is an indispensable element of security and
prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region. There is no change in our basic
positions on Taiwan, and we call for the peaceful resolution of
cross-Strait issues.

Japan, the ROK, and the United States are committed to deepening our
trilateral economic partnership, including through continuing our close
coordination on economic security. Japan and the United States look
forward to the ROK’s hosting of APEC in 2025 and welcome the ROK’s
chairmanship of the Minerals Security Partnership (MSP). Japan and the
United States are committed to closely coordinating with the ROK to
accelerate MSP projects. We recognize the MSP as a crucial institutional
forum to develop a more diverse and sustainable critical minerals supply
chain. We welcome the progress made by the Resilient and Inclusive
Supply-chain Enhancement (RISE) partnership. We commend the Trilateral
Economic Security Dialogue for deepening trilateral engagements on
economic security issues, and we welcome regularized, active
consultation among our countries to exchange early warning information
on supply chain disruptions. We applaud the successful first trilateral
meeting between our finance ministries and look forward to the next
convening. We commit to continue cooperating to promote sustainable
economic growth and financial stability, as well as orderly and
well-functioning financial markets. We commend the successful launch of
the first trilateral Commerce and Industry Ministerial Meeting and look
forward to the next convening. We reaffirm our longstanding commitment
to advancing women’s economic empowerment, including through the
upcoming 2024 Trilateral Women’s Economic Empowerment Conference in
Washington. We applaud women leaders in STEM who are working to address
barriers to entry and advancement. In addition, we are committed to
enhancing cooperation within the Crisis Response Network established
under the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework Supply Chain Agreement—with
the ROK as the Chair and Japan as the Vice Chair—to ensure members
maintain access to vital supplies during emergencies.

We concur on the need for trilateral collaboration on technology
security, standards, and trusted ecosystems, and we commit to develop a
trilateral framework to further advance our next generation critical and
emerging technology cooperation. We hail the successful launch of the
Trilateral Technology Leaders Training Program, which has served to
train and connect policymakers focusing on semiconductors, artificial
intelligence (AI), quantum technology, digital economy, biotechnology,
cybersecurity, energy, and space. In addition, Japan, the ROK, and the
United States are working to accelerate the development of a trusted AI
ecosystem across our three countries. We are strengthening commercial
collaboration around AI chips in addition to enhancing protections for
critical technology and strengthening engagement on AI safety. We are
working to build resilient supply chains for active pharmaceutical
ingredients through the “Bio-5” coalition. As founding members of the
Quantum Development Group, we look forward to further strengthening
cooperation on supply chains and trusted investment in our quantum
ecosystems. We are proud of the launch of a new quantum workforce
program by IBM, in partnership with Japanese, Korean, and U.S.
universities, which aims to train 40,000 students over the next decade.
We also welcome trilateral cooperation among our national research
institutes, and we stress the significance of the successful launch of
the Disruptive Technology Protection Network, which is essential for
combatting illicit technology transfer.

Japan, the ROK, and the United States also are expanding our cooperation
on development and humanitarian assistance across the globe, including
through a senior-level biennial policy dialogue. Together, Japan, the
ROK, and the United States have expanded trilateral development
assistance to the Philippines and Ukraine. We commit to further advance
collaboration in critical sectors across the Philippines, including
ports modernization, energy infrastructure, agribusiness, and
large-scale transportation projects. We support trilateral digital
infrastructure and telecommunications initiatives in Southeast Asia,
including through the expansion of digital infrastructure using Open RAN
approaches across the region.

People-to-people ties between Japan, the ROK, and the United States are
rapidly expanding, and we are discussing ways to maintain and build upon
this momentum. We applaud the successful first Trilateral Global
Leadership Youth Summit this year and look forward to the 2025 Youth
Summit in Japan as the next iteration of what we hope will become an
annual convening of youth delegates focused on tackling our shared
security, economic, and environmental challenges. Furthermore, we
support the newly launched Young Trilateral Leaders program, which aims
to foster dialogue between our countries and concrete action by young
people on global challenges.

\*\*\*

Our cooperation has soared to new heights in every corner of our
governments, and we have created a brighter, safer, and more prosperous
future for our people. We are proud of the partnership we have built and
believe that the Japan-ROK-U.S. relationship will be a ballast of peace
and stability in the Indo-Pacific for years to come.

\###
