---
date: '2024-11-12'
modified_time: 2024-11-12 22:43:49-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-12 22:43:48-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/11/12/joint-statement-from-the-leaders-of-the-united-states-and-the-republic-of-indonesia-commemorating-75-years-of-diplomatic-relations/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Joint Statement from the Leaders of the United\_States and the Republic of\
  \ Indonesia: Commemorating 75 Years of Diplomatic\_Relations"
---
 
Today, President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. is honored to welcome Indonesian
President Prabowo Subianto to Washington, D.C. As we commemorate 75
years of diplomatic relations, we reflect on our shared experiences,
from which we have emerged as the world’s second- and third-largest
democracies.  
As part of this growing relationship, one year ago, Indonesia and the
United States elevated bilateral relations to a Comprehensive Strategic
Partnership (CSP) and institutionalized efforts to expand cooperation
amidst global and emerging challenges.

As we deepen our diplomatic, economic, and security cooperation, we pay
tribute to our predecessors for their wisdom, courage, and vision.
Building on this shared history, the two leaders reaffirmed our
commitment to democracy, pluralism, human rights, and a stable and open
international system. The leaders committed to continue advancing our
vision for an open, transparent, inclusive, and rules-based Indo-Pacific
regional architecture, with ASEAN at the center, that upholds
international law. Building on their CSP, the leaders pledged to work to
ensure a strong, resilient, and prosperous Indonesia and underlined
their countries’ shared commitment to promote peace and stability in
Southeast Asia and the Indo-Pacific region.

**<u>Fostering a Long-Term Partnership</u>**

The leaders applauded the progress in our partnership, reflecting
deepening ties and a mutual desire to foster greater understanding
between the United States and Indonesia. To sustain and further elevate
this momentum, both leaders underscored their commitment to regularly
convene the Comprehensive Strategic Dialogue between Indonesia’s
Minister for Foreign Affairs and the U.S. Secretary of State. Both
leaders committed to deepen relations further by introducing new
cooperation in areas such as climate, energy, human and labor rights,
foreign policy, and national security policy. The two leaders also
welcomed the revival of the bipartisan Congressional Friends of
Indonesia Caucus by U.S. Representatives Strickland and Miller, and look
forward to sustained legislative cooperation to enhance dialogue and
mutual understanding on U.S.-Indonesia relations.

Looking to the future, the two countries will build on the CSP to
increase dialogue on domestic, regional, and global security issues as
we learn from each other’s experiences, ensuring that our shared history
and democratic values remain central to our efforts.  Both countries are
committed to continuing the annual consular and management dialogue to
ensure each can shape better policy and adequately manage consular and
diplomatic facilities to support this elevated relationship, in
accordance with international conventions, bilateral agreements, and the
respective laws of both countries.

**<u>Encouraging</u>** **<u>Sustainable, Inclusive, and Resilient
Economic Growth</u>**

The United States government stands ready to assist the Indonesian
government as it strives to improve food security through sustainable
agriculture. To advance these efforts, the leaders highlighted their
commitment to promote research collaboration at the nexus of artificial
intelligence (AI) and sustainable farming practices, including through
the 2<sup>nd</sup> Indonesia – U.S. Digital Technology Dialogue on
Agriculture**.** The two sides also committed to strengthen Indonesia’s
food resilience through promotion of sustainable management practices
for fisheries and aquaculture, and enhancing the effectiveness of
Indonesia’s marine protected areas management, in line with respective
national laws.

The two leaders reaffirmed the importance of innovation-driven,
inclusive and sustainable economic growth to deliver better livelihoods
for the American and Indonesian peoples. Both sides affirmed their
membership to the Open Government Partnership to enhance transparency,
accountability and public participation and advance anti-corruption
priorities. Both sides are committed to deepening engagement and
cooperation on economic policy based on business best practices, labor
rights, and human rights and fair trade, including through the
Indo-Pacific Economic Framework for Prosperity (IPEF) in all pillars and
the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum. We recognize the importance
of the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) in fostering trade,
supporting industry and promoting sustainable development for both
countries. As part of this effort, we will explore holding a strategic
economic dialogue and a U.S.-Indonesia Trade and Investment Framework
Agreement (TIFA) meeting.

President Biden expressed his support for Indonesia’s efforts towards an
expedited accession bid to the Organization for Economic Co-operation
and Development (OECD), which provides a pathway to faster and higher
quality economic growth through stronger and more accountable policy. As
the process gets under way, the United States looks forward to working
with the Indonesian government to ensure it is successful in aligning
with OECD standards and best practices, including by supporting
Indonesia as it undertakes all necessary economic, governance, trade,
and labor reforms. The two leaders also expressed their commitment to a
rules-based international trading system and recognized the importance
of multilateral institutions and norms which promote free and fair
trade. Both leaders pledged to advance dialogue and consultations in
settling WTO disputes.

President Subianto and President Biden acknowledged the essential role
of diverse and resilient critical mineral supply chains to bolster the
manufacturing sector and economic growth in both nations, as well as
support the global clean energy transition. They affirmed their
commitment to develop a critical minerals supply chain in both countries
through a mutually beneficial partnership that promotes principles of
sustainable development, including strong environmental and labor
standards. To achieve this, they pledged to expedite ongoing discussions
on critical minerals.

Reaffirming that the climate crisis poses an existential threat, the
leaders reaffirmed their commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
This includes submitting 2035 nationally determined contributions (NDC)
under the Paris Agreement that are aligned with limiting global warming
to 1.5 degree Celsius and in the spirit of responding positively to the
first Global Stocktake. We are committed to more ambitious, economy-wide
emission reduction targets, covering all greenhouse gases, sectors and
categories that are aligned with achieving our respective net-zero
targets. 

They further resolve to expand collaboration on clean and renewable
energy generation and to accelerate their clean energy transitions.
Indonesia and the United States are continuing to closely and concretely
collaborate, including with other partners, on the Just Energy
Transition Partnership (JETP) by implementing the Comprehensive
Investment and Policy Plan. JETP, in parallel with domestic policy
reform, will continue to mobilize investments in Indonesia’s domestic
renewable energy production to reduce emissions, strengthen and expand
the grid, advance energy security, create jobs, and grow the clean
energy economy in Indonesia. 

President Biden and President Subianto discussed carbon capture and
storage (CCS) and methane abatement as key opportunities for reducing
greenhouse gas emissions. Both leaders expressed their commitment to
supporting methane reduction capacity building. The two leaders seek to
develop affordable and cost-effective CCS solutions and deploy methane
abatement strategies that contribute to Indonesia’s net-zero targets and
global climate goals. President Biden congratulated Indonesia on its
recent success in reducing emissions from deforestation and offered
continued U.S. support for Indonesia to reach its forestry and land
sector net sink target by 2030.

As one way to mobilize private finance for emissions reductions from
forests and other sectors, President Biden expressed his support for
Indonesia’s efforts to develop a high-integrity carbon market and
offered U.S. support for accessing international demand for carbon
credits. The leaders pledged to deepen bilateral discussions under the
U.S.-Indonesia Climate Change Working Group and through technical
cooperation.

**<u>Promoting Innovation through Digital and Technology
Cooperation</u>**

Both Indonesia and the United States concurred that AI and other digital
technologies should be optimized to enable sustainable development and
bridge the digital divide. President Biden and President Subianto
underscored the pressing need to enhance capacity building to ensure
equitable access to secure and resilient AI and related digital
innovations. The leaders also welcomed the opportunity to expand radio
access network (Open RAN) projects in Indonesia, acknowledging the
importance of improving Indonesia’s cellular network performance,
creating a secure, resilient, and fostering a competitive ecosystem for
advanced technology, and providing broader connectivity.

The two leaders acknowledged the need to continuously explore
initiatives to secure cyberspace and welcomed the intention to elevate
their cooperation, particularly through the exchange of best practices,
capacity building, and research cooperation in the near future. This
enhanced collaboration should be rooted in their shared desire to
promote a peaceful, secure, and resilient cyberspace that serves as an
enabler of economic progress and betterment of living standards for all.
The leaders also celebrated the U.S. State Department’s partnership with
the Government of Indonesia through the International Technology
Security and Innovation (ITSI) Fund under the CHIPS Act of 2022.

The leaders expressed their intention to enhance Indonesia’s human
resource capacity in the semiconductor industry, as well as human
resources development, through collaborations with American universities
and optimizing U.S. government support through the ITSI Fund. The United
States is committed to support Indonesia in developing its small modular
reactor (SMR) technology, including by expediting ongoing feasibility
studies and exploring potential collaboration to build Indonesian
expertise through nuclear assessor research certification programs.

**<u>Investing in People, Education, and Health</u>**

We also use this opportunity to commemorate the 20th anniversary of a
massive tsunami that devastated coastal communities across the Indian
Ocean region, including Aceh Province in Indonesia. In response, the
United States mobilized over $400 million in emergency aid to support
Indonesia’s response, assisting over 580,000 people. President Biden and
President Subianto recognize the resourcefulness and perseverance of the
tsunami’s survivors and applaud the bravery of humanitarian responders.
We have built on this experience, and expanded our cooperation to
include a Memorandum of Understanding between our disaster management
agencies. Our leaders reaffirmed our commitment to boost disaster risk
reduction and to work together on humanitarian aid and disaster relief
to other vulnerable locations. 

Building on our strong people-to-people ties, President Biden and
President Subianto underscored their plan to deepen cooperation in
education, research, and development. The leaders announced the opening
of a new American Corner in Makassar in 2025. The two leaders also
welcomed further cooperation to promote science, technology,
engineering, arts, and mathematics (STEAM) fields, language education,
and entrepreneurship collaboration, with a focus on women, youth, and
persons with disabilities. As part of these efforts, both leaders
emphasized the importance of expanding vocational and skills training,
technical education and certification with a focus on technology,
manufacturing, health, hospitality, construction, and creative
industries.

Both countries are also committed to furthering health cooperation to
advance clinical research, public health goals, and health systems to
address emerging and chronic health conditions, as well as infectious
diseases, including tuberculosis. The two leaders also welcomed a future
signing of an elevated Memorandum of Understanding on health between
Indonesia and the United States. This effort underscores both nation’s
unwavering commitment to collaborate to realize Indonesia’s health
transformation goals. President Biden also expressed support for
Indonesia’s national program to provide nutritious and healthy meals for
school children and expecting mothers.

Both leaders emphasized the significance of recognizing and honoring
their respective cultural heritage, which serve as invaluable bridges in
fostering stronger people-to-people connections. President Subianto
further commended the United States for its support of Indonesia’s
safeguarding of its cultural heritage from the growing threat of illicit
trafficking, including the continued repatriation of Indonesian
artifacts held within the United States. The leaders also applauded the
new U.S. Ambassadors Fund for Cultural Preservation project to assist
Indonesian museums to build new documentation systems and enhance
emergency preparedness.

**<u>Deepening United States – Indonesia Defense and Security
Cooperation</u>**

President Biden and President Subianto committed to strengthen bilateral
defense cooperation, reaffirming their shared commitment to regional
security and stability, and emphasizing the significance of the Defense
Cooperation Arrangement concluded in 2023. Both leaders pledged to
cooperate on strengthening maritime security capabilities and to combat
illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing, as well as fishing
associated with transnational organized crime. The two leaders also
welcome continued cooperation on defense and military modernization in a
manner consistent with international human rights law and international
humanitarian law.   

President Biden praised Indonesia for successfully hosting the 2024
Super Garuda Shield exercise and the potential expansion of the
multilateral exercise which recently engaged eight other partner
nations, twelve observer countries, and over 6,000 personnel, aimed at
enhancing collective security capabilities to better prepare for the
challenges of an increasingly complex global landscape.

The two leaders reaffirmed their intention to hold the 2nd
U.S.-Indonesia Senior Officials’ Foreign Policy and Defense Dialogue,
the 21st U.S.-Indonesia Security Dialogue (IUSSD), and the U.S. and
Indonesia Bilateral Defense Discussion (USIBDD), before the end of the
first quarter of 2025. In the field of maritime cooperation, both
leaders welcomed the establishment of the U.S.-funded BAKAMLA ‘Anambas’
Maritime Training Center in Batam this year. Our leaders also reaffirmed
their commitment to holding a maritime dialogue and intended to explore
new areas of discussion, including cooperation on a sustainable maritime
economy and advancing marine science and technology. The leaders also
pledged to explore the establishment of a defense alumni network to
strengthen defense cooperation ties.

The two leaders condemned terrorism and violent extremism in all its
forms and committed to work together to prevent and counter
terrorism. The leaders applauded our longstanding, successful
cooperation to counter terrorism and welcomed the renewal of the
U.S.-Indonesia Memorandum of Understanding on counterterrorism until
2027 as part of this effort.

**<u>Deepening Regional and Global Cooperation</u>** ****

Both leaders acknowledged the importance of enhancing global peace,
security, and stability to further the progress in their CSP. President
Subianto welcomed sustained U.S. support for ASEAN centrality and the
ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific and acknowledged the value of regional
and sub-regional mechanisms in the Asia-Pacific and Indian Ocean regions
working with ASEAN on specific areas of common interests. Both leaders
committed to work together to uphold an open, inclusive, rules-based,
and ASEAN-centered regional architecture that upholds international
law.  
  
Both leaders underscored their unwavering support for upholding freedom
of navigation and overflight as well as respect for sovereign rights and
jurisdiction of coastal states over their exclusive economic zones in
accordance with international law of the sea, as reflected in the 1982
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS). The United
States and Indonesia also recognized the importance of the full and
effective implementation of the 2002 Declaration of the Conduct of
Parties in the South China Sea and expressed support for ASEAN efforts
to develop an effective, and substantive Code of Conduct in the South
China Sea that adheres to international law, in particular UNCLOS, and
respect the rights and interests of third parties. The leaders note the
ruling of the 2016 arbitral tribunal, constituted pursuant to UNCLOS.

President Biden expressed support for ASEAN’s efforts to resolve the
crisis in Myanmar. Our leaders reiterated full support for ASEAN’s
central role and the implementation of the ASEAN Five-Point Consensus,
and expressed appreciation for the work of the ASEAN and UN Special
Envoys on Myanmar. The two leaders denounced and called for the
immediate cessation of the continued acts of violence against civilians.
They urged all parties to exercise utmost restraint, ensure the
protection of civilians, and create a conducive environment for the
delivery of humanitarian assistance. President Biden and President
Subianto also called on the Myanmar regime to create the conditions for
national dialogue that re-establishes Myanmar’s path to inclusive
democracy.  

The United States and Indonesia reaffirm support for the establishment
of a durable peace on, and the complete denuclearization of, the Korean
Peninsula. The leaders urged all parties to fully implement their
international obligations and commitments, including halting actions
that violate UN Security Council resolutions (UNSCRs) that threaten
peace and stability in the region. Both leaders called on the concerned
parties to comply fully with all relevant UNSCRs and to engage in
peaceful dialogue.

President Biden and President Subianto reiterated the urgent call for an
immediate ceasefire in Gaza through the release of hostages, an exchange
of prisoners, the free flow of humanitarian assistance, and an end to
the conflict. The two leaders expressed grave concern over the dire
humanitarian situation in Gaza, and condemned all attacks against
civilians and civilian infrastructure. The leaders underscored that the
future recovery and reconstruction of Gaza will rely on sustained
engagement from the international community. Both leaders remain
committed to a viable and independent Palestinian state and Israel’s
security concerns as part of a two-state solution that enable both
Israelis and Palestinians to live in a just, lasting and secure peace.
Any unilateral actions that undermine the prospect of a two-state
solution, including expansion of Israeli settlements and violent
extremism on all sides, must end. The leaders underscore the need to
prevent the conflict from escalating and spreading further into the
region. The two leaders reaffirmed that it is imperative to reach a
diplomatic resolution in Lebanon. 

Building off of our successful cooperation on Indonesia’s airdrop of
humanitarian aid to Gaza in April, President Biden and President
Subianto also committed to expand cooperation on addressing the dire
humanitarian conditions in Gaza. The leaders pledged to work together to
facilitate the medical evacuation of Palestinian children in order to
receive critical care, and committed to support humanitarian and early
recovery activities on the ground in Gaza. President Biden conveyed his
appreciation for Indonesia’s role in the United Nations Interim Force in
Lebanon (UNIFIL) peacekeeping mission and joined [Indonesia in calling
for all to respect the inviolability of UN premises, as well as calling
for](https://www.kemlu.go.id/berita/indonesia-kecam-keras-serangan-idf-yang-melukai-2-personil-pbb-asal-indonesia?type=publication)
the protection of and to avoid military activity that might risk harming
UNIFIL personnel.

The leaders discussed the war against Ukraine and reaffirmed our respect
for sovereignty, political independence, territorial integrity, and the
UN Charter. Both leaders underlined the importance of serious engagement
in a genuine dialogue for the peaceful resolution of the conflict. They
also called for the facilitation of rapid and safe access to
humanitarian assistance for those in need in Ukraine, and for the
protection of civilians, humanitarian personnel, and persons in
vulnerable situations. 

President Biden welcomed Indonesia’s leadership in the G20 on issues of
concern to the developing world, including on evolving the multilateral
development banks and strengthening the global health architecture. The
two leaders pledged to cooperate on providing a pathway to growth for
developing countries by unlocking space for countries with mounting debt
burdens to invest in their futures.

Both countries also stressed the importance of continuing the
discussions towards the UN Security Council reform. A transparent,
democratic, efficient, effective and inclusive UN Security Council is
crucial in efforts to maintain international peace and security.

**\###**
