---
date: '2024-11-14'
modified_time: 2024-11-13 16:31:49-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-14 05:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/11/14/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-continues-driving-climate-investments-to-reduce-emissions-lower-home-energy-costs/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Continues Driving Climate Investments\
  \ to Reduce Emissions, Lower Home Energy\_Costs"
---
 
*Investments come ahead of President Biden’s trip to the Amazon, where
he will highlight global climate action and ongoing work to preserve and
protect this critical ecosystem*

When President Biden took office, he pledged to restore America’s
climate leadership at home and abroad. Every day since, the Biden-Harris
Administration has led and delivered on the most ambitious climate,
conservation, clean energy, and environmental justice agenda in history.
These efforts, part of President Biden’s Investing in America agenda,
include securing the largest ever investment in climate and clean energy
in the Inflation Reduction Act and Bipartisan Infrastructure Law – and
unleashing a clean energy manufacturing and deployment boom that has
attracted hundreds of billions of dollars in private sector investment;
created hundreds of thousands of new clean energy jobs; and lowered
energy costs for families while delivering cleaner air and water for
communities across the country.

**As part of this historic Investing in America agenda, today the
Biden-Harris Administration is announcing new climate investments that
will reduce greenhouse gas emissions, invest in clean energy
manufacturing, and lower home energy costs for families and
businesses.**

These domestic climate announcements come ahead of President Biden’s
historic trip to the Amazon to engage with local and Indigenous leaders
and other stakeholders working to preserve and protect this critical
ecosystem. He will also travel to Lima, Peru, and Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil, where he will continue to highlight the economic opportunities
afforded by accelerating climate action at home and abroad.

These investments come on the heels of the 29th U.N. Climate Change
Conference in Baku, Azerbaijan, where the Administration continued to
rally other countries to accelerate their climate ambition in this
decisive decade and announced new initiatives to galvanize global
efforts to keep a resilient, 1.5°C future within reach.

Today’s investments in climate and clean energy include:

**Funding to improve energy efficiency, reduce climate pollution, and
lower overall energy use.** Today, the U.S. Department of Energy is
announcing nearly $18 million from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to
61 local and territorial governments to fund a wide range of energy
efficiency and decarbonization projects. Through the [Energy Efficiency
and Conservation Block Grant
Program](https://www.energy.gov/scep/energy-efficiency-and-conservation-block-grant-program),
communities across the country are investing in projects and programs
that save energy, reduce climate pollution, and advance local energy
goals. This is the tenth tranche of formula awards granted to EECBG
Program eligible entities. Grantees will develop net-zero building
roadmaps, bolster recycling programs, launch residential energy
efficiency rebate programs in disadvantaged communities, expand bike
lanes and pedestrian walkways, update street and building lighting with
LED technology, purchase electric vehicles and install charging
infrastructure for municipal fleets, and more. Since the first awards
were announced in October 2023, 294 communities have benefited from the
program.

**Investments in clean energy for American farms and rural small
businesses.** The U.S. Department of Agriculture today is announcing
more than $256 million from the Inflation Reduction Act that will
support more than 1,100 clean energy projects in 40 states. These
projects – funding through the Rural Energy for America Program – will
lower costs, expand access to clean energy and strengthen American farms
and small businesses. This funding will enable agricultural producers
and rural small business owners to expand their use of wind, solar,
geothermal and small hydropower energy and make energy efficiency
improvements. These innovations help them increase their income, grow
their businesses and address climate change while lowering energy costs
for American families. Since the start of the Biden-Harris
Administration, USDA has invested more than $2.7 billion through REAP in
9,901 renewable energy and energy efficiency improvements. Almost 7,000
of these projects were funded by over $1 billion provided by the
Inflation Reduction Act.

**Funding to help states utilize cleaner construction materials for
transportation projects.** The U.S. Department of Transportation today
is announcing $1.2 billion to states under the Low Carbon Transportation
Materials Discretionary Grant Program, created by the Inflation
Reduction Act. The program will help lower carbon emissions by
empowering states, Tribes, Metropolitan Planning Organizations, and
other agencies to use construction materials that create less pollution,
including asphalt, glass, steel, and concrete, for infrastructure
projects. By supporting demand for these cleaner, made-in-America
construction materials to be incorporated into infrastructure projects,
the program will be a vehicle to move our nation to more sustainable
construction practices. The program is part of the Biden-Harris
Administration’s [Federal Buy Clean
Initiative](https://www.sustainability.gov/buyclean/) and is consistent
with Executive Order 14057, *Catalyzing Clean Energy Industries and Jobs
Through Federal Sustainability.*

These investments build on an expansive climate and conservation record
led by President Biden and Vice President Harris that has reduced
emissions, created jobs, and expanded manufacturing in every sector
across the country. Since the Inflation Reduction Act was signed into
law, the Administration has awarded more than $98.5 billion in grants
for projects across the country, and the private sector has responded to
the laws’ historic incentives with nearly $300 billion in announced
investments in clean energy and battery manufacturing and clean power
generation during that period. From replacing toxic lead pipes and
modernizing our electric grid to reducing air pollution and conserving
our nation’s lands and waters, President Biden and Vice President Harris
have positioned America to lead the global effort against climate change
and protect the health, safety, and economic vitality of our communities
and our environment for generations to come. Additional actions the
Administration has taken to deploy clean energy, bolster climate
resilience, cut energy costs, revitalize American manufacturing, advance
environmental justice, and conserve our lands and waters can be [found
here](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/23/fact-sheet-president-biden-commemorates-historic-climate-legacy-during-climate-week-nyc/).

\###
