---
date: '2022-10-28'
published_time: 2022-10-28 18:45:02-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/28/statement-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-on-president-bidens-travel-to-north-africa-and-asia-and-vice-president-harriss-travel-to-asia/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre on President\_Biden\u2019\
  s Travel to North Africa and Asia and Vice President Harris\u2019s Travel to\_Asia"
---
 
President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. will visit Egypt, Cambodia, and
Indonesia. On November 11<sup>th</sup>, President Biden will attend the
27th Conference of the Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate
Change (COP27) in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt. At COP27, he will build on the
significant work the United States has undertaken to advance the global
climate fight and help the most vulnerable build resilience to climate
impacts, and he will highlight the need for the world to act in this
decisive decade.   
   
The President will then be in Phnom Penh, Cambodia from November
12-13 to participate in the annual U.S.-ASEAN Summit and the East Asia
Summit. In Cambodia, he will reaffirm the United States’ enduring
commitment to Southeast Asia and ASEAN centrality, building on the
success of the historic U.S.-ASEAN Special Summit in Washington, DC. He
will underscore the importance of U.S.-ASEAN cooperation in ensuring
security and prosperity in the region, and the wellbeing of our combined
one billion people.  
   
The President will be in Bali, Indonesia from November
13<sup>th</sup>-16<sup>th</sup> for the G20 Leaders’ Summit. In Bali,
the President will commend President Widodo’s leadership of the G20 and
highlight the U.S. commitment to this premier forum for economic
cooperation with countries representing more than 80% of the world’s
GDP. He will work with G20 partners to address key challenges such as
climate change, the global impact of Putin’s war on Ukraine, including
on energy and food security and affordability, and a range of other
priorities important to the global economic recovery.  
   
Following the President’s travel in Asia and North Africa, Vice
President Kamala Harris will travel to Bangkok, Thailand to attend
the November 18-19 Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Leaders
Meeting. The Vice President’s participation will underscore the U.S.
commitment to economic cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region and she
will outline U.S. goals for our APEC host year in 2023. During her visit
to Thailand, the Vice President will engage with Thai leaders and civil
society representatives to reaffirm and strengthen the U.S.-Thai
Alliance and to discuss our cooperation across a range of issues. Second
Gentleman Douglas Emhoff will also travel to Bangkok and participate in
the APEC spousal program among other engagements. The Vice President
will then travel to Manila, the Philippines. In the Philippines, she
will meet with government leaders and civil society representatives. Her
visit with re-affirm and strengthen the U.S.-Philippines Alliance and
underscore the breadth of our cooperation as friends, partners, and
allies. The Second Gentleman will also travel to Manila.  
   
Additional information about bilateral engagements and other details on
the trip will be forthcoming — and we look forward to having further
details to share soon.

\###
