---
date: '2022-10-26'
published_time: 2022-10-26 17:43:32-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/26/readout-of-president-joseph-r-biden-jr-s-meeting-with-president-isaac-herzog-of-israel/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of President Joseph R. Biden, Jr.\u2019s Meeting with President Isaac\
  \ Herzog\_of\_Israel"
---
 
Today, President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. welcomed President Isaac Herzog of
Israel to the White House.   
  
The two discussed the enduring strength of the U.S.-Israel partnership,
ways to further deepen cooperation between the two countries, and the
United States’ unshakeable commitment to Israel’s security. They
consulted on a wide range of global and regional issues of mutual
concern, including the threats posed by Iran and its proxies. The
President emphasized his Administration’s pledge to ensure Iran will
never acquire a nuclear weapon.   
  
They celebrated the forthcoming conclusion of an agreement resolving the
maritime boundary dispute between Israel and Lebanon, mediated by the
United States. The President praised Israel’s statecraft and courage,
and noted that the agreement will set the stage for a more stable and
prosperous region, and harness vital new energy resources for the
world.   
  
President Biden underscored his commitment to advance peace and
stability in the Middle East, and highlighted U.S. support for Israel’s
further regional integration into the Arab world, including through the
Negev Forum process. He also welcomed Israel’s restoration of an
ambassador as part of improved diplomatic relations with
Turkiye. Additionally, Biden condemned the persistent scourge of
anti-Semitism, including anti-Israel bias in international fora. In that
regard, the President reaffirmed the United States’ strong opposition to
the open-ended and biased nature of the UN Commission of Inquiry
established in May 2021, which continues a longstanding pattern of
unfairly singling out Israel and does nothing to establish conditions
for peace.   
  
The President emphasized the importance of taking steps to deescalate
the security situation in the West Bank. President Biden underscored
that a negotiated two-state solution remains the best avenue to achieve
a lasting peace, and underlined the need to take continued steps to
improve the lives of Palestinians, which are critical to peace, security
and prosperity. They discussed the importance of promoting coexistence
and weakening extremists who promote hatred and violence. 

\###
