---
date: '2022-10-26'
modified_time: 2022-10-26 15:17:52-04:00
published_time: 2022-10-26 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/26/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-the-board-of-trustees-of-the-john-f-kennedy-center-for-the-performing-arts/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to the Board of Trustees of the\
  \ John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing\_Arts"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint the
following individuals to serve as members of the Board of Trustees of
the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts:

-   David C. Bohnett
-   Tatiana Copeland
-   Robert Drury Lenhard
-   Phefelia Nez
-   David Mark Rubenstein
-   Cari B. Sacks
-   Hilda L. Solis

The Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing
Arts, which serves as both our National Cultural Center and a living
memorial to John Fitzgerald Kennedy, is comprised of various government
officials and individuals appointed directly by the President of the
United States. Members of the Board of Trustees provide guidance and
direction to help the Kennedy Center fulfill the three parts of its
mission: Serving as a suitable memorial in honor of the late President,
exemplified by the Kennedy Center’s new immersive permanent exhibit
exploring President Kennedy’s relationship to the arts, “Art and Ideals:
President John F. Kennedy”; ensuring the Kennedy Center presents
world-class performing arts from throughout the United States and across
the globe; and maintaining the Center’s role as a leader in national
performing arts education policy and programs, with an additional focus
on accessibility and making sure that performing arts are accessible to
all Americans.  
  
**David C. Bohnett, Member, Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy
Center for the Performing Arts**  
David C. Bohnett is a philanthropist and technology entrepreneur
committed to community building and social activism. In addition to
serving as the Chairman of the David Bohnett Foundation, he serves on
the Board of the University of Southern California, the Los Angeles
Philharmonic Association, the Wallis Annenberg Center for the Performing
Arts, and the Lake Agawam Conservancy. Since 1999, the David Bohnett
Foundation has provided funding and technical support to innovative
organizations and institutions across numerous funding areas: research
and public policy initiatives aimed at reducing firearm violence;
graduate school leadership programs at the University of Michigan, UCLA,
NYU, and Harvard; LGBTQ community support; cultural and performing arts
support, and numerous other social justice initiatives in support of
underserved communities.  
  
Bohnett founded the pioneering online social networking site GeoCities
in 1994 and he continues to be a leader in the technology and
information services industry as founder and managing member of the
early stage technology fund, Baroda Ventures. His academic credentials
include a B.S. from the University of Southern California, an M.B.A in
Finance from the University of Michigan, and Honorary Doctorate Degrees
from USC and the Whittier College. Bohnett maintains residences in Los
Angeles and New York.  
  
**Tatiana Copeland, Member, Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy
Center for the Performing Arts**  
Tatiana Brandt Copeland has a diverse international background. Her
personal story began in Dresden, Germany, where she was born. After
living in Denmark for several years, the family emigrated to Argentina
where she would spend most of her childhood, before coming to the United
States to attend college. She received her Bachelor of Science degree
from the University of California at Los Angeles, majoring in
Accounting, graduating Phi Beta Kappa and *summa cum laude*. She went on
to receive her M.B.A. from the University of California at Berkeley. She
fluently speaks English, Russian, French, German, Italian, and Spanish.
Copeland is the Co-Owner and President of Bouchaine Vineyards in Napa
Valley, California and is involved with several boards and non-profits,
including the Delaware Art Museum, Wilmington’s Grand Opera House, and
the Philadelphia Orchestra.  
  
She is married to Gerret Copeland and resides in Wilmington, Delaware.
Both she and Gerret are deeply committed to the arts and the welfare of
animals, especially dogs. This year marked the opening of the Copeland
Center for Animal Welfare in partnership with the Brandywine Valley
SPCA. The Copelands have established a unique model of community
philanthropy in their home state of Delaware, receiving numerous awards
for their commitments, including the 2019 Delaware History Makers Award
and the 2011 Order of the First State. Copeland is very involved in the
music world, as the composer and pianist Sergei Rachmaninoff was her
mother’s uncle, and she was named after his daughter Tatiana.  
  
**Robert Drury Lenhard, Member, Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy
Center for the Performing Arts**  
Robert Lenhard is a partner at Covington & Burling, LLP, in Washington,
D.C. He is a member of the firm’s Election & Political Law practice
group, where he advises corporations, not-for-profit organizations,
candidates, trade associations, and individuals on compliance with
federal and state campaign finance, lobbying, and ethics laws. Lenhard
served as outside counsel to the Biden for President campaign and
advised the presidential transitions of both the Biden-Harris and
Obama-Biden administrations. Prior to joining the firm, Lenhard served
as Chair of the Federal Election Commission in 2007 and Vice Chairman of
the agency in 2006. He is a graduate of the Johns Hopkins University and
the UCLA School of Law.  
  
**Phefelia Nez, Member, Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center
for the Performing Arts**  
Phefelia Nez is the First Lady of the Navajo Nation and was raised on
Hopi Partition Land in Big Mountain, Arizona. She was raised in a
traditional Navajo hogan without modern amenities and has always spent
time outdoors tending to livestock and her garden. First Lady Nez and
her husband, Navajo Nation President Jonathan Nez, reside in Window
Rock, Arizona with their two sons, Christopher and Alexander. First Lady
Nez homeschools their sons.  
  
First Lady Nez earned her undergraduate degrees in Political Science and
Criminal Justice, a Master of Public Administration, and an honorary
doctorate degree in humane letters from Northern Arizona University. She
has 15 years of experience serving on various boards, task forces, and
commissions. In addition to her education and volunteerism, First Lady
Nez is a member of Arizona State University’s Lodestar Center’s
Nonprofit Executive Leadership Academy Class V. In her role as First
Lady, Nez focuses on education (early childhood development, K-12,
post-secondary, cooperate extension education, and adult basic
education), outdoor recreation, nonprofits, volunteerism, philanthropy,
faith-based initiatives, financial literacy, animal welfare, and the
retention of the Navajo language and culture. First Lady Nez’s platform
focuses on restoring and strengthening homes and their families.  
  
**David Mark Rubenstein, Member, Board of Trustees of the John F.
Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts**  
David M. Rubenstein is Co-Founder and Co-Chairman of The Carlyle Group,
one of the world’s largest and most successful private investment firms.
Established in 1987, Carlyle now manages $376 billion from 26 offices
around the world. Rubenstein is Chairman of the Boards of the John F.
Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, the Council on Foreign
Relations, the National Gallery of Art, the Economic Club of Washington,
and the University of Chicago; a Fellow of the Harvard Corporation; a
Trustee of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, Johns Hopkins
Medicine, the Institute for Advanced Study, the National Constitution
Center, the Brookings Institution, and the World Economic Forum; and a
Director of the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts and the American
Academy of Arts and Sciences, among other board seats.  
  
Rubenstein is a leader in the area of Patriotic Philanthropy, having
made transformative gifts for the restoration or repair of the
Washington Monument, Lincoln Memorial, Jefferson Memorial, Monticello,
Montpelier, Mount Vernon, Arlington House, Iwo Jima Memorial, the
Kennedy Center, the Smithsonian, the National Archives, the National
Zoo, the Library of Congress, and the National Museum of African
American History and Culture. Rubenstein is an original signer of The
Giving Pledge; the host of *The David Rubenstein Show* and *Bloomberg
Wealth with David Rubenstein*; and the author of *The American Story*,
*How to Lead*, *The American Experiment*, and *How to Invest*.  
  
**Cari B. Sacks, Member, Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center
for the Performing Arts**  
Cari Sacks is an active philanthropist and is involved with several
civic and cultural organizations. She has served as an appointee to both
the City of Chicago’s Cultural Advisory Council, and to President
Obama’s Advisory Committee on the Arts. She has served as a trustee of
the Museum of Contemporary Art Chicago since 2004 and is the current
board chair. Sacks is a trustee of the Erikson Institute where she
received her Masters degree and has been a member of the Board since
2002. She is also on the Board of Directors for Steppenwolf Theater
Company as well as the Board of Directors of Personal PAC, a nonpartisan
political action committee based in Illinois. Sacks graduated with a
degree in Psychology from the University of San Diego and received her
Masters degree in Early Childhood Development from the Erikson
Institute. She lives in Chicago, Illinois with her husband Michael.  
  
**Hilda L. Solis, Member, Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy
Center for the Performing Arts**  
Hilda L. Solis serves as Los Angeles County Supervisor for the First
District. As a daughter of working-class, immigrant parents from
Nicaragua and Mexico, she understood at a young age the challenges that
workers face and the dignity that they deserved. Taught to value hard
work and give back to her community, Supervisor Solis believes that
government, with the right leadership, can help substantially improve
the lives of many people.  
  
Raised in La Puente, California, Supervisor Solis was the first in her
family to attend college at California State Polytechnic University,
Pomona and the University of Southern California. From there, Supervisor
Solis began developing her political values as a progressive champion
for the most marginalized people in our society. Since both of her
parents were members of their unions, Supervisor Solis became an early
advocate for workers’ rights, better wages, and workplace safety –
eventually becoming the United States Secretary of Labor for President
Barack Obama. Before making history as the first Latina to serve in the
Presidential Cabinet, Supervisor Solis’ public service spanned across
the Rio Hondo Board of Trustees, both chambers of the California State
Legislature, and the House of Representatives. She broke the glass
ceiling repeatedly by becoming the first Latina ever elected to the
State Senate and the first woman to win the John F. Kennedy Profile in
Courage Award for her work in environmental justice. She represents the
San Gabriel Valley, Northeast LA, and the Eastside as Los Angeles County
Supervisor for the First District.

\###
