---
date: '2022-10-14'
modified_time: 2022-10-14 09:47:32-04:00
published_time: 2022-10-14 05:01:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/14/fact-sheet-president-biden-takes-action-to-lower-health-care-and-prescription-drug-costs-for-americans/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Takes Action to Lower Health Care and Prescription\
  \ Drug Costs for\_Americans"
---
 
*President Biden Signs Executive Order Directing HHS to Explore
Additional Actions to Lower Prescription Drug Costs*

To mark the start of Medicare Open Enrollment season, President Biden
will travel to Irvine, California, on October 14<sup>th</sup> and
Portland, Oregon, on October 15<sup>th</sup> to highlight how seniors
can take advantage of the Inflation Reduction Act’s cost-saving
provisions as they shop for new health insurance plans. The President
will also sign an Executive Order directing the Department of Health and
Human Services to explore additional actions it can take to lower
prescription drug costs to build on his Administration’s work lowering
costs for working and middle-class families.  
  
Americans are squeezed by the cost of living – that’s been true for
years and is a key reason the President ran. Health care costs in
particular are driving inflation. Too many Americans face challenges
paying for prescription drugs. On average, Americans pay two to three
times as much as people in other countries for prescription drugs, and
one in four Americans who take prescription drugs struggle to afford
their medications. Nearly three in ten American adults who take
prescription drugs say that they have skipped doses, cut pills in half,
or not filled prescriptions due to cost.  
  
The Inflation Reduction Act – which President Biden and Congressional
Democrats delivered – tackles that problem and locks in on average $800
per year lower health care premiums for 13 million Americans, lowers
seniors’ prescription drug prices, and caps their out of pocket expenses
for prescription drugs at $2,000 per year. The Inflation Reduction Act
protects Medicare beneficiaries from catastrophic drug costs by phasing
in a cap for out-of-pocket costs at the pharmacy, establishing a $35
monthly cap per prescription of insulin, requiring companies who raise
prices faster than inflation to pay Medicare a rebate, and allowing
Medicare to negotiate prices for high-cost prescription drugs for the
first time ever. Republicans in Congress, meanwhile, have said their top
priority is to repeal the Inflation Reduction Act, ending these
cost-saving provisions and raising prices for tens of millions of
Americans.  
  
To further lower health care costs, earlier this week, the Treasury
Department took action to fix the so-called “family glitch” rule that
was making it harder for families to afford health care coverage for
their spouse or child. About 1 million Americans will either gain
coverage or see their insurance become more affordable as a result of
the new rule.  
  
**Lowering Medicare Costs This Open Enrollment Season**  
  
Starting this January, seniors and other Medicare beneficiaries will
begin to see the benefits of these cost-saving measures. Because of the
Inflation Reduction Act:

-   A month’s supply of insulin will be capped at $35 starting on
    January 1, 2023.
-   Medicare beneficiaries will pay $0 out of pocket for recommended
    adult vaccines covered by their Part D plan, including the shingles
    vaccine – which costs seniors up to $200.
-   Prescription drug companies that try to raise their prices faster
    than inflation will be required to pay Medicare a rebate. 

Earlier this year, HHS released a report showing that the price of 1,200
prescription drugs rose faster than inflation in just the last year. For
example, one manufacturer of a drug used to treat high blood pressure
and heart failure, used by millions of Medicare beneficiaries, increased
the drug’s price by nearly 540 percent in 2022. Another drug used to
treat autoimmune conditions increased by $1000 just this year.  
  
During Medicare Open Enrollment – running from October 15 to December 7
– seniors and other beneficiaries will be able to choose drug coverage
that reflects these new cost-savings, putting money back into their
pockets.  
  
Medicare beneficiaries should visit
[Medicare.gov](https://www.medicare.gov/) or call 1-800-MEDICARE to
review their options for the coming year, and make sure their health and
prescription drug coverage is right for them.   
  
**Using HHS’ Innovation Center to Further Bring Down Costs**  
  
As the Biden-Harris Administration works to implement the Inflation
Reduction Act, President Biden will sign an Executive Order today
directing the Department of Health and Human Services to consider
additional actions to further drive down prescription drug costs. That
includes leveraging the “Innovation Center” at HHS, created by the
Affordable Care Act, which has authority to test new ways of paying for
Medicare services that improve the quality of care while lowering
costs.   
  
Under the Executive Order, HHS will have 90 days to submit a formal
report outlining any plans to use the Innovation Center’s authorities to
lower drug costs and promote access to innovative drug therapies for
Medicare beneficiaries. This action would build on the Inflation
Reduction Act’s landmark drug pricing reforms and help provide
additional breathing room for American families.

\###
