---
date: '2022-10-20'
published_time: 2022-10-20 11:14:07-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/20/statement-by-nsc-spokesperson-adrienne-watson-on-the-biden-harris-administrations-effort-to-secure-household-internet-enabled-devices/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement by NSC Spokesperson Adrienne Watson on the Biden-\u2060Harris Administration\u2019\
  s Effort to Secure Household Internet-Enabled\_Devices"
---
 
Yesterday, the White House convened leaders from the private sector,
academic institutions, and the U.S. Government to advance a national
cybersecurity labeling program for Internet-of-Things (IoT) devices. The
Biden-Harris Administration has made it a priority to strengthen our
nation’s cybersecurity, and a key part of that effort is ensuring the
devices that have become a commonplace in the average American household
– like baby monitors or smart home appliances – are protected from cyber
threats. A labeling program to secure such devices would provide
American consumers with the peace of mind that the technology being
brought into their homes is safe, and incentivize manufacturers to meet
higher cybersecurity standards and retailers to market secure devices.

Yesterday’s dialogue focused on how to best implement a national
cybersecurity labeling program, drive improved security standards for
Internet-enabled devices, and generate a globally recognized label.
Government and industry leaders discussed the importance of a trusted
program to increase security across consumer devices that connect to the
Internet by equipping devices with easily recognized labels to help
consumers make more informed cybersecurity choices (e.g., an
“EnergyStar” for cyber). These conversations build on the foundational
work that has been pioneered by the private sector and the National
Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) to help build more secure
Internet-connected devices. It also follows President Biden’s [Executive
Order on Improving the Nation’s
Cybersecurity](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/05/12/executive-order-on-improving-the-nations-cybersecurity/),
which highlighted the need for improved IoT security and tasked NIST, in
partnership with the Federal Trade Commission, to advance improved
cybersecurity standards and standardized product labels for these
devices.

The companies and industry associations that participated in yesterday’s
dialogue represent some of the world’s largest manufacturers and
retailers of Internet enabled consumer products, who will work with the
U.S. Government to move this initiative forward, including: Amazon, the
American National Standards Institute, AT&T, Cisco Systems, Comcast,
Consumer Reports, the Consumer Technology Association, the Connectivity
Standards Alliance, CTIA, Google, Intel, ioXt, LG, the National Retail
Federation, Samsung, Sony, and UL Solutions. Additional participants
represented include: the National Security Council, the Office of the
National Cyber Director, the Office of Science and Technology Policy,
the National Economic Council, the Department of Commerce, the
Department of Energy, the Department of Homeland Security, the
Department of State, the Federal Communications Commission, the Federal
Trade Commission, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the European
Commission, the Atlantic Council, Carnegie Mellon University, and R
Street Institute. U.S. Senator Angus King (I-ME) provided opening
remarks.

Based on yesterday’s discussions, the White House will continue to
develop the national cybersecurity labeling program for a targeted
rollout in the Spring of 2023.

\###
