---
date: '2022-10-05'
published_time: 2022-10-05 12:05:30-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/05/what-they-are-reading-in-the-states-syracuse-post-standard-biden-microns-computer-chip-deal-in-syracuse-area-another-win-for-america/
tags: statements-releases
title: "What They Are Reading in the States: Syracuse Post-Standard: Biden: Micron\u2019\
  s computer chip deal in Syracuse area \u2018another win for\_America\u2019"
---
 
New York outlets are reporting on Micron Technology Inc.’s historic
multi-billion dollar investment in Upstate New York to construct the
largest semiconductor manufacturing facility in the U.S., creating tens
of thousands of good paying jobs.  
  
The announcement, which President Biden called “another win for
America,” is just the latest investment in America spurred by the
President’s economic plan and his commitment to rebuilding American
manufacturing. Micron CEO Sanjay Mehrotra credited the CHIPS and Science
Act – which President Biden signed into law this past August – as being
directly responsible for Micron’s investment in New York, saying in a
statement that “there is no doubt that without the CHIPS Act, we would
not be here today.”  
  
It comes on the heels of last month’s pledge from Wolfspeed that it will
invest $5 billion on a new chipmaking facility in North Carolina, and
the groundbreaking of Intel’s new $20 billion facility in Ohio.  
  
*Read below for a sampling of the coverage:*  
  
**Syracuse Post-Standard (Syracuse.com) :** [**Biden: Micron’s computer
chip deal in Syracuse area ‘another win for
America’**](https://www.syracuse.com/politics/2022/10/biden-microns-computer-chip-deal-in-syracuse-area-another-win-for-america.html)  
“To those who doubted that America could dominate the industries of the
future, I say this – you should never bet against the American people,”
Biden said in a statement. … “Today is another win for America, and
another massive new investment in America spurred by my economic plan,”
Biden said. “Micron, an American company, is investing $20 billion
dollars this decade and up to $100 billion over 20 years in chips
manufacturing in Upstate New York, creating tens of thousands of good
paying jobs.” … White House chief of staff Ron Klain called Micron’s
commitment to build at White Pine Commerce Park in the town of Clay “one
of the largest industrial job-creating projects in U.S. history.”  
  
**CNY Central:** [**President, local lawmakers react to Micron choosing
Central New York for
plant**](https://cnycentral.com/news/local/president-local-lawmakers-react-to-micron-choosing-central-new-york-for-plant)  
President Biden is among those reacting to the announcement, releasing
the following statement: “To those who doubted that America could
dominate the industries of the future, I say this – you should never bet
against the American people. Today is another win for America, and
another massive new investment in America spurred by my economic plan.
Micron, an American company, is investing $20 billion dollars this
decade and up to $100 billion over twenty years in CHIPS manufacturing
in upstate New York, creating tens of thousands of good paying jobs.
Together, we are building an economy from the bottom up and the middle
out, where we lower costs for our families and make it right here in
America.”  
  
**New York Daily News:** [**Micron to build massive Syracuse, N.Y.
factory; Schumer hails ‘Erie Canal
moment’**](https://www.nydailynews.com/news/politics/new-york-elections-government/ny-micron-syracuse-schumer-hochul-biden-computer-chip-plant-erie-canal-moment-20221004-qlg6mzfqznf7pfcqx6jefrq7fe-story.html)  
The project was supercharged by bipartisan legislation, shepherded
through the Senate by Schumer and signed by President Biden, that
authorized more than $50 billion in semiconductor manufacturing
investments. … And it was boosted by a New York law signed by Hochul
that created incentives of up to $10 billion for eco-friendly
semiconductor manufacturing projects. Micron’s plan for the plant
includes commitments to use 100% renewable electricity and to aim for
zero landfill waste, among other green pledges. … Micron’s chief
executive, Sanjay Mehrotra, credited both the passage of the federal
measure, called the CHIPS and Science Act, and the state Green CHIPS law
for making the Clay project possible.  
  
**Spectrum NY1:** [**Micron to open ‘transformational’ chip plant in
Syracuse suburb, bring thousands of
jobs**](https://spectrumlocalnews.com/nys/central-ny/news/2022/10/04/micron-to-bring-thousands-of-jobs-to-cny-with-computer-chip-plant-in-clay--source-says)  
“After years and years of hard work, it’s official. Micron is coming to
Central New York. If there’s a word to describe to today it’s
transformational; for upstate New York, for America. It will be the most
advanced chip manufacturer in America and probably the world, all here
in Central New York,” \[Senate Majority Leader Chuck\] Schumer said in a
statement. “We invented the chip in America and once again we are going
to make them here in America. We will bring these jobs back from foreign
shores and end our dependence on foreign chips.”  
  
**WAER (Syracuse University, NY):** [**It’s official: Micron chip maker
is moving in to the Town of
Clay**](https://www.waer.org/2022-10-04/schumer-hochul-delivering-update-on-potential-microchip-plant-in-onondaga-county)  
The plan would create the “largest semiconductor fabrication facility in
the history of the U.S.,” according to a release from Micron. The
company expects the project to create tens of thousands of jobs in the
region over the next 20 years. … U.S. Sen. Chuck Schumer (D-NY) said at
the announcement hosted by Syracuse University the development’s
significance is similar to the 19th century opening of the Erie Canal,
which brought an influx of jobs and industrial progress. … “New Yorkers
and Americans will look back 50 years from now and remember this project
as our Erie Canal moment,” said Schumer, who was joined on stage by the
governor, Onondaga County executive and Micron CEO.  
  
**Albany Times Union:** [**Schumer unveils Micron’s plans to build $100
billion chip fab outside
Syracuse**](https://www.timesunion.com/business/article/Schumer-announnces-Micron-building-massive-chip-17485904.php)  
Micron Technology, one of the world’s largest computer chip
manufacturers, has picked the Syracuse suburbs for a new $100 billion
semiconductor factory that could create 50,000 jobs and likely cements
Albany Nanotech as the choice for a new billion-dollar national chip
research lab. … New York state has offered Micron $5 billion in state
tax breaks to land what is the largest economic development deal in
state history and one of the largest semiconductor projects in U.S.
history. Micron would spend $20 billion through 2030 as it ramps up
operations. Construction would begin in 2024. New York would add another
$500 million in job training support.  
  
**The New York Times:** [**Micron Pledges Up to $100 Billion for
Semiconductor Factory in New
York**](https://www.nytimes.com/2022/10/04/technology/micron-chip-clay-syracuse.html?searchResultPosition=1)  
The commitment by Micron is a sign that the federal government’s
prodding and package of generous incentives are helping to steer
investment decisions. Legislation that passed in August, the CHIPS and
Science Act of 2022, provides $52 billion in grants and subsidies for
companies to build and expand computer chip factories in the country. …
“There is no doubt that without the CHIPS Act, we would not be here
today,” said Sanjay Mehrotra, chief executive of Micron. … The
legislation, and favorable tax treatment and partnerships with state
governments like New York, are key ingredients needed to match the
subsidies offered by Asian nations and “bring chip-making back to
America,” Mr. Mehrotra said  
  
**Associated Press:** [**Micron to bring microchip plant to upstate New
York**](https://apnews.com/article/technology-business-new-york-charles-schumer-congress-775aa7865f27cd0f02802b59eb570e66)  
Micron, one of the world’s largest microchip manufacturers, announced
Tuesday it would open a semiconductor plant in upstate New York,
promising a long-term investment of up to $100 billion and a plant that
could bring 50,000 jobs to the state. … The company was lured to the
Syracuse area with help from a generous set of federal, state and local
incentives, including up to $5.5 billion in state tax credits over 20
years.

\###
