---
date: '2022-10-28'
published_time: 2022-10-28 18:05:37-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/28/readout-white-house-treasury-and-state-officials-discuss-american-rescue-plan-investments-in-manufacturing-through-the-state-small-business-credit-initiative/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout: White\_House, Treasury, and State Officials Discuss American Rescue\
  \ Plan Investments in Manufacturing Through the State Small Business Credit\_Initiative"
---
 
On Thursday, October 27<sup>th</sup> 2022, officials from the White
House, Treasury Department, Arizona, Michigan, and Minnesota met with
stakeholders to discuss key investments from the American Rescue Plan’s
(ARP) State Small Business Credit Initiative (SSBCI), which are expected
to result in billions of dollars of financing to small businesses
involved in manufacturing and critical supply chain initiatives.

Since taking office, the Administration has bolstered manufacturing with
the creation of nearly 700,000 manufacturing jobs, the most of any
president on record, and close to 100,000 jobs above pre-pandemic
levels. Companies are choosing to make more in America, and we are
seeing the industries of the future expand with over $200 billion of new
investments in EVs, semiconductors, and other critical industries. Large
manufacturers like GE Aviation and Siemens Energy are [making new
commitments](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/06/fact-sheet-biden-administration-celebrates-launch-of-am-forward-and-calls-on-congress-to-pass-bipartisan-innovation-act/)
to help their small and medium sized manufacturers upgrade.

Over 90% of manufacturers are small and medium sized firms, employing
over 40% of workers in the sector. They are vital anchor employers and
drivers of economic development in communities across our country. With
nearly $10 billion from the American Rescue Plan, SSBCI will fund
programs administered by states, the District of Columbia, territories
and tribal governments that will play an important role in helping small
and medium sized manufacturers grow as the Biden-Harris Administration
continues its work building a manufacturing economy from the bottom up
and middle out.

SSBCI is expected to catalyze up to $10 of private investment for every
$1 of capital funding, meaning that investments powered by SSBCI will
result in billions of dollars of public and private financing to small
manufacturers, along with key investments in several other sectors of
national priority. At the meeting, state officials from Arizona,
Michigan, and Minnesota laid out details on how their states’
SSBCI-funded initiatives are supporting investments in manufacturing.
Their comments are summarized below.

[**Michigan**](https://www.michiganbusiness.org/services/access-capital/)**: **  
The state is expanding three lending programs deployed successfully in
2010 following the Great Recession. The three lending programs include:
a program that offers loan guarantees, a loan participation program
where the state purchases a share of loans, and a program that will
provide collateral support to help borrowers qualify for loans. The
latter two programs target industries with high potential economic
impact, including manufacturing. Michigan is allowing all three lending
programs to support working capital revolving lines of credit. This
approach is particularly important for manufacturers supplying parts or
tools to the automotive industry where the development of new tooling
can take months before those investments generate cash flow from sales
to upstream manufacturers.  Flexible capital is important because
manufacturers typically face a cash gap where they need to make
investments in personnel, processes, and equipment before earning
revenue upon fulfillment of orders. 

[**Arizona**](https://www.azcommerce.com/programs/small-business-services/)**: **  
Arizona intentionally developed highly flexible SSBCI programs after
recognizing that manufacturers would benefit from programs having less
rigid guidelines. State officials noted that different lending models
within a broad program continuum can provide options that businesses
need, especially Arizona manufacturers facing ever-changing financing
challenges responding to changes in supply chain demand.  
  
Moreover, Arizona is a state that has built strong relationships with
Small Business Development Centers (SBDCs), partners often identified by
states as beneficial to their SSBCI programs and manufacturers in
particular. State partnerships with SBDCs have taken a variety of forms
in different states. Arizona, for example, requires SBDC outreach to
small business including manufacturers. The Arizona Commerce Authority
houses the [Manufacturing Extension
Partnership](https://www.nist.gov/mep), another important source of
technical assistance for manufacturers.

[**Minnesota**](https://mn.gov/deed/business/financing-business/deed-programs/ssbci/)**: **  
The state has seen a marked increase in requests from manufacturers,
local economic developers, and financial institutions to support the
financing of cutting-edge equipment for manufacturers.  Minnesota
stakeholders have placed an emphasis on the need for capital to support
the purchase of equipment that improves processes, upgrades technology,
and increases efficiencies and productivity. Traditional financial
institutions reported that underwriting cutting-edge equipment using
prudential lending standards is difficult, resulting in a financing gap.
Another hurdle is that while investments in high tech machinery and
equipment may lead to higher productivity and improved competitiveness,
they may not lead to the increased job creation required to meet
requirements of existing state-funded loan programs.

With SSBCI funding from the American Rescue Plan, Minnesota is
developing a new loan participation program to fill this financing gap.
The Automation Loan Participation Program (ALPP) offers a companion loan
to private financing provided by a bank, credit union, community
development financial institution, nonprofit lender, or vendor. Loan
participations can total up to $500,000 to purchase machinery,
equipment, and software designed to increase manufacturing efficiencies.
 The program complements an existing state program that funds training
for workers to operate new automation equipment. A final anticipated
benefit is that ALPP is expected to increase the number of re-shored
manufacturing operations and allow companies to move some outsourced
activities in-house. The program targets established manufacturers.

**\* \* \* \***

The state participants in the October 27<sup>th</sup> meeting made a
clear case for the potential for SSBCI to support smaller manufacturers
across the country.  This work by Arizona, Michigan, and Minnesota
builds upon SSBCI’s proven track record of supporting manufacturing,
having invested over $2.5 billion in federal and private financing
through more than 2,500 loan or investment transactions through the
prior version of this program SSBCI 1.0 and making manufacturing the
sector that received the most support. 

The ARP-funded SSBCI will build upon that proven success by providing
both debt and equity capital. This can help firms with the challenges
they face in obtaining equity investments, working capital, and
financing for the modernization of equipment and facilities. 
Recognizing these diverse needs, individual states have designed SSBCI
lending and equity programs to support some or all of these uses,
depending on the specific needs of manufacturers in their states. 
Traditional financial institutions are keen to provide financing to
manufacturing firms, but collateral gaps can limit the amount of credit
they can provide. This can lead some manufacturers to turn to more
costly forms of financing.

To help states maintain the momentum in expanding manufacturing jobs and
investments achieved under the Biden-Harris Administration, Treasury
began convening meetings for states to share best practices with one
another and collaborate on supporting small manufacturers.  These
meetings have been collectively attended by more than a dozen states.
Soon, the Administration will release a report with a spotlight on
program initiatives that can serve as templates for other
jurisdictions. 

Presenters and Biden-Harris Administration representatives included:

-   Gene Sperling, Senior Advisor to the President and American Rescue
    Plan Coordinator, White House
-   Michael Negron, Special Assistant to the President for Economic
    Policy, White House
-   Zach Butterworth, Director of Private Sector Engagement, White House
-   Jana Platt, Public Engagement Analyst, White House
-   Adair Morse, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Capital Access, U.S.
    Department of the Treasury
-   Jeffrey Stout, Program Director, State Small Business Credit
    Initiative, U.S. Department of the Treasury
-   Ron Kelly, Outreach Lead for the State Small Business Credit
    Initiative, U.S. Department of the Treasury
-   Christopher Cook, Managing Director – Capital Access, Michigan
    Economic Development Corporation
-   Sandra Watson, President & CEO, Arizona Commerce Authority
-   Ken Burns, Chief Operating Officer, Arizona Commerce Authority
-   Steve Grove, Commissioner of Employment & Economic Development,
    Minnesota

If you are interested in learning about your state’s proposed SSBCI
programs and points of contact, please visit the [SSBCI
website](https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/256/List_Proposed_Programs_Contacts.pdf).

\###
