---
date: '2022-10-28'
published_time: 2022-10-28 18:11:48-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/28/readout-of-ceo-roundtable-on-mississippi-river-water-levels/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of CEO Roundtable on Mississippi River Water\_Levels"
---
 
Today, the White House virtually convened senior government officials
and industry leaders in transportation logistics to discuss U.S.
government action to address historically low water levels along the
Mississippi River. The meeting included representatives from the
Department of Agriculture, Department of Energy, Department of
Transportation, U.S. Coast Guard, and the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers.  
  
Throughout the Mississippi River basin, months of extreme drought have
reduced water levels to extremely low thresholds, with minimal rain in
the forecast. In the meeting, CEOs provided an overview of the
industries, commodities, and jobs that rely every day on the Mississippi
River and its waterways. Both sides discussed the impacts of low water
on barge transportation and the implications for agricultural shippers,
energy transportation, and other critical goods movement. Finally, both
industry and government officials discussed actions underway to maintain
safe and steady navigation of the river system, including
around-the-clock work by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and U.S. Coast
Guard to dredge river channels to adequate depths, employ safety
limitations on waterway access, and maintain navigational positioning
signals and buoy markings. Additionally, agricultural shippers have
support available through USDA, including the ability to work with grain
elevators and warehouses to license emergency and temporary storage
space for commodities deemed storable by the Agricultural Marketing
Service. Industry leaders thanked the federal agencies for their high
level of communication and collaboration.  
  
Participants also discussed how the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law,
including today’s announcement by the Department of Transportation of
$703 million in Port Infrastructure Development Program (PIDP) awards,
are bolstering the long-term resilience and capacity of our nation’s
waterways, such as those on the Mississippi. In total, over $4 billion
from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will be invested toward the
improved operations and maintenance of U.S. ports and waterways.  
  
The meeting concluded with all sides agreeing to continue close
coordination and communication across government and industry to
maintain the smooth functioning of the Mississippi River system while
minimizing disruptions to commerce.

\###
