---
date: '2022-10-27'
modified_time: 2022-10-26 20:33:53-04:00
published_time: 2022-10-27 05:01:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/27/congressional-republicans-five-part-plan-to-increase-inflation-and-costs-for-american-families/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Congressional Republicans\u2019 Five-Part Plan to Increase Inflation and Costs\
  \ for American\_Families"
---
 
Congressional Republicans have laid out their mega MAGA trickle-down
economic plan clearly. Their economic plan will raise costs and make
inflation worse. Their five part plan includes:

**          1. $3 trillion in tax cuts skewed to the wealthy – which
would add** **to the deficit and make inflation worse  **

*“GOP wants to push to extend Trump tax cuts… Republican lawmakers gear
up to push 2017 tax law after midterm elections, despite potential
impact on inflation.”* [*Washington Post
10/17/22*](https://www.washingtonpost.com/us-policy/2022/10/17/republicans-tax-trump-biden/)

Congressional Republicans are calling for extending expiring provisions
of the Trump tax cuts and repealing Inflation Reduction Act (IRA)
provisions that require large, profitable corporations to pay taxes and
stop wealthy people and corporations from cheating on their taxes. These
tax policies would **add about $3 trillion to deficits over 10 years,**
Congressional Budget Office and Joint Committee on Taxation
[estimates](https://www.cbo.gov/publication/57950)
[](https://www.cbo.gov/publication/58455)
[show](https://www.cbo.gov/publication/58455).  By adding to near-term
deficits, the tax cuts would increase inflation and work against efforts
to bring inflation down in 2023.  
  
And, these tax cuts would disproportionately benefit the wealthy. Under
the Congressional Republican plan, **the top 0.1 percent of Americans
(with incomes over $4 million per year) would get tax cuts averaging
over $110,000 per year,** [Tax Policy
Center](https://www.taxpolicycenter.org/model-estimates/trump-administrations-budget-proposal-make-individual-and-estate-tax-provisions-0)[estimates](https://www.taxpolicycenter.org/model-estimates/hr5376-inflation-reduction-act-passed-senate-august-2022/t22-0016-hr5376-inflation)
show**.** That’s an annual tax cut that exceeds the typical American
household’s total annual income. 

**          2. Raising prescription drug costs for millions of seniors**

*“House GOP eyes repeal of Dems’ drug pricing law … Some key House
Republicans are calling for the repeal of Democrats’ newly-passed drug
pricing measure.”* [*Axios
9/23/22*](https://www.axios.com/2022/09/23/gop-drug-price-repeal-target)  
  
*“Because those drug provisions are so dangerous… I would imagine
\[repealing the Inflation Reduction Act’s prescription drug policies\]
will be a top priority for Republicans in the new session.”* [*Rep.
Kevin Brady (Ranking Member, Ways and Means
Committee)*](https://www.axios.com/2022/09/23/gop-drug-price-repeal-target)  
  
Repealing the IRA prescription drug provisions would **increase
prescription drug prices** by eliminating the requirement that drug
companies pay rebates to Medicare when they raise prices faster than
inflation, as they did for [1,200
drugs](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2022/09/30/new-hhs-reports-illustrate-potential-positive-impact-inflation-reduction-act-prescription-drug-prices.html)
from 2021-2022. It would expose **millions of Medicare beneficiaries to
the risk of higher costs** by eliminating the IRA’s $2,000 cap on drug
costs at the pharmacy, and **immediately increase Medicare
beneficiaries’ costs for insulin.**

**          3. Increasing health insurance premiums**

*The IRA provisions making Affordable Care Act (ACA) premiums more
affordable “bribe people into Obamacare,” give help to “people making
over 400 percent of the poverty line, a group that was never intended to
get subsidies under the original ACA,” “hide the true cost of health
insurance,” and make “working taxpayers pay for Obamacare
subsidies.”Ways and Means Committee Minority press
releases:*[*8/8*](https://gop-waysandmeans.house.gov/senate-version-of-manchin-biden-build-back-better/),
[*8/10*](https://gop-waysandmeans.house.gov/five-ways-manchin-biden-bbb-helps-the-wealthy-and-harms-working-families/)  
  
Repealing the IRA improvements to ACA premium tax credits would raise
health insurance premiums by an average of **about** [**$800 for 13
million
people**](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/15/by-the-numbers-the-inflation-reduction-act/)
starting next year**,** with [**about 3
million**](https://aspe.hhs.gov/sites/default/files/documents/1647ad29528ee85a48d6ffa9e7bfbc8f/arp-ptc-sunset-impacts-03-22-22%20Final.pdf)
**people becoming uninsured.** And if Congressional Republicans repeal
the IRA provision that lets middle-class people get ACA premium tax
credits, a 60-year old making $60,000 would pay over $10,000 for
marketplace coverage in most states, versus half that today.    

**          4. Increasing energy bills in 2023 and beyond**

*“GOP leaders have discussed using the debt limit and government
shutdown fights to press for cuts to clean energy spending — which many
experts view as necessary to slow climate change — approved as part of
the Inflation Reduction Act, Biden’s signature economic
legislation.”*[*Washington Post,
10/25*](https://www.washingtonpost.com/us-policy/2022/10/25/gop-debt-ceiling-threats-set-revive-brinkmanship-with-white-house/)  
  
The Congressional GOP plan will **eliminate tax credits that will save
Americans thousands of dollars starting next year** if they buy an
electric vehicle, weatherize their homes, install a super-efficient
heating and cooling system like a heat pump, install rooftop solar, or
make other investments that will also directly cut their energy bills.
Independent experts expect these clean energy provisions will [cut
households’ electricity
bills](https://www.rff.org/news/press-releases/inflation-reduction-act-will-decrease-and-stabilize-household-electricity-price/)
by hundreds of dollars per year.

**          5. Increasing student loan payments**

*“\[Student debt relief is\] too significant to allow the Secretary to
act without Congressional approval… This student loan debt scheme is not
a legal or responsible policy…”[Rep. Virginia Foxx (Ranking Member,
Education and Labor Committee) and 22 House Republicans,
9/7/22](https://republicans-edlabor.house.gov/uploadedfiles/loanactionslettertorcs_final_.pdf)*  
  
Republican officials are suing to block the Biden administration’s
student debt relief plan. If they succeed, that would mean higher debt
payments for **the over 40 million Americans who could benefit from up
to $20,000 in student debt relief.** The vast majority of that relief
([nearly 90 percent of all relief
dollars](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/20/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-administrations-plan-for-student-debt-relief-could-benefit-tens-of-millions-of-borrowers-in-all-fifty-states/))
will go to those earning less than $75,000.  
  
**BONUS: Congressional Republicans are threatening the global economy to
cut Social Security or Medicare  **  
  
Sen. Rick Scott has called for putting Medicare and Social Security on
the chopping block [every five
years](https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2022/10/18/mccarthy-gop-medicare-social-security/).
Sen. Ron Johnson has gone even further and
[said](https://www.wpr.org/ron-johnson-calls-annual-approval-social-security-medicare-funding)
Medicare and Social Security should be put up for a vote every single
year.  
  
Congressional Republicans keep declaring they will hold the American
economy hostage by putting the full faith and credit of the United
States at risk in order to cut Medicare and Social Security. Rep. Kevin
McCarthy
[endorsed](https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2022/10/18/mccarthy-gop-medicare-social-security/)
the idea, and Rep. Nancy Mace
[said](https://www.cnn.com/2022/10/23/politics/nancy-mace-debt-ceiling-cnntv/index.html)
Sunday “I support this strategy.”  
  
And the Republican Study Committee, which represents a majority of House
Republicans, has proposed a specific
[plan](https://about.bgov.com/news/entitlement-spending-cap-plans-linked-by-gop-to-debt-limit-deal/)
to cut Medicare and Social Security benefits, including through
privatization and raising the eligibility age.  
  
Congressional Republicans will deny seniors’ benefits they have already
paid into.

\###
