---
date: '2022-10-14'
modified_time: 2022-10-14 12:15:06-04:00
published_time: 2022-10-14 16:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/14/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-boards-and-commissions-11/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to Boards and\_Commissions"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint the
following individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Kristen Clarke, Member, Council of the Administrative Conference of
    the United States
-   Fernando Raul Laguarda, Member, Council of the Administrative
    Conference of the United States
-   Anne Joseph O’Connell, Member, Council of the Administrative
    Conference of the United States
-   Jonathan Su, Member, Council of the Administrative Conference of the
    United States
-   Bryan Clark Green, Commissioner, National Capital Planning
    Commission
-   Elizabeth M. Hewlett, Commissioner, National Capital Planning
    Commission
-   Anne M. Finucane, Member, President’s Intelligence Advisory Board

<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Council of the Administrative
Conference of the United States**  
</span>  
Administrative Conference of the United States (ACUS) is an independent
federal agency charged with convening expert representatives from the
public and private sectors to recommend improvements to administrative
process and procedure. ACUS initiatives promote efficiency,
participation, and fairness in the promulgation of federal regulations
and in the administration of federal programs. The ten-member ACUS
Council is composed of government officials and private citizens.  
  
**Kristen Clarke, Member, Council of the Administrative Conference of
the United States**  
Kristen Clarke is the Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights at the
U.S. Department of Justice. In this role, she leads the Justice
Department’s broad federal civil rights enforcement efforts and works to
uphold the civil and constitutional rights of all who live in America.
Clarke is a lifelong civil rights lawyer who has spent her entire career
in public service. She most recently served as President and Executive
Director of the Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights Under Law, one of
the nation’s leading civil rights organizations founded at the request
of John F. Kennedy.  
  
**Fernando Raul Laguarda, Member, Council of the Administrative
Conference of the United States**  
Fernando Laguarda is General Counsel at AmeriCorps. Prior to his current
role, he was Faculty Director of the Program on Law and Government and a
Professor at American University Washington College of Law, where he
taught and developed courses in administrative law, legislation, and
antitrust, and launched the law school’s LLM in Legislation. Laguarda
also founded the nation’s first student-centered initiative to study the
work of government oversight entities and was faculty advisor to the
Latino Law Students Association. Fernando has worked in the
telecommunications industry and as a partner at two different
Washington, D.C. law firms focusing on technology and competition law.
He was a Founder, served as General Counsel, and eventually became Board
Chair, of the National Network to End Domestic Violence. Laguarda has
also served as a member of numerous non-profit, civil rights, academic,
and advisory boards. Laguarda received his J.D. cum laude from
Georgetown University Law Center and his A.B. cum laude in government
from Harvard College.  
  
**Anne Joseph O’Connell, Member, Council of the Administrative
Conference of the United States**  
Anne Joseph O’Connell, a lawyer and social scientist, is the Adelbert H.
Sweet Professor of Law at Stanford University. Her research and teaching
focuses on administrative law and public administration. She is a
three-time recipient of the American Bar Association’s Scholarship Award
in Administrative Law for the best article or book published in the
preceding year, and a two-time winner of the Richard D. Cudahy Writing
Competition on Regulatory and Administrative Law from the American
Constitution Society. O’Connell joined the Gellhorn and Byse’s
Administrative Law: Cases and Comments casebook as a co-editor with the
twelfth edition. Most recently, her work has focused on acting officials
and delegations of authority in federal agencies. Her research has been
cited by Congress, the Supreme Court, lower federal courts, and the
national media. She is an elected fellow of the American Academy of Arts
and Sciences and the National Academy of Public Administration.  
  
Before entering law school teaching, O’Connell clerked for Justice Ruth
Bader Ginsburg and Judge Stephen F. Williams and served as a trial
attorney for the Federal Programs Branch of the Department of Justice’s
Civil Division. A Truman Scholar, she worked for a number of federal
agencies in earlier years. O’Connell received a B.A. in Mathematics from
Williams College, an M.Phil. in the History and Philosophy of Science
from Cambridge University, a J.D. from Yale Law School, and a Ph.D. in
Political Economy and Government from Harvard University.  
  
**Jonathan Su, Member, Council of the Administrative Conference of the
United States**  
Jonathan Su most recently served as Deputy Counsel to the President.
Prior to his service at the White House, Su was the Deputy Office
Managing Partner of the Washington, D.C. office of Latham & Watkins LLP,
where he was also a partner in the White Collar Defense & Investigations
practice. During the Obama-Biden Administration, Su served as Special
Counsel to the President. Su was also a federal prosecutor at the United
States Attorney’s Office for the District of Maryland. He served as a
law clerk for U.S. Circuit Judge Ronald M. Gould and U.S. District Judge
Julian Abele Cook, Jr. Su is a graduate of the University of California
at Berkeley and Georgetown University Law Center.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**National Capital Planning
Commission**  
</span>  
Established by Congress in 1924, the National Capital Planning
Commission (NCPC) is the federal government’s central planning agency
for the National Capital Region. Through planning, policymaking, and
project review, NCPC protects and advances the federal government’s
interest in the region’s development. The Commission provides overall
planning guidance for federal land and buildings in the region by
reviewing the design of federal and certain local projects, overseeing
long-range planning for future development, and monitoring capital
investment by federal agencies. The 12-member Commission represents
federal and local constituencies with a stake in planning for the
nation’s capital.  
  
**Bryan Clark Green, Commissioner, National Capital Planning
Commission**  
Bryan Green leverages his expertise as an educator, writer, and
practicing preservationist to embrace the role of architecture in
America’s larger story. He began his career at the Virginia Historical
Society, worked for the Virginia Department of Historic Resources, was a
Senior Associate and Director of Historic Preservation at Commonwealth
Architects. He later joined the Tidewater and Big Bend Foundation as
Executive Director. Green is the author of the forthcoming work, *In
Jefferson’s Shadow: The Architecture of Thomas R. Blackburn*, co-author
of *Lost Virginia: Vanished Architecture of the Old Dominion, After the
Monuments Fall: The Removal of Confederate Monuments from the American
South* (LSU Press), with Kathleen James-Chakraborty and Katherine
Kuenzli. Green graduated from the University of Notre Dame with a
Bachelor’s in History and obtained his Master’s and Ph.D. in
Architectural History at the University of Virginia.  

He serves as Chair, Preservation Officer, and *ex officio* member the
Board at the Heritage Conservation Committee of the Society of
Architectural Historians. He co-chairs the Publications Committee of the
Association Preservation Technology International and serves on the
Commonwealth of Virginia’s Citizens Advisory Council on Furnishing and
Interpreting the Executive Mansion, and formerly served on the City of
Richmond Commission of Architectural Review and Urban Design committees.
Green’s longstanding commitment to this work led him to Honorary
Membership in both the Virginia Society and the Richmond Chapter of the
American Institute of Architects.  
  
**Elizabeth M. Hewlett, Commissioner, National Capital Planning
Commission**  
Elizabeth M. Hewlett is an attorney and servant of the public interest.
She recently retired from her second tenure as the Chairman of the
Prince George’s County Planning Board and the Maryland-National Capital
Park and Planning Commission. She has represented Maryland on the
Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority and served as a Principal
at Shipley, Horne and Hewlett, P.A., a law firm where she represented
individuals, businesses, and real estate clients while also rendering
many community-centric pro bono services. Hewlett has participated in or
led dozens of public boards, civic groups, and key initiatives,
including the Prince George’s County Census effort, the Maryland State
Board of Law Examiners, and as a member of the Governor’s Drug and
Alcohol Abuse Commission.  
  
Throughout her career, Hewlett has also been a contributor to several
legal and professional organizations, including: National Bar
Association, Women’s Bar Association of Maryland, the J. Franklyn Bourne
Bar Association, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored
People, and Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. She has been awarded many
awards, including the Wayne K. Curry Distinguished Service Award, the
National Bar Association Presidential Lifetime Achievement Award, and
the J. Joseph Curran Award for Public Service. She is a graduate of
Tufts University, Boston College Law School, and the John F. Kennedy
School of Government Executive Program at Harvard University.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**President’s Intelligence
Advisory Board**  
</span>  
The President’s Intelligence Advisory Board is an independent element
within the Executive Office of the President. The President’s
Intelligence Advisory Board exists exclusively to assist the President
by providing the President with an independent source of advice on the
effectiveness with which the Intelligence Community is meeting the
nation’s intelligence needs and the vigor and insight with which the
community plans for the future. The President is able to appoint up to
16 members of the Board.  
  
**Anne M. Finucane, Member, President’s Intelligence Advisory Board**  
Anne Finucane currently serves as Chairman of the Board for Bank of
America Europe. She also serves on the board of Bank of America
Securities Europe SA, the bank’s EU broker-dealer in Paris. Finucane
served as the first woman Vice Chairman of Bank of America. She led the
company’s strategic positioning and global sustainable and climate
finance work, environmental, social and governance (ESG), capital
deployment and public policy efforts. She is widely recognized for
pioneering sustainable finance in the banking industry. For most of her
career, Finucane also oversaw marketing, communications, and data and
analytics at the company, and is credited with leading Bank of America’s
successful efforts to reposition the company and repair its reputation
after the 2008 financial crisis.  
  
Finucane serves on a variety of corporate and nonprofit boards of
directors, including CVS Health, Williams Sonoma, Mass General Brigham
Healthcare, Special Olympics, the (RED) Advisory Board, and the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace. She previously served on the U.S.
State Department’s Foreign Affairs Policy board and is a member of the
Council on Foreign Relations. Finucane has consistently been highlighted
in “most powerful women” lists, including in the American Banker,
Fortune, and Forbes. In 2021, she received the Carnegie Hall Medal of
Honor, and in 2019 she was inducted into the American Advertising
Federation’s Advertising Hall of Fame, and received the Edward M.
Kennedy Institute for Inspired Leadership.

\###
