---
date: '2022-10-05'
published_time: 2022-10-05 10:36:06-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/05/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-boosts-administration-wide-efforts-to-protect-student-loan-borrowers-from-scammers/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Boosts Administration-Wide Efforts\
  \ to Protect Student Loan Borrowers from\_Scammers"
---
 
The Biden-Harris Administration student debt relief initiative could
benefit as many as 40 million Americans. Today, the White House
announced ongoing and expanded efforts across the Administration to
combat scams and misinformation, including educating borrowers about how
to protect themselves against scams and accelerating efforts to share
scam complaints with states. 

One of the most critical ways to prevent scams and protect borrowers
from being taken advantage of is developing a clear, simple, and secure
site for borrowers to apply for debt relief and have the most up to date
information from trusted sources, such as the Department of Education,
Federal Student Aid, and other Administration agencies. In addition to
this work, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau (CFPB) have committed to working together to hold
scammers accountable if they take advantage of borrowers. This
commitment builds upon their recent work to take action against student
loan scammers. Over the course of the last 18 months, the FTC has
reached nearly $30 million in settlements that included refunds for tens
of thousands of student borrowers who were illegally charged up front
fees and falsely promised reduced or eliminated student loan payments.
Earlier this year, the FTC won a $7.5 million judgment against Arete
Financial Group and permanently banned the company from the student loan
business for illegal up front and monthly fees. The CFPB has similarly
taken action against multiple
[entities](https://www.consumerfinance.gov/about-us/newsroom/cfpb-takes-action-against-operators-of-an-unlawful-student-loan-debt-relief-scheme/)
and
[individuals](https://www.consumerfinance.gov/about-us/newsroom/cfpb-seeks-ban-against-operator-of-student-loan-debt-relief-scam-reboot/)
since the beginning of 2021, including by requiring refunds of nearly
$8.7 million to consumers and banning several individuals from the
debt-relief payment processing industry for assisting at least 30
student loan debt relief schemes that affected approximately 270,000
borrowers.

In addition to developing a clear, simple, and secure site for borrowers
to apply for debt relief, the Biden-Harris Administration’s ongoing and
expanded scam prevention and enforcement actions include:

-   **Releasing Student Debt Relief “Do’s and Don’ts” to help borrowers
    avoid scams**. ED is releasing a list of [simple
    actions](https://blog.ed.gov/2022/10/student-loan-debt-relief-dos-and-donts/)
    that borrowers should and should not take as the Administration
    prepares to release the student debt relief application this month.
    The Administration will share these Do’s and Don’ts through multiple
    communication channels in multiple languages, and will work with
    stakeholders to ensure the list of actions reach borrowers across
    the country. This week, ED will communicate directly with millions
    of people who signed up to receive more information about the
    student debt relief program specifically about how to watch out for
    and avoid scams.

<!-- -->

-   **Taking New Action to Go After Scammers in States**. Starting this
    month, ED will regularly provide complaint reports to states that
    identify scams operating in their jurisdictions. Sharing will
    enhance the ability for State attorneys general to act quickly by
    sending cease and desist letters to scammers targeting borrowers in
    their states.  
      
-   **Working Across the Federal Government and with the States to
    Combat Scams.** The White House will lead an all-of-government scam
    prevention effort, coordinating across ED, FTC, CFPB, ED’s Office of
    Inspector General (OIG), State banking regulators, licensing bodies,
    student loan ombudsmen, Secretaries of State, and State attorneys
    general. ED, CFPB, and FTC will work collaboratively to analyze
    trends in scam complaints in real-time, sharing this information
    with states to combat scams, communicate with servicers that states
    license or regulate about how to spot and prevent scams, and field
    borrower questions, concerns, and complaints. Student loan
    complaints are shared across federal and state agencies using the
    FTC’s [Consumer Sentinel
    Network](https://www.ftc.gov/enforcement/consumer-sentinel-network),
    which connects nearly 3,000 federal, state, local, and international
    law enforcement users. The Consumer Sentinel Network allows
    enforcement agencies to be updated in real time when new complaints
    on a specific topic or a specific entity are filed and enables
    enforcement agencies to coordinate and act when they see surges in
    complaints. 

<!-- -->

-   **Launching Outreach and Education Campaigns to Equip Borrowers with
    Accurate and Actionable Information.** The Administration will
    launch coordinated outreach and education campaigns to provide
    accurate information to borrowers to help them avoid getting
    scammed. This week, as part of this effort, the FTC posted a
    [blog](https://consumer.ftc.gov/consumer-alerts/2022/10/student-loan-scammers-are-circling-keep-them-bay?utm_source=govdelivery)
    and launched a social media campaign to provide borrowers with vital
    information about how to avoid scams involving the debt relief
    application, which will be launched later this month. As part of the
    Administration’s scam-prevention efforts, CFPB will amplify its
    scam-prevention resources, along with what consumers can do if they
    suspect they’ve already fallen victim to a scammer. ED will also
    publicly release details on what the official application form will
    look like and what is expected of borrowers, reducing scammers’
    ability to claim they will help borrowers access relief and allowing
    borrowers to spot false applications.

<!-- -->

-   **Leveraging Social Media to Reach Borrowers**. The Biden-Harris
    Administration will communicate about the threat scammers pose by
    using channels that reach borrowers where they are. As the
    application for student debt relief becomes available, the White
    House will engage directly with digital creators and influencers on
    social media platforms to help spread accurate information about the
    program and alerts concerning potential scams.

Coinciding with the launch of the Administration’s whole-of-government
effort, the White House on Friday will convene senior leaders from ED,
the FTC, the CFPB, and the Federal Communications Commission to discuss
the agencies’ plans for aggressive and comprehensive scam prevention and
enforcement strategies. The Administration is encouraging any
individuals who have been contacted by scammers to report them to the
FTC at reportfraud.ftc.gov.

\###
