---
date: '2022-10-27'
modified_time: 2022-10-27 08:20:12-04:00
published_time: 2022-10-27 08:20:11-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/27/statement-by-president-joe-biden-marking-four-years-since-the-attack-on-pittsburghs-tree-of-life-synagogue/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement by President Joe\_Biden Marking Four Years Since the Attack on Pittsburgh\u2019\
  s Tree of Life\_Synagogue"
---
 
On October 27, 2018, a quiet *Shabbat* morning was shattered by gunfire
and hate, and a place of sanctuary became a place of carnage. Twenty-two
people were worshipping at the Tree of Life Congregation that day;
eleven of them would never return home to their families. Six more were
wounded, including four police officers who responded to the scene, in
addition to countless others forever scarred by this heinous assault.

In the four years since that terrible day, the people of Pittsburgh have
shown us what it means to be stronger than hate. Welcoming the community
to Torah study sessions. Showing their support for refugees and
immigrants. Reimagining the Tree of Life synagogue as both sanctuary and
memorial. The courage and character of the Pittsburgh community remains
an inspiration to us all.

As we grieve this deadliest act of antisemitism in American history, we
stand with the community of Squirrel Hill—and Jewish communities across
America and around the world—in resolving to combat antisemitism and
hate in all of its forms. This is especially true as we witness an ugly
increase in antisemitism in America. That’s why I established the first
Ambassador-level Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Antisemitism and
appointed the renowned Holocaust expert Deborah Lipstadt to the role. My
Administration worked with Congress to secure the largest-ever increase
in funding for the security of synagogues and other religious
institutions. And, at last month’s United We Stand Summit, my
Administration announced a series of actions and commitments to take on
hate-fueled violence. 

We are also determined to tackle the scourge of gun violence that has
stolen lives from Pittsburgh to Poway, from Newtown to Charleston, from
Buffalo to Uvalde, and from countless other communities in between. I’ve
taken historic executive action to reduce gun violence, including by
reining in the proliferation of ghost guns. This summer, the Senate
confirmed the first permanent head of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,
Firearms and Explosives in more than seven years, and my Administration
brought together Republicans and Democrats to pass the most significant
gun safety legislation in nearly 30 years. I am committed to building on
that progress by banning assault weapons and high-capacity
magazines—we’ve done it before, and we can do it again.

The Rabbis teach that “what comes from the heart, enters the heart.” On
this difficult day, our hearts are with the families of the victims, the
survivors, and all those impacted by the Tree of Life shooting. May
their memories be a blessing, and may we continue to bridge the gap
between the world we see and the future we seek.

\###
