---
date: '2022-10-24'
published_time: 2022-10-24 19:15:39-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/24/what-they-are-reading-in-the-states-gas-prices-continue-to-fall-across-the-country/
tags: statements-releases
title: "What They Are Reading in the States:  Gas Prices Continue to Fall Across the\_\
  Country"
---
 
Across the country, local news outlets are reporting on declining gas
prices as the President continues to take action to lower them in the
face of Putin’s Price Hike and other supply challenges.  
  
Gas prices have declined by an average of $1.22 per gallon nationwide
since their June peak – a decline of 24% over more than 18 weeks. There
are now 38 states and the District of Columbia with average gasoline
prices of $3.99 or less, with more than two-thirds of all states
boasting prices under $3.79. Nine states have prices of $3.39 or less
and 15 states have average gasoline prices of $3.49 or less.  
  
President Biden is committed to doing everything in his power to bring
prices down for American families. This includes the President’s
announcement to extend the release of oil from the Strategic Petroleum
Reserve through December, his intention to repurchase oil around
$70/barrel to replenish the SPR, and his call for oil and gas companies
to pass their savings from declining oil and wholesale gas prices on to
consumers at the pump.  
  
*Read below for a sampling of the coverage:*

***Arkansas***  
  
**KAIT (ABC/NBC/CW Jonesboro, AR): **[**Arkansas gas prices slip a few
more
cents**](https://www.kait8.com/2022/10/24/arkansas-gas-prices-slip-few-more-cents/)
Arkansas motorists are paying a little less this week to fill up their
gas tanks…GasBuddy.com reported Monday that the average price of regular
unleaded gasoline fell 6.7 cents in the last week to $3.28…National
prices fell 9.3 cents a gallon in the last week to an average of
$3.77.  
  
***California***  
  
**Los Angeles Times: **[**Los Angeles gas prices fall for 16th day in a
row, likely to keep
dropping**](https://www.latimes.com/california/story/2022-10-21/los-angeles-gas-prices-fall-for-16th-day-in-a-row)
“A lot of the problems that led to a surge in prices have been
addressed,” said Patrick De Haan, an oil and gas analyst for GasBuddy.
“It’s been a pretty nice drop, and pretty quick really. … Barring any
drastic changes to the market, De Haan said he expects prices will
continue to decrease across Los Angeles and California.  
  
***Georgia***  
  
**WAGA (FOX Atlanta, GA): **[**Georgians see some relief as gas prices
continue
declining**](https://www.fox5atlanta.com/news/georgians-see-some-relief-as-gas-prices-continue-declining)
Monday, AAA reports that the average price for a gallon of unleaded gas
in Georgia has dropped to $3.20 – a decrease of 5 cents compared to a
week ago, 7 cents less than in September, and 3 cents less than the same
time in 2021…It now costs Georgia drivers $48 to fill up a 15-gallon
tank with regular gasoline – 50 cents less compared to a year ago…The
average gas price in Georgia still remains much lower than the national
average, which on Monday was $3.78 for a gallon.  
  
***Iowa***  
  
**KWWL (NBC Eastern Iowa): **[**Gas prices fall 7.1 cents in Iowa this
week, $3.63 state average per
gallon**](https://www.kwwl.com/news/gas-prices-fall-7-1-cents-in-iowa-this-week-3-63-state-average-per/article_30c05254-4f02-11ed-af43-776930bda55b.html)
Average gas prices in Iowa fell 7.1 cents this week, marking a statewide
average of $3.63 per gallon, according to the latest GasBuddy
survey…Prices in Iowa are 16.8 cents per gallon higher than a month ago,
and are 55.3 cents higher per gallon than a year ago…The national
average price per gallon fell 5.4 cents in the last week, averaging
$3.86.  
  
***Michigan***  
  
**WZZM (ABC Grand Rapids, MI): **[**Michigan gas prices drop 16 cents
since last
week**](https://www.wzzm13.com/article/traffic/gas-prices/gas-prices-decrease-michigan/69-4b53ea78-3635-46dc-8547-8f4d291bdeff)
Adrienne Woodland, spokesperson for AAA, says this downward trend could
continue…”Michigan motorists continue to see pump prices decline with
some metro areas across the state seeing averages below $4 a gallon,”
Woodland said. “If demand continues to remain low, as oil prices slide,
drivers could see pump prices continue to come down.”  
  
***Minnesota***  
  
**WJON (Central Minnesota): **[**Gas prices falling as seasonal demand
declines**](https://wjon.com/gas-prices-falling-as-seasonal-demand-declines/)
Average gas prices have declined for the second week in a row…Average
gasoline prices in Minnesota have fallen 8.1 cents per gallon in the
last week, averaging $3.66…The national average has fallen 9.3 cents in
the last week, averaging $3.77…Gas Buddy says with oil prices struggling
a bit after reaching $93 after OPEC’s decision to cut oil production,
many regions could see falling gas prices again this week as demand
continues to decline seasonally.  
  
***North Carolina***  
  
**WBTV (CBS Charlotte, NC): **[**Charlotte gas prices fall nearly 8
cents over past
week**](https://www.wbtv.com/2022/10/24/charlotte-gas-prices-fall-nearly-8-cents-over-past-week/)  
The average price of a gallon of regular gas in Charlotte fell 7.9 cents
over the last week, sitting at $3.51 as of Monday, officials said…In
North Carolina, the average price of a gallon of gas was $3.42, down 6.1
cents from last week’s $3.48 a gallon, according to GasBuddy.  
  
***Ohio***  
  
**WSYX (ABC/FOX Columbus, OH): **[**Gas prices in Columbus drop nearly
14 cents per gallon
Monday**](https://abc6onyourside.com/news/local/gasbuddy-gasoline-gas-inflation-president-biden-diesel-oil-economy-prices-dropped-over-13-cents-per-gallon-in-central-ohio-columbus-october-traveling-report-pump-patrol)  
  
Columbus gas prices have dropped in the past week, GasBuddy reports…The
latest weekly report from Gas Buddy says that average gasoline prices in
Columbus fell 13.8 cents in the last, averaging $3.67 a gallon Monday.  
  
***Oregon***  
  
**KTVZ (NBC/CW Central Oregon): **[**AAA: Oregon gas prices down 22
cents a gallon in past week, second-biggest drop in
U.S.**](https://ktvz.com/news/oregon-northwest/2022/10/17/oregon-gas-prices-fall-over-19-cents-in-a-week-still-up-66-cents-in-a-month-1-57-in-past-year/)  
Oregon and other West Coast states are seeing some of the biggest weekly
gas-price decreases in the nation, AAA Oregon/Idaho reported
Tuesday…Gasoline supplies in the area are returning to normal as
regional refinery issues are resolved. they said. In addition, falling
crude oil prices and demand for gas in the U.S. are also helping to push
pump prices lower.  
  
***Tennessee***  
  
**Chattanooga Pulse: **[**Chattanooga Gas Prices Fall Nearly Nine Cents
A Gallon Over The Past
Week**](http://www.chattanoogapulse.com/local-news/automotive/chattanooga-gas-prices-fall-nearly-nine-cents-a-gallon-over-/)  
Average gasoline prices in Chattanooga have fallen 8.6 cents per gallon
in the last week, averaging $3.20/g today, according to GasBuddy’s
survey of 170 stations in Chattanooga…The national average price of
gasoline has fallen 9.3 cents per gallon in the last week, averaging
$3.77/g today. The national average is up 10.2 cents per gallon from a
month ago and stands 41.2 cents per gallon higher than a year ago,
according to GasBuddy data compiled from more than 11 million weekly
price reports covering over 150,000 gas stations across the country.  
  
***Washington***  
  
**KOMO (ABC Seattle, WA): **[**Gas prices drop for 2nd straight week in
Seattle, Washington state,
nationally**](https://komonews.com/news/local/gas-prices-drop-for-2nd-straight-week-in-seattle-washington-state-nationally-tacoma-yakima)  
Gas prices dropped 18.7 cents per gallon over the past week in Seattle,
according to GasBuddy’s weekly survey of 775 stations in the city…The
cheapest gas in the city on Sunday was $3.99 a gallon, while the most
expensive was $6.29 a gallon…This drop marks the second consecutive week
of declines in the area…Nationally, the average dropped 9.3 cents to
$3.77 a gallon.  
  
***Wisconsin***  
  
**WLUK (FOX Green Bay, WI): **[**Gas prices drop for second straight
week**](https://fox11online.com/news/economy/gas-prices-drop-for-second-straight-week)  
Average gasoline prices in Green Bay have fallen 8.9 cents per gallon in
the last week, averaging $3.52/g today, according to GasBuddy’s survey
of 127 stations in Green Bay…”Average gas prices have declined for the
second straight week with significant declines in the West and Great
Lakes having an oversized effect on the drop in the national average,”
said Patrick De Haan, head of petroleum analysis at GasBuddy.

\###
