---
date: '2022-10-05'
modified_time: 2022-10-05 07:02:47-04:00
published_time: 2022-10-05 06:02:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/05/fact-sheet-supporting-teachers-on-world-teachers-day/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Supporting Teachers on World Teachers\u2019\_Day"
---
 
Our teachers prepare and inspire the next generation of leaders who are
critical to our future. Today, on World Teachers’ Day, First Lady Jill
Biden will appear on The Kelly Clarkson Show for an hour-long special
dedicated to teachers, and participate in Pinterest’s day-long
livestream to celebrate teachers, featuring top educator creators from
across the country. The Biden-Harris Administration is committed to
celebrating and elevating the teaching profession, and to addressing the
challenges facing teachers by taking comprehensive actions to recruit,
respect, and retain educators.  
  
To ***Recruit, Respect, and Retain*** **** teachers and other school
staff we must:

-   *Pay educators competitively:* President Biden has long called for
    increases in teacher pay. [On
    average](https://www.epi.org/publication/teacher-pay-penalty-2022/),
    teachers make about 33 percent less than other college-educated
    professionals. We cannot address staffing shortages impacting
    schools without addressing paying teachers a livable and competitive
    wage.
-   *Improve working conditions:* Whether it’s sufficient planning time
    and staffing levels, opportunities for leadership and collaboration
    with peers, or clean air to breathe and cool classrooms during heat
    waves, educators need working conditions that are conducive to
    teaching and to students’ learning.
-   *Expand high-quality pathways into teaching:* In 2016, [340,000
    fewer students enrolled in educator preparation
    programs](https://www.americanprogress.org/article/make-declining-enrollment-teacher-preparation-programs/)
    than in 2008, a 28 percent decline over less than a decade.
    Providing high-quality pathways into teaching, such as Grow Your Own
    and residency programs, and removing barriers, such as
    affordability, can help more people answer the call to become
    teachers and [improve teacher retention and
    effectiveness.](https://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/EJ1137804.pdf)

The Biden-Harris Administration has taken concrete actions to advance
these goals.  
  
**<u>American Rescue Plan</u>**  
  
President’s Biden’s American Rescue Plan (ARP) provided $122 billion to
the nation’s K-12 schools. The President, [U.S. Secretary of Education
Miguel Cardona, and U.S. Secretary of Labor Marty
Walsh](https://www2.ed.gov/policy/gen/guid/secletter/220831.html?utm_content=&utm_medium=email&utm_name=&utm_source=govdelivery&utm_term=)
have urged states and districts to use these funds to increase
compensation for teachers, invest in teacher pipeline programs, and hire
more professionals across the education workforce. These investments not
only provide greater supports to students, but also reduce the burden on
current teachers. With the help of the ARP, there are 261,000 more jobs
in local education than when President Biden took office. As of July,
ARP funding has helped school districts increase the number of school
social workers by 54 percent, increase counselors by 22 percent, and
increase nurses by 22 percent, compared to the pre-pandemic period. For
example:

-   **Iowa** is using [ARP
    fund](https://governor.iowa.gov/press-release/gov-reynolds-announces-award-winners-for%C2%A0teacher-and%C2%A0paraeducator-registered)s
    to train 500 new paraeducators and 500 new teachers. Starting this
    year,
    the [program](https://www.earnandlearniowa.gov/sites/default/files/2022-06/Teacher%20and%20Paraeducator%20RA_2022%20Grant%20Awardees_1.pdf) will
    help current high school students and adults earn a paraeducator
    certificate and associate degree, and paraeducators to earn a
    bachelor’s degree and teaching license – all while learning and
    working in the classroom.
-   **Gaston County Schools** **in North Carolina** used ARP funds to
    double their nursing staff and secure a nurse for each of their 54
    school locations, so that nurses no longer have to split their time
    between two buildings.

ARP funds are also being used to improve the physical working conditions
of teachers and learning conditions for students by addressing critical
health and safety issues. It’s estimated that schools are [investing $10
billion of their ARP funds in HVAC systems alone, and another $5 billion
in other repairs to address health and safety
issues.](https://www.future-ed.org/financial-trends-in-local-schools-covid-aid-spending/)  
  
**<u>Additional Federal Investments in Teacher Recruitment and
Preparation</u>**  
  
Through Department of Education grants, the Biden-Harris Administration
has prioritized supporting teachers in a wide array of Fiscal Year 2022
grants, particularly investing in high-quality teacher preparation
programs that include robust experience in the classroom before becoming
a teacher. These programs recruit more diverse teachers, better prepare
them for the classroom, and increase the likelihood of teachers staying
in the profession. The President has called for an additional $590
million investment in teachers in his FY23 budget.  
  
**New investments under the **[**Supporting Effective Educator
Development**](https://oese.ed.gov/offices/office-of-discretionary-grants-support-services/effective-educator-development-programs/supporting-effective-educator-development-grant-program/awards/)** (SEED)
program to help ensure long-term support for teacher pipeline and
development programs across the country.** The 22 new three-year grants
totaling more than $60 million include:

-   The National Center for Teacher Residencies will increase the number
    of effective teacher residents from diverse backgrounds in
    underserved schools, districts, and subjects by boosting teacher
    residency programs across Connecticut, Delaware, North Carolina,
    Tennessee, and Virginia. 
-   The New Orleans SEED program will address persistent teacher
    shortages by boosting pathways into the profession through the
    expansion of Grow-Your-Own pathways. By 2025, the project hopes to
    recruit, prepare, and place 550 teachers in underserved schools and
    have more than 200 high school students in its teacher pipeline.

**New** [**Teacher Quality Partnership
awards**](https://oese.ed.gov/offices/office-of-discretionary-grants-support-services/effective-educator-development-programs/teacher-quality-partnership/awards/)
**to help recruit, prepare, develop, and retain a strong and diverse
teacher workforce**. The 22 five-year grants totaling $24.7 million
include:

-   In Winston-Salem/Forsyth County, North Carolina, funds will support
    a residency program that will recruit, prepare and retain 120
    special education, elementary and secondary teachers in high-need
    schools.
-   Funds will support a Grow Your Own program in Gwinnett County,
    Georgia, that will support alumni of Gwinnett County Public Schools
    in returning to the community as teachers after they graduate from
    college.

**For the first time, this year the Department of Education will also
award grants under the Augustus F. Hawkins program** to support teacher
preparation programs at Historically Black Colleges and Universities,
Tribal Colleges and Universities, and Minority Serving Institutions.  
  
**The Department of Labor has also committed to prioritizing the
education sector in future apprenticeship funding, including its next
round of over $100 million in apprenticeship grants.** This will provide
critical support for states and other partners looking to start and
expand teacher apprenticeship programs, which allow individuals to earn
while they learn, receiving pay while they gain teaching skills and take
coursework to earn their teaching license.   
  
**<u>Ensuring Education Jobs Are</u>** **<u>Good Jobs</u>**  
  
Schools cannot recruit or retain the teachers they need unless jobs in
education are good jobs. Adjusted for inflation, the average weekly
wages of public school teachers only increased by $29 between 1996 and
2021. Beyond calling for better pay and encouraging the use of ARP funds
for this purpose, the Administration has taken concrete action to
address teacher compensation.  
  
**Sustained Funding to Increase Teacher Pay:** To increase teacher pay,
schools need more funding. President Biden’s budgets have proposed an
additional $20 billion for Title I—which supports schools serving
students from low-income backgrounds—more than doubling funding for this
program. These resources would help schools increase teacher pay and
close gaps in access to educational opportunity. As roughly 92 percent
of funding for public schools comes from the state and local level,
state and local leaders must also take decisive action to provide
schools with the resources they need to pay teachers competitively and
to close funding gaps undermining schools serving low-income
communities.  
  
**Reducing Student Debt for Teachers:** Too many teachers are burdened
with so much student debt that they feel like they cannot stay in the
classroom. Debt also keeps many prospective teachers from entering the
profession. The Administration has taken decisive action to provide more
breathing room to America’s working families, including teachers, as
they continue to recover from the strains associated with the COVID-19
pandemic.   

-   *Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF):* Earlier this year, the
    Biden-Harris Administration made temporary changes to the PSLF
    program that make it easier than ever for public servants, like
    teachers and school staff, to receive loan forgiveness or get credit
    toward loan forgiveness. To date, the Department of Education has
    approved more than $13 billion in forgiveness for more than 211,000
    public servants under this waiver. To benefit from the temporary
    changes, borrowers must apply and certify their employment for the
    period of time they wish to count toward PSLF by October 31, 2022
    using this [Help Tool](https://studentaid.gov/pslf/). For more
    information, visit [www.PSLF.gov](http://www.PSLF.gov). Teachers who
    previously received Teacher Loan Forgiveness can now also count
    those years used toward the Teacher Loan Forgiveness Program toward
    PSLF but they must certify those years by October 31. The
    Administration has also proposed regulatory changes to ensure more
    effective implementation of PSLF moving forward.
-   *TEACH Grant:* The Department is implementing [improvements to the
    TEACH Grant
    program](https://www.ed.gov/news/press-releases/department-education-implements-teach-grant-program-changes-benefit-teachers-and-students),
    which provides up to $16,000 in grants to teachers who commit to
    teaching in a high need school and field for 4 years.
-   *Cancelling and Reforming Student Debt:* In addition to the one-time
    student debt relief of up to $20,000 announced by President Biden in
    August, the Biden-Harris Administration has proposed a plan to
    reduce the burden of student debt through reforms to income-driven
    repayment plans. Under the proposed plan, borrowers will have more
    income protected and monthly payments on undergraduate loans will be
    cut in half – from 10 percent to 5 percent of their discretionary
    income.

\###
