---
date: '2022-10-19'
published_time: 2022-10-19 19:50:23-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/19/president-biden-announces-two-new-nominees-to-serve-as-u-s-attorneys-one-to-serve-as-u-s-marshal/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Two New Nominees to Serve as U.S. Attorneys, One\
  \ to Serve as U.S.\_Marshal"
---
 
The President is announcing two new nominees to serve as U.S. Attorneys
and one new nominee to serve as U.S. Marshal. These are officials who
will be indispensable to upholding the rule of law as top federal law
enforcement officials.

These individuals were chosen for their devotion to enforcing the law,
their professionalism, their experience and credentials, their
dedication to pursuing equal justice for all, and their commitment to
the independence of the Department of Justice.

The President has proposed a budget that would significantly increase
funding for law enforcement as part of a comprehensive approach to
tackling the rising crime rate this administration inherited last year.

The President has also launched a comprehensive effort to take on the
uptick in gun crime that has been taking place since 2020—putting more
cops on the beat, supporting community prevention programs, and cracking
down on illegal gun trafficking. Confirming U.S. Attorneys as the chief
federal law enforcement officers in their district is important for
these efforts.

The President has now announced 65 nominees to serve as U.S. Attorneys
and 21 nominees to serve as U.S. Marshals.

**<u>United States Attorney Announcements</u>**

**1. <u>Peter D. Leary: Candidate for United States Attorney for the
Middle District of Georgia</u>**  
  
Peter D. Leary has served as the appointed United States Attorney for
the Middle District of Georgia since 2021. Mr. Leary previously served
as an Assistant United States Attorney for the Middle District of
Georgia from 2012 to 2021. Mr. Leary served as a trial attorney in the
Federal Programs Branch of the Department of Justice’s Civil Division
from 2007 to 2012. He served a law clerk for Judge Hugh Lawson on the
United States District Court for the Middle District of Georgia from
2005 to 2007. Mr. Leary received his J.D. from the University of
Virginia in 2005 and his B.A. from the University of Virginia in 2000.

**2.** **<u>Jill E. Steinberg: Candidate for United States Attorney for
the Southern District of Georgia</u>**  
  
Jill E. Steinberg has been a partner at Ballard Spahr LLP since 2021.
From 2008 to 2014 and 2016 to 2021, Ms. Steinberg served as an Assistant
United States Attorney in the United States Attorney’s Office for the
Northern District of Georgia. From 2014 to 2016, Ms. Steinberg worked at
the U.S. Department of Justice in Washington, D.C., serving as an
Associate Deputy Attorney General in the Office of the Deputy Attorney
General from 2015 to 2016 and as an Attorney Advisor in the National
Security Division from 2014 to 2015. From 2001 to 2008, she was an
associate at Rogers & Hardin LLP in Atlanta, Georgia. She began her
legal career serving as an Assistant District Attorney for the
Philadelphia District Attorney’s Office from 1998 to 2001. Ms. Steinberg
received her J.D. from Duke University Law School in 1998 and her B.A.,
*summa cum laude*, from the University of Georgia in 1995.

**<u>United States Marshal Announcement</u>**

**1. <u>Craig J. Anderson: Candidate for United States Marshal for the
District of Montana</u>**  
Craig J. Anderson was the Acting Director of the Dawson, Montana
Economic Development Council from 2016 to 2017. Mr. Anderson was Sheriff
of Dawson County, Montana from 2003 to 2014. He previously served as
Chief Probation Officer for the Montana Seventh Judicial District from
1979 until 2003. He received his B.A. from the University of Montana in
1975.

\###
