---
date: '2022-10-13'
published_time: 2022-10-13 17:51:13-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/13/readout-from-communities-in-action-building-a-better-michigan/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout from Communities in Action: Building A Better\_Michigan"
---
 
Yesterday, the White House Office of Intergovernmental Affairs and the
Office of Public Engagement hosted nearly 40 state and local elected
officials and community leaders from across Michigan in a “Communities
in Action: Building a Better Michigan” event. During the half-day forum,
participants heard from Vice President Kamala Harris, Department of
Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm, and Biden-Harris Administration
officials – including Senior Advisor to the President for Public
Engagement Keisha Lance Bottoms, White House Infrastructure Coordinator
Mitch Landrieu, White House American Rescue Plan Coordinator Gene
Sperling, Senior Advisor for CHIPS Implementation Ronnie Chatterji,
White House National Climate Advisor Ali Zaidi, and Deputy Director for
Intergovernmental Affairs Gabe Amo – about the benefits and impact of
President Biden’s American Rescue Plan, Bipartisan Infrastructure Law,
Inflation Reduction Act, and the CHIPS and Science Act for working
families in Michigan. White House officials discussed how the
Biden-Harris Administration will continue to work together with states
and local governments, labor leaders, businesses, non-profits, and
health care leaders to leverage these historic investments to create and
expand opportunities for working families. This was the fifth in a
series of “Communities in Action” events that the White House will host
with state, local and Tribal leaders to demonstrate how the Biden-Harris
Administration is delivering results for the American people.

\###
