---
date: '2022-10-12'
modified_time: 2022-10-11 18:49:58-04:00
published_time: 2022-10-12 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/12/fact-sheet-president-biden-designates-camp-hale-continental-divide-national-monument/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET:  President\_Biden Designates Camp Hale \u2013 Continental Divide\
  \ National\_Monument"
---
 
*Departments of Agriculture and the Interior Also Take Steps to Conserve
Thompson Divide;* *Administration Announces Inflation Reduction Act
Funding to Address Drought in the Colorado River Basin*

As part of the Biden-Harris Administration’s commitment to protect,
conserve, and restore our country’s iconic outdoor spaces and historical
sites for the benefit of future generations, today President Biden
signed a proclamation establishing the Camp Hale – Continental Divide
National Monument. This action will honor our nation’s veterans,
Indigenous people, and their legacy by protecting this Colorado
landscape, while supporting jobs and America’s outdoor recreation
economy.   
  
In addition, the Departments of Agriculture (USDA) and the Interior
(DOI) announced a proposed withdrawal to protect the Thompson Divide in
western Colorado, one of the state’s most cherished landscapes.   
  
Last year, President Biden used his authority under the Antiquities Act
to restore protections for three national monuments that the previous
administration attempted to reduce or eliminate. The designation of Camp
Hale – Continental Divide represents President Biden’s first use of the
Antiquities Act to create a new national monument.  
  
The rugged landscape of Camp Hale – Continental Divide serves as a
testament to a pivotal moment in America’s military history, as these
peaks and valleys forged the elite soldiers of the famed 10th Mountain
Division — the Army’s first and only mountain infantry division — that
helped liberate Europe in World War II. The area lies within the
ancestral homelands of the Ute Tribes, along the Continental Divide in
north-central Colorado, and is treasured for its historical and
spiritual significance, stunning geological features, abundant
recreation opportunities, and rare wildlife and plants. The area’s
mountains and valleys also shaped our modern outdoor recreation economy,
which today supports millions of American jobs.  
  
By protecting this iconic area and proposing a mineral withdrawal for
the Thompson Divide, the President is building on a series of steps the
Administration has taken to protect some of America’s most cherished
lands and waters. The Administration has moved to restore protections
for roadless areas of the Tongass National Forest, and initiated the
process to protect Bristol Bay in Alaska and the world-class salmon
fishery it supports. The Great Lakes, the Chesapeake Bay, the
Everglades, the Columbia River Basin, the Boundary Waters, Chaco Canyon
and dozens of other special places are also back on America’s
conservation agenda. Today’s announcement also includes Inflation
Reduction Act funding to mitigate the impacts of drought in the Colorado
River Basin.  
  
**Camp Hale — Continental Divide National Monument**

This monument preserves and protects the mountains and valleys where the
US Army’s 10th Mountain Division prepared for their brave service that
ultimately brought WWII to a close. The 10th Mountain Division played a
pivotal role in the European theatre of the war by weakening Axis forces
from their position in the Italian Alps, thanks to their specialized
training acquired at and around Camp Hale. Scaling a 1,500-foot cliff
during a night attack, they were able to push back elite units of the
Axis forces. Their skills, grit and endurance were instrumental in
protecting democracy and fighting the spread of fascism. The 10th
Mountain Division was the first and only division of the US military
trained to fight in rugged, mountain terrain. At Camp Hale, and in the
surrounding mountains including those of the Tenmile Range, soldiers
learned winter survival techniques and to snowshoe, to climb, and most
famously, to ski.  After the war, many of these soldiers would return to
the area, lending their training and expertise to a burgeoning ski
industry. More than 60 ski areas in the United States, including many of
Colorado’s world-famous ski areas, owe their origin and development to
these veterans. Today, the outdoor industry, inspired and built by these
heroes, generates $374 billion in economic activity and supports tens of
thousands of jobs across the country.  
  
The area has also been a home and place of significance since time
immemorial for Indigenous peoples like the Ute Tribes, providing food,
shelter, and medicine. The Ute Tribes were forced by the U.S. government
to relinquish this area and much of their ancestral homeland in the
mid-1800s. The area remains culturally important to the Ute people, who
return to this area of their homelands to pray, hold ceremonies, honor
their ancestors, hunt, fish, and harvest plants. The ecological
diversity and abundant wildlife remain an important part of the value of
this area, which features ecosystems, habitats, and important migration
corridors for threatened and endangered species. This area also includes
Ute burial sites that are thousands of years old, including associated
funerary objects, and other areas of cultural and spiritual
significance.  
  
Camp Hale and the Tenmile range currently serves as the backdrop for
some of Colorado’s iconic ski resorts and contains well-trafficked
hiking and biking trails, including a trail to one of the state’s most
frequently summited 14,000-foot peaks, Quandary Peak. The monument is on
existing public lands within the White River National Forest, where the
ecological diversity, abundant wildlife, stunning landscapes, and a
plethora of recreation opportunities make the area the nation’s most
visited national forests.  
  
The Forest Service will manage the 53,804-acre national monument and
develop a management plan to protect cultural resources and the objects
of historic and scientific interest identified in the proclamation. The
monument will be protected for future generations while continuing to
support a wide range of recreation opportunities, recognizing the
ongoing use of the area for outdoor recreation, including skiing,
hiking, camping, and snowmobiling. The management plan will also help
guide the development of education and interpretative resources, to
share the area’s full story, from the history of Indigenous peoples, to
the heroic training and service of the 10th Mountain Division, while
maintaining space for the area’s growing recreation economy.  
  
The establishment of this monument is subject to valid existing rights,
including valid existing water and mineral rights. The monument will not
affect any permits held by the area’s world-class ski resorts and will
not restrict activities outside of the monument’s boundaries. The
proclamation allows for continued remediation of contaminated lands and
for continued avalanche and snow safety management, wildfire response
and prevention, and ecological restoration. Laws, regulations, and
policies followed by the Forest Service in issuing and administering
grazing permits on all lands under its jurisdiction will continue to
apply.  
  
**Thompson Divide**

Today, DOI and USDA are also announcing steps to conserve the Thompson
Divide area in western Colorado, one of the state’s most cherished
landscapes.  In response to broad concerns about protecting Thompson
Divide’s important wildlife habitat, recreation opportunities, grazing
lands and clean air and water, the administration is proposing a 20-year
withdrawal of the Thompson Divide area from disposition under the public
land laws, mining laws, and mineral and geothermal leasing laws, subject
to valid existing rights.  
  
The Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and Forest Service have jointly
submitted the withdrawal petition and application to Secretary of the
Interior Deb Haaland. Secretary Haaland’s acceptance of the petition and
publication of a notice in the Federal Register will initiate a two-year
segregation that will prohibit new mining claims and the issuance of new
Federal mineral leases on approximately 225,000 acres in the Thompson
Divide area. During this time, the BLM and Forest Service will seek
public comment, and conduct a science-based environmental analysis of
the impacts of a 20-year withdrawal.  
  
The Thompson Divide area has not been available to oil and gas leasing
for several years, and there is no current or planned oil exploration or
production in the area. Pre-existing natural gas leases in the area
would be unaffected by this proposed mineral withdrawal. These
pre-existing and unaffected natural gas-related leases in the Thompson
Divide area constitute less than 1% of the more than 3,000 active
Federal leases in the State of Colorado.  
  
**Addressing Historic Drought In The Colorado River Basin**

The Inflation Reduction Act makes critical investments in water
infrastructure to improve system efficiency and conserve water in
regions experiencing historic drought driven by climate change. Today,
the Biden-Harris Administration is opening up a portion of the $4
billion in IRA funding to mitigate drought through the Interior
Department’s newly created Lower Colorado River Basin System
Conservation and Efficiency Program. This will provide immediate
resources to communities, Tribes, and irrigators in Arizona, California
and Nevada. The Inflation Reduction Act will also fund major investments
in conservation and long term system efficiency, including at least $500
million in the Upper Colorado River Basin.   
  
**Background on Antiquities Act Designations**

President Theodore Roosevelt first used the Antiquities Act in 1906 to
designate Devils Tower National Monument in Wyoming.  Since then, 18
presidents of both parties, including recent Presidents Trump, Obama,
G.W. Bush and Clinton have used this authority to protect unique natural
and historic features in America, including the Grand Canyon, the Statue
of Liberty, and Colorado’s Canyons of the Ancients.

\###
