---
date: '2022-10-16'
published_time: 2022-10-16 14:47:55-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/16/statement-by-president-joe-biden-on-world-food-day/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement by President Joe\_Biden on World Food\_Day"
---
 
Today, we reaffirm our commitment to ending hunger and
malnutrition—creating a world in which no child has to go to bed hungry,
no parent has to worry about how to feed their family, and no one has to
face food insecurity.

The need for action has never been greater. This year, the world is
facing an unprecedented level of food insecurity and humanitarian
crises, worsened by the impacts of Russia’s aggression against Ukraine
on global food supplies. More than 300 million people are unable to
access clean water, emergency medicine, shelter, and food without
assistance. More than 100 million are forcibly displaced. And hundreds
of millions more are experiencing hunger.

The United States will continue to step up and respond to this crisis.
This year alone, we’ve committed over $9 billion in lifesaving
humanitarian assistance to address growing needs here at home and around
the world. Last month, at the White House Conference on Hunger,
Nutrition, and Health, I also reaffirmed our commitment to tackling the
devasting threat of hunger and diet-related disease in the United
States—a threat that hits vulnerable communities hardest and is being
compounded by other challenges, like COVID-19 and the climate crisis.

But food insecurity is a global challenge that requires a global
solution. We must come together to support those who need it most. At
the United Nations in May, the United States—joined by more than 100
other countries—launched the UN Roadmap for Global Food Security, which
will strengthen global agriculture markets and meet the nutrition needs
of millions. In September, the United States also convened a Global Food
Security Summit on the margins of the UN General Assembly with partners
around the world to renew our commitment to acting with urgency and
responding with resolve to the growing food crisis.

Today, and every day, I am deeply grateful to people around the world
who are doing their part to fight hunger—from holding food drives,
innovating new agriculture solutions, to raising awareness of this
growing challenge. We stand with you and will continue to act with
urgency to get through this crisis and build a stronger, more
sustainable food system for the future—the health, wellbeing, and
stability of our world depends on it.

\###
