---
date: '2022-10-25'
published_time: 2022-10-25 22:14:28-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/25/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-covid-19-response-coordinator-dr-ashish-jha-6/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and COVID-\u206019 Response\
  \ Coordinator Dr. Ashish\_Jha"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

3:23 P.M. EDT    
  
Q    (Laughter.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Can I be in on the joke?  (Laughter.)  No?  All
right.  Well, good afternoon, everybody.   
  
Q    Hello.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  So, yesterday, some of you asked for more
on tomorrow’s visit — visit by the President of Israel.  President Biden
looks forward to welcoming President Herzog to the White House tomorrow,
as you all know — a visit that will underscore the enduring partnership
and friendship between the United States and Israel.  
  
The two leaders will consult on a range of regional and global
challenges of mutual concern, including the threat posed by Iran and its
proxies.   
  
They will also discuss the forthcoming conclusion of a historic
agreement resolving the maritime boundary dispute between Israel and
Lebanon mediated by the United States.  
  
President Biden will also underscore his commitment to advancing peace
and stability in the Middle East and beyond by deepening Israel’s
regional integration and normalization with the Arab world.  And they
will discuss ways to promote equal measures of freedom, prosperity, and
security for both Israelis and Palestinians.  
  
I also want to address the latest developments with respect to Brittney
Griner.  Our hearts are with Brittney Griner, her wife and her family,
friends, and teammates in light of the appalling news out of Russia
today.  This news only increases the urgency of our efforts to bring
Brittney home.   
  
The Biden administration remains in regular touch with representatives
from Brittney’s family.  And as National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan
said this morning, the administration has continued to engage Russia
through multiple channels in recent weeks to urge them to respond to our
efforts to negotiate a resolution to this.   
  
We will also continue to support and advocate for other Americans
detained in Russia, including Paul Whelan.  
  
Our bottom line is that Russia needs to negotiate in good faith.   
  
As Jake said this morning and as you have heard me say many times before
right here at this podium, the President has demonstrated that he is
willing to go to extraordinary lengths and make tough decisions to bring
Americans home.  This administration has done it successfully before,
and it will keep working to do it again and bring Brittney home.   
  
Earlier today, the President paid tribute to former Secretary of Defense
Ash Carter.  The President recalled Secretary Carter’s, quote, “fierce
intellect and wise counsel to ensure our military’s readiness,
technology — technological edge, and obligation to the women and men of
the greatest fighting force in the history of the world.”  End quote.  
  
And the President spoke about his integrity, his honesty, his many
historic achievements on behalf of servicemembers, and his commitment to
our nation’s veterans in a life dedicated to public service.  
  
We have lost a great American, and the President and the First Lady
grieve with the Carter family today.  
  
You just heard from the President about our ongoing fight against COVID
and the importance of getting your updated vaccine ahead of the
holidays.  
  
The updated vaccines are designed against the COVID we are fighting
today.  And we are — we are our — we have our best protection right now
if you do take this new vac- — vaccine ahead of the winter.  
  
And as the President said: For most of us, you’re going to get this
protection once a year like we do with the flu shot.   
  
So, with that in mind, we have here today, as you can see to my right,
the White House COVID Response Coordinator, Dr. Jha.  And he’s going to
talk to all of you about this further and also take some of your
questions.  
  
Dr. Jha, the floor is yours.  
  
DR. JHA:  Thank you.  All right, thank you, KJP.  And good to be back
with you all.  
  
You just heard from the President, so I’ll be brief, and I look forward
to your questions.  
  
But let me start by underscoring the President’s simple message: We know
the winter is a time when viruses like COVID spread more easily.  We’re
also seeing a rise of other seasonal viruses like flu and RSV.  And we
know that COVID is still evolving.  We’re seeing new subvariants.  We’re
seeing an increase in cases and hospitalizations in Europe.  So we know
that there are some challenges ahead.  
  
But the great news here is that, unlike past winters, we are in
control.  We have the tools we need to ensure folks have a safe and
healthy holiday season.  And the single most important tool is the
updated COVID-19 vaccine.  
  
So, let me just take a minute to summarize what’s at stake here: The
updated COVID-19 vaccines were designed against the BA.5 variant.  That
is the dominant variant in the United States.  And even some of the
subvariants that are concerning, like BQ.1 and BQ.1.1, are derivatives
of BA.5.   
  
And therefore, our vaccines — this new vaccine should provide the best
protection possible against sickness and against serious illness this
winter.  
  
And let me be clear, as KJP just said and as the President said: For a
large majority of Americans, it should be an annual shot, like the flu
shot.  
  
Now, when the President came into office, he made a commitment that we
have followed through on from day one.  That we — he made a commitment
that the vaccines remain widely available, that they remain easily
accessible, and they remain free.  
  
Over 20 million Americans have already gotten their updated COVID-19
vaccines, including, by the way, importantly, one in five seniors.  That
is a good start.  Obviously, that is not enough.  
  
So, as the President said, we need more folks to step up and do their
part.  And today, you’ve seen and heard about actions that we’re taking
as an administration to help mobilize key leaders to get their
communities vaccinated.  
  
This week, we’ve launched new national and local TV ads and — and radio
ads.  We’re launching social and digital ads.  We’re focused on reaching
a broad set of communities, like Black and Latino and AAPI communities,
rural communities.   
  
And we are putting a special emphasis on reaching seniors, because we
know — we’ve known from the beginning of the pandemic and we know now —
that seniors are the ones who are at the highest risk of bad outcomes
and they’re the ones who would benefit most from these updated
vaccines.  
  
We’re reaching out to folks through trusted messengers — doctors,
community leaders, faith leaders; meeting folks where they are with
information; and setting up locations where people are — from Head Start
locations, to nursing homes, community health centers, even the NASCAR
Cup Series Championship at the Phoenix race — Raceway in Avondale,
Arizona, in a couple of weeks.  
  
Medicare is leveraging the network it has to reach millions of
seniors.   
  
And as you heard today from leaders of pharmacies, local pharmacies are
mobilizing.  
  
Now, this is particularly important because pharmacies are the place
where a large proportion of Americans get their vaccines.   
  
So, to conclude, as the President said, we need everyone — community
organizations, doctors, state and local leaders, educational leaders,
business leaders, faith leaders — we need everyone to step up and do
their part.  
  
This is literally about saving lives of tens of thousands of Americans
this fall and winter.  
  
Now, we know we can do this because we have the tools and we have the
knowhow.  And if we use these tools, this winter can look very different
than last winter or the winter before.   
  
So thank you all for letting me spend some time with you, and I look
forward to your questions.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Dr. Jha, on the funding piece of things, in terms of moving
forward, you said a couple months ago to one of my colleagues that —
that we’re going to enter the fall and winter months with PPE, in
particular, depleted and inadequate going into those months.  Has that
come to fruition?  Is there an inadequate stockpile of PPE?  And can you
kind of walk through the triage operation on the funding side if more
does come your way?   
  
DR. JHA:  Yeah, so we — we mentioned there were two areas where we were
not going to have the stockpiles that we wanted to have going into the
winter: PPE and testing.  Both essential parts of a COVID response.   
  
But when Congress fails to do its job, we have to make some extremely
difficult choices.  We made the choice we wanted to make sure people had
the — we had enough vaccines for Americans.  We wanted to make sure we
had enough treatments for Americans.  And that necessarily meant that we
went into this winter without adequate stockpiles of either PPE or
tests.  That remains true today.  
  
And, you know, the last point I will make about this is that, in my
mind, it’s unacceptable that Congress is forcing us to make these
choices for the American people.  The American people deserve a COVID
response that doesn’t trade off between tests and PPE on one hand and
treatments and vaccines on the other.  They deserve a COVID response
that allows us to have all of those things.  And unfortunately, that is
not where Congress has landed on this.  
  
Q    The President today talked about those who are immunocompromised,
and some of the vaccines may not be able to protect them.  Earlier in
the pandemic, there was more of an approach it seemed for the collective
to try to protect the immunocompromised.   
  
In his comments today, he said if you are in that category, check with
your physician, see how you can protect yourself.  Has there been a
shift in how people who have special requirements medically should be
viewed in this?  Is it the collective responsibility to protect them
when we were doing masking and things like that and other steps?  Or is
it really now the — is the burden on the person who has those
vulnerabilities?  
  
DR. JHA:  Yeah, so I would say as a society — as a caring society, we
care about all Americans, particularly the most vulnerable Americans. 
So it remains, I think, a collective responsibility for all of us to
care about our fellow Americans who are immunocompromised.   
  
And by the way, “immunocompromised” feels like this kind of vague term. 
What is an immunocompromised person?  These are people who are — who
have cancer or undergoing cancer chemotherapy.  These are people who’ve
had transplants.  These are people who are on medicines for autoimmune
diseases.  So these are our neighbors.  These are us.  Right?  These are
fellow Americans.  
  
What the President was highlighting was that with some of the new
subvariants that are — that are emerging, some of the main tools we’ve
had to protect the immunocompromised, like Evusheld, may not work moving
forward.  And that’s a huge challenge.   
  
And again, lack of congressional funding has meant that it’s been
difficult for us to replenish our medicine cabinet, you know.  We had
hoped that over time — as the pandemic went along, as this virus — as
our fight against this virus went along, that we would be expanding our
medicine cabinet.   
  
Because of lack of congressional funding, that medicine cabinet has
actually shrunk, and that does put vulnerable people at risk.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  Go ahead, in the back.  
  
Q    Thanks Karine — oh.  
  
Q    Thank you.   
  
Q    Who are you calling on?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you very much.  There are parents who have children going
through long COVID around the country.  And a lot of parents are finding
out that their doctors don’t know much about long COVID.  There are only
about a dozen clinics around the country that specialize in long COVID
in kids.  What are you doing to help educate doctors around the country
so that parents have more resources to treat this?   
  
DR. JHA:  Yeah, it’s a great question.  And it’s a real problem.  Long
COVID is a problem that we had recognized early as a — as a substantial
issue.  Let me talk kind of in broad terms, and I’ll get much more
specific to your question.  
  
Back in April, the President tasked the Secretary of HHS to put together
an all-of-government response on what are we doing on long COVID, what’s
our research agenda.  Those reports came out in August.  We have
continued working to try to think about wha- — how do we use, you know,
everything from disability policies to Medicare, Medicaid to make sure
we’re treating people with long COVID, that we’re supporting people with
long COVID.   
  
NIH is running the RECOVER study, which is a mu- — it’s not a single
study, it’s a multifaceted approach — building cohorts, trying to
develop new treatments and test them.   
  
So, there’s a lot of work happening inside the federal government
because this is a really important priority.  The problem is that the
medical community is learning about long COVID, but long COVID is not a
single disease.  It’s not a single condition.  It’s probably multiple
different things that manifest themselves.   
  
So that means that we have to do a lot more research on this.  We do
have to get out and get more information out to doctors.  We recently
had a gathering here at the White House of presidents of all the major
medical societies where we talked about key things that need to get out
to physicians and nurse practitioners.  We talked about long COVID is
one of those things that we have to educate the physician workforce.  
  
So there’s a whole set of effort happening both on physician education,
but also on generating the evidence and science to actually figure out
how we can do a better job taking care of people with long COVID.  
  
Q    What can you do to get more funding out to those clinics working on
long COVID and providing those resources to families going through
that?  
  
DR. JHA:  So, there’s — there’s funding for research that — that,
through NIH.  We’ve requested more funding for long COVID work, and I
think that’s going to be an important part for Congress to — to step up
on.   
  
And then, if you think about how we fund a lot of these things, we work
— need to make sure — and we’re working on this — that Medicare,
Medicaid, the other sort of payers are paying for providing care for
individuals with long COVID.   
  
And you know, there’s a whole bunch of policy stuff that goes into
that.  We have to have the right codes.  We have to actually make sure
we can identify people with long COVID.  We have to make sure we’re
reimbursing that care.   
  
So there’s a ton of policy work that’s being done to make sure that
we’re taking care — that we identify people with long COVID and we take
care of them.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you so much.  Just going back to the funding request, the
White House has requested $22 billion; $4 billion of that is for
international assistance.  Can you just explain from, like, a public
health perspective why the American taxpayer should want to spend $4
billion of their money to accelerate response overseas and why it
matters for the health of Americans?   
  
DR. JHA:  Absolutely.  Global outbreak, right?  You heard today from the
President it’s a global health emergency.  Therefore, it needs a global
response.  And that certainly has been our — our footing in the
administration.  The — the U.S. has gotten more vaccines out than any
other country in the world — I think about 650 million doses.   
  
The — the problem at this point is not vaccine supply anymore; it is
about getting shots in arms.  And I’ll talk about why it is so
important.  Every single major variant that has hit the United States
has originated from outside the United States.  So the notion that we
can somehow wall ourselves off and not be affected by what’s happening
in the rest of the world is just naïve.  It’s just not how transmissible
viruses like this work.  
  
So, even if you think about it from a very narrow self-interest, it’s
very important that we get much of the world vaccinated, that we help
build out the kind of vaccination program.   
  
But beyond self-interest, you know, America is a country that is deeply
engaged in the world.  The President has restored American leadership on
global health in a way that — that it was very different than the
previous President.   
  
And so, for a whole set of reasons, it’s very, very important that
America continue to lead.  Four billion dollars is a small investment to
make to better protect Americans and better protect the world.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Weijia.   
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  And thank you, Dr. Jha.  Today, President Biden
talked about how not enough people were getting boosted.  But just a
couple of weeks ago, you said there are no internal or external goals;
there are no targets or numbers that you’re aiming for.  So what does it
mean when he says not enough people are getting boosted?   
  
And, you know, related to that, can you give us a picture of if there
are any parts of the country that are struggling to boost people more
than others and why?  
  
DR. JHA:  Yeah, it’s a — so we — as I said a couple of weeks ago, we
don’t have internal targets.  I think what the President meant was he
just wants to see more Americans getting the — the new COVID vaccine. 
We all do.  Right?  And that’s not because there’s a specific target
that we’re not hitting.  It’s just that we think it’s better for more
Americans to get vaccinated.   
  
We see — when we look across the country, we see lots of variation
across the country on vaccination rates.  Again, you can go to the CDC
website and see that as well.  But you know, our job is that at every
part of the country, we need to continue working on improving
vaccination numbers.  
  
In terms of access, we think there’s good access everywhere, with about
95 percent of Americans living within five miles of a place that has a
vaccine site.  So, I don’t think that access is an issue in certain
regions of the country.  About 70,000 sites have a vaccine — have
vaccination now — vaccinations now.  
  
So, I think access from a pure kind of physical location point of view
is reasonably good everywhere.  Obviously, there’s some rural areas
where we continue to do work to make sure we’re getting out to rural
clinics.  But — but we need to, I think, continue working on improving
vaccinations everywhere.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Jacqui.   
  
Q    On Paxlovid, do you have an estimate of when the government will
run out of Paxlovid — the free doses?   
  
DR. JHA:  Yeah, so I’ll tell you the numbers we have.  About 8 million
doses have gone out to pharmacies.  About five and a half million of
those doses have already been administered.  So there’s another two and
a half million kind of out there.   
  
Based on all of the estimates we have, we will have plenty of Paxlovid
for this fall and winter.  And so, we’re very confident that we’re not
going to run out of Paxlovid anytime soon.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, in the back.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Okay.  Thank you.  Karine, as we saw today, President Biden take
like another shot of the COVID.  And we have seen how he has been very
focused on the fight against the COVID.  We have seen also how he have
donate some — how the United States donate some vaccine to African
countries.   
  
But what come to my attention is the Equatorial Guinea.  This country
has paid $19.5 million to get modern vaccines, but until today, not a
single dose of vaccine have been sent to the country.   
  
As we are talking about COVID and we have seen how the United States
have been very — it’s been fighting about the COVID, is there any update
on when the vaccines for Equatorial Guinea will be sent or if the
President is aware that the Equatorial Guinea bought the vaccines — like
$19.5 million dollars of Moderna vaccine — but never — the vaccine were
never sent to this country?  Are you aware?  
  
DR. JHA:  Yeah, I don’t have any specific updates on that.  What I will
say is we have continued making vaccines available for free to — for
basically every low- and — and many low- and middle-income countries as
well.  There are about 100 countries that are eligible to get free
vaccines through COVAX with — where we donate the vaccines.  And — and
those vaccines are still available for donation.  But I don’t know the
specifics of that.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Steven.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Dr.  Jha, I want to ask you for your initial
impression of the NAEP report this week — the National Assessment of
Educational Progress.  As a leading public health figure in the country,
what was your takeaway from it?  What should the public health
community’s lessons learned be?  
  
DR. JHA:  Yeah, so let’s talk about what we know.  There were obviously
substantial learning losses because — based on all the data we have,
because of the fact that we did not have in-person education for many
schools.  And when the President took over as President in January of
2021, less than half of schools in America were open to full-time,
in-person education.  
  
Within months — I mean, the President made a commitment, and, within
months, basically every school — more than 99 percent of schools were
open to in-person education.   
  
So, this President has been very, very clear that in-person education —
in-person, full-time education is the best form of education.  And the
administration has been committed to it.  We — we did a whole series of
things to make that happen: prioritized teachers getting vaccinated;
made sure there was funding for schools for testing, for improving
indoor air quality.   
  
So the — the major lesson out of that is, I think: If you’re committed
to keeping schools open, you can do it with the right tools, you just
need leadership.  And that’s what this President has — has
demonstrated.  
  
Obviously, those learning losses are important.  We’ve got to do
everything we can to help kids catch up, to learn, to — you know,
basically, if learning losses were because of lack of in-person
education, then — in-person education — then we’re going to have to, you
know, continue to work on afterschool and summer schools and all the
things that education experts — which I’m not an education expert — have
been saying we need to do to help kids catch up.   
  
Q    Do you think — sorry, do you think the public health community has
learned how it might advise the country going forward about this
issue?  
  
DR. JHA:  Well, there’s no monolithic — so I was, by fall of 2020,
advoca- — pretty vociferously arguing that we needed to get kids back in
school.  I think there are many of us in the public health community who
were arguing for in-person education as safe, doable, really useful for
children.   
  
There is not one single view.  But I think there is no question about
it, many of us believed from relatively early in the pandemic that —
that it was really important for kids to have in-person education and
advocated for it.  Obviously, I was advocating as an outside — you know,
as an academic expert.   
  
But — and then, the President was very clear about it from the day he
stepped into office.   
  
Q    You had said that Halloween time is, you know, approximately the
time by which you should get your vaccine so you can be ready for
holiday parties and Thanksgiving and whatnot.  This — this full-court
press that is coming on now, is it late?  Should you have done it sooner
if Halloween is the time when you — when you thought people should be
vaccinated and only 20 percent of seniors are at this point?  
  
DR. JHA:  Yeah, so let me be clear.  I mean, Halloween is not a magical
day.  We picked — I mentioned that day because I was thinking about the
fact that many families, including mine, are getting together with — you
know, with their families for Thanksgiving — and obviously Thanksgiving,
about three to four weeks later.   
  
But the bottom line here is that if you miss the Thanks- — Halloween
deadline, getting vaccinated in November is still a really good idea.   
  
But we have been pushing and we’ve been getting the word out and we’ve
been doing a lot in the last month.  So it’s not like we’ve waited until
now.   
  
Obviously, today was the day that the President got vaccinated based on
his schedule.  And when I say “his schedule,” three months after his
last — his infection.  So that’s why today was a moment to be able to
mark that.  
  
Q    Yeah.  The President seemed to express some level of —
“frustration” may not be the right word, but his remarks seemed to —
maybe “exasperation” is the right word — about divisions when it comes
to people wanting to get vaccinated or not getting vaccinated.  I think,
at one point, he said, “Yeah, I’m having to talk about this again.”   
  
Is there a sense of frustration or exasperation about where things stand
with, you know, the willingness of the country to — to roll up their
sleeves again?  
  
DR. JHA:  No, I don’t think — I wouldn’t use any of those words.  What I
would say is that these are public health matters.  And what the
President said, which I thought was exactly right, was this is not a
political issue, this is not a partisan issue — this is a public health
issue.  Like, we want to protect people.  We want to protect Americans. 
We want to protect American lives.   
  
And right now, what we know, based on the best public health science, is
that COVID is going to be this — if, you know — by getting people
vaccinated, we’re going prevent more deaths over the next three to six
months than by doing anything else.  
  
And what you heard from the President was a very clear statement that
that’s what we are focused on as an administration, because that is the
right public health response at this moment to make sure we’re
protecting people — particularly seniors, who are at high risk of having
bad outcomes.   
  
Q    You mentioned the rise that we’re seeing in pediatric respiratory
illnesses.  I think in some states right now, there are limited ICU
beds.  Seventy-five percent of hospital beds for kids are now filled.   
  
How concerned are you that this limited capacity will be stretched even
more?  And what can you say to parents who are concerned that they may
have trouble finding care if their child has RSV or the flu or COVID?  
  
DR. JHA:  Yeah.  It’s a good question.  So, obviously, we were seeing
the rise of three respiratory viruses, all of them going up around the
same time.  That’s concerning.   
  
So, here’s the big picture.  The good news is: For two of the three, we
have vaccines that are highly effective at preventing serious illness:
COVID and flu.   
  
So, first thing, what I would recommend to parents, which is what I’ve
done as a parent, is gotten my kids vaccinated.  Right?  Because if you
can get them vaccinated against flu and COVID, that takes two of the
three issues off the table.  It also creates more capacity in the
healthcare system, and it just makes it better for everybody.   
  
You know, on — on RSV, RSV is a virus that has been around for forever,
but — it’s been around forever.  It is in — under normal circumstances,
about 90 percent of kids end up getting RSV at least once by the time
they’re two.  Because of the pandemic, some of the, kind of, standard
patterns have been disrupted, so we’re seeing a lot of RSV at once.  
  
What I — my recommendation to parents is — you know, for most kids, RSV
is very, very mild.  And my recommendation is, you know, pretty standard
stuff, right?  Avoid sick contacts.  If your kid is sick, keep them at
home to prevent spreading it to others.   
  
You know, unlike COVID, which is purely airborne, with RSV, a lot of it
is surface transmission.  And therefore, washing hands turns out to be
actually quite a good thing for RSV.   
  
So basic, kind of, infection control, respiratory precautions goes a
long way to controlling — controlling the virus.   
  
And, you know — and again, we’re looking at and we’re really tracking
healthcare capacity very, very closely across pediatric hospitals.  And
obviously, if hospitals need help, we will step in and help them to make
sure that all kids across America get the care they need.   
  
Q    Dr. Jha, would it be more accurate to say that the pandemic has
moved or evolved than to say that the pandemic is “over”?  The President
said that, obviously, several weeks ago, but that declaration doesn’t
seem consistent with the conditions that you’re describing.  
  
DR. JHA:  Yeah, what the President said several weeks ago also was — he
said COVID is not over and we still continue to fight COVID.  And we
do.   
  
And what we’re describing today — what the President described today,
what I’m talking about today — is that COVID continues to kill several
hundred Americans every day.  Right now, it is probably the third
leading cause of death among Americans and probably the number one cause
of preventable deaths among Americans.  So it continues to be a
substantial challenge.   
  
And we are focused on fighting COVID every day.  Well, certainly, our
team is — literally that is — that is what we focus on.  And the
President continues to be focused on this.   
  
And so, whatever terminology we use, I think the bottom line is: COVID
continues to be a substantial problem, and we’re out there fighting
it.   
  
Q    But it’s more than just terminology, isn’t it?  I mean, there’s a
message in saying that the pandemic is over that just doesn’t seem, at
least to my ears, to jive with saying COVID is still a problem.   
  
DR. JHA:  Well, yeah, the President even — even back at the Detroit Auto
Show said COVID is not over, COVID continues to be a problem.  And
that’s the way we have seen this — that COVID continues to be a
challenge.  And our job is to continue fighting COVID to do everything
we can to reduce the number of people who are getting infected, getting
seriously ill, and dying from COVID.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Ebony, in the back.  
  
Q    Just a couple of questions.  The first — as you were talking about
long COVID earlier, has the President or First Lady at all experienced
any long-term COVID effects?  Can you talk about how he’s been doing
since recovering from COVID?   
  
And also, I just kind of want to double down.  When the President was
talking earlier, he said that no one should be dying from COVID and that
when they — if they get the shots, it is 100 percent avoidable.  But
that was a little different than the message that was being put out
earlier during the pandemic, which is that it lessens the chance. 
Right?  
  
But he said today: 100 percent.  That if you do this, that you will not
die from COVID.   
  
So I just want to clear that up.  Is that what — how it’s — how it is?  
  
DR. JHA:  Yeah.  So, in terms of the Pre- — I’m not his personal
physician.  I’ve met with him, chatted with him.  He seems to be doing
great, but I have not asked him.  And again, you’d have to get that from
his personal physician.  But I’m not aware that he’s having any
persistent symptoms.  But again, I’m not his personal physician, and I
have not asked him directly.  But he seems to be doing great.  
  
In terms of what the President said on preventability, here’s what we
know.  We know from large-scale studies that if you’re up to date on
your vaccines and then if you have a breakthrough infection and you take
Paxlovid, mortality really does start approaching zero.   
  
Like, we have seen in very large cohorts of patients who have gotten
COVID that everybody who’s up to date and then, if they have a
breakthrough infection, gets Paxlovid, like, mortality numbers are just
exceedingly low, to a point where they probably are very, very close to
zero.   
  
So, I think I — I think the President — I don’t remember what his exact
words were — that nearly all deaths are preventable, and I think that’s
exactly right, which is, you know — which is, first of all, really
stunning, thinking about how much progress that is in a pandemic where
you had a virus that was killing thousands of people a day when the
President came into office.   
  
We’re now at a point where if people use the tools that we have made
widely available and free, we can get that close to zero.   
  
Q    What about — just really quickly, to double back on Paxlovid,
because there were reports earlier in the year that it’s not as
effective in those who are healthier patients.  And you just mentioned
that you’re seeing something different when they take it.   
  
DR. JHA:  Yeah, so here’s what we know about Paxlovid.  The biggest
benefits are in the — in the highest-risk people.  By the way, that’s
true for every medicine, right?  Medicines are mo- — have the largest
benefit in people who are at highest risk.  Lower-risk people have
smaller benefits from Paxlovid.  
  
I think — and I’ve said this publicly on multiple occasions — I think
the data is overwhelmingly clear that basically everybody over 50
benefits from treatments.  If you’re a 52-year-old who’s up to date on
your vaccines, your benefit is going to be small.  But the cost of
taking it, meaning the side effects, are also trivial.  If you’re 75,
the benefits are going to be large.   
  
And so, I believe everybody is better off taking it, but the benefit is
bigger for people who are higher risk.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  The gentleman in the back with the — the
bowtie.  
  
Q    Here?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes.  (Laughs.)  
  
Q    I did want to ask about vaccine mandates in light of the CDC’s
decision from the other day.  Should children — or school districts
require COVID vaccines?  And should the military require COVID
vaccines?  
  
DR. JHA:  Yeah, so we believe — so let’s talk about the children — about
children first.  So, that is very much a local decision that should be
made by local school districts, by cities, by mayors, by local officials
who usually make those decisions.  And sometimes, they’re made by state
officials.   
  
But ultimately, I personally — and I’ve said this about other COVID
policies as well — that I think it’s extremely important that those
decisions be made at the local level by local leaders.   
  
In terms of the military, that’s a decision that the military leaders
should make space on what it — you know, what the military leadership
decides is important for its — for a ready force.  And — and so the
Secretary of Defense has made that decision so far in terms of that.  
  
Q    But what do you think?  
  
DR. JHA:  What do I think?  I think those decisions should be made by
local officials.  And I am not a local official evaluating — right? 
Because it’s a series of factors that go into making those decisions,
including community input, including what people want in that community,
looking at the data.   
  
I am not a local official.  I am not tasked to make that decision.  I
have not — so I don’t have an opinion on — on what local officials — but
the key is, though, that local officials should be making those
decisions.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Just a couple more.  
  
Q    Thank you.  I wanted to ask you about your vision of how India has
handled the COVID crisis.  And secondly, there was a talk about Quad
cooperation with India manufacturing this COVID vaccine and distribution
to the U.S., and the Quad distributing to the rest of the world.  I
think the progress in that respect has been quite slow.  Where are we on
that part?  
  
DR. JHA:  Yeah.  So, what we know is that India has been — because of
its incredible manufacturing capacity, it has been a major exporter of
vaccines.  My understanding is — and, again, I — I’ve not looked at this
very closely.  My understanding of why it has slowed a bit is because
global demand for vaccines has slowed, because, again, we’ve produced a
lot of vaccines.   
  
But I think that Quad partnership is really important — certainly
important to this administration.  And I think, you know, India is an
important manufacturer of vaccines for the world — I mean, not just for
India itself.  It’s a really important thing.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Karen.   
  
Q    Just to follow up on your answer to my colleague Mary’s questions
about RSV.  And you’d said for COVID and flu, there’s vaccines; you
would recommend that for parents right now.  Would you also recommend
parents go back to masking for kids going to schools?  What are some of
the other lessons of the last two and a half years for parents as
they’re dealing with what seems to be pretty rampant sickness right now
across the country among that age cohort group?  
  
DR. JHA:  Yeah.  So, yeah — so, right now, we don’t have a vaccine for
RSV.  We might in the — there are a couple I know that are being worked
on, but we don’t — I don’t have any insights on their timing or when
they will be available.  
  
And so, I think the most important things on RSV — when I think about
the data we have on how RSV spreads —  
  
Q    I’m sorry.  I just mean broadly, kind of — not just RSV, because I
— you said there wasn’t a vaccine on this.  
  
DR. JHA:  Yeah.  
  
Q    But just the flu and sickness that’s going around right now —  
  
DR. JHA:  Got it.  
  
Q    — what other things would you recommend, going back and looking at
what we’ve been through over the last two and a half years?  Would you
say that parents should be masking their kids again in schools just to
keep sickness down right now?  
  
DR. JHA:  Yeah, yeah.  Yeah, what I — what I would say is: You know,
there’s a series of respiratory precautions that I — we know help.  So I
think the number one thing that is most useful is — when people are
sick, keeping kids — sick kids home.  Right?  That’s probably the single
most important that you can do to prevent spread.  And avoiding sick
contacts in general.   
  
So I think that’s super important.  Which, of course, as a parent —
still it’s super challenging to keep — but that is probably the single
most important thing.  
  
I do think — and, again, different respiratory viruses are different —
but both flu and RSV, there’s good data that handwashing and hand
hygiene is really important.  So I think surface cleaning and hand — and
hand hygiene is very important.  
  
We also know masking definitely helps for COVID.   
  
And so, there’s a series of things that parents can do.  And, you know —
and my feeling is that probably the single most important is, again,
that — avoiding that — the sick contacts and keeping kids home when they
are sick.  But there are other things that parents can do as well.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Final two.  Go ahead, Phil.  And then Michael.  
  
Q    Thank you.  I wanted to follow up quickly on a question that my
colleague just asked, and then I had another one.  Moments ago, you said
that it’s extremely important that these vaccine decisions for
schoolchildren be made at the local level.  I’m curious, though: Does
the President believe that it’s prudent for states like Kansas or
Florida to leave that decision to parents?  Or is just the White House
agnostic on this question and just leaving it to local officials?  
  
DR. JHA:  I think most of these decisions have been made.  I mean, so
when I think about vaccines in general for school-aged kids, my
understanding has been that they’ve always been made at the local
level.  That’s what — I think where these decisions are best made. 
Local officials obviously have to engage families and parents and
understand their views.  
  
And so, I think, you know, my feeling has been — and, by the way, I’ve
made this point for last two years before I came to this administration;
I continue to make it now — that these are local decisions made best by
local officials who understand the communities in which they work and
the communities that they lead.   
  
Q    And then you also mentioned earlier in the briefing that one of the
reasons why it’s so important for the United States not to neglect the
global response to COVID is because each of these variants have come
from outside our borders.   
  
I’m wondering: Do you or the White House have any response to the fact
that the NIH, just last month, awarded another grant to the EcoHealth
Alliance to study bat coronavirus in Myanmar, Laos, and Vietnam?  Is
that type of funding — given some of the questions that we still have,
is that prudent?   
  
DR. JHA:  Yeah, I — I will tell you, I don’t know much about — and,
again, at the White House, we don’t get involved in decisions that NIH
makes about what — what research to fund.  But I don’t know specifically
about those grants, so I just can’t comment on that.  
  
Q    Thank you, sir.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Michael.  
  
Q    Dr. Jha, there’s been substantial work on a potential
pan-coronavirus vaccine, including by Walter Reed scientists.  What are
you seeing in terms of the data on these clinical trials, and do you
think they’re promising?  
  
DR. JHA:  Yeah, so it’s a really good question, Michael, and gets at a
bit of a broader perspective — right? — which is, again, so we’ve
updated the current vaccines.  They’re great.  But the virus will
continue to evolve.  That is one thing we know about this virus.   
  
And if we really want to get ahead of this virus in a very substantial
way, we want to build pan-sarbecovirus vaccines or pan-betacoronavirus
vaccines that really will be variant proof.  And there is really good
work being done by scientists at — within the U.S. government but also
being done in academic labs across the country.   
  
And this has been one of the areas where we need congressional fund —
funding and support.  We have a project that — you know, that we’ve
talked — described, where — which really speeds up the availability of
those vaccines for the American people.   
  
I think, in the long run, it’s absolutely essential that we develop both
pan-sarbecovirus or pan-coronavirus vaccines and mucosal vaccines,
because mucosal vaccines are going to be the ones that are really going
to block transmission with a very high degree of fidelity and really —
and bring the level of infections down.  It’s going to be very hard to
do those things without congressional funding.   
  
So one of the things that we have asked Congress for funding for is for
support to speed those up, because the science is so promising.  And
because science is promising and because it will take many, many years
for all those to get developed and come on the market on their own, we
think it’s a really important role for the government to play in both
speeding up the science — speeding up the clinical trials.  And then the
ones that end up working out and working well, bringing them to market
for the American people much more quickly.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Thank you so much, Dr. Jha.  
  
DR. JHA:  Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  
  
DR. JHA:  Thank you, everybody.  
  
Q    Appreciate your time.   
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Go ahead, Seung Min.  
  
Q    I just wanted to clarify on the Griner situation.  Is it still the
case that the Russians are still being nonresponsive to the offer?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I thin- — I believe the President said this as well,
that we’re in constant communication through multiple channels with
Russia, as I mentioned at the top of my comments of the briefing.   
  
So, look, as I’ve said many times before, this is a priority for us. 
It’s going to continue to be a priority for us.  And — but what I also
said at the end of the statement I made at the top is that we need
Russia to negotiate in good faith.  
  
Q    Is there — since they’re not — since they’re not responding to the
offer or making a serious counteroffer, is there any consideration of
changing the U.S. offer that’s on the table?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look — you know, going back to your first question a
little bit: Look, it’s — look, it’s fair to say that we have been in
contact, right?  And the lines — the lines of communication continue to
be open.  I’m certainly not going to negotiate from here, from this
podium or in public.  And so therefore, we’re not going to get into
greater details.   
  
But again, we have been very clear that Brittney Griner and Paul Whelan
should — need to be home.  They should be home right away.  And the
President is going to do everything that he can to bring detained
Americans back home.   
  
Q    And on another topic, I wanted to follow up on a question my
colleague asked you last week about the — I was just wondering if the
White House has been briefed on the case of the U.S. Marine and his wife
who are facing accusations of abducting an Afghan child during the
withdrawal.  
  
I know the Pentagon, Justice, and State have — are aware of the
situation.  And obviously, the couple says they have legal custody of
the child.  But has the White House been made aware of the situation? 
Is President Biden aware?  And do you have any reactions to this?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes, I remember Darlene asking me on — on the plane, I
believe, on Friday.  So we do have an update for you here.  We are all
concerned with the wellbeing of this child, who was, in the first
instance, as you just said, <s>offerend</s> \[orphaned\] in — orphaned
in Afghanistan, to be clear, and who is at the heart of this matter for
— three years later.  
  
I — I won’t have much to say in the situations involving minors.  The
United States took extensive steps to reunite the child with her — her
next-of-kin in Afghanistan after she was orphaned.  The United States
has now taken steps to make its position on this matter clear to the
appropriate authorities.  
  
Again, I’m not in a position to — to comment on this any further on any
litigation that is currently occurring and would refer you to the
Department of Justice for any further comment on this.  
  
Go ahead, Mary.  
  
Q    All right.  Thank you.  
  
Q    Following on — quick questions on Griner.  There’s sort of a sense
that the negotiations couldn’t enter the next phase until this appeal
process was concluded.  So can you discuss a bit how today’s ruling may
have impacted negotiations?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I mean, we’ve been very clear about this.  We’re
not going to certainly negotiate in public.  Look, we are disappointed,
but we — about — about what we saw today but not surprised by the
outcome.   
  
As we have said multiple occasions, these judicial procedures are a
sham.  And look, this is a priority for this administration.  This is a
priority for the President.  This is a priority for Jake Sullivan —
National Security Advisor.  He put out a statement this morning.  And
this is a priority for the Department of State.   
  
And we’re going to do — we’re going to continue to put — to make this a
priority and get Brittney Griner home as soon as possible and also get
Paul Whelan home.  
  
Again, I’m not going to negotiate in public.  I’m not going to go into
details of the process.  But again, this is — this is a priority, and we
need Russia — we are asking and telling Russia to negotiate in good
faith.  
  
Q    A question on Russia and Ukraine.  The President — we heard him say
earlier that it would be a serious mistake for Russia to use a dirty
bomb.  But just to be clear, would the U.S. be forced to respond, and
would there be consequences?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So just to be clear — and the President has said this
many, many times.  And he’s been very clear about this, and he has — he
said it again today: It would be a major mistake for Russia to use
nuclear weapons in Ukraine, leading to severe consequences.   
  
As — as for the potential use of a dirty bomb, to your question, Mary:
Look, Russia is pushing transparently false allegations.  You heard me
say that, you heard my colleague over at the State Department say that
yesterday — that Ukraine is preparing to use a dirty bomb on its own
territory — territory.  We are calling that false — false allegations by
Russia.   
  
So we must take this seriously, which is what the President said today —
you heard him say that — because, in the past, we have seen Russia use
allegations as a pretext to escalate.  And as the President said, we
don’t know if that is the case here.  We — we don’t see that to be the
case.   
  
But again, we have not seen Russia make these preparations, as you’ve
heard us say — you heard me say yesterday, you’ve heard us say
yesterday.  But, of course, we will continue to monitor this very, very
closely.  
  
Q    But if Russia does use a dirty bomb, will the U.S. respond?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, we have been very clear and have in — through
our private conversations with Russia about the consequences.  I’m
certainly not going to lay them out here.  And, look, you know, we have
communicated directly with them.  I’m just not going to get — get ahead
of any conversations on what we’ve laid out for the Russians.  
  
Q    Karine, Saudi Arabia’s energy minister said today that Saudi had
been the mature guys or mature partner in this dispute between the
United States and Saudi.  Just wanted to see if the White House had a
reaction to that.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me just say a couple of things at the top
here.  This is a relationship that — that was built — and I’ve said this
also many times — over — over several decades on a bipartisan basis.   
  
So, the President is going to strategically think through what the
review process is and how we move forward with this relationship.  He’s
going to take his time to consult with members of both parties, with
party — with partners, allies, and with — with the Saudis as well.   
  
We’ve taken notes since the OPEC+ cut that Saudi Arabia voted against
Russia at the United Nations, and also pledged $4 million to support
Ukraine’s reconstruction and humanitarian needs.  These steps do not
compensate, though, for the production cut, but they are noteworthy. 
And we’ll be watching to see what Saudi Arabia does over the coming
weeks and will inform our consultations and — and review.   
  
I’m certainly not going to comment on any specific statement that you
just laid out.  
  
Q    It seems like a little bit more conciliatory language, though, that
you’ve been using for the last couple of weeks.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think we’ve been very clear: We are noticing some
actions that they’ve taken, as I just laid out, and — at the United
Nations and what Saudi Arabia was able to do in helping Ukraine — right?
— because that is something that is incredibly important that you see
that from our allies and partners and making sure that we support
Ukraine in their — in their fight for their own democracy and for their
freedom.  
  
And so, we’ve always are going to lift that up, because we know how
important that is in this time, in this moment.  
  
Look, I’m not going to get into any tit-from-tat \[sic\] — tit-or-tat
\[sic\] here from — from the podium about what someone may have said in
Saudi Arabia.  But I’m just going to lay out how this President sees
this relationship and how this President sees this relationship moving
forward.  
  
Q    Secondly, there have been some assertions recently from Republicans
and also from progressive lawmakers in a now-withdrawn letter that the
U.S. should be more actively involved in meeting peace negotiations
between Ukraine and Russia.  What’s the White House’s response to
that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’ve been very clear about that.  That is up to
Ukraine.  That is up to the President — President Zelenskyy.  There is —
it’s nothing about Ukraine without Ukraine.  We’ve been very clear about
that.  Our job, as we see it today, as we’ve seen it for the — this past
year — more than a year — is to make sure that Ukraine has what it needs
on the ground as we see this — this war happening in Ukraine.  
  
And that’s why we’ve provided the security assistance that we have. 
That’s why we’ve provided the economic assistance and aid.  And you’ll
continue to — to see that from us and from our allies.  And so, that is
our — to make sure — and we’re doing this to strengthen their hand not
just on the battlefield, but if they choose — if Ukraine chooses to
negotiate.  
  
But again, that is up to — up to President Zelenskyy, and he will make
that decision for his country.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Following up on that, did anybody from the White
House ask or advise members of the Congressional Progressive Caucus to
rescind that letter, as they did?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything — any comment to make about that
letter.  Again, our — we are very appreciative to the bipartisanship
that we have seen from Congress these past eight, nine months, even over
a year on the funding that we’ve been able to provide — the bipartisan
funding that we’ve been able to provide.   
  
And so, you know, the President has been also very clear it’s not — it’s
— you know, he said this recently: “Our support to Ukraine is a lot
bigger than just Ukraine.  It’s about supporting NATO and all of
Europe.  It’s about making sure that Putin is not able to succeed
through his brutal actions,” as we’ve been seeing.  Our support for
Ukraine will remain strong until the end of this war.   
  
And so, again, we appreciate the bipartisan effort.  We’re going to
continue to be in conversations with members of Congress on how to — how
to continue to move forward in order to support Ukraine in their
efforts.  I don’t have more to say about that particular letter.  
  
Q    When the President was asked earlier about the potential for a
false-flag operation, he noted kind of as an aside that he’d been
talking a lot about that this morning leading up to the public event.   
  
Do you have any details or context about what those discussions may have
been and kind of the process as the White House watches this play out?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So the — the President has been, as you know, very
involved for the past several months on what is happening in Ukraine
with the war that President Putin — unprovoked war that he — that he
started.  And again, this war can end today if President Putin were to
decide to do so.   
  
So, look, as you know, the President is not just President; he’s also
the Commander-in-Chief, and he is in regular communication with his
national security advisors.   
  
And I’m not going to get into any private conversations that the
President is having.  But this is, clearly, a priority — has been a
priority for this President for several months.  And again, we are going
to continue to support Ukraine until this war ends.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  President Biden last year likened the new Georgia
voting law to, quote, “Jim Crow in the 21st century.” But turnout so far
in the state’s elections has smashed midterm records.  Today topped 1
million votes overall.  That’s about 70 percent more than 2018, on par
with the presidential election turnout. 

Was President Biden wrong with his assessment of Georgia’s — Georgia’s
voting law, or does he stand by that Jim Crow comparison?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you know, I got to be careful; I cannot get
into politics from here, so I won’t comment specifically on that race or
on the elections or the data that’s coming out of Georgia.

But the President has been very clear that based on the — the Big Lie,
there have been a host of anti-voter policies forced on states that
challenge America’s fundament- — fundamental right to vote — right? —
the access to voting. 

And so this is — this is against our most basic values, including
respect for the law and the Constitution.  And speaking generally, of
course — more broadly — of course, high turnout and voter suppression
can take place at the same time.  They don’t have to be — one doesn’t
have to happen on its own.  They could be happening at the same time.

But I’ll leave it there without being able to really dig into the
politics of this.

Q    Is the White House observing instances of voter suppression in
Georgia and other states that adopted some of these laws over the last
two years?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, we — we have seen, ourselves — I just laid out
we’ve seen ourselves from what legislation — state legislations that we
have seen across the country that is suppressing the right to vote.

And, look, we believe that people should have the fundamental access to
voting.

As you know, very early in this administration, the President signed an
executive order on how he can — what he can do from the federal level to
make voting easier for the — for the American people.  He did that on
the anniversary of Selma — the mar- — the march that we know the icon
John Lewis helped to lead.  And he wanted to make sure that he took
action and not just words.

So, as you know, the President is very attuned to this.  But, again, I
don’t want to get into specifics of what is currently happening in one
race.  But, again, this is something that we have seen throughout —
throughout this past couple of years on how voting — the access to
voting is being attacked. 

Q    But doesn’t that record turnout show that Georgia voters are
finding ways to vote, even amid the — with the (inaudible)?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, again, I’m not going to get into specifics of
what Georgia voters are doing.  What I am saying is that, you know,
generally speaking, again — more broadly speaking, of course — high
turnout and voter suppression can take place at the same time.

Q    Thanks.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.

Q    Karine, thanks.  Back to Brittney Griner.  The last time the
President talked about whether he would meet with Putin next month at
the G20, he said he had no intention to do that, but if Putin were to
come to him and say, “‘I want to talk about the release of Griner,’ I
would meet with him.  But that would depend.”

Has the U.S. proposed a meeting between the two leaders?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That still stands.  He has no intention to meet with
President Putin.  And nothing has changed from that.

Q    But why leave the ball in Putin’s court?  Why leave it to Putin to
come to him and say, “Let’s talk about Griner,” when this is such a
priority to bring her home?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’ve made a substantial offer.  We have put a
substantial offer on the table.  And we are asking Russia, we are
telling Russia to — to negotiate in good faith.  And that’s how much of
a priority that we’re — we are putting — putting forth, is by putting a
substantial offer on the table. 

And so, again, I don’t have a meeting or call with President Putin to
announce it at this time.  The President has been very clear he has no
intention of doing that.

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Jacqui.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Today, I asked the President if COVID is still a
national emergency.  And he said, “It’s a necessity to deal with to make
sure it doesn’t become one.”  His answer would suggest that perhaps it’s
not a national emergency right now.  So is it fair to call it a national
emergency under the HEROES Act to justify student loan cancellation?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So the student loan cancellation, first and foremost,
that was decided by the appropriate agencies that that was the tool that
we were going to use to make — to make sure that we give relief to
Americans that need it.

Let’s — we should step back for a second and understand why the
President took that action when it comes to the student loan.

When he came into the office, clearly, there were people — Americans who
were — who were, you know, having a hard time dealing with the economic
situation that the pandemic was causing, right?  And we had the former
administration who mishandled the COVID — the CO- — the reaction to
COVID, how we would move forward out of COVID.  The last administration
bungled that, really.

And so the President took action and made sure that people were getting
shots in arms and we were moving to a place where things could open —
schools could open, businesses could open.

And so, at the same time as the President is thinking through how — how
this — how getting out of this — this — that phase of the pandemic,
there’s the student loans.  There are people who — who are really
squeezed by the pandemic.  And so he wanted to make sure that when we
lift up the pause, that we gave people a little bit more breathing
room.  And that is where the student debt relief comes from.

And we understand once that — once that pause is lifted, there’s still
going to be people who are going to have a difficult time.  And so,
we’re — just because we’re in a different phase of the pandemic, as the
President has said, COVID is still a problem.  And so — and so that’s
how we came to that decision to move forward with our assessment on how
we’re going to provide that student relief to middle-class Americans.

And also, let’s not forget: 90 percent of borrowers who are going to be
receiving this debt relief are making less than $75,000 a year.  And so
all of that matters when you’re lifting up something and you’re — and
you’re — when you’re lifting up a pause that has been lifted for about
three years, knowing that the pandemic has been a problem, knowing that
COVID is continuing to be a problem, knowing what the American people,
middle-class families have had to go through, the President was trying
to — making sure that he didn’t leave anyone behind and making sure that
he didn’t forget those middle-class families. 

Q    I hear what you’re saying on all that.  I guess my question is: Is
there another — perhaps a better mechanism to do that, because the whole
program is caught up now in litigation.  I know a lot of this legal
argument is that it can’t be a national emergency because of actions
that the administration has taken elsewhere.

So I wonder —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I actually disagree with you.  What is happening is
there are opponents out there of the student loan debt relief who do not
want to give middle-class families a little bit more breathing room.   
  
There are opponents out there, many of them are Republicans, who are —
who do not want us to make sure that those 90 percent of Americans who
are making $75,000 or less are getting that actual benefit to be able to
put money down on a house, to be able to start a family.  They are upset
that we are trying to help those very, very Americans.  So that is what
is happening.  
  
This is pure politics that we’re seeing out there.  It is not — and the
President — the way the President sees this, this is not partisan.  
  
Q    On the “national emergency” front then, what is the criteria the
country would have to meet for it not to be a national emergency?  Or is
that even a goal?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, here’s the thing: We cannot forget that COVID is
still a problem.  We just had Dr. Jha here talking to all of you.  He
wanted to be here, and we wanted him to be — to all of you, because you
guys communicate with the American people.  And we want — we want that —
the American people to know that there is a new vaccine out there, and
they need to get that shot in the arm because that new vaccine is going
to help them ahead of the winter months.  
  
So, clearly, COVID is still a problem.  We’re trying to communicate very
clearly with the American people how important it is to continue to get
that vaccine.   
  
So, you have — you have the COVID Response director here, you have the
President, who, in front of the American people, took his shot to send a
message.   
  
So, again, we are — we are still dealing with COVID.  We’re trying to do
everything that we can to make sure that it continues to not be a
disrupter.  Right?  And the reason that it’s not a disrupter is because
of the work that this President has done in the last 20 months.  
  
Okay, I’m going to move on.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  The President last week on Friday said that it
would be, quote, “irresponsible” to abolish the debt ceiling — the limit
on debt.   
  
There are a number of Democrats and the Treasury Secretary, Janet
Yellen, who have said in the past that that should be considered or
they’ve advocated for getting rid of it altogether to allow Congress to
pay for the things that have already been passed into law.   
  
Does the President disagree with the Treasury Secretary?  And does he
think it would be more irresponsible to abolish the debt ceiling or to
allow it to become a political football that Republicans and Democrats
negotiate over with full faith and credit of that country hanging in the
balance?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as it comes — as it relates to Secretary Yellen’s
comments, I would have to see them in full, so — in order for me to
respond.  But I can tell you this: The President believes that it should
not be used as a political football.   
  
And the — the thing that we are responding to — and I just want to be
very clear here — the reason why we’re responding — you heard from the
President last week, and he’s been very clear about the debt ceiling —
is because what Republicans are trying to do.   
  
They have been clear as well.  They have said if we do not put Medicare
and Social Security on the chopping blocks — if they were — I want to be
very careful — if they were to have to have the majority, that they
would hold, essentially, the government for host- — hostage, when it
relates — as it relates to the debt — the debt ceiling.   
  
And that is something that should not happen.  That is what we’re
responding to.  That is what we’re talking about and calling out what
Republicans are doing.   
  
And, you know, it is — it is — it is — you know, it is not — it is a —
it is — you know, it is reckless.  It is playing a reckless game with
our economic — with our economy, and it would be catastrophic if they
were to do that.  It would not help inflation; it would hurt inflation
if Republicans were to do that.  You would increase cost for our
seniors.  You would increase costs for American families.  That’s what
they want to do.  
  
And so that — that is — the President has been very clear about that and
about not using the debt limit as a political football.  And he’ll
continue to speak to that and speak against that as — as Republicans lay
out — congressional Republicans lay out what — you know, what they want
to do in the next couple of months.  
  
Q    Is there a world in which the President might reconsider — based
on, you know, the threat that you just laid out — this thing that a
number of Democrats are calling for — abolishing the debt limit — and
allowing this to not be a political football?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, the President has been very clear.  He is
calling out the scheme that he has seen from congressional Republicans
when it comes to healthcare costs, when it comes to the economy, when it
comes to people’s Medicare and Social Security.  It is a scheme that
they’re putting out there to put seniors at their knees, and that’s
shameful.   
  
And that should be the conversation that we should be having.  That
should be what he believes we should call out.  And again, that should
not — when it comes to the debt limit, it should not be used as a
political football.   
  
Go ahead, JJ.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  On Elon Musk, I’m wondering if you’d be willing to
clarify, please: Are you saying that no one in the government — you’re
saying for a fact that no one in the government is considering any sort
of national security review, including CFIUS, on any — on the Twitter
purchase, on Starlink, or on any of his other ventures?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m saying I don’t know of any such discussions.  
  
Q    Okay.  Got you.  So do you know, are — is anyone in the
administration concerned about the Twitter purchase with some foreign
investors, or Starlink, or his peace plan, or his tweets, or his, you
know, somewhat Russia-friendly comments?  Do you know if there are
concerns about that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, on the first — on the first piece, we would just
not — on the Twitter purchase, that’s something that we would not
comment from here.  We do not comment — comment on transactions.  And
so, we’ve been very clear on that.  So, I’ll leave that there.   
  
On his comments about Ukraine and giving up territory, I know that Mr.
Musk has been very, very vocal about that.  Look, he’s a private citizen
with a private company.  And our position and the government’s position
has been very clear, as I have laid out many times here before, on how
we see that process moving.   
  
It is up to Ukraine.  It is their decision to make.  Nothing about
Ukraine without Ukraine.  And we’ve been very clear about that.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  So Jake Sullivan said in September that there
would be enormous amount of intensive diplomacy in the region in
response to the wave of migration from Cuba, Venezuela, and Nicaragua. 
And I was just wondering if there were any updates from the
administration on that diplomacy that he said would happen in the coming
weeks.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  With those specific countries?  
  
Q    Or with the region to handle that problem.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, we — in October — I believe, on October 12th, we
announced this — we announced a deal that we made with Mexico on dealing
with the migration that we’re seeing in the Western Hemisphere of
Venezuelans, Nicaraguans, and Cubans who are, as you know, fleeing
communism.   
  
And I laid out yesterday how effective that has been in really bringing
down the — bringing down Venezuelans, specifically, coming into — coming
— crossing the border.   
  
And so those are — that is a diplomacy that came from — that came from
here, and we had that conversation with Mexico.  And we’re seeing the
effects of that.   
  
I don’t have anything else to — to lay out or any other diplomacy coming
from here.  But that was — that was a — diplomacy that — that was really
important and critical to us, to American — to American — to American
people here, by having that agreement with Mexico to see how we can deal
in a — in a humanitarian way, in a safe way with Venezuelans who were,
again, fleeing communism to come to the U.S.  
  
Q    And just to follow up on that, does the White House view that new
move as an expansion of Title 42 — something that many Democrats have
called for an end for?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, our — again, what we have done this past
couple of weeks with that particular agreement with — agreement with
Mexico has really — has really benefited.  We have seen the launch of
the joint enforcement actions.  We’ve seen the number of Venezuelans
attempt- — attempting to cross the southern border decreased sharply by
more than 85 percent.   
  
So, you know, individuals who continue to be expelled, as required by
court order under the CDC’s Title 42 public health order.  We have to
remember it’s not an immigration order.  It is a — a Title 42 — CDC — it
is indeed a health public order.    
  
And so that is — that continues.  That does not end.   
  
But, again, we were able to bring together the Department of Homeland
Security — had a series of conversations with Mexico to provide an
orderly — orderly way and limited way for Venezuelan nationals to arrive
in the United States.  And so, we’re encouraged about what we’re seeing
here because of that diplomacy that we have had with Mexico.   
  
I’m trying to see who I haven’t called.  Go ahead.  I haven’t called on
you.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Two questions.  I previously spoke to a source
close to the Brittney Griner camp who said, in addition to wanting to
get her home, there was a broader concern about the sanctity of world
sports and this worry that other athletes who travel across
international borders can be wrong — detained giv- — for any given
reason because of geopolitics.  Is that a concern for the White House? 
And what is its message to world athletes?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I think the State Department has always been
very clear on giving — giving athletes and others who travel guidance on
just what to be mindful of when they travel to other countries.   
  
And so, I would — I would suggest to folks who are not sure or just
curious as to — as to where they can — are able to travel to just get in
touch with the U.S. Department of — U.S. Department of State.  And
they’ve been very clear on this.  They — they are — you know, send out
guidance when it becomes a problem to travel to a certain country.   
  
And we have — we have announced them multiple times from here at this
very podium in certain countries, as to give — you know, kind of give —
give a laydown of why folks should not be traveling at this time.  
  
Q    One more question.  Former Trump administration official Stephen
Miller’s group, America First Legal, is running million-dollar ads in
battleground states like Georgia, targeting Black and Latino
communities, that accuses the Biden administration of, quote, “pushing
radical gender experiments on children, changing their names, clothes,
identities, and bodies.”   
  
Does the White House have a response to this?  And does the
administration see this as an attempt to make trans issues a political
wedge issue in Black and brown communities?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I want to be careful here because you’re asking
about a political ad.  So, I can’t respond directly to that ad.   
  
But what I want to say is, you know, the President has been very, very
clear — and you’ve heard us say this from this podium — and it will
continue to be what we believe, which is transgender right are indeed
human rights.  And I’ll leave that at — I leave that there.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Last one.  
  
Q    Has the President — a couple of questions just on the new British
Prime Minister.  Has the President made any call yet, or has a call been
scheduled with the new British Prime Minister?   
  
And given the close working relationship that the two countries — the
two governments have on a lot of issues, is there any concern about the
turnover in the Prime Minister’s office that the President has?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m sure you’ve seen the President sent out his
congratulations to Prime Minister — the new Prime Minister in a tweet
earlier this morning.  President Biden looks forward to speaking with
Prime Minis- — with the Prime Minister Sunak later this afternoon.  It
may have happened already, as it’s already 4:30 in the afternoon.   
  
And as you all know, once — we will certainly provide a readout of that
conversation when it happens, if I ha- — if the readout is not out
yet.   
  
Look, I want to be very, very clear here — and I was asked this question
yesterday: The way that we see our relationship with the United Kingdom
— it is a — it is a close relationship that we’ve had with the people of
the UK for some time now.  And — and we look forward — as the President
has said, we look forward to working with the new Prime Minister.  I’ll
leave it there.  
  
Okay, I’ll see you guys tomorrow.  Thanks.  
  
4:32 P.M. EDT
