---
date: '2022-10-25'
modified_time: 2022-10-25 19:09:06-04:00
published_time: 2022-10-25 18:44:11-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/25/readout-of-cybersecurity-executive-forum-on-electric-vehicles-and-electric-vehicle-charging-infrastructure-hosted-by-the-office-of-the-national-cyber-director/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of Cybersecurity Executive Forum on Electric Vehicles and Electric\
  \ Vehicle Charging Infrastructure Hosted by the Office of the National Cyber\_Director"
---
 
This morning, the Office of the National Cyber Director (ONCD) convened
government and private-sector leaders in a forum focused on
cybersecurity issues in the electric vehicle (EV) and electric vehicle
supply equipment (EVSE) ecosystem. This forum occurred as part of a
larger series of executive-level meetings targeting various sectors,
most recently a
[healthcare-focused](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/16/readout-of-healthcare-cybersecurity-executive-forum-hosted-by-national-cyber-director-chris-inglis/)
[event](https://twitter.com/ncdinglis/status/1537539397322780677) in
June, intended to support strategic awareness and preparedness and to
strengthen all parts of critical infrastructure.  
  
National Cyber Director Chris Inglis and Principal Deputy National Cyber
Director Kemba Walden hosted Polly Trottenberg, Deputy Secretary,
Department of Transportation; David Turk, Deputy Secretary, Department
of Energy; Mitch Landrieu, Senior Advisor to the President and
Infrastructure Implementation Coordinator; Anne Neuberger, Deputy
Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor for
Cyber & Emerging Technology on the National Security Council; Kristina
Costa, Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy for Clean Energy
Innovation & Implementation; Caitlin Durkovich, Deputy Homeland Security
Advisor for Resilience & Response; other senior government officials;
and senior executives representing stakeholders in the EV and EVSE
ecosystem for a cyber threat and vulnerability briefing and a roundtable
discussion on cybersecurity. Officials emphasized the importance of
partnering closely with the private sector in order to ensure resilience
and robustness are essential characteristics of the EV ecosystem.  
  
Industry participants—who included representatives from auto
manufacturers, component manufacturers, and EV charging infrastructure
manufacturers—were asked for and shared the views of their individual
organizations on current cybersecurity practices, gaps, and
recommendations for improvement throughout the EV ecosystem. Government
officials noted that building a secure and resilient ecosystem for EVs
and EVSE is important to achieving climate policy goals safely and
securely. Government officials shared how they are driving towards these
goals through implementation of investments of over $7.5 billion in
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law (BIL) funds for EV charging infrastructure
and billions more in tax credits and direct investments as part of the
Inflation Reduction Act. All participants emphasized the need to
accelerate construction and deployment of this critical infrastructure
while ensuring that, as Americans increasingly rely on it, we are
confident in its security and resilience. There was also discussion
about how the Administration’s implementation of the Build America, Buy
America Act could improve the supply chain security of components that
all of the companies rely on.  
  
Participants agreed that the public and private sectors, including a
diverse array of stakeholders in the EV ecosystem, will work together
to:

-   Assess the current state of cybersecurity standards across the EV
    and EVSE ecosystem and identify opportunities for harmonization;
-   Identify key cybersecurity attributes needed for the emerging EV and
    EVSE ecosystem and outline a shared vision of the future state; and
-   Assess the state of cybersecurity research and development for the
    EV and EVSE ecosystem and identify opportunities for further work.

\###
