---
date: '2022-10-12'
modified_time: 2022-10-12 15:04:39-04:00
published_time: 2022-10-12 16:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/12/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-boards-and-commissions-10/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to Boards and\_Commissions"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint the
following individuals to the U.S. AbilityOne Commission:

-   Matthew R. Beebe, Commissioner, Department of Defense
-   Angela Billups, Commissioner, Department of Veterans Affairs
-   Megan Dake, Commissioner, Department of the Army
-   Carol L. Dobak, Commissioner, Department of Education
-   Robert D. Hogue, Commissioner, Department of the Navy
-   Tara M. Jamison, Commissioner, Department of Justice
-   Malcom A. Shorter, Commissioner, Department of Agriculture

**<span style="text-decoration: underline;">U.S. AbilityOne
Commission</span>**

The U.S. AbilityOne Commission is the independent federal agency that
oversees the AbilityOne Program, whose mission is to tap America’s
underutilized workforce of individuals who are blind or have significant
disabilities to deliver high quality, mission-essential products and
services to federal agencies in quality employment opportunities.
AbilityOne is one of the largest sources of jobs in the country for
people who are blind or have significant disabilities, an underserved
population that has historically experienced the lowest employment rate
of any segment of U.S. society. Approximately 40,000 AbilityOne
employees, including over 2,500 veterans, work at approximately 450
nonprofit agencies from Guam to Maine. The Commission administers the
Program with the assistance of two central nonprofit agencies – National
Industries for the Blind (NIB) and SourceAmerica – in accordance with
the Javits-Wagner-O’Day Act.

The U.S. AbilityOne Commission is the operating name for the agency,
whose statutory name is the Committee for Purchase From People Who Are
Blind or Severely Disabled. The Commission consists of 15 Presidential
appointees: 11 represent federal agencies and four are private citizens
representing people who are blind or have significant disabilities.

**Matthew R. Beebe, Commissioner, Department of Defense**

Matthew Beebe currently serves as Director of Acquisition at the Defense
Logistics Agency (DLA) in Fort Belvoir, Virginia. He also serves as the
Component Acquisition Executive and Senior Procurement Executive for
DLA. He is responsible for the development, application, and oversight
of the DLA acquisition program which exceeds $40 billion annually. In
2010, Beebe became a member of the Senior Executive Service when he
joined DLA as the Executive Director of the Joint Contingency
Acquisition Support Office (JCASO). JCASO was established to
orchestrate, synchronize, and integrate program management of
contingency acquisition across combatant commands and U.S. government
agencies during pre-conflict operations, contingency operations, and
combat operations. He received a Bachelor of Science Degree in Civil
Engineering in 1983 from Clarkson College and later that year
commissioned as an Ensign in the U.S. Navy Civil Engineer Corps. His
postgraduate education resulted in a Master’s Degree in Civil
Engineering from the University of Illinois in 1989. After 25 years,
Beebe retired from the Navy. His service included tours in the Naval
Construction Force with multiple deployments to the Middle East and East
Asia, and a combined 17 years of acquisition experience. Following his
military service, Matthew joined PMA Consultants, LLC, a program,
project, and construction management firm. Beebe is a registered
Professional Engineer, certified Project Management Professional, member
of the Defense Acquisition Professional Community, and graduate of the
Carnegie Mellon University Program for Executives.

**Angela Billups, Commissioner, Department of Veterans Affairs**

Angela Billups is a public servant who has sustained transformative
multi-site organizations while simultaneously building teams and driving
consensus. She continuously contributes to and spearheads efforts to
increase customer focus, efficiencies, transparency, and accountability.
Billups strategically and continuously builds coalitions which improve
organizational performance, deliver better outcomes, and deliver results
effectively and efficiently to drive mission success. She has held
positions responsible for multi-billion dollar acquisition mission
areas, leading efforts related to: training and professional
development; coordinating and ensuring implementation of strategies;
policies; and systems, especially focused on enterprise organizational
systems and structures. She is results driven with a clear understanding
that real change involves improved administrative and technical
environments. Billups has served at four cabinet-level federal
departments as Senior Advisor for secretaries, deputy secretaries, and
assistant secretaries supporting global missions. Over the years, she
has helped modernize and transform the federal acquisition environment,
and is routinely selected to lead highly visible initiatives including
complex organizational changes. She has supported the White House,
Congress, Office of Management and Budget, and cabinet-level
departments.

**Megan Dake, Commissioner, Department of the Army**

Megan Dake currently serves as the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the
Army (Procurement) under the Office of the Assistant Secretary of the
Army (Acquisition Logistics and Technology), where she oversees all
aspects of procurement with an oversight function for the acquisition of
Army weapon systems, research and development, logistics, and the Army’s
full range of services. She also serves as the functional career chief
for the contracting career field and oversees the recruitment, training,
certification and professional development of the 8,000+ military and
civilian contracting workforce worldwide. Dake leads the Army
Contracting Enterprise in three lines of effort: developing people,
integrating relationships, and revolutionizing contracting. In previous
roles, Dake served as the Army Executive Director for Services
Acquisition, Senior Contracting Official for the National Guard Bureau,
and Senior Contracting Official for the Marine Corps Systems Command. As
the head of Army procurement, she is the largest proponent of the Army’s
support of the AbilityOne programs. Her office and leadership guide the
Army’s organizations as it looks to increase opportunities for
AbilityOne supplies and services.

**Carol L. Dobak, Commissioner, Department of Education**

Carol Dobak is the Acting Commissioner for the Rehabilitation Services
Administration (RSA) within the Office of Special Education and
Rehabilitative Services at the U.S. Department of Education. Dobak
served as Acting Deputy Commissioner since 2017 and Director of RSA’s
State Monitoring and Program Improvement Division since 2016. She began
her RSA career in 2000 and has held a variety of positions, including
Program Specialist with responsibility for the Client Assistance Program
and the Protection and Advocacy of Individual Rights Program, Policy
Advisor in the Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services,
Office of Policy and Planning with responsibility for the State
Vocational Rehabilitation Services and other RSA programs, and Chief of
RSA’s Vocational Rehabilitation Program Unit. Dobak holds a J.D. from
the University of Maryland School of Law and is a member of the Maryland
Bar.

**Robert D. Hogue, Commissioner, Department of the Navy**

Robert Hogue is currently serving as the Acting Assistant Secretary of
the Navy for Manpower & Reserve Affairs, where he is responsible for the
development of programs and policy related to military personnel, their
family members, and the civilian workforce. He oversees the Department
of the Navy’s Office of Equal Employment Opportunity; Sexual Assault
Prevention Program Office; Naval Education; Manpower, Analytics and
Human Resources Systems; Diversity, Equity and Inclusion; and lifecycle
management of senior executives across the department. Hogue served as
the Counsel for the Commandant of the Marine Corps for 17 years, where
he led the delivery of legal services to the Commandant and the Corps on
the full spectrum of business and commercial law, acquisition and fiscal
matters, civilian personnel matters, and national security law. He began
his career as a civil rights attorney and later served as counsel to
numerous programs in the Department of the Navy in the areas of major
systems acquisition and environmental management. He is a survivor of
the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on the Pentagon and received
the Defense of Freedom Medal, the civilian equivalent of the Purple
Heart, for injuries incurred that day. Hogue received his undergraduate
degree from the George Washington University and his J.D. from the
George Mason University School of Law. He has practiced law in both the
public and private sectors, is a native of Virginia, and is a member of
the Virginia Bar.

**Tara M. Jamison, Commissioner, Department of Justice**

Jamison is the Deputy Senior Procurement Executive and Director of the
Office of Acquisition Management for the Department of Justice. As the
principal consultant to the Chief Acquisition Officer and Senior
Procurement Executive, she oversees all acquisition-related policy, new
initiatives, systems, workforce programs, and strategic priorities. She
provides leadership to over 800 acquisition workforce members worldwide
in executing their acquisition portfolio. As a leader in the acquisition
community, Jamison serves as the Department of Justice’s Category
Management Lead, Acquisition Innovation Advocate, and Industry Liaison.
Jamison has contracting experience as a contracting officer responsible
for critical programs at the Department of Justice, Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, and the Department of Navy. She is the recipient of a
Department of Justice, Justice Management Division, Special Commendation
Award, and the Department of Defense’s David Packard Excellence in
Acquisition Award. Jamison holds his Bachelor in Public Policy Studies
from Duke University and a Master of Business Administration from
Georgetown University.

**Malcom A. Shorter, Commissioner, Department of Agriculture**

Malcom Shorter is a Deputy Assistant Secretary for Administration in the
United States Department of Agriculture. As a member of the Senior
Executive Service, he is an administrative and financial professional
with combined expertise in government relations and operational
management. Shorter retired from the United States Army in September
2003 after a distinguished military career of more than 22 years. He
graduated from Rutgers University in 1981 with a Bachelor of Science in
Economics and has his Master of Science in Administration from Central
Michigan University. Shorter resides with his family in Bowie, Maryland.

\###
