---
date: '2022-10-18'
modified_time: 2022-10-18 09:24:07-04:00
published_time: 2022-10-18 09:01:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/18/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-releases-strategy-to-strengthen-health-security-and-prepare-for-biothreats/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Releases Strategy to Strengthen\
  \ Health Security and Prepare for\_Biothreats"
---
 
Today President Joe Biden will sign National Security Memorandum-15
(NSM-15) and launched the [*National Biodefense Strategy and
Implementation Plan for Countering Biological Threats, Enhancing
Pandemic Preparedness, and Achieving Global Health
Security*](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/10/National-Biodefense-Strategy-and-Implementation-Plan-Final.pdf)
(the Strategy).  
  
As the President has said, there are no walls high enough or oceans wide
enough to keep out biothreats and protect our communities. The Strategy
reflects the Biden-Harris Administration’s comprehensive plan to protect
our nation from future pandemics and biological threats.  It outlines a
set of bold goals to transform the nation’s biodefenses and health
security by launching a whole-of-government effort across 20 Federal
Agencies to detect, prevent, prepare for, respond to, and recover from
biological incidents, in partnership with our international, state,
local, tribal, territorial, and private sector partners. NSM-15 supports
execution of the strategy by strengthening the coordination of
biodefense efforts across government.  
  
Infectious diseases that cross borders and disrupt societies are a
threat to our national security and global stability.  COVID-19 is the
latest example of how biological threats can devastate communities
across America and around the world, resulting in millions of deaths and
trillions of dollars of economic losses globally. In addition to
COVID-19, the global community is concurrently fighting outbreaks of
monkeypox, polio, Ebola, highly pathogenic avian influenza, and other
diseases, stretching thin global resources and demonstrating gaps in our
current preparedness.  And, the risks of weaponization of biological
agents are expanding.   
  
The United States must be prepared for outbreaks from any source –
whether naturally occurring, accidental, or deliberate in origin.
Urbanization, climate change, and habitat encroachment increase the risk
of an outbreak emerging from animal reservoirs. Global
interconnectedness accelerates the speed at which infectious diseases
spread across the world, especially when coupled with overwhelmed health
systems. Furthermore, the norm against the development and use of
biological weapons has been challenged by state and non-state actors
over the past several decades.  
  
The Administration is already implementing key actions in the Strategy
with existing funding. However, fully achieving these transformative
objectives will require the support of Congress to provide additional
resources, including the President’s [$88 billion
request](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/28/fact-sheet-the-biden-administrations-historic-investment-in-pandemic-preparedness-and-biodefense-in-the-fy-2023-presidents-budget/)
over five years for pandemic preparedness and biodefense. The
Administration looks forward to working with Congress to implement this
investment strategy to save trillions of dollars and millions of
lives.   
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">The Strategy sets out
to: </span>  
**Detect pandemics and other biological threats:**  The Strategy aims to
transform early warning of infectious disease threats by accelerating
the development and deployment of new technologies that can rapidly
detect novel pathogens. It will improve real-time information for
decision-making by planning for an enduring all-hazards hospital data
collection system, expanding platforms to integrate and share data for
response, and improving data sharing internationally. These efforts
build on the recently launched Center for Forecasting and Outbreak
Analytics, which creates the equivalent of a “national weather service”
for infectious disease outbreaks, enabling rapid, effective
decision-making to improve outbreak response using data, modeling, and
analytics.

**Prevent outbreaks from becoming epidemics and prevent biological
incidents before they happen by:**

-   Stopping outbreaks at their source through strengthening global
    health security:  The United States will support at least 50
    countries to better prevent, detect, and respond to infectious
    disease threats, while encouraging other donors and partners to
    support an additional 50 countries.  The United States will also
    invest in critical multilateral institutions that further strengthen
    the global health architecture.  The Administration has already
    accelerated this effort by leading the charge to establish a
    groundbreaking new Financial Intermediary Fund for Pandemic
    Prevention, Preparedness, and Response at the World Bank. With the
    United States and more than 20 countries contributing over $1.4
    billion in seed funding at its outset, this new fund will help fill
    major preparedness gaps at the national, regional, and global level.
    The Strategy also builds on USAID’s announcement earlier this year
    committing $150 million to the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness
    Innovations to accelerate the development of life-saving vaccines
    and countermeasures against biological threats. The United States
    will continue to support and strengthen the World Health
    Organization, which plays an essential role in strengthening health
    systems around the world to better prepare for and respond to health
    emergencies.  
-   Strengthening laboratory biosafety and biosecurity: The United
    States will work with domestic and international partners to prevent
    laboratory accidents by strengthening biosafety laboratory capacity,
    reinforcing norms of responsible conduct for biological research,
    and accelerating biosafety and biosecurity innovation in the United
    States and abroad. These efforts include galvanizing support for
    multilateral biosafety and biosecurity commitments, and establishing
    international mechanisms to enhance biosafety and biosecurity
    globally.  
-   Deterring use and development of bioweapons: The United States will
    also invest in pathbreaking technologies to detect and attribute
    biological weapons use, and work with foreign partners to prevent
    use and respond decisively if biological weapons are deployed. The
    United States will work to strengthen international norms against
    traditional and novel biological weapons, including through efforts
    under the Biological Weapons Convention to foster greater
    transparency among all nation-states.

**Prepare for pandemics and other biological incidents:** The Strategy
aims to transform our preparedness to respond to outbreaks, building on
the [*American Pandemic Preparedness Plan*: *Transforming Our
Capabilities*](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/09/American-Pandemic-Preparedness-Transforming-Our-Capabilities-Final-For-Web.pdf?page=29)*,*
released by the Administration in 2021. The United States will work to
strengthen and modernize domestic public, veterinary, and plant health
capacity at every level, from rural jurisdictions to large cities, so
that outbreaks in humans, animals, and plants can be identified and
controlled quickly and equitably. This effort includes recruiting,
training, and sustaining a robust, flexible, permanent cadre of
essential critical health infrastructure workers, outbreak emergency
responders, public health laboratory scientists, technicians, data
quality managers, and animal disease epidemiologists in our territories
and all 50 states. This Strategy will also enhance the coordination of
evidence-based public health information campaigns across Federal, state
and local governments, with the goal of reaching 80% of the American
population.

The Strategy also aims to realize new ambitious timelines in the
development of novel countermeasures following the determination of a
nationally or internationally significant biological incident (including
a high consequence outbreak or potential pandemic). These targets
reinforce key elements of the 100 Days Mission, which was welcomed by
President Biden and G7 leaders last year and is catalyzing international
cooperation in support of urgent global biodefense goals. Over the next
5-10 years, it aims to:

-   Enable testing within 12 hours, surge tens of thousands of
    diagnostic tests within one week, and develop rapid diagnostics
    within 90 days;
-   Develop vaccines within 100 days; manufacture enough vaccine for the
    population of the United States within 130 days; and work with
    international partners to develop sufficient vaccine supply for
    high-risk global populations within 200 days; and,
-   Accelerate therapeutic development and validation to repurpose
    existing drugs within 90 days or develop novel therapeutics within
    180 days.

**Rapidly respond to outbreaks when they occur:** To leverage these
capabilities effectively, the Strategy strengthens the United States’
readiness to launch a coordinated, comprehensive, equitable response to
any significant biological incident within days.  This effort includes
preparing to activate an integrated Federal research agenda within 14
days of the determination of a domestically or internationally
significant biological incident, and a clinical trials infrastructure
within 14 days of identifying a viable countermeasure to rapidly
evaluate vaccines, therapeutics, and diagnostics during a response.

**Recover from a pandemic or biological incident**: Finally, the
Strategy ensures that the Federal government will be prepared to
coordinate a long-term, equitable recovery strategy for any significant
biological incident, in close partnership with state, local, tribal, and
territorial governments and communities.

To support execution of the Strategy, the promulgation of the National
Security Memorandum-15 (NSM-15) on Countering Biological Threats,
Enhancing Pandemic Preparedness, and Achieving Global Health Security
strengthens the coordination of biodefense efforts across the Federal
government by:

-   Centralizing oversight of policy coordination at the White House to
    ensure accountability for implementing the Strategy and in so doing
    to bring together the strengths of all Federal agencies.
-   Directing departments and agencies to prioritize biodefense and
    implementation of the Strategy in their annual budgets.
-   Directing the Intelligence Community to closely monitor the evolving
    biothreat threat landscape and provide critical and potentially
    time-sensitive information needed to address naturally occurring,
    accidental, and deliberate biothreats.
-   Ensuring the Federal government continuously adapts to the evolving
    threat landscape by exercising annual biodefense emergency response
    plans, reviewing ongoing responses, and adjusting Federal priorities
    on a regular basis to account for lessons learned.

Collectively, these efforts will help protect the American people
against disease outbreaks, pandemics, and biological weapons use, and
they will enable us to equitably strengthen the health of our homeland.

\###
