---
date: '2022-10-26'
modified_time: 2022-10-26 09:13:00-04:00
published_time: 2022-10-26 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/26/fact-sheet-progress-on-biden-harris-action-plan-for-building-better-school-infrastructure/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Progress on Biden-\u2060Harris Action Plan for Building Better\
  \ School\_Infrastructure"
---
 
*Vice President Harris Details Action Plan Progress, Announces Nearly $1
Billion from Bipartisan Infrastructure Law for Clean School Buses*

Today, Vice President Harris will provide a six-month progress report on
the [Biden-⁠Harris Action Plan for Building Better School
Infrastructure](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/04/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-action-plan-for-building-better-school-infrastructure/),
outlining a series of actions from across the Administration to upgrade
our public schools with healthy, safe, sustainable facilities and
transportation. In Seattle, Washington today, Vice President Harris and
EPA Administrator Michael Regan will join schoolchildren, parents,
district leaders, and community members to announce nearly [$1 billion
in rebate
awards](https://www.epa.gov/cleanschoolbus/awarded-clean-school-bus-program-rebates)
from President Biden’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to replace existing
aging school bus fleets with clean buses.  
  
Since the Action Plan was first announced in April 2022, the
Administration has secured new historic legislative accomplishments that
build on progress that’s been made to deliver safer, healthier, and more
environmentally sustainable learning environments for America’s
children, while saving school districts money, creating good jobs, and
combatting climate change. In addition to the clean school bus rebate
awards, other actions announced today include upgrading school
infrastructure, supporting clean energy in rural schools, and improving
indoor air quality.  
  
Signed nearly one year ago, President Biden’s Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law has made transformational investments to deliver clean school buses
to school districts across the nation. In addition, the recently signed
Inflation Reduction Act includes $50 million to address air pollution in
schools. And, the CHIPS and Science Act authorizes new and expanded
investments in STEM education and training for K-12 to community
college, undergraduate, and graduate education,
and authorizes investments to expand the geographic and institutional
diversity of research institutions.  
  
[Youth development studies](https://k12.designprinciples.org/) have
shown that students need safe and healthy school environments to learn
and thrive. This includes the way they get to school: school buses
safely transport more than 25 million children every day across America.
However, diesel exhaust from buses produces particulate matter and other
pollutants that can cause lung damage and aggravate asthma and other
health problems in children. In addition, diesel exhaust exposure has
been linked to increased school absences. Moreover, many schools rely on
outdated heating, ventilation, and air conditioning systems that may
pose health risks to students and teachers.  Studies also show that poor
air quality inside classrooms hinders student concentration and
performance, and can also increase the risk of COVID-19 transmission in
schools, which can threaten the in-person learning experience for
students. Reducing this pollution will provide better health and
educational outcomes — particularly in low-income communities and
communities of color that have long faced the highest burdens of
pollution and underinvestment.  
  
Today’s announcements reflect the Biden-Harris Administration’s broader
commitment to ensure that America’s children have what they need to
thrive. Key milestones and announcements outlined today include:  
  
**Clean School Buses:** Today, Vice President Harris and Administrator
Regan announced 391 rebate awards of nearly $1 billion from the
President’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law through EPA’s Clean School Bus
Program – the first installment of the $5 billion total that will be
awarded over five years. The awards will go to school districts in all
50 states and Washington D.C., in addition to several U.S. territories
and institutions serving federally recognized Tribes. The new awards
will support the purchase of 2,463 buses, and 95% of these buses will be
electric.  
  
Additionally, EPA announced new details about the upcoming competitive
grant program for Fiscal Year 2023, including information regarding
priorities and eligibility. This new program design will leverage
federal dollars to reduce electric bus prices, ensure equitable
deployment, and encourage the expansion of electric bus manufacturing
capacity.  
  
**Making Public Schools More Energy Efficient**: This week, the
Department of Energy (DOE) [announced new
initiatives](https://www.energy.gov/bil/grants-energy-efficiency-and-renewable-energy-improvements-public-school-facilities)
through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and existing programs to lower
energy costs for America’s public schools, including through:

-   *Renew America’s Schools* *Grants.* DOE took the next step to
    administer $80 million in funding for its *Renew America’s Schools*
    grant program under the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law by issuing the
    Notice of Intent. These grants will focus on high-impact
    improvements in rural and high-poverty school districts, innovative
    technology solutions, and innovative partnership and funding models
    that can build healthier, more energy efficient schools. This
    funding will be made available to public schools later this fall.  
-   *Energy <u>C</u>hampions <u>L</u>eading the <u>A</u>dvancement
    of <u>S</u>ustainable <u>S</u>chools Prize (Energy CLASS Prize).*
    DOE simultaneously launched the Energy CLASS Prize, where it will
    provide up to 25 school districts direct resources to staff and
    train administration and facilities personnel on strategic energy
    management, including project development and funding to advance
    school sustainability. The Energy CLASS Prize will provide a total
    of $4.5 million in awards, including $3.75 million for selected
    local educational agencies to fund energy management
    professionals-in-training and an additional $750k in technical
    support.   
-   *Better Buildings and Better Climate Challenge.* These leadership
    challenges encourage participants across market sectors to increase
    energy efficiency, lower costs, and reduce GHG emissions. As of
    2021, K-12 Better Buildings Challenge partners have cumulatively
    saved $108 million in energy costs and reduced 0.7 million metric
    tons of carbon dioxide equivalent since the Challenge was launched
    in 2011. To date, nine unique K-12 partners have achieved their goal
    of reducing energy use by 20% within 10 years.   
-   *Promoting Efficient Schools.* DOE recently launched the second
    round of its [Efficient and Healthy Schools
    Campaign](https://efficienthealthyschools.lbl.gov/join), which aims
    to advance energy performance, reduce carbon emissions, increase
    resilience, and promote a healthy learning environment in schools
    through recognition, training, technical assistance from Lawrence
    Berkley National Lab, and 1-1 consultations with individual schools.
    DOE also released school efficiency enhancement guides with Lawrence
    Berkeley National Laboratory for schools looking to replace a
    chiller, boiler, rooftop unit, or building controls. For more
    information, please attend the kickoff webinar on November 8th by
    [Registering
    Here](https://newbuildings.org/event/efficient-and-healthy-schools-campaign-recognition-kick-off-webinar/).

**Improving Indoor Air in Classrooms:** DOE is providing support to the
Bureau of Indian Education to improve indoor environmental quality at
bureau-owned schools. The DOE Federal Energy Management Program, in
conjunction with the Efficient and Healthy Schools Campaign, is helping
the Bureau initiate a set of pilot assessments in Tribal schools for
energy efficiency and indoor air quality projects. In FY 22, the
initiative was kicked off by conducting audits at three schools to
evaluate the indoor air quality, lighting, and outdoor air quality of
the sites. These assessments resulted in recommendations to reduce
thermal discomfort, noise, and indoor pollution to provide a safer and
healthy learning environment.   
  
**Ensuring Children Get to School Safely**: The Department of
Transportation’s (DOT) [*Safe Routes to
Schools*](https://www.transportation.gov/mission/health/Safe-Routes-to-School-Programs)
program provides federal funding eligibility for projects to improves
the ability of primary, middle, and high school students to walk and
bicycle to school safely. DOT recently released updated guidance for its
Surface Transportation Block Grants and the Transportation Alternatives
program—which together total over $15 billion per year in funding—to
ensure that states can use funding from these Programs, as well as
through the Highway Safety Improvement Program, to fund Safe Routes to
Schools projects.  
  
**Bringing Clean Energy to Rural Schools:** In April, [USDA released
guidance](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgo.usa.gov%2Fxzzhy&data=05%7C01%7C%7Cc36fec8776ba4ff410a808daae07bcb5%7Ced5b36e701ee4ebc867ee03cfa0d4697%7C0%7C0%7C638013645514090921%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=qQsBJjAqw2UwXXfpWhsQl3sFMX%2FAcqKqVvQwzMlx0Vs%3D&reserved=0) that
informs how Rural Development programs can support rural electric
cooperatives to advance electrification projects for schools and other
public facilities and vehicles. As a result, BARC Electric in Bath
County, Virginia, worked with the local school system to use Rural
Energy Savings Program funds to install and maintain solar systems on
each of the three schools in their service territory. The installations
have significantly reduced electricity costs and serve as a training
tool for the students. In addition, Rural Development’s Community
Facilities Program—which offers direct loans, loan guarantees and grants
to develop or improve essential public services and facilities across
rural America—funded two electric school buses and one electric school
bus charging station in Fiscal Year 2022.  
  
**Uplifting Sustainable and Healthy Schools:** The U.S. Department of
Education is inviting all states to submit nominations of sustainable
schools. [U.S. Department of Education Green Ribbon
Schools](http://www.ed.gov/green-ribbon-schools) (ED-GRS) is a federal
recognition award designed to spotlight school sustainability
achievements and inspire other schools. States may nominate schools,
districts, postsecondary institutions, and early learning centers that
are leading in reducing environmental impact and costs, improving health
and wellness, and offering effective environmental sustainability
education. ED-GRS honorees engage in conservation behaviors, install
renewable energy technologies, design and build gardens and farms,
implement holistic indoor air quality, pest management, and contaminant
control plans, and offer outdoors, active, problem, project, and
place-based learning.

[Independent
experts](https://www.future-ed.org/financial-trends-in-local-schools-covid-aid-spending/)
estimate that school districts are spending 14.6 billion of their $122
billion in American Rescue Plan Elementary and Secondary School
Emergency relief funds in school infrastructure investments to prevent
illness, including $10 billion to improve indoor air quality, through
investments in HVAC systems. In addition, the Department of Treasury
released an [American Rescue Plan
FAQ](https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/136/SLFRF-Final-Rule-FAQ.pdf)
with information to help recipients of State and Local Fiscal Recovery
Funds understand how they can partner with local education agencies to
fund school building upgrades and construction.

**Supporting Good Jobs**: The Department of Labor’s (DOL) [Good Jobs
Initiative](https://www.dol.gov/general/good-jobs) is working to ensure
that federal infrastructure investments result in meaningful
opportunities for good paying union career jobs across the country.
Recently, DOL worked with EPA on creating a rebate program for school
bus driver training. For the first time, training is now an eligible
cost covered, offering robust workforce development opportunities and
equitable access to skill building.

\###
