---
date: '2022-10-21'
modified_time: 2022-10-21 10:36:32-04:00
published_time: 2022-10-21 12:31:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/21/fact-sheet-american-rescue-plan-funds-provided-a-critical-lifeline-to-200000-child-care-providers-helping-millions-of-families-to-work/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: American Rescue Plan Funds Provided a Critical Lifeline to 200,000\
  \ Child Care Providers \u2013 Helping Millions of Families to\_Work"
---
 
Today, the White House announced that the American Rescue Plan – through
its historic $24 billion Child Care Stabilization Program – has already
provided **vital aid to help more than 200,000 child care providers keep
their doors open to as many as 9.5 million children, helping their
parents work**. Stabilization funds have already assisted **providers
employing more than 1 million child care workers.  
  
**The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services also released a
[state-by-state
analysis](https://www.acf.hhs.gov/occ/map/arp-act-stabilization-funding-state-fact-sheets)
of the American Rescue Plan’s (ARP) Child Care Stabilization program
that details for the first time the number of child care providers that
have already been helped in each state.  

The Child Care Stabilization program has been critical to helping child
care centers and family child care providers, which are mostly very
small businesses, remain open or reopen and keep the child care
workforce, disproportionately women of color, on the payroll. The
stabilization program provided grants to child care programs that helped
with basic operational costs like wages and benefits, rent and
utilities, and program materials and supplies. Many states will continue
to provide assistance to child care programs over the next year.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Evidence suggests that the
Child Care Stabilization program helped to head off a continued wave of
closures that would have made it difficult for many parents to
work</span>:

-   **More than 90 percent of providers receiving stabilization funds
    reported that it helped them stay open**, according to
    [survey](https://www.naeyc.org/sites/default/files/wysiwyg/user-98/naeyc_ece_field_survey_february2022.pdf)
    data from the National Association for the Education of Young
    Children.
-   In March 2021, the employment rates for mothers with children under
    age six was roughly three percentage points below the level from two
    years prior. Since then, with support from **the American Recue
    Plan, the employment rate for mothers with children under age six
    has fully returned to pre-pandemic levels**.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Historic American Rescue Plan
Stabilization aid helped providers in every corner of the
country:</span>

-   All 50 states, Washington, D.C., Puerto Rico, Guam, Northern
    Mariana, and the U.S. Virgin Islands are operating Child Care
    Stabilization programs. **And** **in most states, providers in at
    least 98% of counties received aid**.
-   **More than 8 in 10 licensed child care centers nationwide have
    already received assistance.**

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Child Care Stabilization is
contributing to an equitable recovery:</span>

-   **About 30,000 child care programs in rural counties have received
    aid**—with assistance received by providers in 97% of rural counties
    in most states—helping small businesses and families in some of the
    places where child care was already difficult to come by even prior
    to the pandemic**.**
-   **Assistance was provided to child care providers in 98% of
    persistent poverty counties in most states.** These are counties
    where at least 20% of residents have lived in poverty over the past
    30 years. 
-   **More than half of providers receiving stabilization funds were
    operating in the most racially diverse counties in the country**.
-   **44% of providers receiving assistance to date are owned and
    operated by people of color**.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Stabilization funds have helped
providers meet critical needs and remain open:</span>

-   **Roughly 88% of child care centers report using stabilization funds
    to help pay personnel costs and keep programs staffed.** States are
    also delivering
    [billions](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/12/fact-sheet-white-house-announces-over-40-billion-in-american-rescue-plan-investments-in-our-workforce-with-more-coming/)
    in Child Care Stabilization funds to child care workers directly in
    the form of higher pay, hiring or retention bonuses, and expanded
    benefits—reducing turnover, attracting new workers, and improving
    the quality, affordability, and availability of care options that
    enable parents to work.
    -   States like
        [Michigan](https://www.michigan.gov/whitmer/news/press-releases/2022/06/28/bonuses-for-childcare-professionals#:~:text=These%20funds%20will%20keep%20programs,%2C%E2%80%9D%20said%20Governor%20Gretchen%20Whitmer.)
        have used Child Care Stabilization funds to deliver bonuses to
        roughly 38,000 child care professionals in the state, making it
        easier to hire or retain qualified staff and deliver needed
        supports for working families.
-   **Roughly 86% of family child care programs –** typically very small
    businesses operating out of a home – **report using stabilization
    funds to help cover rent or mortgage payments**, usually their
    largest operating expense.
-   Nearly half of states reported using stabilization funds towards
    debt accrued earlier in the pandemic, according to
    [survey](https://www.naeyc.org/sites/default/files/wysiwyg/user-98/naeyc_ece_field_survey_february2022.pdf)
    data from the National Association for the Education of Young
    Children.

Rather than see more workers leave and more programs close, with aid
from the American Rescue Plan, **some states, like**
[**Maine**](https://www.maine.gov/governor/mills/news/mills-administration-delivers-more-100-million-child-care-during-pandemic-announces-grants)**,**
**have reported an increase in licensed child care capacity compared to
the start of the pandemic**. One preliminary
[analysis](https://tcf.org/content/commentary/three-million-child-care-spots-saved-american-rescue-plan-funding/)
from March of 2022 found that assistance from the American Rescue Plan
and other Federal support had already helped prevent nearly 75,000
permanent child care program closures—preserving care for more than 3
million young children.

In addition to the Child Care Stabilization program, **<u>the American
Rescue Plan also included historic support for states, tribes, and
territories to help hard-pressed working families pay for child
care</u>**. The American Rescue Plan provided the largest-ever federal
award to states through the Child Care and Development Fund, delivering
flexible funding for states to help make high-quality child care more
affordable and more accessible for more families. With support from the
American Rescue Plan:

-   Twenty states have waived or reduced parental co-payments, making
    child care more affordable for families who qualify for subsidized
    care.
-   More than half of states have increased provider payment rates,
    helping to increase compensation for child care workers, improve the
    quality of available care, and encourage more providers to enter the
    field.
-   Several states have expanded eligibility so that more middle-class
    working families can qualify for assistance. 

For example, [New
Mexico](https://www.governor.state.nm.us/2021/07/01/n-m-dramatically-expands-child-care-assistance/)
was able to raise the income eligibility for working families to receive
support from roughly $55,000 for a family of four to roughly $111,000.
As of June 2022, the state has served over 1,500 additional children,
and 10,000 families have benefitted from waived copayments.

**<u>For 2021,</u>** **<span style="text-decoration: underline">the
American Rescue Plan also included the largest ever increase in support
for child care through the tax code, helping millions of working
families afford needed care</span>**. The American Rescue Plan provided
the largest ever increase in the maximum Child and Dependent Care Tax
Credit (CDCTC) in 2021. Families with two children under age 13 earning
the median income were eligible for up to $8,000 towards child care
expenses, a more than six-fold increase over the previous year’s credit.
The American Rescue Plan also made the CDCTC fully refundable in 2021,
enabling lower-income parents to receive the full benefit regardless of
their tax liability.

The American Rescue Plan’s historic expansion of the Child Tax Credit
also aided working parents —delivering $3,000 per child ages 6-17 years
old and $3,600 per child under age 6 to the vast majority of families,
including through first-time ever advance monthly payments that reached
tens of millions of families. An October 2021
[analysis](https://www.census.gov/library/stories/2021/10/nearly-a-third-of-parents-spent-child-tax-credit-on-school-expenses.html)
from the Census Bureau found that roughly 1 in 4 families with young
children used advance Child Tax Credit payments to help cover the cost
of child care.

**<u>State and Local Fiscal Recovery Funds provided in the American
Rescue Plan are also being leveraged to support child care</u>**. The
American Rescue Plan included historic support for state, local, and
Tribal governments to support their response to and recovery from the
COVID-19 pandemic through the State and Local Fiscal Recovery Fund,
including to address child care needs. For example,
[Nevada](https://gov.nv.gov/News/Press/2022/2022-06-21_AmericanRescueInvestments/)
is using Fiscal Recovery Funds to lower child care costs for parents by
covering co-payments for eligible low- and moderate-income families, as
well as dedicating additional funds through the Nevada Child Care
Expansion Program for construction projects that will expand current
child care capacity and increase the availability of quality, affordable
child care for Nevadans. Similarly, [New
Jersey](https://www.njeda.com/njeda-to-create-54-5-million-child-care-facilities-improvement-pilot-program-to-strengthen-vital-sector-and-support-working-families/)
is using Fiscal Recovery Funds for a Child Care Facilities Improvement
Pilot Program that will pay for improvements that foster high-quality
early childhood learning environments and is providing financial
assistance to support child care centers and family child care programs
with workforce recruitment and retention costs.

While the American Rescue Plan has helped provide this critical lifeline
to child care providers during a period of crisis, many child care
programs
[struggled](https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/136/The-Economics-of-Childcare-Supply-09-14-final.pdf)
to make ends meet long before the pandemic and the cost of care has been
rising for years before the pandemic – leading families to struggle to
find, and afford, quality care. President Biden will continue fighting
to ensure families can access and afford quality child care.

\###
