---
date: '2022-10-27'
modified_time: 2022-10-27 11:01:38-04:00
published_time: 2022-10-27 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/27/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-boards-and-commissions-12/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to Boards and\_Commissions"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint the
following individuals to serve on the National Board for Education
Sciences:

-   S. James Anaya, Member, National Board for Education Sciences
-   Linda Darling-Hammond, Member, National Board for Education Sciences
-   Douglas Fuchs, Member, National Board for Education Sciences
-   Denisa Gándara, Member, National Board for Education Sciences
-   Elmer J. Guy Sr., Member, National Board for Education Sciences
-   Shaun R. Harper, Member, National Board for Education Sciences
-   María de la Concepción Hernández Legorreta, Member, National Board
    for Education Sciences
-   Dana S. Hilliard, Member, National Board for Education Sciences
-   Stephen K. Klasko, Member, National Board for Education Sciences
-   Carol D. Lee, Member, National Board for Education Sciences
-   Ruth N. López Turley, Member, National Board for Education Sciences
-   Derrick Cornelius Scott, Member, National Board for Education
    Sciences
-   Caroline Sullivan, Member, National Board for Education Sciences
-   Hirokazu Yoshikawa, Member, National Board for Education Sciences

<span style="text-decoration: underline">**National Board for Education
Sciences**  
</span>The National Board for Education Sciences consists of 15 voting
members appointed by the President. The board’s duties include advising
the Director of the Institute of Education Sciences and serving as a
“board of directors” for the Institute by approving or disapproving the
Institute’s priorities as proposed by the Director. The board ensures
that the priorities of the Institute and the National Education Centers
are consistent with the organization’s mission.  
  
**S. James Anaya, Member, National Board for Education Sciences**  
S. James Anaya is a University Distinguished Professor and the Nicholas
Doman Professor of International Law at the University of Colorado Law
School, where he teaches and writes in the areas of international human
rights and issues concerning indigenous peoples. Anaya is a graduate of
the University of New Mexico and Harvard Law School. Among his numerous
publications is his acclaimed book, *Indigenous Peoples in International
Law* and co-authored textbook, *International Human Rights: Problems of
Law, Policy and Practice* (with Hurst Hannum and Dinah Shelton). Anaya
served as the United Nations Human Rights Council’s Special Rapporteur
on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples from 2008 to 2014. In that capacity,
he examined and reported on conditions of indigenous peoples worldwide
and responded to allegations of human rights violations against them,
including through country visits and direct contacts with governments.
In addition, Anaya has litigated major indigenous rights and human
rights cases in domestic and international tribunals, including the
United States Supreme Court and the Inter-American Court of Human
Rights. Among his noteworthy activities, he participated in the drafting
of the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples
and was the lead counsel for the indigenous parties in the case of *Awas
Tingni v. Nicaragua*, in which the Inter-American Court of Human Rights
for the first time upheld indigenous land rights as a matter of
international law.  
  
**Linda Darling-Hammond, Member, National Board for Education
Sciences**  
Linda Darling-Hammond is the Charles E. Ducommun Professor of Education
Emeritus at Stanford University and President of the Learning Policy
Institute, created to provide high-quality research to inform policies
enabling equitable and empowering education for every child. Her
research, which examines issues of both policy and practice, has focused
on understanding how systems of teaching and learning can ensure
teachers and leaders are well-prepared, curriculum and assessment
support meaningful learning, and schools are equitably and adequately
resourced. Darling-Hammond is a past president of the American
Educational Research Association and recipient of its awards for
Distinguished Contributions to Research, Lifetime Achievement, Research
Review, and Research-to-Policy. She is also a member of the American
Association of Arts and Sciences and the National Academy of Education,
as well as a fellow of the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering
Sciences. She holds 17 honorary degrees from universities around the
world. Darling-Hammond began her career as a public school teacher and
co-founded both a preschool and a public high school. Among her more
than 600 publications are a number of award-winning books, including
*The Right to Learn, Teaching as the Learning Profession, Preparing
Teachers for a Changing World,* and *The Flat World and Education: How
America’s Commitment to Equity Will Determine our Future.* She received
an Ed.D. from Temple University with highest distinction and a B.A. from
Yale University, *magna cum laude*.  
  
**Douglas Fuchs, Member, National Board for Education Sciences**  
Douglas Fuchs, Ph.D. is an Institute Fellow at the American Institutes
for Research and Research Professor in the Departments of Special
Education and Psychology and Human Development at Vanderbilt University.
He is the former holder of the Nicholas Hobbs Chair of Special Education
and Human Development and Alexander Heard Distinguished Service
Professor at Vanderbilt. Fuchs has been a first-grade teacher in a
private school for children with behavior problems, fourth-grade
classroom teacher in a public school, and school psychologist. He has
directed 50 federal research grants with which he and colleagues have
developed approaches to service delivery (e.g., pre-referral
intervention, response-to-intervention); assessments (e.g., measures of
student progress, dynamic assessment); and instruction (e.g.,
peer-mediated learning strategies).  
  
Fuchs is the author or co-author of more than 500 articles in
peer-review journals and 80 book chapters. He was identified by Thomson
Reuters as among the 250 most frequently cited researchers in the social
sciences in the United States from 2000-2010, inclusive. In 2021, he and
Lynn Fuchs were awarded the Harold W. McGraw, Jr. Prize in Education to
“celebrate innovation, inspiration, and impact in education by
recognizing outstanding leaders who have devoted their careers to
closing gaps and accelerating educational opportunity to all students.”
In 2014, he received the American Educational Research Association’s
Distinguished Contributions to Research in Education Award, the purpose
of which “is to publicize, motivate, encourage, and suggest models for
educational research at its best.”  
  
**Denisa Gándara, Member, National Board for Education Sciences**  
Dr. Denisa Gándara is an Assistant Professor of Educational Leadership
and Policy at The University of Texas at Austin. She is a William T.
Grant Scholar, a Ford Foundation Fellow, a McNair Scholar, and a Head
Start alumnus. Gándara’s research examines the development of higher
education policy decisions and the effects of these decisions on
students who have been excluded from and underserved in higher
education. An additional line of research explores how various
approaches to funding colleges and universities might promote or hinder
social equity. Her work has been funded by the Institute of Education
Sciences, the Ford Foundation, the William T. Grant Foundation, the
Spencer Foundation, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, and the
American Educational Research Association. Gándara graduated as a Dean’s
Distinguished Graduate from The University of Texas at Austin and earned
a Ph.D. from the Institute of Higher Education at the University of
Georgia. She was born and raised in the Rio Grande Valley in South
Texas.  
  
**Elmer J. Guy Sr., Member, National Board for Education Sciences**  
Dr. Elmer J. Guy currently serves as the President of Navajo Technical
University (NTU), a member of the American Indian Higher Education
Consortium and the largest tribal university in the United States.
Navajo Tech offers certificates to master’s degrees. Prior to becoming
president, Guy served NTU as Vice President of Academic and Student
Services and Dean of Instruction. In 2011 and 2012, NTU was named one of
the top 120 community colleges in the United States by the Aspen
Institute College of Excellence Program. In 2018, NTU was listed as one
of the top three best higher education institutions in New Mexico
according to BestColleges.com. Before joining NTU, Guy was appointed by
the Navajo President to serve as Executive Director and Deputy Director
of the Navajo Nations Department of Education.  
  
Guy completed his Bachelor of Arts degree in Special Education at the
University of Arizona, his masters in Rehabilitation Administration from
the University of San Francisco, and his doctoral degree in
Rehabilitation and Special Education Leadership at the University of
Arizona. Guy serves as a Trustee on the College Board, the Vice
President of the American Indian Higher Education Consortium, Co-Chair
of the World Indigenous Higher Education Consortium, and is involved in
a number of other educational organizations.  
  
**Shaun R. Harper, Member, National Board for Education Sciences**  
Dr. Shaun Harper is a Provost Professor in the Rossier School of
Education and the Marshall School of Business at the University of
Southern California, where he holds the Clifford and Betty Allen Chair
in Urban Leadership. Harper also is founder and executive director of
the USC Race and Equity Center. He served as the 2020-2021 American
Educational Research Association president and the 2016-2017 Association
for the Study of Higher Education president. Harper is an expert on
diversity, equity, and inclusion in K-12 schools, colleges and
universities, corporations, and other organizations. He has published 12
books and over 100 other academic publications. *The New York Times*,
*Washington Post*, *Wall Street Journal*, and hundreds of other news
outlets have quoted Harper and featured his research. He has interviewed
on CNN, ESPN, NBC News, and NPR. He also has testified twice to the
United States House of Representatives and spoken at many White House
and U.S. Department of Education convenings. Harper served on President
Barack Obama’s *My Brother’s Keeper* Advisory Council, on the national
education policy committee for the Biden-Harris Campaign, and on
California Governor Gavin Newsom’s statewide task force on education,
racial equity, and COVID-19 recovery. The recipient of dozens of top
honors in the field of education and three honorary doctorates, Harper
has been repeatedly recognized in *Education Week* as one of the 10 most
influential scholars in the field of education. He was inducted into the
National Academy of Education in 2021.  
  
**María de la Concepción Hernández Legorreta, Member, National Board for
Education Sciences**  
María de la Concepción Hernández Legorreta (Conchita) is a disabled
Latina immigrant. She grew up in California and now resides in
Washington, DC. Hernández Legorreta worked in DC public schools as a
teacher of blind students and is now the Maryland Blind and Low Vision
Specialist overseeing the education of blind and low vision students
through the Maryland State Department of Education and the Maryland
School for the Blind. Her focus is on inclusion and high expectations.
Hernández Legorreta conducts research in areas of education focusing on
blind English Learners and students from underrepresented communities.
Hernández Legorreta received her bachelor’s degree from Saint Mary’s
College of California and her master’s degree from Louisiana Tech
University. She is currently a Doctoral Candidate at George Washington
University. Hernández Legorreta founded a non-profit organization,
METAS, which works with Spanish-speaking communities in the United
States and internationally in areas of education and policy. Hernández
Legorreta has written and presented extensively around education, best
practices, and accessibility in publications, including *Oxford Press,
Refinery 29, Allure Magazine*, and the Disability Visibility
Podcast.    
  
**Dana S. Hilliard, Member, National Board for Education Sciences**  
Mayor Dana S. Hilliard is serving his fifth term as Mayor of the Hilltop
City. A graduate of Somersworth High School, he attended Keene State
College, earning a bachelor’s degree in Political Science in 1995 and
Plymouth State University with a Master Degree in Educational Leadership
in 2011. Entering elected public service when he was 20, Hilliard served
five terms in the New Hampshire House and two terms on the City Council.
He has served on numerous city committees, boards, and commissions. He
was awarded the Pink Triangle Award in 2008 from the University of New
Hampshire for his commitment to diversity and civil rights and the New
Hampshire Democratic Party Kathy Sullivan Courage and Leadership Award
in 2013.  
  
Currently in his twenty-third year of education, Hilliard served as a
para professional for two years at Somersworth Middle School before
joining the Social Studies Department at Somersworth High School where
he taught for six years. Next, he entered into administration, serving
as Assistant Principal for three years and ten years as the Principal of
Somersworth Middle School. Since 2021, Hilliard has served as the
Director of School District Operations. For his 21<sup>st</sup> century
approaches in educational leadership, he was named the 2013 A+
Administrator by the New England League of Middle Schools. He received
the New England Education Opportunity Association NEOA Achiever Award in
2009 and the Council for Opportunity in Education National TRIO
Achievers Award in 2014. Under his leadership, Somersworth Middle School
received the 2019 New Hampshire Excellence in Education Award for Middle
School of Excellence. Hilliard and his husband Sean reside in
Somersworth. An avid Bruins fan, he enjoys hockey season, traveling, and
running and biking.  
  
**Stephen K. Klasko, Member, National Board for Education Sciences**  
Stephen K. Klasko, M.D., M.B.A. is an advocate for transformation in
higher education and healthcare, including his call for institutions to
close gaps of equity and health disparities. He has been a university
president, dean of two medical colleges, and leader of three academic
medical centers. He has authored books on health assurance and
encouraging academic institutions to confront the opportunity gap for
students of color. From 2013 through 2021, he was President of Thomas
Jefferson University in Philadelphia and CEO of Jefferson Health. Under
his leadership, the university merged with Philadelphia University,
growing from six colleges to 14 and creating the first “design thinking
curriculum” for a medical college.  Similarly, Jefferson Health grew to
18 hospitals and is now the largest provider of hospital services in
Greater Philadelphia. From 2004 to 2013, Klasko was Dean of the Morsani
College of Medicine and CEO of University of South Florida Health. From
2000 to 2004, he was Dean of the College of Medicine at Drexel
University.  
  
Klasko is currently Executive in Residence with General Catalyst,
helping to design responsible innovation in education and healthcare. In
addition, he is leading global innovation initiatives with Sheba Medical
Center in Israel and is chair of the board of Opera Philadelphia. He is
the author of *UnHealthcare: A Manifesto for Health Assurance* with
Hemant Taneja; *Bless This Mess: A Picture Story of Healthcare in
America,We CAN Fix Healthcare*; and *The Phantom Stethoscope*. His new
book, *Stayin’ Alive: How the Message in the Music Can Create a
Healthier America* is due out in late 2022.  
  
**Carol D. Lee, Member, National Board for Education Sciences**  
Carol D. Lee is the Edwina S. Tarry Professor Emerita at Northwestern
University, School of Education and Social Policy (Learning Sciences
Program). She is the President of the National Academy of Education,
former President of the American Educational Research Association and
the National Conference on Language and Literacy, a member of the
American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and fellow of the American
Educational Research Association and the International Society for the
Learning Sciences. She has received numerous awards for her research,
including the Distinguished Research in Education Award from AERA and
the McGraw Prize in Education for Learning Sciences Research, the Squire
Award from the National Council of Teachers of English, the
Distinguished Alumni Award from the University of Illinois, and the
Lifetime Achievement Award from the American Association of Colleges of
Teacher Education. For over 50 years, she has taught at all levels of
the educational system – primary school, high school, community college,
and university. Her research focuses on cultural supports for literacy
and ecological supports for youth holistic learning and development.  
  
**Ruth N. López Turley, Member, National Board for Education
Sciences**  
Rice University Professor of Sociology Ruth N. López Turley is Director
of the Kinder Institute for Urban Research, which brings together data,
research, engagement, and action to improve lives. In 2011, she founded
the Houston Education Research Consortium (HERC), a research-practice
partnership between Rice and eleven Houston area school districts,
representing over 700,000 students. A program of the Kinder Institute,
HERC works to improve educational equity by connecting research to
policy and practice, working closely with district leaders. She directed
HERC from 2011 to 2022, during which she raised over $30 million so that
school districts would not have to pay for this research. She also
founded the National Network of Education Research-Practice
Partnerships, which connects and supports over 60 partnerships between
research institutions and education agencies throughout the country. She
is a graduate of Stanford and Harvard and is originally from Laredo,
Texas.  
  
**Derrick Cornelius Scott, Member, National Board for Education
Sciences**  
Originally from Varnville, South Carolina, Dr. Derrick Scott received
his B.S. in Biology at Virginia State University, his M.S. in Molecular
Biology from Virginia Tech, and his Ph.D. in Integrative Biology with a
focus in Bioinformatics from the University of South Carolina. He is
currently the Dean of the College of Natural and Health Sciences at
Virginia State University where his goals are to help lead the
University to High Research Activity status and create more
opportunities for minorities and women to enter science careers. His
research involves bringing down the costs of expensive medicines by
using informatics to identify target genes in Chinese hamster ovary cell
lines that will make the lines more stable. He recently helped to
establish the Molecular Diagnostics Laboratory at Delaware State
University that helped the university and surrounding communities stay
safe via COVID-19 PCR testing. His hobbies include spending quality time
with his wife and four children.  
  
**Caroline Sullivan, Member, National Board for Education Sciences**  
Caroline Sullivan is the Executive Director of the North Carolina
Business Committee for Education, the education nonprofit in the Office
of the Governor. She works with state agencies, school districts, higher
education, and employers to develop cross-agency strategies and data
informed initiatives to support the education and workforce systems in
the state. Sullivan has launched multiple innovative programs to support
student success and educator effectiveness. She led the development of a
statewide work-based learning platform that provides opportunities for
students and longitudinal data for education systems.  The platform has
been highlighted in national publications as a best practice to expand
and measure work-based learning. She has been an advocate for
individuals with disabilities for over 20 years, and previously chaired
the NC Interagency Coordinating Councils for Children with Disabilities.
She developed LiNC-IT, a statewide internship program for individuals
with autism. Sullivan has made numerous presentations on neurodiversity
employment programs and work-based learning to state and national
audiences.   
  
Sullivan currently serves on the North Carolina Center for the
Advancement of Teaching Board, the Teacher Working Conditions Survey
Advisory Committee, NC Workforce Credentials Advisory Council, the NC
Careers Advisory Board, and the Advisory Board of the Duke Center for
Autism and Brain Development. Prior to this appointment, she was elected
to the Wake County Board of Commissioners, serving as Chair of the
Education Committee. She received a B.A. with Honors from the University
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.     
  
**Hirokazu Yoshikawa, Member, National Board for Education Sciences**  
Hirokazu Yoshikawa is the Courtney Sale Ross Professor of Globalization
and Education and a University Professor at New York University’s
Steinhardt School of Culture, Education, and Human Development. He is a
community and developmental psychologist who studies the effects of
public policies and programs on young children and adolescents,
particularly in the contexts of migration, forced displacement,
sexuality, and poverty reduction. He conducts research in the United
States, Latin America, South Asia, and the Middle East. He has served as
a Trustee of the Russell Sage Foundation, the Foundation for Child
Development, and the William T. Grant Foundation. He previously served
on the National Board of Education Sciences during the Obama-Biden
Administration. He has served in advisory roles for UNICEF, UNESCO, the
World Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank, the U.N. Sustainable
Development Solutions Network, and the UK’s Foreign, Commonwealth, and
Development Office. He is an elected fellow of the National Academy of
Education, the American Academy of Political and Social Sciences, and
the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and received an honorary
doctorate from Utrecht University in 2020.

\###
