---
date: '2022-10-14'
published_time: 2022-10-14 10:52:55-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/14/joint-statement-2022-u-s-mexico-high-level-security-dialogue/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Joint Statement: 2022 U.S.-Mexico High-Level Security\_Dialogue"
---
 
This year we celebrate 200 years of bilateral relations between the
United States and Mexico and the first anniversary of the U.S. – Mexico
Bicentennial Framework for Security, Public Health, and Safe
Communities.  The Bicentennial Framework, launched by our governments at
the 2021 High-Level Security Dialogue, established a comprehensive,
innovative, and long-term approach to guide our bilateral security
cooperation.  
  
The United States and Mexico remain committed to an enduring partnership
based on mutual trust and respect for each country’s sovereignty and
independence.  The Bicentennial Framework reaffirmed our commitment to
take concrete actions on both sides of the border to address the shared
security challenges affecting our communities, including human
trafficking and smuggling, violence and illicit firearms, as well as
substance use disorder and illicit drugs.  
  
The United States and Mexico recognize our shared commitment to uphold
the rule of law through enhanced law enforcement cooperation and protect
our communities from transnational criminal organizations.  We reaffirm
our respect for human rights, our intolerance for corruption, and our
commitment to address the underlying causes of violence and addiction in
our communities.  We have set ambitious goals within the Bicentennial
Framework and developed detailed action plans to achieve our shared
objectives.  During the 2022 High-Level Security Dialogue, both
governments decided to establish benchmarks to assess progress under the
Bicentennial Framework and communicate results to our citizens.   
  
In our first year under the Bicentennial Framework, we **protected the
health of our citizens** by expanding our collaboration to reduce
substance use disorder and its associated harm.  The United States
invested $25.1 billion in drug treatment and interdiction of illicit
narcotics.  The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services allocated
nearly $1.5 billion to address the opioid crisis and support individuals
in recovery.  Both governments launched complementary education
campaigns on the dangers of fentanyl, the consequences of mixing drugs,
the life-saving power of naloxone, and the importance of reducing stigma
around substance use disorder to support treatment and recovery.
 Mexico’s National Strategy to Prevent Addictions reached over 25
million people through prevention and community activities.  We
established a binational panel of public health experts to exchange best
practices, improve surveillance tools, and monitor drug use trends.  
  
We built forensic capacity to identify victims of forced disappearance,
improved law enforcement and justice services for gender-based violence
victims, and strengthened our shared commitment to protect journalists
from criminal organizations through the National Protection Mechanism
for Human Rights Defenders and Journalists.  We worked together to
reduce impunity for high-impact crimes, including homicides.   
  
We intensified efforts to **prevent transnational criminal organizations
from harming our countries.**  We implemented mirrored patrols along our
shared border to disrupt narcotics and firearms trafficking and human
smuggling.  The Department of Justice created Joint Task Force Alpha,
which increased coordination with the Department of Homeland Security
and other law enforcement partners, including in Mexico and Central
America, to disrupt human smuggling networks.  In 2021, the United
States prosecuted 5,046 defendants for human smuggling, a 23 percent
increase over 2020, and arrested four individuals suspected of
involvement in the deaths of 53 migrants in San Antonio, Texas in
June.   
  
Our deepened law enforcement cooperation and bilateral information
sharing supported drug interdiction activities in both countries. 
Mexico doubled cocaine seizures and arrested dozens of organized crime
leaders.  In 2022, Mexico made historic seizures of fentanyl, including
confiscating more than 800,000 pills in Sonora. In 2021, the U.S. Drug
Enforcement Agency seized more than 20.4 million fake pills and 15,000
pounds of fentanyl powder, and Customs and Border Protection seized an
average of more than 800 pounds of fentanyl each month in 2021.  Mexico
extended its surveillance watchlist to include 72 dual-use substances,
facilitating the seizure of over 955 tons of chemical precursors under
the current government.  We signed a memorandum of understanding between
Mexico’s National Customs Agency and the U.S. Customs and Border
Protection’s National Targeting Center to improve information sharing on
air cargo shipments.  Mexico also joined the UN Office on Drugs and
Crime’s Global Container Control Program to minimize the use of maritime
containers for the illicit trafficking of drugs.   
  
To curb firearms trafficking, our law enforcement agencies traced 40
percent more firearms with a U.S.- Mexico nexus over the past year. 
These firearm traces yielded criminal intelligence that resulted in
nearly 300 percent more criminal referrals in the United States over the
past twelve months, the seizure of thousands of firearms in the United
States and Mexico before they could reach criminal groups, and dozens of
criminal convictions related to firearms smuggling.  In Mexico, law
enforcement agencies seized over 32,000 weapons, 17 million rounds of
ammunition, and 2,300 grenades since 2019 U.S. local, federal, and state
law enforcement agencies seized over 600,000 firearms in 2021.  The U.S.
Congress passed landmark legislation to strengthen laws against firearms
trafficking and straw purchases and provided funds for the Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives to hire 600 new agents.  
  
We **pursued criminal networks** by cracking down on transnational money
laundering networks and extraditing criminals.  Working together, the
U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Asset Control and
Mexico’s Financial Intelligence Unit blocked thousands of accounts
linked to drug traffickers, arms traffickers, and human smugglers.  A
binational illicit finance working group collaborated on cases involving
chemical precursor trafficking.  Mexico implemented an innovative
approach to prosecute drug traffickers on tax evasion charges and the
U.S. Office of Foreign Asset Control issued the first sanctions for
firearms trafficking.   
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">The U.S.-Mexico Bicentennial
Framework for Security, Public Health, and Safe Communities</span>  
  
Nearly 108,000 people died of drug overdoses in the United States last
year, driven primarily by the consumption of synthetic opioids like
fentanyl.  Firearms crossing our common border continue to generate
extreme levels of violence.  Over the next year, we must redouble our
efforts to protect our people, prevent transborder crime, and pursue
criminal networks through the following actions:   

1.  Expand our investment in public health, security, human rights, and
    justice sector institutions.    
2.  Strengthen evidence-based prevention, treatment, and recovery
    programs.   
3.  Increase the number of municipalities in Mexico using crime
    prevention methods to guide at-risk youth and disrupt cycles of
    violence.   
4.  Reduce impunity for homicides and high-impact crimes using data,
    analysis, prioritization, and task forces focused on investigating
    specific crimes.   
5.  Dismantle human smuggling organizations through coordinated efforts
    such as Joint Task Force Alpha and mechanisms that strengthen
    information exchange.   
6.  Commit to and implement an action plan to prevent the consumption
    and trafficking of synthetic drugs, specifically fentanyl and
    methamphetamines.   
7.  Sign a memorandum of understanding to exchange information and
    expand capacity in chemical regulation and importation processes.   
8.  Implement the recommendations of a shared study to address smuggling
    of people and goods across the border.  
9.  Expand eTrace access and share best practices for prosecuting
    firearms cases.  
10. Prepare a collaborative report on arms trafficking to identify
    routes, organizations, and tactics used to traffic firearms.    
11. Enforce the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act provisions on firearms
    trafficking.  
12. Expand the number of investigators to support prosecutions across
    the range of criminal activity identified in the joint statement.  
13. Develop a work plan to advance cybersecurity and infrastructure
    security cooperation between the U.S. Cybersecurity and
    Infrastructure Security Agency and Mexico’s National Guard.

\###
