---
date: '2022-10-12'
published_time: 2022-10-12 12:00:51-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/12/readout-of-the-white-house-summit-on-improving-indoor-air-quality/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of the White\_House Summit on Improving Indoor Air\_Quality"
---
 
In addition to new, updated COVID-19 vaccines and lifesaving treatments,
improving indoor air quality within the buildings we use every day is an
essential part of the Biden Administration’s plan to manage COVID-19
this fall and winter. As people spend more time indoors this fall and
winter, contagious viruses like COVID-19 can spread more easily. The
Administration has called on business and school leaders to take key
steps to improve indoor air quality in their buildings as a key way to
mitigate the spread of COVID-19.   
  
Yesterday, the White House hosted a Summit on Improving Indoor Air
Quality, bringing together public health and ventilation experts,
private sector and education leaders, and other stakeholders to
highlight the benefits of improved indoor air quality in mitigating the
spread of COVID-19, showcase schools and businesses that are leading the
way in making improvements, and underscore the importance of all
building operators doing their part.   
  
Administration officials also highlighted some additional steps we are
taking to advance indoor air quality in buildings across the nation:  
  
**Encouraging businesses and organizations around the country in taking
the Clean Air in Buildings Challenge**: Earlier this year, the
Administration launched the Clean Air in Buildings Challenge with a
clear set of recommendations all building owners and operations can
follow to improve indoor air quality. Yesterday’s Summit featured a
discussion with private sector leaders representing Salesforce,
Silverstein Properties, and Capital One Arena/Monumental Sports on the
actions outlined within the Clean Air in Buildings Challenge they have
taken to improve indoor air quality across their buildings.
Additionally, the Administration launched a new website
– [WhiteHouse.Gov/CleanIndoorAir](http://www.whitehouse.gov/cleanindoorair) –
where businesses and other organizations can learn more about
the [Challenge](https://www.epa.gov/system/files/documents/2022-03/508-cleanairbuildings_factsheet_v5_508.pdf) and
pledge their commitment to improving indoor air quality in their
buildings. In recognition of their commitments, those who sign up will
receive a digital “badge” that they can use to share their pledge
publicly with their employees, customers, and communities on social
media, in their storefronts, and beyond.  
  
**Making it easier for schools to improve indoor air quality**:
Yesterday’s Summit featured participants from Denver Public Schools
(Denver, CO) and Clark County School District (Las Vegas, NV), two
school districts that have made great strides in improving ventilation
and filtration in their buildings – including through the use of
American Rescue Plan Elementary and Secondary School Emergency Relief
(ESSER) funds. Today, nearly half of school districts in the country
plan to use ARP funds to improve ventilation. The Administration
continues to collaborate with organizations that provide expert guidance
and technical support from skilled, trained, and qualified technicians
to make it easier to make improvements, and the Department of Energy
will continue to make one-on-one consultations available to any school
in America that wants one for improving their indoor air quality.  
  
**Lifting up organizations who are leading the way on indoor air quality
in their buildings**: As part of the President’s National COVID-19
Preparedness Plan released earlier this year, the Administration pledged
to engage industry, scientific, academic, and labor leaders to identify
ways to recognize the efforts of buildings and leaders across sectors
and around the country toward ventilation and indoor air quality
improvements. In support of this goal, the Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) recently released a [Request for
Information](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2022/10/05/2022-21590/request-for-information-better-indoor-air-quality-management-to-help-reduce-covid-19-and-other#:~:text=Through%20this%20Request%20for%20Information%20%28RFI%29%2C%20the%20Environmental,stock%20to%20help%20mitigate%20disease%20transmission%20%28e.g.%2C%20COVID-19%29) (RFI)
to solicit feedback from experts, researchers, industry, and the public
on key characteristics and measures to document efforts toward improved
ventilation, filtration, and air cleaning in buildings, and to more
generally advance and promote the widespread adoption of actions that
lead to improvements in indoor air quality in the nation’s building
stock. Later this month, the Department of Energy will also announce its
criteria for recognizing schools that are making indoor air quality
improvements as part of its [Efficient and Healthy Schools
Campaign](https://www.energy.gov/eere/buildings/efficient-and-healthy-schools).
In addition to sharing success stories through annual recognition, this
campaign offers technical assistance to plan and implement energy
efficient health and safety improvements in school facilities.

\###
