---
date: '2022-10-05'
modified_time: 2022-10-05 11:24:52-04:00
published_time: 2022-10-05 11:24:51-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/05/statement-from-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-and-nec-director-brian-deese/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan and NEC Director Brian\_\
  Deese"
---
 
The President is disappointed by the shortsighted decision by OPEC+ to
cut production quotas while the global economy is dealing with the
continued negative impact of Putin’s invasion of Ukraine. At a time when
maintaining a global supply of energy is of paramount importance, this
decision will have the most negative impact on lower- and middle-income
countries that are already reeling from elevated energy prices.

The President’s work here at home, and with allies around the world, has
helped to bring down U.S. gas prices: since the beginning of the summer,
gas prices are down $1.20 – and the most common price at gas stations
today is $3.29/gallon. At the President’s direction, the Department of
Energy will deliver another 10 million barrels from the Strategic
Petroleum Reserve to the market next month, continuing the historic
releases the President ordered in March. The President will continue to
direct SPR releases as appropriate to protect American consumers and
promote energy security, and he is directing the Secretary of Energy to
explore any additional responsible actions to continue increasing
domestic production in the immediate term.

The President is also calling on U.S. energy companies to keep bringing
pump prices down by closing the historically large gap between wholesale
and retail gas prices — so that American consumers are paying less at
the pump.

In light of today’s action, the Biden Administration will also consult
with Congress on additional tools and authorities to reduce OPEC’s
control over energy prices.

Finally, today’s announcement is a reminder of why it is so critical
that the United States reduce its reliance on foreign sources of fossil
fuels. With the passage of the Inflation Reduction Act, the U.S. is now
poised to make the most significant investment ever in accelerating the
clean energy transition while increasing energy security, by increasing
our reliance on American-made and American-produced clean energy and
energy technologies.

\###
