---
date: '2022-10-07'
published_time: 2022-10-07 11:15:38-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/07/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-delivers-new-memorandum-of-agreement-to-streamline-employment-and-job-training-funding-for-tribal-nations/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Delivers New Memorandum of Agreement\
  \ to Streamline Employment and Job Training Funding for Tribal\_Nations"
---
 
Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is delivering on its promise to
allow Tribal governments and organizations to consolidate important
federal funding for job training, workforce development, and other
economic development purposes into a single plan, with a single
reporting requirement, administered by the Department of the Interior.
The new [Memorandum of
Agreement](https://www.bia.gov/sites/default/files/dup/inline-files/477_moa_signed_compiled.pdf)
(MOA) to implement the Tribal “477 Program,” named for Public Law
102-477, has been signed by 12 federal agencies—including the
Departments of the Interior, Labor, Education, Health and Human
Services, Agriculture, Commerce, Energy, Homeland Security, Housing and
Urban Development, Transportation, Veterans Affairs, and Justice—and
will go into effect immediately.  
  
The 477 Program requires an interagency MOA to facilitate meetings
between participating Tribes and federal agencies, to prepare an annual
review of achievements, and to create a forum for resolving interagency
differences and conflicts between the federal government and Tribes in
administering the statute. The last MOA was signed by the same 12
federal agencies in 2018 without Tribal consultation. Tribes have been
clear since that MOA was signed that it made it more difficult for them
to take advantage of the program and consolidate their funding, and they
immediately sought the renegotiation of the MOA.  
  
In October 2021, Vice President Harris addressed the Annual Convention
of the National Congress of American Indians and committed that the
Administration would “[renegotiate this agreement to support Tribal
sovereignty](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/10/12/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-the-national-congress-of-american-indians-78th-annual-convention/).”
Today, the Administration is delivering on that promise.  The new MOA
streamlines plan approval procedures and re-affirms the decisional
authority of the Secretary of the Interior in approving plans. This
approach will better serve Tribal needs and further key Administration
policies, such as respecting Tribal sovereignty and self-determination,
reducing joblessness in Indian country, streamlining service delivery,
and improving federal customer service.  
  
Since Congress enacted this program in 1992 and expanded it to include
more federal agencies in 2017, Tribal governments have successfully
developed and used 477 Plans to provide employment and training services
based on their unique Tribal goals. In FY22, 292 Tribes, comprising more
than half of all federally recognized Tribes in the United States, had
seventy-two 477 Plans in effect. Those 292 Tribes managed $272.8 million
dollars in FY22 program funds from five agencies.  
  
The new MOA for the Tribal 477 Program will advance the Biden-Harris
Administration’s goal of strengthening the economic stability and
mobility of families in Indian Country. It will also better enable
Tribal Nations to build up the economic resilience of communities
through employment and training services based on Tribal goals and
initiatives.  
  
Today’s MOA is just one of the many steps the Biden-Harris
Administration is taking to improve employment, job training, and
economic development opportunities for Tribal Nations. The Biden-Harris
Administration is committed to ensuring Tribal communities and other
underserved populations have equitable access to good jobs in in-demand
sectors – including those required to implement the [Bipartisan
Infrastructure
Law](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/31/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-releases-tribal-playbook-announces-massive-new-tribal-funding-from-bipartisan-infrastructure-law/),
the [CHIPS and Science
Act](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/09/fact-sheet-chips-and-science-act-will-lower-costs-create-jobs-strengthen-supply-chains-and-counter-china/),
and the [Inflation Reduction
Act](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/18/fact-sheet-how-the-inflation-reduction-act-helps-tribal-communities/).
This includes supporting worker-centered sector strategies to better
recruit, train, and retain a diverse, local, and skilled workforce;
[strengthening Tribal colleges and
universities](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/10/11/executive-order-on-the-white-house-initiative-on-advancing-educational-equity-excellence-and-economic-opportunity-for-native-americans-and-strengthening-tribal-colleges-and-universities/);
and advancing Registered Apprenticeships, and other high-quality
education and training that lead to good jobs.

\###
