---
date: '2022-10-07'
published_time: 2022-10-07 11:32:43-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/07/biden-harris-administration-announces-progress-in-implementing-its-housing-supply-action-plan/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces Progress in Implementing its Housing\
  \ Supply Action\_Plan"
---
 
Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is announcing key progress on
implementing its [Housing Supply Action
Plan](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/16/president-biden-announces-new-actions-to-ease-the-burden-of-housing-costs/),
which in May outlined a set of administrative and legislative priorities
aimed at closing the housing supply shortfall in five years. The
President believes that policies that boost the supply of affordable
housing are critical to easing the burden of rising housing costs for
renters and aspiring homeowners, and must be taken in combination with
actions that address near-term housing affordability and promote fair
housing.

The rising costs of housing, including extraordinary rent increases for
many tenants, make it more challenging for Americans to afford other
essentials like food, transportation, and health care. To close the
supply gap and expand housing affordability, the Administration
continues to urge Congress to act on a bipartisan basis to support the
construction and preservation of affordable housing this year. In
addition, Congress should expand rental assistance, assist aspiring
homeowners with down payment assistance, and help create a more
equitable housing market. The Administration also continues to urge
state and local governments to reduce needless barriers to housing
production, especially restrictive zoning and land use regulations.

In keeping with commitments made in the Housing Supply Action Plan,
announced in May, federal agencies have taken action to reduce barriers
to building and preserving affordable housing, including a set of new
actions that the Administration is announcing today. At the same time,
the Administration has acted where it can to directly address
affordability, including for low-income renters. For example, just last
week the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
[announced](https://www.hud.gov/press/press_releases_media_advisories/HUD_No_22_184)
the awarding of more than 19,000 new Housing Choice Vouchers – the most
expansive allocation of flexible new rental assistance in 20 years.

***Today, the Administration is announcing several new steps that reduce
barriers to affordable housing construction and preservation, and will
make it easier to build affordable housing, including:***

1.  Finalizing regulations that make it easier to build mixed-income
    housing, housing that includes very-low-income tenants, and housing
    in sparsely populated rural areas by reforming the income guidelines
    for the main source of financing for affordable housing — Low-Income
    Housing Tax Credits (LIHTCs).  
2.  Extending LIHTC deadlines to ensure that affordable housing projects
    delayed by public health, economic, and supply-chain issues can be
    built as expeditiously as possible and still qualify for LIHTCs.  
3.  Reforming and streamlining a financing program at Fannie Mae and
    Freddie Mac that will make it easier to build homes for rent by
    providing more affordable financing for multifamily housing
    construction.  
4.  Continuing to promote more housing options near transit and other
    modes of transportation, coordination of transportation and housing
    planning, and rewarding jurisdictions that have removed barriers to
    housing development.

<u>***Improving Federal Financing for Affordable Housing Production and
Preservation***</u>

**Finalizing the LIHTC income averaging rule:** LIHTCs are the largest
federal incentive for affordable housing construction and
rehabilitation. Today, the Department of the Treasury and the IRS are
finalizing the LIHTC income averaging rule, which allows affordable
housing projects to qualify for LIHTCs based on the average of the
income limitations for rent-restricted units, rather than requiring a
single income limitation for those units. This flexibility will enable
the creation of more financially stable, mixed-income LIHTC projects and
make LIHTC-supported housing more feasible in sparsely populated rural
areas. It will also facilitate the production of additional affordable
and available units for extremely low-income tenants by allowing for
cross-subsidization within a project.

**Extending deadlines for placed-in-service rules for LIHTC projects:**
In response to the COVID emergency, IRS provided an extension for the
deadlines when an affordable housing project seeking to earn LIHTCs must
be placed-in-service. Today, the IRS is announcing several additional
deadline extensions to ensure that affordable housing projects delayed
by public health, economic, and supply-chain issues can be built as
expeditiously as possible and still qualify for LIHTCs.   
  
**Reforming Forward Commitment programs to facilitate the creation of
more long-term affordable units:** The Federal Housing Finance Agency
(FHFA) has made policy changes to expand Fannie Mae’s and Freddie Mac’s
Forward Commitment programs, which allow developers to secure financing
to pay off a construction loan when construction has been completed and
the housing project has been approved for occupancy. Specifically, each
Enterprise will now be permitted to provide $3 billion in Forward
Commitments per year – above and beyond the multifamily purchase cap. In
addition, FHFA has approved Freddie Mac’s expansion of its non-LIHTC
Forward Commitment program, requiring that financed projects are at
least 20 percent affordable over the life of the loan. These projects
often align with other state and local incentives (such as inclusionary
zoning requirements, property tax abatements, or interest rate
buy-downs) to create affordability without additional federal
subsidies. 

**Enabling more affordable housing development and preservation with
State and Local Fiscal Recovery Funds (SLFRF) under the American Rescue
Plan:** In July, Treasury took [new
steps](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy0889) to increase
the affordable housing supply through American Rescue Plan funds. The
expanded list of presumptively eligible uses of funds for affordable
housing allows recipients to use SLFRF to make long-term loans to
finance certain affordable housing projects, including projects expected
to be eligible for LIHTCs. To further encourage state and local
governments to make use of these increased flexibilities, Treasury and
the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)  jointly published
a [“How-To”
Guide](https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/136/Affordable-Housing-How-To-Guide.pdf)
to help governments use American Rescue Plan funds with other sources of
federal funding. Since then, several cities, counties, and states have
indicated that they expect to use additional funds for affordable
housing development and preservation. For example, in New Hanover
County, North Carolina, the revised guidance permitting SLFRF to finance
long-term loans allowed development of the stalled 278-unit Starway
Village apartment complex to proceed, with tenant move-in tentatively
scheduled for 2024.

**Building more affordable rental housing with the Federal Financing
Bank’s Risk Sharing program:** Last September, the Administration
announced that Treasury and HUD finalized an agreement to restart the
Federal Financing Bank’s Risk Sharing program. The program provides
loans at reduced interest rates to state and local housing finance
agencies to create and preserve high-quality, affordable homes. Since
the relaunch, HUD has committed more than $1.6 billion to create and
preserve more than 9,000 rental homes. 

<u>***Promoting Transit-Oriented Development, Coordination of
Transportation and Housing Planning, and Rewarding Jurisdictions That
Have Reformed Zoning and Land-Use Policies***</u>

**Expanding federal financing for transit-oriented development (TOD) and
affordable housing**: The Department of Transportation (DOT) provides
low-cost financing for infrastructure projects through its
Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA) credit
program. Earlier this week DOT announced [“TIFIA
49,”](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.transportation.gov%2Fbuildamerica%2FTIFIA49&data=05%7C01%7Cdani.simons%40dot.gov%7Cca29b8195d0649f12c0408daa641d225%7Cc4cd245b44f04395a1aa3848d258f78b%7C0%7C0%7C638005098871345700%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=RJSlkGRVaC2IWNMI3%2FN4pk9oZm%2B5hCNSs4G6p7j9N4Y%3D&reserved=0)
which allows sponsors who are creating transit-oriented development
projects (including public housing), transit and public infrastructure
to borrow up to the maximum amount authorized in statute, 49 percent of
total eligible costs, up from the 33 percent established by
long-standing policy. Project sponsors can be public entities (e.g.
governments or transit agencies) as well as private developers. The
loans are long-term (up to 35 years and more) and low interest (Treasury
rate) with favorable terms, providing developers incentive to build
within a half-mile of transit locations, providing more housing and
employment options accessible by transit. Financing with the Build
America Bureau can save public project sponsors and their private sector
partners between 20 and 40 percent in financing costs over the life of a
loan.

**Providing $30 million in planning and project development funding that
will increase housing supply:** DOT and HUD are partnering to launch
a new $30 million Thriving Communities Program to help communities plan
and develop transformative infrastructure projects. Through Thriving
Communities, HUD and DOT will support technical assistance to improve
the coordination of housing and transportation planning, increase
housing supply, increase affordable transportation options, enhance
economic opportunity, reduce environmental burdens, and improve access
and quality of life.  This week, both agencies released Notices of
Funding Opportunities (NOFOs) to select technical assistance providers
and capacity builders. This week, DOT will also issue a call for Letters
of Interest from communities interested in receiving Thriving
Communities technical assistance.

**Increasing transportation investments in a manner that can connect and
expand affordable housing supply:** As the Administration highlighted in
the Housing Supply Action Plan, earlier this year, the Administration
began using federal transportation programs to encourage state and local
governments to boost housing supply, where consistent with current
statutory requirements. For example, this year, DOT released three
funding applications for competitive grant programs totaling nearly $6
billion in funding that reward jurisdictions that have adopted land-use
policies to promote density and rural main street revitalization with
higher scores in the grant process. DOT has already begun awarding
grants for some of those programs, including the following RAISE grant
award recipients, where local governments are improving their
transportation infrastructure and promoting a range of transportation,
environmental, urban planning, and housing policy goals:

1.  *The 6<sup>th</sup> Street Bridge Construction Project (Rochester,
    MN):* DOT has committed nearly $20 million to this historic project
    that will build a multi-span bridge on 6th Street to connect the
    street and trail across the Zumbro River. The project will address
    the physical barrier of the Zumbro River and provides community
    members affordable transportation options that connect them to
    employment and essential services. Implementation of Planning 2
    Succeed, Rochester’s 2040 Comprehensive Plan, calls for “a wider
    range of housing, business location, and transportation options in a
    series of mixed use, mixed density corridors and activity centers
    where more purposeful integration of land use and transportation
    occurs to meet the diverse needs expressed by residents and business
    interests.”  
2.  *The Westward Three Project (Colorado):* DOT has provided over $24
    million to this project that will construct three new mobility hubs
    in Grand Junction, Rifle, and Glenwood Springs. The project will
    increase the accessibility, condition, and service provided by the
    region’s bus system. The number of large vacant parcels directly
    next to the historic downtown presents an opportunity for new
    multi-family units. Rifle’s 2019 Comprehensive Plan designates the
    downtown as “High Density Residential” and “Neighborhood Commercial”
    and notes that the City’s “zoning standards and incentive policies
    should focus on encouraging affordability of housing,” including
    allowing accessory dwelling unit construction by-right use in
    residential zoning districts and incorporating manufactured housing
    as a viable affordable housing strategy.

<u>***Promoting Housing Innovation and Alternative Housing Types***</u>

**Promoting housing innovation and alternative housing types:**
Consistent with the Administration’s commitment to accelerate innovation
in homebuilding and promote new building techniques in order to lower
costs and boost affordable housing production, the Economic Development
Administration recently awarded $41.4 million to the Oregon Mass Timber
Coalition, led by the Port of Portland. The grant will enable the
Coalition to become a national leader in using mass timber to accelerate
affordable housing production, provide good jobs, and restore forest
health. The grant also provides technical assistance funding to help
Oregon jurisdictions revise their building codes. This builds on other
recent actions taken across the Administration: HUD’s recent updates to
the Manufactured Housing Code, which will enable more manufactured
housing producers to use new and innovative building techniques, in
addition to HUD’s [Innovative Housing
Showcase](https://www.hud.gov/ourwayhome/blog_06_28_22) on the National
Mall earlier this summer.

**Supporting creative utilization of federal resources:** Local and
state governments can now access a “[Quick Guide to Using HUD’s
Community Planning and Development
Programs](https://www.hudexchange.info/resource/6756/increasing-the-supply-of-new-affordable-housing/).”
The Quick Guide assists state and local governments in the utilization
of their HUD Community Planning and Development (CPD) funds to increase
their supply of new affordable housing units. It highlights various
financing tools that can be used in conjunction with HUD’s annual CPD
programs, commonly used sources for affordable housing production,
creative affordable housing models, and six project profiles of actual
affordable housing developments that used CPD funds as part of the
financing.

<u>***Preserving the Availability of Affordable Single-Family Homes for
Owner-Occupants***</u>

**Directing federally-held housing supply to owner-occupants and
mission-driven entities instead of large investors:** The Administration
has taken steps to direct a greater share of the supply of FHA, Fannie
Mae, and Freddie Mac defaulted asset dispositions to owner-occupants and
mission-driven entities instead of large investors. In two recent sales
of HUD Home Equity Conversion Mortgage notes secured by vacant
properties, a total of 1,393 notes were awarded with 61 percent of the
notes awarded to non-profit or non-profit joint venture bidders. For the
July 27, 2022 sale, all purchasers, including for-profit purchasers,
were required after foreclosure to market the property for sale and
offer a thirty (30) day priority purchase period to owner occupant,
government, and nonprofit buyers. As a result of these efforts, more
single-family homes are expected to be restored to viable use as
affordable homeownership and rental properties.

**Convening experts to discuss the growing trend of institutional
investor purchases:** Later this year, HUD’s Office of Policy
Development and Research will feature the topic of “Institutional
Investors in the Housing Market” as part of its upcoming PD&R Quarterly
Update. Investor activity has increased since the start of the pandemic,
driven by [investors with more than 1,000
properties](https://www.corelogic.com/intelligence/the-beginning-of-the-end-single-family-investor-activity-takes-a-step-back-in-q2/).
Their increased activity limits homeownership opportunities for
prospective first-time homebuyers and contributes to the racial wealth
and homeownership gaps. This event will highlight research on this issue
and explore actions that various levels of government, along with
nonprofits and other mission-driven entities, can take to drive supply
to owner-occupants and mission-driven entities. For more information and
to register for the event, click
[here](https://www.huduser.gov/portal/event/Institutional-Investors.html).

\###
