---
date: '2022-10-27'
modified_time: 2022-10-27 18:07:01-04:00
published_time: 2022-10-27 18:07:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/27/what-they-are-saying-praise-for-the-biden-harris-administrations-plan-to-transform-americas-school-buses/
tags: statements-releases
title: "WHAT THEY ARE SAYING:  Praise for the Biden-\u2060Harris Administration\u2019\
  s Plan to Transform America\u2019s School\_Buses"
---
 
Yesterday, Vice President Harris and EPA Administrator Regan announced
that 389 school districts from across all 50 states and U.S. territories
will receive nearly $1 billion from President Biden’s Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law to replace old diesel school buses with new clean
school buses.

Electric school buses will ensure cleaner air in and around our
communities, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and protect children’s
health. They will also drive demand for American-made batteries and
vehicles, boost domestic manufacturing, and create good paying union
jobs. Thanks to the President and Vice President’s vision, the Clean
School Bus Program will result in healthier air for many of the 25
million American children who rely on school buses every day.

Political, business, and advocacy leaders from across the country
praised the announcement. Here’s what they’re saying:

**U.S. Congress**

**New York Senator Charles E. Schumer**: “Thanks to the Bipartisan
Infrastructure & Jobs Law, as the wheels of the new, electric school
busses go round and round, carbon emissions and pollution is gonna keep
going down and down. Over $50 million will supercharge our efforts to
fight climate change and power over 130 brand new electric buses to keep
our air clean, kids safe and Upstate New York healthy. I am proud to
deliver this tremendous environmental justice investment that will put
our students on the road to a brighter future and a cleaner commute.”
\[[Press
Release](https://www.schumer.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/schumer-delivers-over-50-million-to-upstate-new-york-school-districts-to-purchase-130-new-clean-electric-buses-through-the-bipartisan-infrastructure-and-jobs-law-curbing-pollution-supercharging-the-fight-against-climate-change-and-giving-upstate-kids-the-clean-commute-they-deserve),
10/26/22\]

**Pennsylvania Senator Bob Casey**: “Clean school buses ensure our
children are breathing cleaner air, which will set them up with a
brighter and healthier future. Thanks to the infrastructure law, school
districts across Pennsylvania will be able to protect students’ health
and save money, while helping to reduce greenhouse emissions. This is a
commonsense solution that benefits our children, our schools, and the
environment.” \[[Press
Release](https://www.casey.senate.gov/news/releases/casey-announces-34-million-for-clean-school-buses-from-infrastructure-law),
10/26/22\]

**Nevada Senator Catherine Cortez Masto**: “I’m excited to see this
funding for clean buses headed to Clark County schools. In addition to
reducing air pollution and lowering fuel costs, these buses will help
reduce harmful emissions across Las Vegas and keep our kids healthy.
I’ll keep working to support innovative transportation solutions as well
as create good-paying jobs in our booming clean-energy industries.”
\[[Press
Release](https://www.cortezmasto.senate.gov/news/press-releases/cortez-masto-rosen-announce-98-million-for-cleaner-school-buses-in-clark-county),
10/26/22\]

**California Senator Diane Feinstein**: “Buses contribute heavily to air
pollution and can harm children’s respiratory health. That’s why funding
clean buses is absolutely critical. Thanks to $68 million from the
bipartisan infrastructure law, these grants will support the purchase of
177 clean school buses across California school districts. This funding
is a key step to help California and the nation reach our ambitious
emission reduction goals to reduce the effects of climate change and to
improve our children’s health.” \[[Press
Release](https://www.feinstein.senate.gov/public/index.cfm/press-releases?ID=B2CEE816-529C-4F85-92B1-1875633128FF),
10/26/22\]

**New Mexico Senator Martin Heinrich**: “I am thrilled to welcome this
first round of funding for the Clean School Bus Program. The clean
energy and electrification investments that we secured in the
Infrastructure Law and the Inflation Reduction Act are by far the most
significant steps that Congress has taken to spur the widespread
deployment of highly-efficient, fully electric and climate
pollution-free technologies. Modernizing the vehicles that transport New
Mexico’s children to school–especially with clean and electric
buses–will make our air cleaner and improve public health, and create
important energy and fuel savings for public school districts.
Electrifying our homes, buildings, and vehicles is one of the surest
climate actions that we can take right now that will help secure a more
equitable, healthier future for all our communities.” \[[Press
Release](https://www.heinrich.senate.gov/news/press-releases/heinrich-announces-456-million-from-epas-clean-school-bus-program-for-nm-school-districts),
10/26/22\]

**Virginia Senator Tim Kaine**: “Virginia students deserve buses that
won’t accelerate climate change and pollute the air in their
communities. This is one of many examples of how the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, which I helped pass last year, is going to make a
real difference for Virginians across the Commonwealth and help us
reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. I’m glad to see Virginia is
receiving federal funding so that school districts can purchase more
energy efficient school buses.” \[[Press
Release](https://www.kaine.senate.gov/press-releases/warner-and-kaine-announce-over-30-million-for-clean-school-buses-across-virginia-thanks-to-bipartisan-infrastructure-law),
10/26/22\]

**West Virginia Senator Joe Manchin**: “Every West Virginian deserves
clean air to breathe, and this Bipartisan Infrastructure Law investment
for clean school buses in Boone, Wirt and Wyoming counties is great news
for our entire state. The new buses will emit fewer pollutants linked
with asthma and lung damage and will promote better air quality across
the state, all while safely taking young West Virginians to and from
school every day. Our Bipartisan Infrastructure Law continues to deliver
critical investments for the Mountain State, and I will keep working
with the EPA to protect communities across West Virginia for generations
to come.” \[[Press
Release](https://www.manchin.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/manchin-capito-announce-clean-school-bus-grants-for-wyoming-boone-wirt-counties-from-bipartisan-infrastructure-law),
10/27/22\]

**Washington Senator Patty Murray**: “Building new, clean electric buses
and getting them on our roads is good for our kids, our economy, and our
planet. That’s why for months, I pushed to pass my Clean School Bus Act.
Because this is just one way we boost an economy-wide transition to
clean energy. We’ll be making these clean buses here in America,
creating good-paying jobs—all while promoting clean air and better
health outcomes for our kids. It’s a win-win-win.” \[[Press
Release](https://www.murray.senate.gov/sen-murray-vp-harris-celebrate-electric-school-buses-coming-to-wa-via-the-bipartisan-infrastructure-law/),
10/26/22\]

**California Senator Alex Padilla**: “I have been proud to help lead the
charge to transition our nation’s school bus fleet to zero- and
low-emission models. Success in the classroom starts before children
even get to school. Unfortunately, far too many children in
working-class communities—like the one I grew up in—are forced to inhale
harmful emissions from outdated diesel buses on the way to school.
Today’s announcement is a significant investment in modernizing school
buses in some of the communities with the poorest air quality. If we are
serious about improving public education and public health, then clean
school buses are a must.” \[[Press
Release](https://www.padilla.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/padilla-feinstein-announce-over-68-million-to-california-for-clean-school-buses/),
10/26/22\]

**Michigan Senator Gary Peters**: “I’m proud to have supported the
bipartisan infrastructure law that is now providing this funding to help
replace school buses across Michigan. We need to be working to tackle
climate change, improve air quality and protect our children’s health as
they ride to school each day, and these low and zero-emission buses are
a great step forward.” \[[Press
Release](https://www.peters.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/peters-stabenow-announce-over-54-million-to-buy-new-electric-buses-for-michigans-schools),
10/26/22\]

**Nevada Senator Jacky Rosen**: “I’m proud to announce Clark County
Schools will receive nearly $10 million through the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law that Senator Cortez Masto and I helped write and
pass. This critical funding will invest in our schools’ transportation
system while decreasing our carbon footprint.” \[[Press
Release](https://www.rosen.senate.gov/2022/10/26/rosen-cortez-masto-announce-9-8-million-for-cleaner-school-buses-in-clark-county/),
10/26/22\]

**Michigan Senator Debbie Stabenow**: “Electric school buses will make a
big difference for schools across Michigan. This investment will improve
air quality while helping our school districts cut their transportation
costs and keep more resources in the classroom.  It’s a great step to
protect the health of our children and save schools money.” \[[Press
Release](https://www.stabenow.senate.gov/news/senators-stabenow-and-peters-announce-over-54-million-to-buy-new-electric-buses-for-michigans-schools),
10/26/22\]

**Virginia Senator Mark Warner**: “Thanks to the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, school districts in Virginia are set to receive
millions in funding for zero-emission and low-emission school buses that
will help provide students with safe and reliable transportation to and
from school. As we continue to look for ways to reduce pollution and
combat climate change, I am glad to see this federal funding directed
towards replacing old school buses with 21st century, eco-friendly
equipment.” \[[Press
Release](https://www.warner.senate.gov/public/index.cfm/pressreleases),
10/26/22\]

**Arizona Representative Raúl M. Grijalva**: “In Arizona, we know how
critical it is to transition to a clean and sustainable future and this
clean energy bus award for Somerton Elementary will help make that
possible. We owe our kids cleaner air, less climate pollution and a
healthier learning environment. It has never been more apparent that the
time to towards clean transportation options is now. I’ll continue to
fight for programs that move away from dirty fossil fuels and will make
clean and zero emissions the standard, not the exception.” \[[Press
Release](https://grijalva.house.gov/rep-grijalva-announces-2-37-million-in-federal-funding-for-school-buses-for-somerton-elementary-school-applauds-national-transition-towards-clean-transportation/),
10/26/22\]

**State and Local Governments**

**Governor Sisolak, Nevada:** Tweet: Good news: The @EPA awarded Nevada
$9.875 million for @ClarkCountySch to adopt 25 electric school buses
into its fleet – moving us closer to our goals to reduce our carbon
footprint, improve air quality and better protect the health of our
children and families.
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/GovSisolak/status/1585332046246707202?s=20&t=JBr3lAWacwk8JC1zvzrw5g),
10/26/22\]

**Governor Inslee, Washington:** Tweet: “Thank you @VP for visiting us
today to announce these exciting new investments to electrify school
buses. Every kid in America – including the more than one million school
children in Washington state — deserves a clean, electric bus to free
them from breathing diesel fumes.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/GovInslee/status/1585381097206337536),
10/26/22\]

**Mayor Bruce Harrell, Seattle: **Tweet: Great to join @VP Harris,
@EPAMichaelRegan & other leaders to highlight investments in
low-emission school buses, supporting kids and communities. Seattle is
committed to advancing bold climate solutions, and we welcome federal
support to help build a sustainable future together.
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MayorofSeattle/status/1585363330835058689?s=20&t=QxckDcDGIBSChs4kCvZ7NA),
10/26/22\]

**Mayor Muriel Bowser, District of Columbia **Retweet: @DCPublicSchools:
BIG NEWS: Today, @EPA announced a $1 billion investment in electric
school buses — including $7.6M for DC. These funds will help DC have a
100% green school bus fleet. WH Senior Advisor @MitchLandrieu46 &
officials delivered the news from John Lewis ES, a LEED Platinum school.
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/dcpublicschools/status/1585317155255783424), 10/26/22\]

**Advocacy and Industry Leaders**

**Alliance for Electric School Buses: **“The Alliance for Electric
School Buses is excited to see this transformational program provide
funding for hundreds of school districts across the country to purchase
electric school buses. We are especially elated to see that over 90% of
the winners will be investing in electric school buses, the cleanest and
healthiest option for children.

These new electric buses will eliminate dangerous toxins in the air our
children and communities breathe and reduce climate-harming pollution.
For students and drivers, this means quieter rides, better health and
fewer missed days of school or work due to preventable respiratory
illnesses.

As we have noted previously, there is still urgent work to do to ensure
this program prioritizes and reaches the communities breathing the
dirtiest air and who desperately need relief: low-income communities and
Black, Indigenous and communities of color. We also urge EPA to adopt
measures for subsequent funding rounds that promote the creation of
high-quality, family-sustaining jobs for school bus drivers, mechanics,
manufacturing workers and electricians. We will continue pushing to
secure funding, equitable financing and inclusive utility investment
programs for school districts looking for additional opportunities to
deploy electric school buses.

Today’s announcement is the result of years of advocacy by families,
students and community members seeking federal funding to facilitate
their local school districts investing in a clean ride for kids. Our
coalition remains committed to helping school districts get electric
school buses on the road. Together, we are driving the charge for
pollution-free communities and healthier children.”
\[[Statement](https://electricschoolbuses4kids.org/aesb-media-statement-epa-csbp-2022-rebate-awards/),
10/26/22\]

**WE ACT for Environmental Justice: **“WE ACT is happy to see nearly $1
million in this first round of federal funding from the Clean School Bus
Program – double the amount that was first made available in May. The
program provides a tremendous opportunity to reduce emissions and spur
the transition to electric, zero-emission school buses as well as begin
to clean the air and improve the health of millions of children,
especially in overburdened communities that depend on the school bus
transportation system.

We are even happier that a large percentage of this funding will go
towards electric school buses in the EPA’s priority school districts.
For many years, WE ACT has been advocating for clean air and
transportation for communities overburdened by pollution. Most school
buses run on diesel fuel, which emits nasty pollutants such as soot,
nitrogen oxides, carbon dioxide, and other pollutants that significantly
worsen air quality within our communities and contribute to global
warming. Air pollution is particularly harmful for the developing lungs
of children, and children of color and in areas of low income in New
York City experience its worst impacts. Neighborhoods in Northern
Manhattan, for instance, have some of the highest death and disease
rates from asthma in the nation, with childhood asthma in these
communities of color being responsible for a disproportionately high
number of emergency room visits, hospitalizations, and premature deaths.

The funding under the EPA Clean School Bus Program will go a long way in
replacing diesel school buses with all-electric school buses and thus,
improve air quality in New York City and the State, reduce children’s
exposure to asthma-causing pollutants while also protecting the health
of drivers and the communities these buses drive through. It will also
help achieve New York State and New York City’s electric school bus
mandates, both of which require school bus fleets to be fully electric
by 2035. WE ACT looks forward to working with the EPA in the continued
rollout of the Clean School Bus Program to ensure that funding for
electric school buses goes towards communities that need it the most.”
\[[Statement](https://www.weact.org/2022/10/we-act-for-environmental-justice-celebrates-rebate-awards-for-epa-clean-school-bus-program/),
10/26/22\]

**Molly Rauch, Public Health Policy Director, Mom’s Clean Air
Force: **“Electric school buses are rolling your way! School districts
in every state and the District of Columbia have been awarded federal
funding for clean, electric school buses. Moms and dads celebrate this
great news for our kids and our climate. Today’s announcement from EPA
is the result of years of advocacy from members of Moms Clean Air Force
and other allies dedicated to securing funding for a safe ride for our
kids. Moms Clean Air Force worked tirelessly to connect that funding
with school districts across the country, educating them about the
importance of replacing dirty diesel buses with zero-tailpipe-pollution
electric buses. Moms Clean Air Force helped districts through the
application process. School response has been so great that the EPA has
nearly doubled the funding to meet soaring demand. EPA had planned to
award $500 million in rebates from the Clean School Bus Program this
year. Today’s announcement indicates EPA is awarding $965 million to
purchase 2,463 buses, 95% of which will be electric (as opposed to
propane/gas). Every day, millions of US children ride iconic yellow
school buses to and from school on what amounts to the nation’s largest
public transportation fleet — about half a million vehicles. Almost all
of these buses currently run on diesel engines, which spew carcinogenic
and climate-warming pollution into the air our kids breathe. It doesn’t
make sense to send our kids to school on buses that create
brain-harming, lung-harming, cancer-causing, climate-harming pollution.
Our kids, our bus drivers, and our communities deserve better. We know
that communities burdened with the dirtiest air should be at the front
of the line to benefit from clean, quiet, zero-tailpipe-pollution
electric buses. As a member of the Alliance for Electric School Buses,
Moms Clean Air Force will continue to advocate for a transition of the
nation’s school bus fleet to electric models.”
\[[Statement](https://www.momscleanairforce.org/press-releases/epa-awards-electric-school-bus-funding-to-school-districts-in-all-50-states-and-the-district-of-columbia/),
10/26/22\]

**Dr. Tiffany Tyler-Garner, Executive Director for Children’s Advocacy
Alliance: **“The Children’s Advocacy Alliance is beyond excited for
Clark County School District’s historic opportunity to transition to
electric school buses and clean rides for kids. Our latest Kids Count
report shows that Nevada unfortunately lags behind in many key
indicators of children’s health and well-being. Today’s EPA announcement
and CCSD’s acceptance of nearly $10 million in electric school bus
rebates is a giant step forward to reduce students’ exposure to harmful
pollution. When our children thrive, Nevada thrives.
\[[Statement](https://chispalcv.org/chispa-nevada-and-clean-air-advocates-applaud-10-million-epa-award-for-clark-county-school-district-to-purchase-25-electric-school-buses-epa-clean-school-bus-rebates-funding-a-clean-ride-for/),
10/26/22\]

**Ben Prochazka, Executive Director, Electrification Coalition: **“Our
national dependence on oil for transportation leads to greenhouse gas
emissions and air pollutants that jeopardize our children’s health.
Global oil markets are controlled by bad actors who manipulate price and
supply. By contrast, electric school buses are powered by domestic
energy, providing a cleaner, healthier ride to school for our kids. With
significantly lower maintenance and costs to power the vehicles,
electric school buses are also cheaper to operate, saving local school
districts money.

No vehicles are more critical to electrify than the school buses that
expose our children to toxic emissions. On average, school buses only
get seven miles per gallon of gasoline, and school buses use over 800
million gallons of diesel fuel each year, making them prime for
electrification. Kids and parents can now breathe easier because clean
school buses are coming to a school near you.

This $1 billion, nearly twice what the EPA had planned to distribute in
the first stage of this five-year program, is a critical investment in
our future. The funding will lead to cleaner air for our kids and
reduced operating costs for our schools while reducing oil’s negative
impact on our national and economic security.

The demand to electrify school buses is oversubscribed, with more than
$4 billion in requests. While today’s announcement is a huge step
forward, it’s clear that school districts in the U.S. are ready to get
on the electric school bus! We look forward to working with school
districts to support the implementation of these awards.

This move is a win for kids, a win for schools, and a win for our
nation.”
\[[Statement](https://www.electrificationcoalition.org/electrification-coalition-commends-biden-administration-for-announcing-nearly-1-billion-for-electric-school-buses/),
10/26/22\]

**Environment America: **“Around the country, many children take the bus
to get to school, and most of these buses are powered by diesel- over
95% of them. This can exacerbate problems like asthma and other
respiratory issues in children, and it releases emissions that
accelerate climate change. Electric buses, on the other hand, are much
safer for children’s health and dramatically cut greenhouse gas
emissions. While they can provide lifetime savings for school districts,
they still tend to cost more upfront.  
That’s what makes today’s announcement from the White House so exciting.
The Biden-Harris administration released the list of which school
districts will receive $913 million in funding to transition away from
diesel buses for the fiscal year. 389 applicants in all 50 states, as
well as several territories, registered tribes, and Washington, D.C.
will receive funding from the EPA’s Clean School Bus Program, primarily
to purchase electric buses. The agency expects to distribute the full
$965 million allotted for the year in the coming weeks. The program,
created by the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, will eventually distribute
nearly $5 billion in funding over the next five years.”
\[[Statement](https://environmentamerica.org/updates/white-house-announces-2022-epa-clean-school-bus-program-recipients/),
10/26/22\]

**Ryan Giunta, Transportation Campaigns associate for PIRG: **“The
demand is there. School districts across the country understand the
opportunity they are presented with and that it’s time to take action.
The funding provided by the federal infrastructure bill presents a
massive opportunity to improve the health of our children by reducing
air pollution and fighting back against the climate crisis.  
Seeing that over 90% of this round’s applications were for electric
buses is a great sign. Administrators know that electric buses are much
cleaner and safer compared to their fossil fuel-powered counterparts.”

**Eric Willadsen, Campaign Representative at Sierra Club: **“We’re
thrilled that so many children across the country will be hopping onto
electric school buses thanks to the EPA’s Clean School Bus Program.
Communities from coast to coast have urged school districts to invest in
electric school buses that ensure better health for students and bus
drivers alike. We’re grateful that EPA is making this a reality. And the
momentum will continue in 2023 so that even more students will breathe
easy on their way to
school.” \[[Statement](https://www.sierraclub.org/press-releases/2022/10/earthjustice-and-sierra-club-applaud-biden-harris-administration-s-massive),
10/26/22\]

**World Resources Institute: “**Today
the [\#US](https://twitter.com/hashtag/US?src=hashtag_click)[@EPA](https://twitter.com/EPA)announced
nearly $1 BILLION in Clean School Bus Program Funding – and due to
overwhelming demand, 95% of school buses funded
are [\#ElectricSchoolBuses](https://twitter.com/hashtag/ElectricSchoolBuses?src=hashtag_click)!
Read the [@ESBInitiative](https://twitter.com/ESBInitiative) statement
on this historic moment: <http://bit.ly/CSBP-awards>” [\[Tweet,
10/26/2022\]](https://twitter.com/wriequity/status/1585358153600098306?s=46&t=NqgYVs46OotFWFUeLmT_QQ)

**Environmental Defense Fund: “**The wheels on the bus go round and
round, but the pollution is stopping. Electric school bus sales in the
U.S. are booming! The transition is happening so fast, some advocates
think America’s entire school bus fleet will be electric by
2030.” [\[Tweet,
10/26/2022\]](https://twitter.com/envdefensefund/status/1585353093260116000?s=46&t=NqgYVs46OotFWFUeLmT_QQ)

**Electric School Bus Initiative: “**NEWS: Today
the [@EPA](https://twitter.com/EPA) announced nearly $1 BILLION in Clean
School Bus Program Funding – and due to overwhelming demand, 95% of
school buses funded
are [\#ElectricSchoolBuses](https://twitter.com/hashtag/ElectricSchoolBuses?src=hashtag_click)!” [\[Tweet,
10/26/2022\]](https://twitter.com/esbinitiative/status/1585275555536158720?s=46&t=NqgYVs46OotFWFUeLmT_QQ)

**Evergreen Action:
“**Evergreen’s [@jamalraad](https://twitter.com/jamalraad)and his new
assistant Eilis are behind the wheel in Seattle today
at [@VP](https://twitter.com/VP) Harris’ event announcing $1 BILLION in
clean school bus funding!” [\[Tweet,
10/26/2022\]](https://twitter.com/evergreenaction/status/1585340204789141504?s=46&t=NqgYVs46OotFWFUeLmT_QQ)

**EcoMadres:
“**[\#ESBs](https://twitter.com/hashtag/ESBs?src=hashtag_click) produce
zero tailpipe emissions, protecting students, drivers & communities from
harmful air pollutants. We are
thrilled [@EPA](https://twitter.com/EPA) has awarded electric school bus
funding through the Clean School Bus Program!” [\[Tweet,
10/26/2022\]](https://twitter.com/ecomadres_/status/1585270922679820294?s=46&t=NqgYVs46OotFWFUeLmT_QQ)

**Chesapeake Climate Action Network:
“**[@BaltCitySchools](https://twitter.com/BaltCitySchools)will be
receiving over $9 million from the first round
of [@EPA](https://twitter.com/EPA)’s Clean School Bus Program! These
funds will go towards purchasing
25 [\#ElectricSchoolBuses](https://twitter.com/hashtag/ElectricSchoolBuses?src=hashtag_click) &
will provide benefits such as cleaner air for kids & and communities in
Baltimore City!” [\[Tweet,
10/26/2022](https://twitter.com/ccan/status/1585355188801789952?s=46&t=NqgYVs46OotFWFUeLmT_QQ)\]

**Environment Washington: “**What an honor to be
at [@VP](https://twitter.com/VP)and [@EPA](https://twitter.com/EPA)‘s
announcement of new federal program investing $5 bill in 5 years for
clean electric school busses! WA will be getting 7 clean school busses
this year. Let’s hear it
for [\#cleanair](https://twitter.com/hashtag/cleanair?src=hashtag_click)[\#climateaction](https://twitter.com/hashtag/climateaction?src=hashtag_click) and [\#healthykids](https://twitter.com/hashtag/healthykids?src=hashtag_click)!” [\[Tweet,
10/26/2022\]](https://twitter.com/Env_Washington/status/1585391119520894977)

**Matthew Stevenson, President and CEO, Blue Bird
Corporation: **“Today’s historic funding announcement by the EPA
accelerates the adoption of clean student transportation in the United
States. It’s a major step to reduce harmful greenhouse gas emissions and
to put student and community health first. As the industry leader in
zero- and low-emission school buses, Blue Bird continues to expand
electric school bus production to 20 vehicles a day by the end of 2023
to meet increasing U.S. demand.”
\[[Statement](https://www.blue-bird.com/about-us/press-releases/249-blue-bird-commends-epa-s-clean-school-bus-rebate-funding-awards-to-accelerate-adoption-of-zero-emission-student-transportation),
10/26/22\]

**Marc Bedard, CEO-Founder of Lion Electric: **“It is fantastic to see
these funds being awarded and we are excited to see the massive interest
in clean school buses across all 50 states. Lion would like to
congratulate the EPA along with the awardees, who will soon benefit from
the adoption of zero-emission school buses. Lion saw the opportunity for
all-electric school buses in the market over a decade ago, when we began
developing our technology and started the zero-emission school bus
revolution, and today we are seeing the results in large-scale adoption,
for the benefit of the health of our children, our communities and the
environment.”
\[[Statement](https://thelionelectric.com/documents/en/PressRelease_ENG_EPA_Round_1_Awards.pdf),
10/26/22\]

\###
