---
date: '2022-10-13'
published_time: 2022-10-13 09:45:07-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/13/statement-by-president-joe-biden-on-the-september-consumer-price-index-report/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement by President Joe\_Biden on the September Consumer Price Index\_\
  Report"
---
 
Americans are squeezed by the cost of living: that’s been true for
years, and they didn’t need today’s report to tell them that.  It’s a
key reason I ran for President.  Working to give middle class families
some breathing room in dealing with their costs is critical.

Today’s report shows some progress in the fight against higher prices,
even as we have more work to do. Inflation over the last three months
has averaged 2%, at an annualized rate. That’s down from 11% in the
prior quarter.

But even with this progress, prices are still too high. Fighting the
global inflation that is affecting countries around the world and
working families here at home is my top priority.

Because of my economic plan, the United States is in a stronger position
than any major economy to take on this challenge. And my policies—that
Democrats delivered—directly tackles price pressures we saw in today’s
report, like health care. The Inflation Reduction Act locks in lower
health care premiums for 13 million people, lowers seniors’ prescription
drug prices, and caps their out of pocket expenses for prescription
drugs at the pharmacy at $2,000 per year. The Inflation Reduction Act
will also lower families’ energy costs in the months ahead.

Republicans in Congress’ number one priority is repealing the Inflation
Reduction Act. That’s the exact wrong thing to do in this moment. If
Republicans take control of Congress, everyday costs will go up – not
down.

\###
