---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-01-21'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/21/extend-federal-support-to-governors-use-of-national-guard-to-respond-to-covid-19-and-to-increase-reimbursement-and-other-assistance-provided-to-states/
published_time: 2021-01-21 16:25:08-05:00
title: "Memorandum to Extend Federal Support to Governors\u2019 Use of the National\
  \ Guard to Respond to COVID-\u206019 and to Increase Reimbursement and Other Assistance\
  \ Provided to\_States"
---
 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE THE SECRETARY OF HOMELAND
SECURITY

SUBJECT: Memorandum to Extend Federal Support to Governors’ Use of the
National Guard to Respond to COVID-19 and to Increase Reimbursement and
Other Assistance Provided to States

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including the Robert T. Stafford
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, 42 U.S.C. 5121–5207 (the
“Stafford Act”), and section 502 of title 32, United States Code, I
hereby order as follows:

Section 1.  Policy.  Consistent with the nationwide emergency
declaration concerning the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic
on March 13, 2020, it is the policy of my Administration to combat and
respond to COVID-19 with the full capacity and capability of the Federal
Government to protect and support our families, schools, and businesses,
and to assist State, local, Tribal, and territorial governments to do
the same, to the extent authorized by law.

Sec. 2.  Support of Operations or Missions to Prevent and Respond to the
Spread of COVID-19.  (a)  The Secretary of Defense shall, to the maximum
extent feasible and consistent with mission requirements (including
geographic proximity), request pursuant to 32 U.S.C. 502(f) that all
State and territorial governors order National Guard forces to perform
duty to fulfill mission assignments, on a fully reimbursable basis, that
the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) issues to the Department
of Defense for the purpose of supporting State, local, Tribal, and
territorial emergency assistance efforts under the Stafford Act.

(b)  FEMA shall fund 100 percent of the cost of activities associated
with all mission assignments for the use of the National Guard under 32
U.S.C. 502(f) to respond to COVID-19, as authorized by sections 403 (42
U.S.C. 5170b), 502 (42 U.S.C. 5192), and 503 (42 U.S.C. 5193) of the
Stafford Act.

(c)  This section supersedes prior Presidential Memoranda requesting the
use of the National Guard to respond to the COVID-19 emergency to the
extent they are inconsistent with this memorandum.

Sec. 3.  Assistance for Category B Emergency Protective Measures.  (a) 
In accordance with sections 403 (42 U.S.C. 5170b) and 502 (42 U.S.C.
5192) of the Stafford Act, FEMA shall, as appropriate and consistent
with applicable law, make available under Category B of the Public
Assistance program such assistance as may be required by States
(including territories and the District of Columbia), local governments,
and Tribal governments to provide for the safe opening and operation of
eligible schools, child-care facilities, healthcare facilities,
non-congregate shelters, domestic violence shelters, transit systems,
and other eligible applicants.  Such assistance may include funding for
the provision of personal protective equipment and disinfecting services
and supplies.

(b)  FEMA shall make assistance under this section available at a 100
percent Federal cost share until September 30, 2021.

Sec. 4.  Advanced Reimbursement.  To make reimbursements for approved
work under the Stafford Act to respond to COVID-19 available more
quickly, FEMA shall expedite reimbursement for eligible emergency work
projects and, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, provide
an advance of the Federal share on a percentage of the expected
reimbursement from FEMA-approved projects.

Sec. 5.  One-Hundred Percent Cost Share Termination*.*  The 100 percent
Federal cost share for use of National Guard forces authorized by
section 2(b) of this memorandum shall extend to, and shall be available
for, orders of any length authorizing duty through September 30, 2021. 

Sec. 6.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this memorandum shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d)  The Secretary of Defense is authorized and directed to publish this
memorandum in the *Federal Register*.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
