---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-01-26'
modified_time: 2021-01-26 15:15:21-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/26/memorandum-on-tribal-consultation-and-strengthening-nation-to-nation-relationships/
published_time: 2021-01-26 15:14:13-05:00
title: "Memorandum on Tribal Consultation and Strengthening Nation-to-Nation\_Relationships"
---
 
January 26, 2021

MEMORANDUM FOR THE HEADS OF EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES

SUBJECT:       Tribal Consultation and Strengthening Nation-to-Nation
Relationships

American Indian and Alaska Native Tribal Nations are sovereign
governments recognized under the Constitution of the United States,
treaties, statutes, Executive Orders, and court decisions.  It is a
priority of my Administration to make respect for Tribal sovereignty and
self-governance, commitment to fulfilling Federal trust and treaty
responsibilities to Tribal Nations, and regular, meaningful, and robust
consultation with Tribal Nations cornerstones of Federal Indian policy. 
The United States has made solemn promises to Tribal Nations for more
than two centuries.  Honoring those commitments is particularly vital
now, as our Nation faces crises related to health, the economy, racial
justice, and climate change — all of which disproportionately harm
Native Americans.  History demonstrates that we best serve Native
American people when Tribal governments are empowered to lead their
communities, and when Federal officials speak with and listen to Tribal
leaders in formulating Federal policy that affects Tribal Nations.

To this end, Executive Order 13175 of November 6, 2000 (Consultation and
Coordination With Indian Tribal Governments), charges all executive
departments and agencies with engaging in regular, meaningful, and
robust consultation with Tribal officials in the development of Federal
policies that have Tribal implications.  Tribal consultation under this
order strengthens the Nation-to-Nation relationship between the
United States and Tribal Nations.  The Presidential Memorandum of
November 5, 2009 (Tribal Consultation), requires each agency to prepare
and periodically update a detailed plan of action to implement the
policies and directives of Executive Order 13175.  This memorandum
reaffirms the policy announced in that memorandum.

     Section 1.  Consultation*.*  My Administration is committed to
honoring Tribal sovereignty and including Tribal voices in policy
deliberation that affects Tribal communities.  The Federal Government
has much to learn from Tribal Nations and strong communication is
fundamental to a constructive relationship.  Accordingly, I hereby
direct as follows:

     (a)  The head of each agency shall submit to the Director of the
Office of Management and Budget (OMB), within 90 days of the date of
this memorandum, a detailed plan of actions the agency will take to
implement the policies and directives of Executive Order 13175.  The
plan shall be developed after consultation by the agency with Tribal
Nations and Tribal officials as defined in Executive Order 13175.

     (b)  Each agency’s plan and subsequent reports shall designate an
appropriate agency official to coordinate implementation of the plan and
preparation of progress reports required by this memorandum.  These
officials shall submit reports to the Assistant to the President for
Domestic Policy (APDP) and the Director of OMB, who will review agency
plans and subsequent reports for consistency with the policies and
directives of Executive Order 13175.

     (c)  The head of each agency shall submit to the Director of OMB,
within 270 days of the date of this memorandum, and annually thereafter,
a progress report on the status of each action included in the agency’s
plan, together with any proposed updates to its plan.

     (d)  The Director of OMB, in coordination with the APDP, shall
submit to the President, within 1 year from the date of this memorandum,
a report on the implementation of Executive Order 13175 across the
executive branch based on the review of agency plans and progress
reports.  Recommendations for improving the plans and making the Tribal
consultation process more effective, if any, should be included in this
report.

     Sec. 2.  Definitions.  The terms “Tribal officials,” “policies that
have Tribal implications,” and “agency” as used in this memorandum are
as defined in Executive Order 13175.

     Sec. 3.  General Provisions*.*  (a)  Nothing in this memorandum
shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

     (b)  This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with
applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

     (c)  This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any
right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in
equity by any party against the United States, its departments,
agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other
person.

     Sec. 4.  Publication*.*  The Director of OMB is authorized and
directed to publish this memorandum in the *Federal Register*.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
