---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-01-20'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/20/executive-order-preventing-and-combating-discrimination-on-basis-of-gender-identity-or-sexual-orientation/
published_time: 2021-01-20 21:38:48-05:00
title: Executive Order on Preventing and Combating Discrimination on the Basis of
  Gender Identity or Sexual Orientation
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:

**Section 1.  Policy. ** Every person should be treated with respect and
dignity and should be able to live without fear, no matter who they are
or whom they love.  Children should be able to learn without worrying
about whether they will be denied access to the restroom, the locker
room, or school sports.  Adults should be able to earn a living and
pursue a vocation knowing that they will not be fired, demoted, or
mistreated because of whom they go home to or because how they dress
does not conform to sex-based stereotypes.  People should be able to
access healthcare and secure a roof over their heads without being
subjected to sex discrimination.  All persons should receive equal
treatment under the law, no matter their gender identity or sexual
orientation.

These principles are reflected in the Constitution, which promises equal
protection of the laws.  These principles are also enshrined in our
Nation’s anti-discrimination laws, among them Title VII of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2000e *et seq*.).  In *Bostock
v. Clayton County*, 590 U.S. \_\_\_ (2020), the Supreme Court held that
Title VII’s prohibition on discrimination “because of . . . sex” covers
discrimination on the basis of gender identity and sexual orientation. 
Under *Bostock*‘s reasoning, laws that prohibit sex discrimination —
including Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, as amended (20
U.S.C. 1681 *et seq*.), the Fair Housing Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 3601
*et seq*.), and section 412 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, as
amended (8 U.S.C. 1522), along with their respective implementing
regulations — prohibit discrimination on the basis of gender identity or
sexual orientation, so long as the laws do not contain sufficient
indications to the contrary.

Discrimination on the basis of gender identity or sexual orientation
manifests differently for different individuals, and it often overlaps
with other forms of prohibited discrimination, including discrimination
on the basis of race or disability.  For example, transgender Black
Americans face unconscionably high levels of workplace discrimination,
homelessness, and violence, including fatal violence.

It is the policy of my Administration to prevent and
combat discrimination on the basis of gender identity or sexual
orientation, and to fully enforce Title VII and other laws that prohibit
discrimination on the basis of gender identity or sexual orientation. 
It is also the policy of my Administration to address overlapping forms
of discrimination.  

**Sec. 2.  Enforcing Prohibitions on Sex Discrimination on the Basis of
Gender Identity or Sexual Orientation.**  (a)  The head of each agency
shall, as soon as practicable and in consultation with the Attorney
General, as appropriate, review all existing orders, regulations,
guidance documents, policies, programs, or other agency actions (“agency
actions”) that:

\(i\)   were promulgated or are administered by the agency under Title
VII or any other statute or regulation that prohibits sex
discrimination, including any that relate to the agency’s own compliance
with such statutes or regulations; and

(ii)  are or may be inconsistent with the policy set forth in section 1
of this order.

(b)  The head of each agency shall, as soon as practicable and as
appropriate and consistent with applicable law, including the
Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 551 *et seq*.), consider whether
to revise, suspend, or rescind such agency actions, or promulgate new
agency actions, as necessary to fully implement statutes that prohibit
sex discrimination and the policy set forth in section 1 of this order. 

(c)  The head of each agency shall, as soon as practicable, also
consider whether there are additional actions that the agency should
take to ensure that it is fully implementing the policy set forth in
section 1 of this order.  If an agency takes an action described in this
subsection or subsection (b) of this section, it shall seek to ensure
that it is accounting for, and taking appropriate steps to combat,
overlapping forms of discrimination, such as discrimination on the basis
of race or disability.

(d)  Within 100 days of the date of this order, the head of each agency
shall develop, in consultation with the Attorney General, as
appropriate, a plan to carry out actions that the agency has identified
pursuant to subsections (b) and (c) of this section, as appropriate and
consistent with applicable law. 

**Sec. 3.  Definition*.***  “Agency” means any authority of the United
States that is an “agency” under 44 U.S.C. 3502(1), other than those
considered to be independent regulatory agencies, as defined in 44
U.S.C. 3502(5). 

**Sec. 4.  General Provisions. ** (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i)  the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
January 20, 2021.
