---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-01-27'
modified_time: 2021-01-27 15:40:43-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/27/memorandum-on-restoring-trust-in-government-through-scientific-integrity-and-evidence-based-policymaking/
published_time: 2021-01-27 15:40:41-05:00
title: "Memorandum on Restoring Trust in Government Through Scientific Integrity and\
  \ Evidence-Based\_Policymaking"
---
 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE HEADS OF EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES

It is the policy of my Administration to make evidence-based decisions
guided by the best available science and data.  Scientific and
technological information, data, and evidence are central to the
development and iterative improvement of sound policies, and to the
delivery of equitable programs, across every area of government. 
Scientific findings should never be distorted or influenced by political
considerations.  When scientific or technological information is
considered in policy decisions, it should be subjected to
well-established scientific processes, including peer review where
feasible and appropriate, with appropriate protections for privacy. 
Improper political interference in the work of Federal scientists or
other scientists who support the work of the Federal Government and in
the communication of scientific facts undermines the welfare of the
Nation, contributes to systemic inequities and injustices, and violates
the trust that the public places in government to best serve its
collective interests.

This memorandum reaffirms and builds on the Presidential Memorandum of
March 9, 2009 (Scientific Integrity), and the Director of the Office of
Science and Technology Policy’s Memorandum of December 17, 2010
(Scientific Integrity).

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, I direct as follows:

Section 1.  Role of the Director of the Office of Science and Technology
Policy.  The Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy
(Director) shall ensure the highest level of integrity in all aspects of
executive branch involvement with scientific and technological
processes.  This responsibility shall include ensuring that executive
departments and agencies (agencies) establish and enforce
scientific-integrity policies that ban improper political interference
in the conduct of scientific research and in the collection of
scientific or technological data, and that prevent the suppression or
distortion of scientific or technological findings, data, information,
conclusions, or technical results.  In implementing this memorandum, the
Director shall, as appropriate, convene and confer with the heads of
agencies and with personnel within the offices of the Executive Office
of the President, including the Office of Management and Budget.  

Sec. 2.  Task Force on Scientific Integrity.  (a)  The Director shall
convene an interagency task force (the “Task Force”) of the National
Science and Technology Council (NSTC) to conduct a thorough review of
the effectiveness of agency scientific-integrity policies developed
since the issuance of the Presidential Memorandum of March 9, 2009.

\(b\)  The Task Force shall complete its review within 120 days of the
date of the appointment of its members, and shall take the following
actions when completing its review.

(i)    The Task Force shall ensure its review considers whether existing
Federal scientific-integrity policies prevent improper political
interference in the conduct of scientific research and the collection of
scientific or technological data; prevent the suppression or distortion
of scientific or technological findings, data, information, conclusions,
or technical results; support scientists and researchers of all genders,
races, ethnicities, and backgrounds; and advance the equitable delivery
of the Federal Government’s programs.

(ii)   The Task Force’s review shall include an analysis of any
instances in which existing scientific-integrity policies have not been
followed or enforced, including whether such deviations from existing
policies have resulted in improper political interference in the conduct
of scientific research and the collection of scientific or technological
data; led to the suppression or distortion of scientific
or technological findings, data, information, conclusions, or technical
results; disproportionately harmed Federal scientists and researchers
from groups that are historically underrepresented in science,
technology, and related fields; or impeded the equitable delivery of the
Federal Government’s programs.  The scope of this review shall include
the work of scientific and technological advisory committees, boards,
and similar bodies.  The existing policies examined by this review shall
include those issued pursuant to the Presidential Memorandum of March 9,
2009, and the Director’s Memorandum of December 17, 2010; any other
scientific-integrity policies published on agency websites; and commonly
accepted scientific-integrity practices.

(iii)  The Task Force shall identify effective practices regarding
engagement of Federal scientists, as well as contractors working on
scientific matters for agencies, with news media and on social media;
effective policies that protect scientific independence during clearance
and review, and that avoid improper political interference in research
or data collection; effective approaches for handling any disagreements
about scientific methods and conclusions; effective reporting practices
that promote transparency in the implementation of agency
scientific-integrity policies and in the handling of any allegations of
misconduct; effective practices for educating and informing employees
and contractors of their rights and responsibilities related to agency
scientific-integrity policies; promising opportunities to address gaps
in current scientific-integrity policies related to emerging
technologies, such as artificial intelligence and machine-learning, and
evolving scientific practices, such as citizen science and
community-engaged research; effective approaches to minimizing conflicts
of interest in Federal Government science; and policies that support the
professional development of Federal scientists in accordance with, and
building on, section IV of the Director’s Memorandum of December 17,
2010.

(iv)   To inform the review, the Task Force shall gather input from
stakeholders and the public regarding scientific-integrity practices. 
The Task Force shall consider obtaining such input through various
means, which may include holding a virtual stakeholder summit hosted by
the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP), issuing a public
request for information, and conducting a virtual listening tour or open
forums. 

(v)    Upon the conclusion of its review, the Director shall publish a
report on the OSTP website synthesizing the Task Force’s findings.  The
report shall include a description of agencies’ strengths and weaknesses
regarding scientific-integrity policies, as well as a description of
best practices and lessons learned.   
  

(c)  Within 120 days of the publication of the Task Force’s initial
120-day review of existing scientific-integrity policies, the Task Force
shall develop a framework to inform and support the regular assessment
and iterative improvement of agency scientific-integrity policies and
practices, to support the Director and OSTP in ensuring that agencies
adhere to the principles of scientific integrity.  This framework shall
include assessment criteria that OSTP and agencies can use to inform,
review, and improve the design and implementation of agency
scientific-integrity policies.  The Director shall publish this
framework on the OSTP website.  
  

Sec. 3.  Agency Scientific-Integrity Policies.  (a)  Heads of agencies
shall ensure that all agency activities associated with scientific and
technological processes are conducted in accordance with the 6
principles set forth in section 1 of the Presidential Memorandum of
March 9, 2009, and the 4 foundations of scientific integrity in
government set forth in part I of the Director’s Memorandum of December
17, 2010.

(b)  Heads of agencies shall ensure that their agency
scientific-integrity policies reflect the findings in the Task Force
report produced under section (2)(b)(v) of this memorandum and apply to
all agency employees, regardless of the nature of their appointment, as
well as contractors who perform scientific activities for agencies. 
Heads of agencies shall coordinate with the Director in the development,
updating, and implementation of any agency-specific policies or
procedures deemed necessary to ensure the integrity of scientific
decision-making.  The following time frames shall apply when completing
the activities described in this subsection:

(i)    The head of each agency with an existing scientific-integrity
policy shall submit an updated policy to the Director within 180 days of
the publication of the Task Force’s report. 

(ii)   The head of each agency without an existing scientific-integrity
policy shall submit a draft agency scientific-integrity policy to the
Director within 180 days of the publication of the Task Force’s report. 

(iii)  The Director shall expeditiously review scientific-integrity
policies submitted by the agencies to ensure that the policies respond
to the Task Force’s analysis, adhere to the policy directives in this
memorandum, and uphold the highest standards of scientific practice.

\(iv\)   The Director shall notify agencies of any deficiencies in the
scientific-integrity policies and collaborate with agencies to
expeditiously correct those deficiencies.  

     (c)   In implementing this section, heads of agencies shall:

(i)    Provide the Director with any information the Director deems
necessary to conduct the Director’s duties under this memorandum;

(ii)   Publish the agency’s scientific-integrity policy on the agency’s
website, and disseminate information about the policy through the
agency’s social media channels;

(iii)  Develop and publish procedures, as appropriate and consistent
with applicable law, for implementing the agency’s scientific-integrity
policy, including establishing and publishing an administrative process
for reporting, investigating, and appealing allegations of deviations
from the agency’s policy, and for resolving any disputes or
disagreements about scientific methods and conclusions;

(iv)   Review and, as needed, update within 60 days of the date of this
memorandum any website content, and within 300 days of the date of this
memorandum any agency reports, data, and other agency materials issued
or published since January 20, 2017, that are inconsistent with the
principles set forth in this memorandum and that remain in use by the
agency or its stakeholders;

(v)    Educate agency employees, as well as contractors who perform
scientific activities for the agency, on their rights and
responsibilities related to scientific integrity, including by
conducting routine training on the agency’s scientific-integrity policy
for all employees, and by ensuring any new employees are made aware of
their responsibilities under the agency’s scientific-integrity policy
shortly after they are hired; and

(vi)   Publish, consistent with any requirements related to national
security and privacy, as well as any other applicable law, an annual
report on the agency’s website that includes the number of
administrative investigations and appeals involving alleged deviations
from the agency’s scientific-integrity policies, as described in section
(3)(c)(iii) of this memorandum, for the year covered by the report, and
the number of investigations and appeals pending from years prior to the
year covered by the report, if any.

Sec. 4.  Publication of Scientific-Integrity Policies and Ongoing
Biennial Reporting.  (a)  The Director shall publish on the OSTP
website, and disseminate via social media, information about this
memorandum, related OSTP and NSTC reports on scientific integrity, and
links to the scientific-integrity policies posted on agency websites, to
ensure such information and policies can be easily accessed by the
public.

(b)  The Director shall publish on the OSTP website, and disseminate via
social media, a biennial report on the status of the implementation of
this memorandum across the executive branch.  This report shall include
a review of the impact on scientific integrity of diversity, equity, and
inclusion practices related to the Federal scientific and engineering
workforce and scientific Federal advisory committees.

Sec. 5.  Evidence-Based Policymaking.  (a)  Heads of agencies shall
ensure that the scientific-integrity policies of their agencies
consider, supplement, and support their plans for forming evidence-based
policies, including the evidence-building plans required by 5 U.S.C.
312(a) and the annual evaluation plans required by 5 U.S.C. 312(b).

(b)  Within 120 days of the date of this memorandum, after consultation
with the Director, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget
(OMB) shall issue guidance to improve agencies’ evidence-building plans
and annual evaluation plans.  Specifically, the Director of OMB shall
consider whether, consistent with, and building upon, Executive Order
13707 of September 15, 2015 (Using Behavioral Science Insights to Better
Serve the American People), agencies’ evidence-building plans and annual
evaluation plans shall include a broad set of methodological approaches
for the evidence-based and iterative development and the equitable
delivery of policies, programs, and agency operations.  Relevant
approaches might include use of pilot projects, randomized control
trials, quantitative-survey research and statistical analysis,
qualitative research, ethnography, research based on data linkages in
which records from two or more datasets that refer to the same entity
are joined, well-established processes for community engagement and
inclusion in research, and other approaches that may be informed by the
social and behavioral sciences and data science. 

(c)  The statutory positions required to be designated by agencies by
the Foundations for Evidence-Based Policymaking Act of 2018 (Public Law
115-435), which include the Evaluation Officer, the Chief Data Officer,
and a senior statistical official, shall incorporate
scientific-integrity principles consistent with this memorandum into
agencies’ data governance and evaluation approaches.  Similarly, the
Chief Data Officers Council shall incorporate scientific-integrity
principles consistent with this memorandum into its efforts to establish
government-wide best practices for the use, protection, dissemination,
and generation of data, and both the Chief Data Officers Council and the
Evaluation Officer Council shall identify ways in which agencies can
improve upon the production of evidence for use in policymaking.

(d)  Consistent with the provisions of the Foundations
for Evidence-Based Policymaking Act of 2018, heads of agencies shall, as
appropriate and consistent with applicable law, expand open and secure
access to Federal data routinely collected in the course of
administering Federal, State, local, Tribal, or territorial government
programs or fulfilling Federal, State, local, Tribal, or territorial
government mandates, such as tax data, vital records, other statistical
data, and Social Security Administration earnings and employment
reports, to ensure governmental and non-governmental researchers can use
Federal data to assess and evaluate the effectiveness and equitable
delivery of policies and to suggest improvements.  In implementing this
provision, heads of agencies shall:

(i)    Make these data available by default in a machine-readable format
and in a manner that protects privacy and confidential or classified
information, and any other information protected from disclosure by law;

(ii)   Publish an agency data plan that provides a consistent framework
for data stewardship, use, and access.  If publishing such a plan is not
feasible, then the head of the agency shall publish guidelines outlining
how the data were collected, metadata on data use, any limitations on
data use, and ways for researchers to provide feedback on data shared;

(iii)  Follow the mandates of the Information Quality Act (section 515
of Public Law 106-554) in assessing and making available to researchers
information on the quality of the data being provided; and

(iv)   Where possible, provide such data disaggregated by gender, race,
ethnicity, age, income, and other demographic factors that support
researchers in understanding the effects of policies and programs
on equity and justice.

(e)  The Director of OMB shall review whether guidance to agencies on
implementation of the Information Quality Act needs to be updated and
reissued.

(f)  Heads of agencies shall review and expeditiously update any agency
policies, processes, and practices issued or published since January 20,
2017, that prevent the best available science and data from informing
the agency’s evidence-based and iterative development and equitable
delivery of policies and programs.

Sec. 6.  Agency Chief Science Officers and Scientific Integrity
Officials.  (a)  Within 120 days of the date of this memorandum, the
heads of agencies that fund, conduct, or oversee scientific research
shall, to the extent consistent with applicable law, designate a senior
agency employee for the role of chief science officer, science advisor,
or chief scientist (“Chief Science Officer”), who shall:

(i)   Serve as the principal advisor to the head of the agency on
scientific issues and ensure that the agency’s research programs are
scientifically and technologically well-founded and conducted with
integrity; and

(ii)  Oversee the implementation and iterative improvement of policies
and processes affecting the integrity of research funded, conducted, or
overseen by the agency, as well as policies affecting the Federal and
non-Federal scientists who support the research activities of the
agency, including scientific-integrity policies consistent with the
provisions of this memorandum.

(b)  Because science, facts, and evidence are vital to addressing policy
and programmatic issues across the Federal Government, the heads of all
agencies (not only those that fund, conduct, or oversee scientific
research) shall designate expeditiously a senior career employee as the
agency’s lead scientific-integrity official (“Scientific Integrity
Official”) to oversee implementation and iterative improvement of
scientific-integrity policies and processes consistent with the
provisions of this memorandum, including implementation of the
administrative and dispute resolution processes described in section
(3)(c)(iii) of this memorandum.  For agencies with a Chief Science
Officer, the Scientific Integrity Official shall report to the Chief
Science Officer on all matters involving scientific-integrity policies.

(c)  To the extent necessary to fully implement the provisions of this
memorandum, heads of agencies may designate additional
scientific-integrity points of contact in different offices and
components, who shall coordinate with the agency’s Scientific Integrity
Official in implementing the agency’s scientific-integrity policies and
processes.

(d)  Heads of agencies should ensure those designated to serve in the
roles described in this section, along with their respective staffs, are
selected based on their scientific and technological knowledge, skills,
experience, and integrity, including experience conducting and
overseeing scientific research and utilizing scientific and
technological information and data in agency decision-making,
prioritizing experience with evidence-based, equitable, inclusive, and
participatory practices and structures for the conduct of scientific
research and the communication of scientific results.

(e)  The Director or a designee of the Director shall regularly convene
Chief Science Officers and Scientific Integrity Officials to encourage
the discussion and expansion of effective scientific-integrity policies
and practices among agencies.

Sec. 7.  Scientific Advisory Committees.  (a)  Within 90 days of the
date of this memorandum, heads of agencies shall review their current
and future needs for independent scientific and technological advice
from Federal advisory committees, commissions, and boards.  The review
should include an evaluation of those advisory bodies established by
law, and should consider both current and anticipated needs.

(b)  This review shall assess which Federal scientific and technological
advisory committees should be rechartered or recreated to ensure that
relevant and highly qualified external experts, with proper safeguards
against conflicts of interest, can contribute to critical Federal
regulations and other agency actions and decision-making.  The review
shall also identify any agency policies, processes, or practices that
may currently prevent or inhibit relevant and highly qualified external
experts from serving on such committees.

(c)  In conducting this review, heads of agencies shall take steps to
review the membership of scientific and technological advisory
committees and, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law,
ensure that members and future nominees reflect the diversity of America
in terms of gender, race, ethnicity, geography, and other
characteristics; represent a variety of backgrounds, areas of expertise,
and experiences; provide well-rounded and expert advice to agencies; and
are selected based on their scientific and technological knowledge,
skills, experience, and integrity, including prioritization of
experience with evidence-based, equitable, inclusive, and participatory
practices and structures for the conduct of scientific research and the
communication of scientific results.

(d)  Upon completion of their 90-day review, heads of agencies shall
provide a summary report to the Director and the Director of OMB with
recommendations on which Federal scientific and technological advisory
committees should be rechartered or recreated in accordance with
subsection (b) of this section; which scientific and technological
advisory committees should be prioritized for membership appointments to
ensure they provide well-rounded and expert advice reflecting diverse
perspectives, in accordance with subsection (c) of this section; and
which agency policies, processes, or practices, if any, should be
updated to encourage relevant and highly qualified external experts to
serve on such committees.

Sec. 8.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this memorandum shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect: 

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

     (b)  This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with
applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
