---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-01-21'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/21/executive-order-improving-and-expanding-access-to-care-and-treatments-for-covid-19/
published_time: 2021-01-21 16:15:51-05:00
title: "Executive Order on Improving and Expanding Access to Care and Treatments for\_\
  COVID-\u206019"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:  

**Section 1.  Policy.**  It is the policy of my Administration to
improve the capacity of the Nation’s healthcare systems to address
coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), to accelerate the development of
novel therapies to treat COVID-19, and to improve all Americans’ access
to quality and affordable healthcare.

**Sec. 2.  Accelerating the Development of Novel Therapies. ** To
enhance the Nation’s ability to quickly develop the most promising
COVID-19 interventions, the Secretary of Health and Human Services
(HHS), in consultation with the Director of the National Institutes of
Health, shall:  

(a)  develop a plan for supporting a range of studies, including
large-scale randomized trials, for identifying optimal clinical
management strategies, and for supporting the most promising treatments
for COVID-19 and future high-consequence public health threats, that can
be easily manufactured, distributed, and administered, both domestically
and internationally;

(b)  develop a plan, in consultation with non-governmental partners, as
appropriate, to support research:  

\(i\)   in rural hospitals and other rural locations; and 

(ii)  that studies the emerging evidence concerning the long-term impact
of COVID-19 on patient health; and

(c)  consider steps to ensure that clinical trials include populations
that have been historically underrepresented in such trials.

**Sec. 3.  Improving the Capacity of the Nation’s Healthcare Systems to
Address COVID-19. ** To bolster the capacity of the Nation’s healthcare
systems to support healthcare workers and patients:  

(a)  The Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of HHS, the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs, and the heads of other relevant executive departments
and agencies (agencies), in coordination with the Coordinator of the
COVID-19 Response and Counselor to the President (COVID-19 Response
Coordinator), shall promptly, as appropriate and consistent with
applicable law, provide targeted surge assistance to critical care and
long-term care facilities, including nursing homes and skilled nursing
facilities, assisted living facilities, intermediate care facilities for
individuals with disabilities, and residential treatment centers, in
their efforts to combat the spread of COVID-19.

(b)  The COVID-19 Response Coordinator, in coordination with the
Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of HHS, the Secretary of Veterans
Affairs, and the heads of other relevant agencies, shall review the
needs of Federal facilities providing care to COVID-19 patients and
develop recommendations for further actions such facilities can take to
support active military personnel, veterans, and Tribal nations during
this crisis.

(c)  The Secretary of HHS shall promptly:  

\(i\)   issue recommendations on how States and healthcare providers can
increase the capacity of their healthcare workforces to address the
COVID-19 pandemic; and

(ii)  through the Administrator of the Health Resources and Services
Administration and the Administrator of the Substance Abuse and Mental
Health Services Administration, take appropriate actions, as consistent
with applicable law, to expand access to programs and services designed
to meet the long-term health needs of patients recovering from COVID-19,
including through technical assistance and support to community health
centers.

**Sec. 4.  Improving Access to Quality and Affordable Healthcare. **
(a)  To facilitate the equitable and effective distribution of
therapeutics and bolster clinical care capacity where needed to support
patient care, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of HHS, and the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in coordination with the COVID-19
Response Coordinator, shall establish targets for the production,
allocation, and distribution of COVID-19 treatments.  To meet those
targets, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of HHS, and the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall consider prioritizing, including
through grants for research and development, investments in therapeutics
that can be readily administered and scaled.

(b)  To facilitate the utilization of existing COVID-19 treatments, the
Secretary of HHS shall identify barriers to maximizing the effective and
equitable use of existing COVID-19 treatments and shall, as appropriate
and consistent with applicable law, provide support to State, local,
Tribal, and territorial authorities aimed at overcoming those barriers.

(c)  To address the affordability of treatments and clinical care, the
Secretary of HHS shall, promptly and as appropriate and consistent with
applicable law:  

\(i\)   evaluate the COVID-19 Uninsured Program, operated by the Health
Resources and Services Administration within HHS, and take any available
steps to promote access to treatments and clinical care for those
without adequate coverage, to support safety-net providers in delivering
such treatments and clinical care, and to make the Program easy to use
and accessible for patients and providers, with information about the
Program widely disseminated; and

(ii)  evaluate Medicare, Medicaid, group health plans, and health
insurance issuers, and take any available steps to promote insurance
coverage for safe and effective COVID-19 treatments and clinical care.

**Sec. 5.  General Provisions*.* ** (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:  

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
January 21, 2021.
