---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-01-20'
modified_time: 2021-01-20 20:56:17-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/20/executive-order-organizing-and-mobilizing-united-states-government-to-provide-unified-and-effective-response-to-combat-covid-19-and-to-provide-united-states-leadership-on-global-health-and-security/
published_time: 2021-01-20 20:53:53-05:00
title: "Executive Order on Organizing and Mobilizing the United\_States Government\
  \ to Provide a Unified and Effective Response to Combat COVID-\u206019 and to Provide\
  \ United\_States Leadership on Global Health and\_Security"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:  

**Section 1.  Purpose. ** The Federal Government must act swiftly and
aggressively to combat coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19).  To that
end, this order creates the position of Coordinator of the COVID-19
Response and Counselor to the President and takes other steps to
organize the White House and activities of the Federal Government to
combat COVID-19 and prepare for future biological and pandemic threats. 

**Sec. 2.  Organizing the White House to Combat COVID-19. ** (a)  In
order to effectively, fully, and immediately respond to COVID-19, there
is established within the Executive Office of the President the position
of Coordinator of the COVID-19 Response and Counselor to the President
(COVID-19 Response Coordinator) and the position of Deputy Coordinator
of the COVID-19 Response.  The COVID-19 Response Coordinator shall
report directly to the President; advise and assist the President and
executive departments and agencies (agencies) in responding to the
COVID-19 pandemic; coordinate all elements of the COVID-19 response; and
perform such duties as the President may otherwise direct.  These duties
shall include:  

(i)    coordinating a Government-wide effort to reduce disparities in
the response, care, and treatment of COVID-19, including racial and
ethnic disparities;

(ii)   coordinating the Federal Government’s efforts to produce, supply,
and distribute personal protective equipment, vaccines, tests, and other
supplies for the Nation’s COVID-19 response, including through the use
of the Defense Production Act, as amended (50 U.S.C. 4501 *et seq*.);

(iii)  coordinating the Federal Government’s efforts to expand COVID-19
testing and the use of testing as an effective public health response;

(iv)   coordinating the Federal Government’s efforts to support the
timely, safe, and effective delivery of COVID-19 vaccines to the United
States population;

(v)    coordinating the Federal Government’s efforts to support the safe
reopening and operation of schools, child care providers, and Head Start
programs, and to help ensure the continuity of educational and other
services for young children and elementary and secondary students during
the COVID-19 pandemic; and

(vi)   coordinating, as appropriate, with State, local, Tribal, and
territorial authorities.

(b)  The COVID-19 Response Coordinator shall have the authority to
convene principals from relevant agencies, in consultation with the
Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy (APDP) on matters
involving the domestic COVID-19 response, and in consultation with the
Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs (APNSA) on
matters involving the global COVID-19 response.  The COVID-19 Response
Coordinator shall also coordinate any corresponding deputies and
interagency processes.

(c)  The COVID-19 Response Coordinator may act through designees in
performing these or any other duties.

**Sec. 3.  United States Leadership on Global Health and Security and
the Global COVID-19 Response.** (a)  Preparing to Respond to Biological
Threats and Pandemics*.*  To identify, monitor, prepare for, and, if
necessary, respond to emerging biological and pandemic threats: 

(i)   The APNSA shall convene the National Security Council (NSC)
Principals Committee as necessary to coordinate the Federal Government’s
efforts to address such threats and to advise the President on the
global response to and recovery from COVID-19, including matters
regarding:  the intersection of the COVID-19 response and other national
security equities; global health security; engaging with and
strengthening the World Health Organization; public health, access to
healthcare, and the secondary impacts of COVID-19; and emerging
biological risks and threats, whether naturally occurring, deliberate,
or accidental. 

(ii)  Within 180 days of the date of this order, the APNSA shall, in
coordination with relevant agencies, the COVID-19 Response Coordinator,
and the APDP, complete a review of and recommend actions to the
President concerning emerging domestic and global biological risks and
national biopreparedness policies.  The review and recommended actions
shall incorporate lessons from the COVID-19 pandemic and, among other
things, address:  the readiness of the pandemic supply chain, healthcare
workforce, and hospitals; the development of a framework of pandemic
readiness with specific triggers for when agencies should take action in
response to large-scale biological events; pandemic border readiness;
the development and distribution of medical countermeasures; epidemic
forecasting and modeling; public health data modernization; bio-related
intelligence; bioeconomic investments; biotechnology risks; the
development of a framework for coordinating with and distributing
responsibilities as between the Federal Government and State, local,
Tribal, and territorial authorities; and State, local, Tribal,
and territorial preparedness for biological events. 

(b)  NSC Directorate on Global Health Security and Biodefense*.*  There
shall be an NSC Directorate on Global Health Security and Biodefense,
which shall be headed by a Senior Director for Global Health Security
and Biodefense.  The Senior Director shall be responsible for monitoring
current and emerging biological threats, and shall report concurrently
to the APNSA and to the COVID-19 Response Coordinator on matters
relating to COVID-19.  The Senior Director shall oversee the Global
Health Security Agenda Interagency Review Council, which was established
pursuant to Executive Order 13747 of November 4, 2016 (Advancing the
Global Health Security Agenda To Achieve a World Safe and Secure From
Infectious Disease Threats), and is hereby reconvened as described in
that order.

(c)  Responsibility for National Biodefense Preparedness*.* 
Notwithstanding any statements in the National Security Presidential
Memorandum-14 of September 18, 2018 (Support for National Biodefense),
the APNSA shall be responsible for coordinating the Nation’s biodefense
preparedness efforts, and, as stated in sections 1 and 2 of this order,
the COVID-19 Response Coordinator shall be responsible for coordinating
the Federal Government’s response to the COVID‑19 pandemic.

**Sec. 4.  Prompt Resolution of Issues Related to the United States
COVID-19 Response.**  The heads of agencies shall, as soon as
practicable, bring any procedural, departmental, legal, or funding
obstacle to the COVID-19 response to the attention of the COVID-19
Response Coordinator.  The COVID-19 Response Coordinator shall, in
coordination with relevant agencies, the APDP, and the APNSA, as
appropriate, immediately bring to the President’s attention any issues
that require Presidential guidance or decision-making.

**Sec. 5.  General Provisions.**  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect: 

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
subject to availability of appropriations.

(c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR. 

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
January 20, 2021.
