---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-01-21'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/21/executive-order-establishing-the-covid-19-pandemic-testing-board-and-ensuring-a-sustainable-public-health-workforce-for-covid-19-and-other-biological-threats/
published_time: 2021-01-21 17:22:34-05:00
title: "Executive Order on Establishing the COVID- \u2060 19 Pandemic Testing Board\
  \ and Ensuring a Sustainable Public Health Workforce for COVID- \u2060 19 and Other\
  \ Biological Threats"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including section 301 of title 3,
United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:

**Section 1.  Policy. ** It is the policy of my Administration to
control coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) by using a Government-wide,
unified approach that includes:  establishing a national COVID-19
testing and public health workforce strategy; working to expand the
supply of tests; working to bring test manufacturing to the United
States, where possible; working to enhance laboratory testing capacity;
working to expand the public health workforce; supporting screening
testing for schools and priority populations; and ensuring a clarity of
messaging about the use of tests and insurance coverage. 

**Sec. 2.  COVID-19 Pandemic Testing Board. **

(a)  Establishment and Membership*.*  There is established a COVID-19
Pandemic Testing Board (Testing Board), chaired by the Coordinator of
the COVID-19 Response and Counselor to the President (COVID-19 Response
Coordinator) or his designee.  The Testing Board shall include
representatives from executive departments and agencies (agencies) that
are designated by the President.  The heads of agencies so designated
shall designate officials from their respective agencies to represent
them on the Testing Board.

(b)  Mission and Functions*.*  To support the implementation and
oversight of the policy laid out in section 1 of this order, the Testing
Board shall:

(i)    coordinate Federal Government efforts to promote COVID-19
diagnostic, screening, and surveillance testing;

\(ii\)   make recommendations to the President with respect to
prioritizing the Federal Government’s assistance to State, local,
Tribal, and territorial authorities, in order to expand testing and
reduce disparities in access to testing;

(iii)  identify barriers to access and use of testing in, and coordinate
Federal Government efforts to increase testing for: 

(A)  priority populations, including healthcare workers and other
essential workers; 

(B)  communities with major shortages in testing availability and use; 

(C)  at-risk settings, including long-term care facilities, correctional
facilities, immigration custodial settings, detention facilities,
schools, child care settings, and food processing and manufacturing
facilities; and 

(D)  high-risk groups, including people experiencing homelessness,
migrants, and seasonal workers; 

\(iv\)   identify methods to expand State, local, Tribal, and
territorial capacity to conduct testing, contact tracing, and isolation
and quarantine, in order for schools, businesses, and travel to be
conducted safely; 

(v)    provide guidance on how to enhance the clarity, consistency, and
transparency of Federal Government communication with the public about
the goals and purposes of testing;

\(vi\)   identify options for the Federal Government to maximize testing
capacity of commercial labs and academic labs; and

(vii)  propose short- and long-term reforms for the Federal Government
to:  increase State, local, Tribal, and territorial capacity to conduct
testing; expand genomic sequencing; and improve the effectiveness and
speed of the Federal Government’s response to future pandemics and other
biological emergencies.

(d)  The Chair of the Testing Board shall coordinate with the Secretary
of Health and Human Services (HHS) and the heads of other relevant
agencies or their designees, as necessary, to ensure that the Testing
Board’s work is coordinated with the Public Health Emergency
Countermeasures Enterprise within HHS. 

**Sec. 3.  Actions to Address the Cost of COVID-19 Testing. ** (a)  The
Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of HHS, and the Secretary of
Labor, in coordination with the COVID-19 Response Coordinator, shall
promptly, and as appropriate and consistent with applicable law: 

\(i\)   facilitate the provision of COVID-19 testing free of charge to
those who lack comprehensive health insurance; and

(ii)  clarify group health plans’ and health insurance issuers’
obligations to provide coverage for COVID-19 testing.  

(b)  The Secretary of HHS, the Secretary of Education, and the Secretary
of Homeland Security, through the Administrator of the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA), in coordination with the COVID-19 Response
Coordinator, shall promptly, and as appropriate and consistent with
applicable law: 

\(i\)   provide support for surveillance tests for settings such as
schools; and 

(ii)  expand equitable access to COVID-19 testing. 

**Sec. 4.  Establishing a Public Health Workforce Program.**  (a)  The
Secretary of HHS and the Secretary of Labor shall promptly consult with
State, local, Tribal, and territorial leaders to understand the
challenges they face in pandemic response efforts, including challenges
recruiting and training sufficient personnel to ensure adequate and
equitable community-based testing, and testing in schools and high-risk
settings. 

(b)  The Secretary of HHS shall, as appropriate and consistent with
applicable law, as soon as practicable:  

\(i\)   provide technical support to State, local, Tribal, and
territorial public health agencies with respect to testing and
contact-tracing efforts; and 

(ii)  assist such authorities in the training of public health workers. 
This may include technical assistance to non-Federal public health
workforces in connection with testing, contact tracing, and mass
vaccinations, as well as other urgent public health workforce needs,
such as combating opioid use.

(c)  The Secretary of HHS shall submit to the President, through the
COVID-19 Response Coordinator, the Assistant to the President for
Domestic Policy (APDP), and the Assistant to the President for National
Security Affairs (APNSA), a plan detailing:

\(i\)   how the Secretary of HHS would deploy personnel in response to
future high-consequence public health threats; and 

(ii)  five-year targets and budget requirements for achieving a
sustainable public health workforce, as well as options for expanding
HHS capacity, such as by expanding the U.S. Public Health Service
Commissioned Corps and Epidemic Intelligence Service, so that the
Department can better respond to future pandemics and other biological
threats.

(d)  The Secretary of HHS, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the
Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Education, and the Chief Executive
Officer of the Corporation for National and Community Service, in
coordination with the COVID-19 Response Coordinator, the APDP, and the
APNSA, shall submit a plan to the President for establishing a national
contact tracing and COVID-19 public health workforce program, to be
known as the U.S. Public Health Job Corps, which shall be modeled on or
developed as a component of the FEMA Corps program.  Such plan shall
include means by which the U.S. Public Health Job Corps can be part of
the National Civilian Community Corps program, as well as
recommendations about whether it would be appropriate for the U.S.
Public Health Job Corps to immediately assign personnel from any of the
agencies involved in the creation of the plan, including existing
AmeriCorps members, to join or aid the U.S. Public Health Job Corps. 
The U.S. Public Health Job Corps will:

(i)    conduct and train individuals in contact tracing related to the
COVID-19 pandemic;

\(ii\)   assist in outreach for vaccination efforts, including by
administering vaccination clinics; 

(iii)  assist with training programs for State, local, Tribal, and
territorial governments to provide testing, including in schools; and 

\(iv\)   provide other necessary services to Americans affected by the
COVID-19 pandemic.

**Sec. 5.  General Provisions.**  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
January 21, 2021.
