---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-01-21'
modified_time: 2021-01-21 16:38:47-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/21/executive-order-supporting-the-reopening-and-continuing-operation-of-schools-and-early-childhood-education-providers/
published_time: 2021-01-21 16:38:46-05:00
title: "Executive Order on Supporting the Reopening and Continuing Operation of Schools\
  \ and Early Childhood Education\_Providers"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, to ensure that students receive a
high-quality education during the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19)
pandemic, and to support the safe reopening and continued operation of
schools, child care providers, Head Start programs, and institutions of
higher education, it is hereby ordered as follows:  

**Section 1.  Policy. ** Every student in America deserves
a high-quality education in a safe environment.  This promise, which was
already out of reach for too many, has been further threatened by the
COVID-19 pandemic.  School and higher education administrators,
educators, faculty, child care providers, custodians and other staff,
and families have gone above and beyond to support children’s and
students’ learning and meet their needs during this crisis.  Students
and teachers alike have found new ways to teach and learn.  Many child
care providers continue to provide care and learning opportunities
to children in homes and centers across the country.  However,
leadership and support from the Federal Government is needed.  Two
principles should guide the Federal Government’s response to the
COVID-19 crisis with respect to schools, child care providers, Head
Start programs, and higher education institutions.  First, the health
and safety of children, students, educators, families, and communities
is paramount.  Second, every student in the United States should have
the opportunity to receive a high-quality education, during and beyond
the pandemic.

Accordingly, it is the policy of my Administration to provide support to
help create the conditions for safe, in-person learning as quickly as
possible; ensure high-quality instruction and the delivery of essential
services often received by students and young children at school,
institutions of higher education, child care providers, and Head Start
programs; mitigate learning loss caused by the pandemic; and address
educational disparities and inequities that the pandemic has created and
exacerbated.  

**Sec. 2.  Agency Roles and Responsibilities.**  The following
assignments of responsibility shall be exercised in furtherance of the
policy described in section 1 of this order:  

(a)  The Secretary of Education shall, consistent with applicable law:  

\(i\)     provide, in consultation with the Secretary of Health and
Human Services, evidence-based guidance to assist States and elementary
and secondary schools in deciding whether and how to reopen, and how to
remain open, for in-person learning; and in safely conducting in-person
learning, including by implementing mitigation measures such as
cleaning, masking, proper ventilation, and testing; 

(ii)    provide, in consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human
Services, evidence-based guidance to institutions of higher education on
safely reopening for in-person learning, which shall take into account
considerations such as the institution’s setting, resources, and the
population it serves;

\(iii\)   provide advice to State, local, Tribal, and territorial
educational authorities, institutions of higher education, local
education agencies, and elementary and secondary schools regarding
distance and online learning, blended learning, and in-person learning;
and the promotion of mental health, social-emotional well-being, and
communication with parents and families;

(iv)    develop a Safer Schools and Campuses Best Practices
Clearinghouse to enable schools and institutions of higher education to
share lessons learned and best practices for operating safely during the
pandemic;

\(v\)     provide technical assistance to schools and institutions of
higher education so that they can ensure high-quality learning during
the pandemic;

(vi)    direct the Department of Education’s Assistant Secretary for
Civil Rights to deliver a report as soon as practicable on the disparate
impacts of COVID-19 on students in elementary, secondary, and higher
education, including those attending historically black colleges and
universities, Tribal colleges and universities, Hispanic-serving
institutions, and other minority-serving institutions; 

\(vii\)   coordinate with the Director of the Institute of Education
Sciences to facilitate, consistent with applicable law, the collection
of data necessary to fully understand the impact of the COVID-19
pandemic on students and educators, including data on the status of
in-person learning.  These data shall be disaggregated by student
demographics, including race, ethnicity, disability,
English-language-learner status, and free or reduced lunch status or
other appropriate indicators of family income; and

(viii)  consult with those who have been struggling for months with the
enormous challenges the COVID-19 pandemic poses for education, including
students; educators; unions; families; State, local, Tribal,
and territorial officials; and members of civil rights and disability
rights organizations, in carrying out the directives in this order.

(b)  The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall, consistent with
applicable law:  

(i)    facilitate the collection of data needed to inform the safe
reopening and continued operation of elementary and secondary schools,
child care providers, and Head Start programs, and ensure that such data
are readily available to State, local, Tribal, and territorial leaders
and the public, consistent with privacy interests, and that such
data are disaggregated by race, ethnicity, and other factors as
appropriate;

\(ii\)   ensure, in coordination with the Coordinator of the COVID-19
Response and Counselor to the President (COVID-19 Response Coordinator)
and other relevant agencies, that COVID-19-related supplies
the Secretary administers, including testing materials, are equitably
allocated to elementary and secondary schools, child care providers, and
Head Start programs to support in-person care and learning; 

(iii)  to the maximum extent possible, support the development and
operation of contact tracing programs at the State, local, Tribal, and
territorial level, by providing guidance and technical support to ensure
that contact tracing is available to facilitate the reopening and safe
operation of elementary and secondary schools, child care providers,
Head Start programs, and institutions of higher education;

\(iv\)   provide guidance needed for child care providers and Head Start
programs for safely reopening and operating, including procedures for
mitigation measures such as cleaning, masking, proper ventilation, and
testing, as well as guidance related to meeting the needs of children,
families, and staff who have been affected by the COVID-19 pandemic,
including trauma-informed care, behavioral and mental health support,
and family support, as appropriate; and

(v)    provide technical assistance to States, localities, Tribes, and
territories to support the accelerated distribution of Federal COVID-19
relief funds to child care providers, and identify strategies to help
child care providers safely remain open during the pandemic and beyond
while the sector experiences widespread financial disruption due to
increased costs and less revenue.

(c)  The Secretary of Education and the Secretary of Health and Human
Services shall submit a report to the Assistant to the President for
Domestic Policy and the COVID-19 Response Coordinator identifying
strategies to address the impact of COVID-19 on educational outcomes,
especially along racial and socioeconomic lines, and shall share those
strategies with State, local, Tribal, and territorial officials.  In
developing these strategies, the Secretaries shall, as appropriate and
consistent with applicable law, consult with such officials, as well as
with education experts; educators; unions; civil rights advocates;
Tribal education experts; public health experts; child development
experts; early educators, including child care providers; Head Start
staff; school technology practitioners; foundations; families; students;
community advocates; and others.

(d)  The Federal Communications Commission is encouraged, consistent
with applicable law, to increase connectivity options for students
lacking reliable home broadband, so that they can continue to learn if
their schools are operating remotely.

**Sec. 3.  General Provisions. ** (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:  

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,   
January 21, 2021.
