---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-01-21'
modified_time: 2021-01-21 16:05:26-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/21/executive-order-promoting-covid-19-safety-in-domestic-and-international-travel/
published_time: 2021-01-21 16:05:25-05:00
title: "Executive Order on Promoting COVID- \u2060 19 Safety in Domestic and International\
  \ Travel"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows: 

**Section 1.  Policy. ** Science-based public health measures are
critical to preventing the spread of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19)
by travelers within the United States and those who enter the country
from abroad.  The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the
Surgeon General, and the National Institutes of Health have concluded
that mask-wearing, physical distancing, appropriate ventilation, and
timely testing can mitigate the risk of travelers spreading COVID-19. 
Accordingly, to save lives and allow all Americans, including the
millions of people employed in the transportation industry, to travel
and work safely, it is the policy of my Administration to implement
these public health measures consistent with CDC guidelines on public
modes of transportation and at ports of entry to the United States.   

**Sec. 2.  Immediate Action to Require Mask-Wearing on Certain Domestic
Modes of Transportation.**

(a)  Mask Requirement.* * The Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of
Health and Human Services (HHS), the Secretary of Transportation
(including through the Administrator of the Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA)), the Secretary of Homeland Security (including
through the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration
(TSA) and the Commandant of the United States Coast Guard), and the
heads of any other executive departments and agencies (agencies) that
have relevant regulatory authority (heads of agencies) shall immediately
take action, to the extent appropriate and consistent with applicable
law, to require masks to be worn in compliance with CDC guidelines in or
on: 

(i)    airports; 

\(ii\)   commercial aircraft; 

(iii)  trains; 

\(iv\)   public maritime vessels, including ferries; 

(v)    intercity bus services; and

\(vi\)   all forms of public transportation as defined in section 5302
of title 49, United States Code.

(b)  Consultation.* * In implementing this section, the heads of
agencies shall consult, as appropriate, with interested parties,
including State, local, Tribal, and territorial officials; industry and
union representatives from the transportation sector; and consumer
representatives.

(c)  Exceptions.* * The heads of agencies may make categorical or
case-by-case exceptions to policies developed under this section,
consistent with applicable law, to the extent that doing so is necessary
or required by law.  If the heads of agencies do make exceptions, they
shall require alternative and appropriate safeguards, and shall document
all exceptions in writing.

(d)  Preemption.  To the extent permitted by applicable law, the heads
of agencies shall ensure that any action taken to implement this section
does not preempt State, local, Tribal, and territorial laws or rules
imposing public health measures that are more protective of public
health than those required by the heads of agencies. 

(e)  Coordination.  The Coordinator of the COVID-19 Response and
Counselor to the President (COVID-19 Response Coordinator) shall
coordinate the implementation of this section.  The heads of agencies
shall update the COVID-19 Response Coordinator on their progress in
implementing this section, including any categorical exceptions
established under subsection (c) of this section, within 7 days of the
date of this order and regularly thereafter.  The heads of agencies are
encouraged to bring to the attention of the COVID-19 Response
Coordinator any questions regarding the scope or implementation of this
section.

**Sec. 3.  Action to Implement Additional Public Health Measures for
Domestic Travel. **

(a)  Recommendations.* * The Secretary of Transportation (including
through the Administrator of the FAA) and the Secretary of Homeland
Security (including through the Administrator of the TSA and the
Commandant of the Coast Guard), in consultation with the Director of
CDC, shall promptly provide to the COVID-19 Response Coordinator
recommendations concerning how their respective agencies may impose
additional public health measures for domestic travel.

(b)  Consultation. * *In implementing this section, the Secretary of
Transportation and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall engage with
interested parties, including State, local, Tribal, and territorial
officials; industry and union representatives from the transportation
sector; and consumer representatives.** **

**Sec. 4.  Support for State, Local, Tribal, and Territorial
Authorities. ** The COVID-19 Response Coordinator, in coordination with
the Secretary of Transportation and the heads of any other relevant
agencies, shall promptly identify and inform agencies of options to
incentivize, support, and encourage widespread mask-wearing and physical
distancing on public modes of transportation, consistent with CDC
guidelines and applicable law.

**Sec. 5.  International Travel. **

(a)  Policy.* * It is the policy of my Administration that, to the
extent feasible, travelers seeking to enter the United States from a
foreign country shall be: 

\(i\)   required to produce proof of a recent negative COVID-19 test
prior to entry; and 

(ii)  required to comply with other applicable CDC guidelines concerning
international travel, including recommended periods of self-quarantine
or self-isolation after entry into the United States.

(b)  Air Travel.  

(i)    The Secretary of HHS, including through the Director of CDC, and
in coordination with the Secretary of Transportation (including through
the Administrator of the FAA) and the Secretary of Homeland Security
(including through the Administrator of the TSA), shall, within 14 days
of the date of this order, assess the CDC order of January 12, 2021,
regarding the requirement of a negative COVID-19 test result for airline
passengers traveling into the United States, in light of subsection (a)
of this section.  Based on such assessment, the Secretary of HHS and the
Secretary of Homeland Security shall take any further appropriate
regulatory action, to the extent feasible and consistent with CDC
guidelines and applicable law.  Such assessment and regulatory action
shall include consideration of: 

(A)  the timing and types of COVID-19 tests that should satisfy the
negative test requirement, including consideration of additional testing
immediately prior to departure;  
(B)  the proof of test results that travelers should be required to
provide;  
(C)  the feasibility of implementing alternative and sufficiently
protective public health measures, such as testing, self-quarantine, and
self-isolation on arrival, for travelers entering the United States from
countries where COVID-19 tests are inaccessible, particularly where such
inaccessibility of tests would affect the ability of United States
citizens and lawful permanent residents to return to the United States;
and  
(D)  measures to prevent fraud.

\(ii\)   The Secretary of HHS, in coordination with the Secretary of
Transportation (including through the Administrator of the FAA) and the
Secretary of Homeland Security (including through the Administrator of
the TSA), shall promptly provide to the President, through the COVID-19
Response Coordinator, a plan for how the Secretary and other Federal
Government actors could implement the policy stated in subsection (a) of
this section with respect to CDC-recommended periods of self-quarantine
or self-isolation after a flight to the United States from a foreign
country, as he deems appropriate and consistent with applicable law. 
The plan shall identify agencies’ tools and mechanisms to assist
travelers in complying with such policy.

(iii)  The Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of HHS
(including through the Director of CDC), the Secretary of Transportation
(including through the Administrator of the FAA), and the Secretary of
Homeland Security, shall seek to consult with foreign governments, the
World Health Organization, the International Civil Aviation
Organization, the International Air Transport Association, and any other
relevant stakeholders to establish guidelines for public health measures
associated with safe international travel, including on aircraft and at
ports of entry.  Any such guidelines should address quarantine, testing,
COVID-19 vaccination, follow-up testing and symptom-monitoring, air
filtration requirements, environmental decontamination standards, and
contact tracing.  

(c)  Land Travel.  The Secretary of State, in consultation with the
Secretary of HHS, the Secretary of Transportation, the Secretary of
Homeland Security, and the Director of CDC, shall immediately commence
diplomatic outreach to the governments of Canada and Mexico regarding
public health protocols for land ports of entry.  Based on this
diplomatic engagement, within 14 days of the date of this order, the
Secretary of HHS (including through the Director of CDC), the Secretary
of Transportation, and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit
to the President a plan to implement appropriate public health measures
at land ports of entry.  The plan should implement CDC guidelines,
consistent with applicable law, and take into account the operational
considerations relevant to the different populations who enter the
United States by land.

(d)  Sea Travel.  The Secretary of Homeland Security, through the
Commandant of the Coast Guard and in consultation with the Secretary of
HHS and the Director of CDC, shall, within 14 days of the date of this
order, submit to the President a plan to implement appropriate public
health measures at sea ports.  The plan should implement CDC guidelines,
consistent with applicable law, and take into account operational
considerations.  

(e)  International Certificates of Vaccination or Prophylaxis. 
Consistent with applicable law, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of
HHS, and the Secretary of Homeland Security (including through the
Administrator of the TSA), in coordination with any relevant
international organizations, shall assess the feasibility of linking
COVID-19 vaccination to International Certificates of Vaccination or
Prophylaxis (ICVP) and producing electronic versions of ICVPs.  

(f)  Coordination.  The COVID-19 Response Coordinator, in consultation
with the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs and
the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, shall coordinate the
implementation of this section.  The Secretary of State, the Secretary
of HHS, the Secretary of Transportation, and the Secretary of Homeland
Security shall update the COVID-19 Response Coordinator on their
progress in implementing this section within 7 days of the date of this
order and regularly thereafter.  The heads of all agencies are
encouraged to bring to the attention of the COVID-19 Response
Coordinator any questions regarding the scope or implementation of this
section.

**Sec. 6.  General Provisions.**  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
January 21, 2021.
