---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-01-28'
modified_time: 2021-02-01 09:40:02-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/28/memorandum-on-protecting-womens-health-at-home-and-abroad/
published_time: 2021-01-28 15:19:13-05:00
title: "Memorandum on Protecting Women\u2019s Health at Home and\_Abroad"
---
 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE, THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE, THE
SECRETARY OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, THE ADMINISTRATOR OF THE UNITED
STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT

 Section 1.  Policy.  Women should have access to the healthcare they
need.  For too many women today, both at home and abroad, that is not
possible.  Undue restrictions on the use of Federal funds have made it
harder for women to obtain necessary healthcare.  The Federal Government
must take action to ensure that women at home and around the world are
able to access complete medical information, including with respect to
their reproductive health.

In the United States, Title X of the Public Health Services Act (42
U.S.C. 300 to 300a-6) provides Federal funding for family planning
services that primarily benefit low-income patients.  The Act specifies
that Title X funds may not be used in programs where abortion is a
method of family planning, but places no further abortion-related
restrictions on recipients of Title X funds.  *See* 42 U.S.C. 300a-6. 
In 2019, the Secretary of Health and Human Services finalized changes to
regulations governing the Title X program and issued a final rule
entitled “Compliance With Statutory Program Integrity Requirements,” 84
Fed. Reg. 7714 (Mar. 4, 2019) (Title X Rule), which prohibits recipients
of Title X funds from referring patients to abortion providers and
imposes other onerous requirements on abortion providers.  The Title X
Rule has caused the termination of Federal family planning funding for
many women’s healthcare providers and puts women’s health at risk by
making it harder for women to receive complete medical information.  

It is the policy of my Administration to support women’s and girls’
sexual and reproductive health and rights in the United States, as well
as globally.  The Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C.
2151b(f)(1)), prohibits nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) that
receive Federal funds from using those funds “to pay for the performance
of abortions as a method of family planning, or to motivate or coerce
any person to practice abortions.”  The August 1984 announcement by
President Reagan of what has become known as the “Mexico City Policy”
directed the United States Agency for International Development (USAID)
to expand this limitation and withhold USAID family planning funds from
NGOs that use non-USAID funds to perform abortions, provide advice,
counseling, or information regarding abortion, or lobby a foreign
government to legalize abortion or make abortion services more easily
available.  These restrictions were rescinded by President Clinton in
1993, reinstated by President George W. Bush in 2001, and rescinded by
President Obama in 2009.  President Trump substantially expanded these
restrictions by applying the policy to global health assistance provided
by all executive departments and agencies (agencies).  These excessive
conditions on foreign and development assistance undermine the United
States’ efforts to advance gender equality globally by restricting our
ability to support women’s health and programs that prevent and respond
to gender-based violence.  The expansion of the policy has also affected
all other areas of global health assistance, limiting the United States’
ability to work with local partners around the world and inhibiting
their efforts to confront serious health challenges such as HIV/AIDS,
tuberculosis, and malaria, among others.  Such restrictions on global
health assistance are particularly harmful in light of the coronavirus
disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic.  Accordingly, I hereby order as
follows:

     Sec. 2.  Revocations and Other Actions.  (a)  The Secretary of
Health and Human Services shall review the Title X Rule and any other
regulations governing the Title X program that impose undue restrictions
on the use of Federal funds or women’s access to complete medical
information and shall consider, as soon as practicable, whether to
suspend, revise, or rescind, or publish for notice and comment proposed
rules suspending, revising, or rescinding, those regulations, consistent
with applicable law, including the Administrative Procedure Act.

(b)  The Presidential Memorandum of January 23, 2017 (The Mexico City
Policy), is revoked. 

(c)  The Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of
Health and Human Services, the Administrator of USAID, and appropriate
officials at all other agencies involved in foreign assistance shall
take all steps necessary to implement this memorandum, as appropriate
and consistent with applicable law.  This shall include the following
actions with respect to conditions in assistance awards that were
imposed pursuant to the January 2017 Presidential Memorandum and that
are not required by the Foreign Assistance Act or any other law:

(i)    immediately waive such conditions in any current grants;

(ii)   notify current grantees, as soon as possible, that these
conditions have been waived; and

\(iii\)  immediately cease imposing these conditions in any future
assistance awards.

\(d\)  The Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary
of Health and Human Services, and the Administrator of USAID, as
appropriate and consistent with applicable law, shall suspend, revise,
or rescind any regulations, orders, guidance documents, policies, and
any other similar agency actions that were issued pursuant to the
January 2017 Presidential Memorandum.  

(e)  The Secretary of State and the Secretary of Health and Human
Services, in a timely and appropriate manner, shall withdraw
co-sponsorship and signature from the Geneva Consensus Declaration
(Declaration) and notify other co-sponsors and signatories to the
Declaration and other appropriate parties of the United States’
withdrawal.

(f)  The Secretary of State, consistent with applicable law and subject
to the availability of appropriations, shall:

\(i\)   take the steps necessary to resume funding to the United Nations
Population Fund; and

(ii)  work with the Administrator of USAID and across United States
Government foreign assistance programs to ensure that adequate funds are
being directed to support women’s health needs globally, including
sexual and reproductive health and reproductive rights.

(g)  The Secretary of State, in coordination with the Secretary of
Health and Human Services, shall provide guidance to agencies consistent
with this memorandum.

Sec. 3.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this memorandum shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d)  The Secretary of State is authorized and directed to publish this
memorandum in the *Federal Register*.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
