---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-01-21'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/21/executive-order-protecting-worker-health-and-safety/
published_time: 2021-01-21 16:43:05-05:00
title: "Executive Order on Protecting Worker Health and\_Safety"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:

**Section 1.  Policy. ** Ensuring the health and safety of workers is a
national priority and a moral imperative.  Healthcare workers and other
essential workers, many of whom are people of color and immigrants, have
put their lives on the line during the coronavirus disease 2019
(COVID-19) pandemic.  It is the policy of my Administration to protect
the health and safety of workers from COVID-19.

The Federal Government must take swift action to reduce the risk that
workers may contract COVID-19 in the workplace.  That will require
issuing science-based guidance to help keep workers safe from COVID-19
exposure, including with respect to mask-wearing; partnering with State
and local governments to better protect public employees; enforcing
worker health and safety requirements; and pushing for additional
resources to help employers protect employees.

**Sec. 2.  Protecting Workers from COVID-19 Under the Occupational
Safety and Health Act.**  The Secretary of Labor, acting through the
Assistant Secretary of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health, in
furtherance of the policy described in section 1 of this order and
consistent with applicable law, shall:

(a)  issue, within 2 weeks of the date of this order and in conjunction
or consultation with the heads of any other appropriate executive
departments and agencies (agencies), revised guidance to employers on
workplace safety during the COVID-19 pandemic;

(b)  consider whether any emergency temporary standards on COVID-19,
including with respect to masks in the workplace, are necessary, and if
such standards are determined to be necessary, issue them by March 15,
2021;

(c)  review the enforcement efforts of the Occupational Safety and
Health Administration (OSHA) related to COVID-19 and identify any
short-, medium-, and long-term changes that could be made to better
protect workers and ensure equity in enforcement; 

(d)  launch a national program to focus OSHA enforcement efforts related
to COVID-19 on violations that put the largest number of workers at
serious risk or are contrary to anti-retaliation principles; and

(e)  coordinate with the Department of Labor’s Office of Public Affairs
and Office of Public Engagement and all regional OSHA offices to
conduct, consistent with applicable law, a multilingual outreach
campaign to inform workers and their representatives of their rights
under applicable law.  This campaign shall include engagement with labor
unions, community organizations, and industries, and place a special
emphasis on communities hit hardest by the pandemic.

**Sec. 3.  Protecting Other Categories of Workers from COVID-19. ** (a) 
The Secretary of Labor, acting through the Assistant Secretary of Labor
for Occupational Safety and Health and consistent with applicable law,
shall:

\(i\)   coordinate with States that have occupational safety and health
plans approved under section 18 of the Occupational Safety and Health
Act (Act) (29 U.S.C. 667) to seek to ensure that workers covered by such
plans are adequately protected from COVID-19, consistent with any
revised guidance or emergency temporary standards issued by OSHA; and 

(ii)  in States that do not have such plans, consult with State and
local government entities with responsibility for public employee safety
and health and with public employee unions to bolster protection from
COVID-19 for public sector workers.

(b)  The Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary
of Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Transportation, and the
Secretary of Energy, in consultation with the heads of any other
appropriate agencies, shall, consistent with applicable law, explore
mechanisms to protect workers not protected under the Act so that they
remain healthy and safe on the job during the COVID-19 pandemic. 

(c)  The Secretary of Labor, acting through the Assistant Secretary of
Labor for Mine Safety and Health, shall consider whether any emergency
temporary standards on COVID-19 applicable to coal and metal or
non-metal mines are necessary, and if such standards are determined to
be necessary and consistent with applicable law, issue them as soon as
practicable.

**Sec. 4.  General Provisions. ** (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
January 21, 2021.
