---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-01-26'
modified_time: 2021-01-26 17:02:24-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/26/memorandum-condemning-and-combating-racism-xenophobia-and-intolerance-against-asian-americans-and-pacific-islanders-in-the-united-states/
published_time: 2021-01-26 15:11:33-05:00
title: "Memorandum Condemning and Combating Racism, Xenophobia, and Intolerance Against\
  \ Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders in the United\_States"
---
 
Advancing inclusion and belonging for people of all races, national
origins, and ethnicities is critical to guaranteeing the safety and
security of the American people.  During the coronavirus disease 2019
(COVID-19) pandemic, inflammatory and xenophobic rhetoric has put Asian
American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) persons, families, communities, and
businesses at risk.

The Federal Government must recognize that it has played a role in
furthering these xenophobic sentiments through the actions of political
leaders, including references to the COVID-19 pandemic by the geographic
location of its origin.  Such statements have stoked unfounded fears and
perpetuated stigma about Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders and have
contributed to increasing rates of bullying, harassment, and hate crimes
against AAPI persons.  These actions defied the best practices and
guidelines of public health officials and have caused significant harm
to AAPI families and communities that must be addressed.

Despite these increasing acts of intolerance, Asian Americans and
Pacific Islanders have made our Nation more secure during the COVID-19
pandemic and throughout our history.  An estimated 2 million Asian
Americans and Pacific Islanders have served on the front lines of this
crisis as healthcare providers, as first responders, and in other
essential roles.  The Federal Government should combat racism,
xenophobia, and intolerance against Asian Americans and Pacific
Islanders and should work to ensure that all members of AAPI communities
— no matter their background, the language they speak, or their
religious beliefs — are treated with dignity and equity.

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.  Condemning Racism, Xenophobia, and Intolerance Against Asian
Americans and Pacific Islanders.  The Federal Government has a
responsibility to prevent racism, xenophobia, and intolerance against
everyone in America, including Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders. 
My Administration condemns and denounces acts of racism, xenophobia, and
intolerance against AAPI communities.

Sec. 2.  Combating Racism, Xenophobia, and Intolerance Against Asian
Americans and Pacific Islanders.  (a)  The Secretary of Health and Human
Services shall, in coordination with the COVID-19 Health Equity Task
Force, consider issuing guidance describing best practices for advancing
cultural competency, language access, and sensitivity towards Asian
Americans and Pacific Islanders in the context of the Federal
Government’s COVID-19 response.  In developing any such guidance, the
Secretary should consider the best practices set forth by public health
organizations and experts for mitigating racially discriminatory
language in describing the COVID-19 pandemic.

(b)  Executive departments and agencies (agencies) shall take all
appropriate steps to ensure that official actions, documents, and
statements, including those that pertain to the COVID-19 pandemic, do
not exhibit or contribute to racism, xenophobia, and intolerance against
Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders.  Agencies may consult with public
health experts, AAPI community leaders, or AAPI community-serving
organizations, or may refer to any best practices issued pursuant to
subsection (a) of this section, to ensure an understanding of the needs
and challenges faced by AAPI communities. 

(c)  The Attorney General shall explore opportunities to support,
consistent with applicable law, the efforts of State and local agencies,
as well as AAPI communities and community-based organizations, to
prevent discrimination, bullying, harassment, and hate crimes against
AAPI individuals, and to expand collection of data and public reporting
regarding hate incidents against such individuals.

Sec. 3.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this memorandum shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  Independent agencies are strongly encouraged to comply with the
provisions of this memorandum.

(d)  This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(e)  The Secretary of Health and Human Services is authorized and
directed to publish this memorandum in the *Federal Register*.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
