---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-01-20'
modified_time: 2021-01-20 22:14:30-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/20/proclamation-termination-of-emergency-with-respect-to-southern-border-of-united-states-and-redirection-of-funds-diverted-to-border-wall-construction/
published_time: 2021-01-20 22:14:29-05:00
title: "Proclamation on the Termination Of Emergency With Respect To The Southern\
  \ Border Of The United\_States And Redirection Of Funds Diverted To Border Wall\
  \ Construction\_\uFEFF"
---
 
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

Like every nation, the United States has a right and a duty to secure
its borders and protect its people against threats.  But building a
massive wall that spans the entire southern border is not a serious
policy solution.  It is a waste of money that diverts attention from
genuine threats to our homeland security.  My Administration is
committed to ensuring that the United States has a comprehensive and
humane immigration system that operates consistently with our Nation’s
values.  In furtherance of that commitment, I have determined that the
declaration of a national emergency at our southern border in
Proclamation 9844 of February 15, 2019 (Declaring a National Emergency
Concerning the Southern Border of the United States), was unwarranted. 
It shall be the policy of my Administration that no more American
taxpayer dollars be diverted to construct a border wall.  I am also
directing a careful review of all resources appropriated or redirected
to construct a southern border wall.  

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including section 202 of the
National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq.*), hereby declare that
the national emergency declared by Proclamation 9844, and continued on
February 13, 2020 (85 *Fed. Reg.* 8715), and January 15, 2021, is
terminated and that the authorities invoked in that proclamation will no
longer be used to construct a wall at the southern border.  I hereby
further direct as follows:

Section 1.  Pause in Construction and Obligation of Funds.  (a)  The
Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Homeland Security, in
consultation with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget,
shall direct the appropriate officials within their respective
departments to:

(i)    pause work on each construction project on the southern border
wall, to the extent permitted by law, as soon as possible but in no case
later than seven days from the date of this proclamation, to permit: 

(A)  assessment of the legality of the funding and contracting methods
used to construct the wall;

(B)  assessment of the administrative and contractual consequences of
ceasing each wall construction project; and

(C)  completion and implementation of the plan developed in accordance
with section 2 of this proclamation; 

\(ii\)   pause immediately the obligation of funds related to
construction of the southern border wall, to the extent permitted by
law; and

(iii)  compile detailed information on all southern border wall
construction contracts, the completion status of each wall construction
project, and the funds used for wall construction since February 15,
2019, including directly appropriated funds and funds drawn from the
Treasury Forfeiture Fund (31 U.S.C. 9705(g)(4)(B)), the Department of
Defense Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities account (10 U.S.C.
284), and the Department of Defense Military Construction account
(pursuant to the emergency authorities in 10 U.S.C. 2808(a) and
33 U.S.C. 2293(a)). 

(b)  The pause directed in subsection (a)(i) of this section shall apply
to wall projects funded by redirected funds as well as wall projects
funded by direct appropriations.  The Secretary of Defense and the
Secretary of Homeland Security may make an exception to the pause,
however, for urgent measures needed to avert immediate physical dangers
or where an exception is required to ensure that funds appropriated by
the Congress fulfill their intended purpose. 

Sec. 2.  Plan for Redirecting Funding and Repurposing Contracts.  The
Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Homeland Security, in
coordination with the Secretary of the Treasury, the Attorney General,
the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, and the heads of
any other appropriate executive departments and agencies, and in
consultation with the Assistant to the President for National Security
Affairs, shall develop a plan for the redirection of funds concerning
the southern border wall, as appropriate and consistent with applicable
law.  The process of developing the plan shall include consideration of
terminating or repurposing contracts with private contractors engaged in
wall construction, while providing for the expenditure of any funds that
the Congress expressly appropriated for wall construction, consistent
with their appropriated purpose.  The plan shall be developed within 60
days from the date of this proclamation.  After the plan is developed,
the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall
take all appropriate steps to resume, modify, or terminate projects and
to otherwise implement the plan.

Sec. 3.  Definition.  Consistent with Executive Order 13767 of January
25, 2017 (Border Security and Immigration Enforcement Improvements), for
the purposes of this proclamation, “wall” means a contiguous, physical
wall or other similarly secure, contiguous, and impassable physical
barrier.

Sec. 4.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this proclamation shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This proclamation shall be implemented consistent with applicable
law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This proclamation is not intended to, and does not, create any
right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in
equity by any party against the United States, its departments,
agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other
person.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twentieth day of
January, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
