---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-01-20'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/20/reinstating-deferred-enforced-departure-for-liberians/
published_time: 2021-01-20 22:42:15-05:00
title: "Reinstating Deferred Enforced Departure for\_Liberians"
---
 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE THE SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY

SUBJECT: Reinstating Deferred Enforced Departure for Liberians

Since 1991, the United States has provided safe haven for Liberians who
were forced to flee their country as a result of armed conflict and
widespread civil strife, in part through the grant of Temporary
Protected Status (TPS).  The armed conflict ended in 2003, and TPS for
affected Liberian nationals ended effective October 1, 2007.  President
Bush then deferred the enforced departure of those Liberians originally
granted TPS.  President Obama, in successive memoranda, extended that
grant of Deferred Enforced Departure (DED) to March 31, 2018.  President
Trump then determined that conditions in Liberia did not warrant a
further extension of DED, but that the foreign policy interests of the
United States warranted affording an orderly transition period for
Liberian DED beneficiaries.  President Trump later extended that DED
transition period through March 30, 2020. 

In December 2019, the Congress enacted the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92) (NDAA), which
included, as section 7611, the Liberian Refugee Immigration Fairness
(LRIF) provision.  The LRIF provision, with limited exceptions, makes
Liberians who have been continuously present in the United States since
November 20, 2014, as well as their spouses and children, eligible for
adjustment of status to that of United States lawful permanent resident
(LPR).  The NDAA gave eligible Liberian nationals until December 20,
2020, to apply for this adjustment of status.  After the enactment of
the LRIF provision, President Trump further extended the DED transition
period through January 10, 2021, to ensure that DED beneficiaries would
continue to be eligible for employment authorization during the LRIF
application period. 

The LRIF application process was hampered by a slow launch, cumbersome
procedures, and delays in adjudication.  Recognizing these difficulties,
the Congress enacted a 1-year extension to the application period in
section 901 of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 (Public Law
116-260).  That legislation, however, did not provide for continued
employment authorization past January 10, 2021, the expiration of the
most recent DED transition period. 

There are compelling foreign policy reasons to reinstate DED for an
additional period for those Liberians presently residing in the United
States who were under a grant of DED as of January 10, 2021.  Providing
work authorization to these Liberians, for whom we have long authorized
TPS or DED in the United States, while they initiate and complete the
LRIF status-adjustment process, honors the historic close relationship
between the United States and Liberia and is in the foreign policy
interests of the United States.  I urge all Liberian DED beneficiaries
to apply promptly for adjustment of status, and I direct the Secretary
of Homeland Security to review the LRIF application procedures
administered by United States Citizenship and Immigration Services to
ensure that they facilitate ease of application and timely adjudication.

Pursuant to my constitutional authority to conduct the foreign relations
of the United States, I have determined that it is in the foreign policy
interests of the United States to defer through June 30, 2022, the
removal of any Liberian national, or person without nationality who last
habitually resided in Liberia, who is present in the United States and
who was under a grant of DED as of January 10, 2021.  I have also
determined that any Liberian national, or person without nationality who
last habitually resided in Liberia, who is present in the United States
and who was under a grant of DED as of January 10, 2021, should have
continued employment authorization through June 30, 2022.

The Secretary of Homeland Security shall promptly direct the appropriate
officials to make provision, by means of a notice published in the
*Federal Register*, for immediate allowance of employment authorization
for those Liberians who held appropriate DED-related employment
authorization documents as of January 10, 2021.  The Secretary shall
also provide for the prompt issuance of new or replacement documents in
appropriate cases. 

This grant of DED and continued employment authorization shall apply to
any Liberian DED beneficiary as of January 10, 2021, but shall not apply
to such persons in the following categories:

(1)  Individuals who would be ineligible for TPS for the reasons
provided in section 244(c)(2)(B) of the Immigration and Nationality Act,
8 U.S.C. 1254a(c)(2)(B);

(2)  Individuals who sought or seek LPR status under the LRIF provision
but whose applications have been or are denied by the Secretary of
Homeland Security;

(3)  Individuals whose removal the Secretary of Homeland Security
determines is in the interest of the United States, subject to the LRIF
provision;

(4)  Individuals whose presence or activities in the United States the
Secretary of State has reasonable grounds to believe would have
potentially serious adverse foreign policy consequences for the United
States;

(5)  Individuals who have voluntarily returned to Liberia or their
country of last habitual residence outside the United States for an
aggregate period of 180 days or more, as specified in subsection (c)(2)
of the LRIF provision;

(6)  Individuals who were deported, excluded, or removed prior to the
date of this memorandum; or

(7)  Individuals who are subject to extradition.

Accordingly, I hereby direct the Secretary of Homeland Security to take
the necessary steps to implement for eligible Liberians: 

(1)  a deferral of enforced departure from the United States through
June 30, 2022, effective immediately; and

(2)  authorization for employment valid through June 30, 2022.

The Secretary of Homeland Security is authorized and directed to publish
this memorandum in the *Federal Register*.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
