---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-01-20'
modified_time: 2021-01-20 19:53:39-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/20/executive-order-advancing-racial-equity-and-support-for-underserved-communities-through-the-federal-government/
published_time: 2021-01-20 19:53:38-05:00
title: Executive Order On Advancing Racial Equity and Support for Underserved Communities
  Through the Federal Government
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered:  

**Section 1.  Policy. ** Equal opportunity is the bedrock of American
democracy, and our diversity is one of our country’s greatest
strengths.  But for too many, the American Dream remains out of reach. 
Entrenched disparities in our laws and public policies, and in our
public and private institutions, have often denied that equal
opportunity to individuals and communities.  Our country faces
converging economic, health, and climate crises that have exposed and
exacerbated inequities, while a historic movement for justice has
highlighted the unbearable human costs of systemic racism.  Our Nation
deserves an ambitious whole-of-government equity agenda that matches the
scale of the opportunities and challenges that we face.

It is therefore the policy of my Administration that the Federal
Government should pursue a comprehensive approach to advancing equity
for all, including people of color and others who have been historically
underserved, marginalized, and adversely affected by persistent poverty
and inequality.  Affirmatively advancing equity, civil rights, racial
justice, and equal opportunity is the responsibility of the whole of our
Government.  Because advancing equity requires a systematic approach to
embedding fairness in decision-making processes, executive departments
and agencies (agencies) must recognize and work to redress inequities in
their policies and programs that serve as barriers to equal
opportunity.  

By advancing equity across the Federal Government, we can create
opportunities for the improvement of communities that have been
historically underserved, which benefits everyone.  For example, an
analysis shows that closing racial gaps in wages, housing credit,
lending opportunities, and access to higher education would amount to an
additional $5 trillion in gross domestic product in the American economy
over the next 5 years.  The Federal Government’s goal in advancing
equity is to provide everyone with the opportunity to reach their full
potential.  Consistent with these aims, each agency must assess whether,
and to what extent, its programs and policies perpetuate systemic
barriers to opportunities and benefits for people of color and other
underserved groups.  Such assessments will better equip agencies to
develop policies and programs that deliver resources and benefits
equitably to all.  

**Sec. 2.  Definitions. ** For purposes of this order:  (a)  The term
“equity” means the consistent and systematic fair, just, and impartial
treatment of all individuals, including individuals who belong to
underserved communities that have been denied such treatment, such as
Black, Latino, and Indigenous and Native American persons, Asian
Americans and Pacific Islanders and other persons of color; members of
religious minorities; lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer
(LGBTQ+) persons; persons with disabilities; persons who live in rural
areas; and persons otherwise adversely affected by persistent poverty or
inequality. 

(b)  The term “underserved communities” refers to populations sharing a
particular characteristic, as well as geographic communities, that have
been systematically denied a full opportunity to participate in aspects
of economic, social, and civic life, as exemplified by the list in the
preceding definition of “equity.”   

**Sec. 3.  Role of the Domestic Policy Council. ** The role of the White
House Domestic Policy Council (DPC) is to coordinate the formulation and
implementation of my Administration’s domestic policy objectives. 
Consistent with this role, the DPC will coordinate efforts to embed
equity principles, policies, and approaches across the Federal
Government.  This will include efforts to remove systemic barriers to
and provide equal access to opportunities and benefits, identify
communities the Federal Government has underserved, and develop policies
designed to advance equity for those communities.  The DPC-led
interagency process will ensure that these efforts are made in
coordination with the directors of the National Security Council and the
National Economic Council.  

**Sec. 4.  Identifying Methods to Assess Equity.**  (a)  The Director of
the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) shall, in partnership with the
heads of agencies, study methods for assessing whether agency policies
and actions create or exacerbate barriers to full and equal
participation by all eligible individuals.  The study should aim to
identify the best methods, consistent with applicable law, to assist
agencies in assessing equity with respect to race, ethnicity, religion,
income, geography, gender identity, sexual orientation, and
disability.  

(b)  As part of this study, the Director of OMB shall consider whether
to recommend that agencies employ pilot programs to test model
assessment tools and assist agencies in doing so.  

(c)  Within 6 months of the date of this order, the Director of OMB
shall deliver a report to the President describing the best practices
identified by the study and, as appropriate, recommending approaches to
expand use of those methods across the Federal Government.

**Sec. 5.  Conducting an Equity Assessment in Federal Agencies. ** The
head of each agency, or designee, shall, in consultation with the
Director of OMB, select certain of the agency’s programs and policies
for a review that will assess whether underserved communities and their
members face systemic barriers in accessing benefits and opportunities
available pursuant to those policies and programs.  The head of each
agency, or designee, shall conduct such review and within 200 days of
the date of this order provide a report to the Assistant to the
President for Domestic Policy (APDP) reflecting findings on the
following:  

(a)  Potential barriers that underserved communities and individuals may
face to enrollment in and access to benefits and services in Federal
programs; 

(b)  Potential barriers that underserved communities and individuals may
face in taking advantage of agency procurement and contracting
opportunities;

(c)  Whether new policies, regulations, or guidance documents may be
necessary to advance equity in agency actions and programs; and

(d)  The operational status and level of institutional resources
available to offices or divisions within the agency that are responsible
for advancing civil rights or whose mandates specifically include
serving underrepresented or disadvantaged communities.

**Sec. 6.  Allocating Federal Resources to Advance Fairness and
Opportunity. ** The Federal Government should, consistent with
applicable law, allocate resources to address the historic failure to
invest sufficiently, justly, and equally in underserved communities, as
well as individuals from those communities.  To this end:  

(a)  The Director of OMB shall identify opportunities to promote equity
in the budget that the President submits to the Congress.

(b)  The Director of OMB shall, in coordination with the heads of
agencies, study strategies, consistent with applicable law, for
allocating Federal resources in a manner that increases investment in
underserved communities, as well as individuals from those communities. 
The Director of OMB shall report the findings of this study to the
President.  

**Sec. 7.  Promoting Equitable Delivery of Government Benefits and
Equitable Opportunities.**  Government programs are designed to serve
all eligible individuals.  And Government contracting and procurement
opportunities should be available on an equal basis to all eligible
providers of goods and services.  To meet these objectives and to
enhance compliance with existing civil rights laws:  

(a)  Within 1 year of the date of this order, the head of each agency
shall consult with the APDP and the Director of OMB to produce a plan
for addressing: 

\(i\)   any barriers to full and equal participation in programs
identified pursuant to section 5(a) of this order; and 

(ii)  any barriers to full and equal participation in agency procurement
and contracting opportunities identified pursuant to section 5(b) of
this order.  

(b)  The Administrator of the U.S. Digital Service, the United States
Chief Technology Officer, the Chief Information Officer of the United
States, and the heads of other agencies, or their designees, shall take
necessary actions, consistent with applicable law, to support agencies
in developing such plans.

**Sec. 8.  Engagement with Members of Underserved Communities. ** In
carrying out this order, agencies shall consult with members of
communities that have been historically underrepresented in the Federal
Government and underserved by, or subject to discrimination in, Federal
policies and programs.  The head of each agency shall evaluate
opportunities, consistent with applicable law, to increase coordination,
communication, and engagement with community-based organizations and
civil rights organizations.

**Sec. 9.  Establishing an Equitable Data Working Group. ** Many Federal
datasets are not disaggregated by race, ethnicity, gender, disability,
income, veteran status, or other key demographic variables.  This lack
of data has cascading effects and impedes efforts to measure and advance
equity.  A first step to promoting equity in Government action is to
gather the data necessary to inform that effort.  

(a)  Establishment.  There is hereby established an Interagency Working
Group on Equitable Data (Data Working Group).

(b)  Membership.  

(i)    The Chief Statistician of the United States and the United States
Chief Technology Officer shall serve as Co-Chairs of the Data Working
Group and coordinate its work.  The Data Working Group shall include
representatives of agencies as determined by the Co-Chairs to be
necessary to complete the work of the Data Working Group, but at a
minimum shall include the following officials, or their designees:  

(A)  the Director of OMB; 

(B)  the Secretary of Commerce, through the Director of the U.S. Census
Bureau; 

(C)  the Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers; 

(D)  the Chief Information Officer of the United States; 

(E)  the Secretary of the Treasury, through the Assistant Secretary of
the Treasury for Tax Policy; 

(F)  the Chief Data Scientist of the United States; and

(G)  the Administrator of the U.S. Digital Service.

\(ii\)   The DPC shall work closely with the Co-Chairs of the Data
Working Group and assist in the Data Working Group’s interagency
coordination functions. 

(iii)  The Data Working Group shall consult with agencies to facilitate
the sharing of information and best practices, consistent with
applicable law.

(c)  Functions.  The Data Working Group shall:  

\(i\)   through consultation with agencies, study and provide
recommendations to the APDP identifying inadequacies in existing Federal
data collection programs, policies, and infrastructure across agencies,
and strategies for addressing any deficiencies identified; and

(ii)  support agencies in implementing actions, consistent with
applicable law and privacy interests, that expand and refine the data
available to the Federal Government to measure equity and capture the
diversity of the American people.

(d)  OMB shall provide administrative support for the Data Working
Group, consistent with applicable law.

**Sec. 10.  Revocation. ** (a)  Executive Order 13950 of September 22,
2020 (Combating Race and Sex Stereotyping), is hereby revoked.

(b)  The heads of agencies covered by Executive Order 13950 shall review
and identify proposed and existing agency actions related to or arising
from Executive Order 13950.  The head of each agency shall, within 60
days of the date of this order, consider suspending, revising, or
rescinding any such actions, including all agency actions to terminate
or restrict contracts or grants pursuant to Executive Order 13950, as
appropriate and consistent with applicable law.

(c)  Executive Order 13958 of November 2, 2020 (Establishing the
President’s Advisory 1776 Commission), is hereby revoked.

**Sec. 11.  General Provisions. ** (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:  

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  Independent agencies are strongly encouraged to comply with the
provisions of this order.

(d)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
January 20, 2021.
