---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-01-21'
modified_time: 2021-01-21 16:19:34-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/21/executive-order-ensuring-a-data-driven-response-to-covid-19-and-future-high-consequence-public-health-threats/
published_time: 2021-01-21 16:19:33-05:00
title: "Executive Order on Ensuring a Data-Driven Response to COVID-\u206019 and Future\
  \ High-Consequence Public Health\_Threats"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:

**Section 1.  Policy. ** It is the policy of my Administration to
respond to the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic through
effective approaches guided by the best available science and data,
including by building back a better public health infrastructure.  This
stronger public health infrastructure must help the Nation effectively
prevent, detect, and respond to future biological threats, both
domestically and internationally. 

Consistent with this policy, the heads of all executive departments and
agencies (agencies) shall facilitate the gathering, sharing, and
publication of COVID-19-related data, in coordination with the
Coordinator of the COVID-19 Response and Counselor to the President
(COVID-19 Response Coordinator), to the extent permitted by law, and
with appropriate protections for confidentiality, privacy, law
enforcement, and national security.  These efforts shall assist Federal,
State, local, Tribal, and territorial authorities in developing and
implementing policies to facilitate informed community decision-making,
to further public understanding of the pandemic and the response, and to
deter the spread of misinformation and disinformation.

**Sec. 2.  Enhancing Data Collection and Collaboration Capabilities for
High-Consequence Public Health Threats, Such as the COVID-19
Pandemic. ** (a)  The Secretary of Defense, the Attorney General, the
Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Health
and Human Services (HHS), the Secretary of Education, the Director of
the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), the Director of National
Intelligence, the Director of the Office of Science and Technology
Policy (OSTP), and the Director of the National Science Foundation shall
each promptly designate a senior official to serve as their agency’s
lead to work on COVID-19- and pandemic-related data issues.  This
official, in consultation with the COVID-19 Response Coordinator, shall
take steps to make data relevant to high-consequence public health
threats, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, publicly available and
accessible.

(b)  The COVID-19 Response Coordinator shall, as necessary, convene
appropriate representatives from relevant agencies to coordinate the
agencies’ collection, provision, and analysis of data, including key
equity indicators, regarding the COVID-19 response, as well as their
sharing of such data with State, local, Tribal, and territorial
authorities.

(c)  The Director of OMB, in consultation with the Director of OSTP, the
United States Chief Technology Officer, and the COVID-19 Response
Coordinator, shall promptly review the Federal Government’s existing
approaches to open data, and shall issue supplemental guidance, as
appropriate and consistent with applicable law, concerning how to
de-identify COVID-19-related data; how to make data open to the public
in human- and machine-readable formats as rapidly as possible; and any
other topic the Director of OMB concludes would appropriately advance
the policy of this order.  Any guidance shall include appropriate
protections for the information described in section 5 of this order. 

(d)  The Director of the Office of Personnel Management, in consultation
with the Director of OMB, shall promptly:

\(i\)   review the ability of agencies to hire personnel expeditiously
into roles related to information technology and the collection,
provision, analysis, or other use of data to address high-consequence
public health threats, such as the COVID-19 pandemic; and 

(ii)  take action, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, to
support agencies in such efforts.

**Sec. 3.  Public Health Data Systems. ** The Secretary of HHS, in
consultation with the COVID-19 Response Coordinator and the heads of
relevant agencies, shall promptly: 

(a)  review the effectiveness, interoperability, and connectivity of
public health data systems supporting the detection of and response to
high-consequence public health threats, such as the COVID-19 pandemic;

(b)  review the collection of morbidity and mortality data by State,
local, Tribal, and territorial governments during high-consequence
public health threats, such as the COVID-19 pandemic; and

(c)  issue a report summarizing the findings of the reviews detailed in
subsections (a) and (b) of this section and any recommendations for
addressing areas for improvement identified in the reviews.  

**Sec. 4.  Advancing Innovation in Public Health Data and Analytics. **
The Director of OSTP, in coordination with the National Science and
Technology Council, as appropriate, shall develop a plan for advancing
innovation in public health data and analytics in the United States.

**Sec. 5.  Privileged Information. ** Nothing in this order shall compel
or authorize the disclosure of privileged information, law-enforcement
information, national-security information, personal information, or
information the disclosure of which is prohibited by law.

**Sec. 6.  General Provisions. ** (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or  
(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
January 21, 2021.
