---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-01-26'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/26/memorandum-on-redressing-our-nations-and-the-federal-governments-history-of-discriminatory-housing-practices-and-policies/
published_time: 2021-01-26 16:19:14-05:00
title: "Memorandum on Redressing Our Nation\u2019s and the Federal Government\u2019\
  s History of Discriminatory Housing Practices and Policies"
---
 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.  Background and Policy.  Diverse and inclusive communities
strengthen our democracy.  But our Nation’s history has been one of
great struggle toward this ideal.  During the 20th century, Federal,
State, and local governments systematically implemented racially
discriminatory housing policies that contributed to segregated
neighborhoods and inhibited equal opportunity and the chance to build
wealth for Black, Latino, Asian American and Pacific Islander, and
Native American families, and other underserved communities.  Ongoing
legacies of residential segregation and discrimination remain
ever-present in our society.  These include a racial gap in
homeownership; a persistent undervaluation of properties owned by
families of color; a disproportionate burden of pollution and exposure
to the impacts of climate change in communities of color; and systemic
barriers to safe, accessible, and affordable housing for people of
color, immigrants, individuals with disabilities, and lesbian, gay,
bisexual, transgender, gender non-conforming, and queer (LGBTQ+)
individuals. 

Throughout much of the 20th century, the Federal Government
systematically supported discrimination and exclusion in housing and
mortgage lending.  While many of the Federal Government’s housing
policies and programs expanded homeownership across the country, many
knowingly excluded Black people and other persons of color, and promoted
and reinforced housing segregation.  Federal policies contributed to
mortgage redlining and lending discrimination against persons of color. 

The creation of the Interstate Highway System, funded and constructed by
the Federal Government and State governments in the 20th century,
disproportionately burdened many historically Black and low-income
neighborhoods in many American cities.  Many urban interstate highways
were deliberately built to pass through Black neighborhoods, often
requiring the destruction of housing and other local institutions.  To
this day, many Black neighborhoods are disconnected from access to
high-quality housing, jobs, public transit, and other resources.

The Federal Government must recognize and acknowledge its role in
systematically declining to invest in communities of color and
preventing residents of those communities from accessing the same
services and resources as their white counterparts.  The effects of
these policy decisions continue to be felt today, as racial inequality
still permeates land-use patterns in most U.S. cities and virtually all
aspects of housing markets.

The Congress enacted the Fair Housing Act more than 50 years ago to lift
barriers that created separate and unequal neighborhoods on the basis of
race, ethnicity, and national origin.  Since then, however, access to
housing and the creation of wealth through homeownership have remained
persistently unequal in the United States.  Many neighborhoods are as
racially segregated today as they were in the middle of the
20th century.  People of color are overrepresented among those
experiencing homelessness.  In addition, people of color
disproportionately bear the burdens of exposure to air and water
pollution, and growing risks of housing instability from climate crises
like extreme heat, flooding, and wildfires.  And the racial wealth gap
is wider than it was when the Fair Housing Act was enacted, driven in
part by persistent disparities in access to homeownership.  Although
Federal fair housing laws were expanded to include protections for
individuals with disabilities, a lack of access to affordable and
integrated living options remains a significant problem.

The Federal Government has a critical role to play in overcoming and
redressing this history of discrimination and in protecting against
other forms of discrimination by applying and enforcing Federal civil
rights and fair housing laws.  It can help ensure that fair and equal
access to housing opportunity exists for all throughout the United
States.  This goal is consistent with the Fair Housing Act, which
imposes on Federal departments and agencies the duty to “administer
their programs and activities relating to housing and urban development
. . . in a manner affirmatively to further” fair housing (42 U.S.C.
3608(d)).  This is not only a mandate to refrain from discrimination but
a mandate to take actions that undo historic patterns of segregation and
other types of discrimination and that afford access to long-denied
opportunities.

Accordingly, it is the policy of my Administration that the Federal
Government shall work with communities to end housing discrimination, to
provide redress to those who have experienced housing discrimination, to
eliminate racial bias and other forms of discrimination in all stages of
home-buying and renting, to lift barriers that restrict housing and
neighborhood choice, to promote diverse and inclusive communities, to
ensure sufficient physically accessible housing, and to secure equal
access to housing opportunity for all.

Sec. 2.  Examining Recent Regulatory Actions.  The Secretary of Housing
and Urban Development (HUD) shall, as soon as practicable, take all
steps necessary to examine the effects of the August 7, 2020, rule
entitled “Preserving Community and Neighborhood Choice” (codified at
parts 5, 91, 92, 570, 574, 576, and 903 of title 24, Code of Federal
Regulations), including the effect that repealing the July 16, 2015,
rule entitled “Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing” has had on HUD’s
statutory duty to affirmatively further fair housing.  The Secretary
shall also, as soon as practicable, take all steps necessary to examine
the effects of the September 24, 2020, rule entitled “HUD’s
Implementation of the Fair Housing Act’s Disparate Impact Standard”
(codified at part 100 of title 24, Code of Federal Regulations),
including the effect that amending the February 15, 2013, rule entitled
“Implementation of the Fair Housing Act’s Discriminatory Effects
Standard” has had on HUD’s statutory duty to ensure compliance with the
Fair Housing Act.  Based on that examination, the Secretary shall take
any necessary steps, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law,
to implement the Fair Housing Act’s requirements that HUD administer its
programs in a manner that affirmatively furthers fair housing and HUD’s
overall duty to administer the Act (42 U.S.C. 3608(a)) including by
preventing practices with an unjustified discriminatory effect.

Sec. 3.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this memorandum shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d)  You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
*Federal Register*.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
