---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-01-21'
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/21/executive-order-a-sustainable-public-health-supply-chain/
published_time: 2021-01-21 16:30:06-05:00
title: "Executive Order on a Sustainable Public Health Supply\_Chain"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including the Defense Production
Act of 1950, as amended (50 U.S.C. 4501 *et seq.*), sections 319 and 361
of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d and 264), sections 306
and 307 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5149 and 5150), and section 301 of title 3,
United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows: 

**Section 1.  Purpose*.***  The Federal Government must act urgently and
effectively to combat the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic. 
To that end, this order directs immediate actions to secure supplies
necessary for responding to the pandemic, so that those supplies are
available, and remain available, to the Federal Government and State,
local, Tribal, and territorial authorities, as well as to America’s
health care workers, health systems, and patients.  These supplies are
vital to the Nation’s ability to reopen its schools and economy as soon
and safely as possible.   

**Sec. 2.  Immediate Inventory of Response Supplies and Identification
of Emergency Needs. ** (a)  The Secretary of State, the Secretary of
Defense, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Secretary of
Homeland Security, and the heads of appropriate executive departments
and agencies (agencies), in coordination with the COVID-19 Response
Coordinator, shall:

\(i\)   immediately review the availability of critical materials,
treatments, and supplies needed to combat COVID-19 (pandemic response
supplies), including personal protective equipment (PPE) and the
resources necessary to effectively produce and distribute tests and
vaccines at scale; and

(ii)  assess, including by reviewing prior such assessments, whether
United States industry can be reasonably expected to provide such
supplies in a timely manner.

(b)  Where a review and assessment described in section 2(a)(i) of this
order identifies shortfalls in the provision of pandemic response
supplies, the head of the relevant agency shall:

\(i\)   promptly revise its operational assumptions and planning factors
being used to determine the scope and prioritization, acquisition, and
distribution of such supplies; and

(ii)  take appropriate action using all available legal authorities,
including the Defense Production Act, to fill those shortfalls as soon
as practicable by acquiring additional stockpiles, improving
distribution systems, building market capacity, or expanding the
industrial base.

(c)  Upon completing the review and assessment described in section
2(a)(i) of this order, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall
provide to the President, through the COVID-19 Response Coordinator, a
report on the status and inventory of the Strategic National Stockpile.

(d)  The Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of
Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the
heads of any other agencies relevant to inventorying pandemic response
supplies shall, as soon as practicable, provide to the President,
through the COVID-19 Response Coordinator, a report consisting of: 

(i)    an assessment of the need for, and an inventory of current
supplies of, key pandemic response supplies;

\(ii\)   an analysis of their agency’s capacity to produce, provide, and
distribute pandemic response supplies;

(iii)  an assessment of their agency’s procurement of pandemic response
supplies on the availability of such supplies on the open market;

\(iv\)   an account of all existing or ongoing agency actions,
contracts, and investment agreements regarding pandemic response
supplies;

(v)    a list of any gaps between the needs identified in section
2(a)(i) of this order and supply chain delivery, and recommendations on
how to close such gaps; and

\(vi\)   a compilation and summary of their agency’s existing
distribution and prioritization plans for pandemic response supplies,
which shall include any assumptions or planning factors used to
determine such needs and any recommendations for changes to such
assumptions or factors.

(e)  The COVID-19 Response Coordinator, in coordination with the heads
of appropriate agencies, shall review the report described in section
2(d) of this order and submit recommendations to the President that
address:

\(i\)   whether additional use of the Defense Production Act, by the
President or agencies exercising delegated authority under the Act,
would be helpful; and

(ii)  the extent to which liability risk, regulatory requirements, or
other factors impede the development, production, and procurement of
pandemic response supplies, and any actions that can be taken,
consistent with law, to remove those impediments.  

(f)  The heads of agencies responsible for completing the requirements
of this section, as appropriate and in coordination with the COVID-19
Response Coordinator, shall consult with State, local, Tribal, and
territorial authorities, as well as with other entities critical to
assessing the availability of and need for pandemic response supplies.  

**Sec. 3.  Pricing.**  To take steps to address the pricing of pandemic
response supplies: 

(a)  The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall promptly recommend
to the President, through the COVID-19 Response Coordinator, whether any
changes should be made to the authorities delegated to the Secretary by
Executive Order 13910 of March 23, 2020 (Preventing Hoarding of Health
and Medical Resources To Respond to the Spread of COVID-19), with
respect to scarce materials or materials the supply of which would be
threatened by accumulation for the purpose of hoarding or price gouging.

(b)  The Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Health and Human
Services, and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall promptly review
and provide to the President, through the COVID-19 Response Coordinator,
recommendations for how to address the pricing of pandemic response
supplies, including whether and how to direct the use of reasonable
pricing clauses in Federal contracts and investment agreements, or other
related vehicles, and whether to use General Services Administration
Schedules to facilitate State, local, Tribal, and territorial government
buyers and compacts in purchasing pandemic response supplies using
Federal supply schedules.

**Sec. 4.  Pandemic Supply Chain Resilience Strategy. ** Within 180 days
of the date of this order, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of
Health and Human Services, and the Secretary of Homeland Security, in
coordination with the Assistant to the President for National Security
Affairs (APNSA), the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, the
COVID-19 Response Coordinator, and the heads of any agencies or entities
selected by the APNSA and COVID-19 Response Coordinator, shall provide
to the President a strategy to design, build, and sustain a long-term
capability in the United States to manufacture supplies for future
pandemics and biological threats.  This strategy shall include:

(a)  mechanisms to respond to emergency supply needs of State, local,
Tribal, and territorial authorities, which should include standards and
processes to prioritize requests and delivery and to ensure equitable
distribution based on public health criteria;

(b)  an analysis of the role of foreign supply chains in America’s
pandemic supply chain, America’s role in the international public health
supply chain, and options for strengthening and better coordinating
global supply chain systems in future pandemics;

(c)  mechanisms to address points of failure in the supply chains and to
ensure necessary redundancies;

(d)  the roles of the Strategic National Stockpile and other Federal and
military stockpiles in providing pandemic supplies on an ongoing or
emergency basis, including their roles in allocating supplies across
States, localities, tribes, and territories, sustaining supplies during
a pandemic, and in contingency planning to ensure adequate preparedness
for future pandemics and public health emergencies;

(e)  approaches to assess and maximize the value and efficacy of
public/private partnerships and the value of Federal investments in
latent manufacturing capacity; and

(f)  an approach to develop a multi-year implementation plan for
domestic production of pandemic supplies.

**Sec. 5.  Access to Strategic National Stockpile. ** The Secretary of
Health and Human Services shall consult with Tribal authorities and take
steps, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, to facilitate
access to the Strategic National Stockpile for federally recognized
Tribal governments, Indian Health Service healthcare providers, Tribal
health authorities, and Urban Indian Organizations. 

**Sec. 6.  General Provisions.**  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. 

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
January 21, 2021.
