---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-01-27'
modified_time: 2021-01-27 15:13:13-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/27/executive-order-on-tackling-the-climate-crisis-at-home-and-abroad/
published_time: 2021-01-27 15:13:12-05:00
title: "Executive Order on Tackling the Climate Crisis at Home and\_Abroad"
---
 
The United States and the world face a profound climate crisis.  We have
a narrow moment to pursue action at home and abroad in order to avoid
the most catastrophic impacts of that crisis and to seize the
opportunity that tackling climate change presents.  Domestic action must
go hand in hand with United States international leadership, aimed at
significantly enhancing global action.  Together, we must listen to
science and meet the moment.

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:

PART I — PUTTING THE CLIMATE CRISIS AT THE CENTER OF UNITED STATES
FOREIGN POLICY AND NATIONAL SECURITY

Section 101.  Policy.  United States international engagement to address
climate change — which has become a climate crisis — is more necessary
and urgent than ever.  The scientific community has made clear that the
scale and speed of necessary action is greater than previously
believed.  There is little time left to avoid setting the world on a
dangerous, potentially catastrophic, climate trajectory.  Responding to
the climate crisis will require both significant short-term global
reductions in greenhouse gas emissions and net-zero global emissions by
mid-century or before.

It is the policy of my Administration that climate considerations shall
be an essential element of United States foreign policy and national
security.  The United States will work with other countries and
partners, both bilaterally and multilaterally, to put the world on a
sustainable climate pathway.  The United States will also move quickly
to build resilience, both at home and abroad, against the impacts of
climate change that are already manifest and will continue to intensify
according to current trajectories.

Sec. 102.  Purpose.  This order builds on and reaffirms actions my
Administration has already taken to place the climate crisis at the
forefront of this Nation’s foreign policy and national security
planning, including submitting the United States instrument of
acceptance to rejoin the Paris Agreement.  In implementing — and
building upon — the Paris Agreement’s three overarching objectives (a
safe global temperature, increased climate resilience, and financial
flows aligned with a pathway toward low greenhouse gas emissions and
climate‑resilient development), the United States will exercise its
leadership to promote a significant increase in global climate ambition
to meet the climate challenge.  In this regard:

(a)  I will host an early Leaders’ Climate Summit aimed at raising
climate ambition and making a positive contribution to the 26th United
Nations Climate Change Conference of the Parties (COP26) and beyond. 

(b)  The United States will reconvene the Major Economies Forum on
Energy and Climate, beginning with the Leaders’ Climate Summit.  In
cooperation with the members of that Forum, as well as with other
partners as appropriate, the United States will pursue green recovery
efforts, initiatives to advance the clean energy transition, sectoral
decarbonization, and alignment of financial flows with the objectives of
the Paris Agreement, including with respect to coal financing,
nature-based solutions, and solutions to other climate-related
challenges.

(c)  I have created a new Presidentially appointed position, the Special
Presidential Envoy for Climate, to elevate the issue of climate change
and underscore the commitment my Administration will make toward
addressing it.  

(d)  Recognizing that climate change affects a wide range of subjects,
it will be a United States priority to press for enhanced climate
ambition and integration of climate considerations across a wide range
of international fora, including the Group of Seven (G7), the Group of
Twenty (G20), and fora that address clean energy, aviation, shipping,
the Arctic, the ocean, sustainable development, migration, and other
relevant topics.  The Special Presidential Envoy for Climate and others,
as appropriate, are encouraged to promote innovative approaches,
including international multi-stakeholder initiatives.  In addition, my
Administration will work in partnership with States, localities, Tribes,
territories, and other United States stakeholders to advance United
States climate diplomacy.

(e)  The United States will immediately begin the process of developing
its nationally determined contribution under the Paris Agreement.  The
process will include analysis and input from relevant executive
departments and agencies (agencies), as well as appropriate outreach to
domestic stakeholders.  The United States will aim to submit its
nationally determined contribution in advance of the Leaders’ Climate
Summit.

(f)  The United States will also immediately begin to develop a climate
finance plan, making strategic use of multilateral and bilateral
channels and institutions, to assist developing countries in
implementing ambitious emissions reduction measures, protecting critical
ecosystems, building resilience against the impacts of climate change,
and promoting the flow of capital toward climate-aligned investments and
away from high-carbon investments.  The Secretary of State and the
Secretary of the Treasury, in coordination with the Special Presidential
Envoy for Climate, shall lead a process to develop this plan, with the
participation of the Administrator of the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID), the Chief Executive Officer of the
United States International Development Finance Corporation (DFC), the
Chief Executive Officer of the Millennium Challenge Corporation, the
Director of the United States Trade and Development Agency, the Director
of the Office of Management and Budget, and the head of any other agency
providing foreign assistance and development financing, as appropriate. 
The Secretary of State and the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit
the plan to the President, through the Assistant to the President for
National Security Affairs and the Assistant to the President for
Economic Policy, within 90 days of the date of this order.

(g)  The Secretary of the Treasury shall:

(i)    ensure that the United States is present and engaged in relevant
international fora and institutions that are working on the management
of climate-related financial risks;

(ii)   develop a strategy for how the voice and vote of the United
States can be used in international financial institutions, including
the World Bank Group and the International Monetary Fund, to promote
financing programs, economic stimulus packages, and debt relief
initiatives that are aligned with and support the goals of the Paris
Agreement; and

(iii)  develop, in collaboration with the Secretary of State, the
Administrator of USAID, and the Chief Executive Officer of the DFC, a
plan for promoting the protection of the Amazon rainforest and other
critical ecosystems that serve as global carbon sinks, including through
market-based mechanisms.

(h)  The Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the
Secretary of Energy shall work together and with the Export–Import Bank
of the United States, the Chief Executive Officer of the DFC, and the
heads of other agencies and partners, as appropriate, to identify steps
through which the United States can promote ending international
financing of carbon-intensive fossil fuel-based energy while
simultaneously advancing sustainable development and a green recovery,
in consultation with the Assistant to the President for National
Security Affairs.

(i)  The Secretary of Energy, in cooperation with the Secretary of State
and the heads of other agencies, as appropriate, shall identify steps
through which the United States can intensify international
collaborations to drive innovation and deployment of clean energy
technologies, which are critical for climate protection.

(j)  The Secretary of State shall prepare, within 60 days of the date of
this order, a transmittal package seeking the Senate’s advice and
consent to ratification of the Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol
on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, regarding the phasedown of
the production and consumption of hydrofluorocarbons.

Sec. 103.  Prioritizing Climate in Foreign Policy and National
Security.  To ensure that climate change considerations are central to
United States foreign policy and national security:

(a)  Agencies that engage in extensive international work shall develop,
in coordination with the Special Presidential Envoy for Climate, and
submit to the President, through the Assistant to the President for
National Security Affairs, within 90 days of the date of this order,
strategies and implementation plans for integrating climate
considerations into their international work, as appropriate and
consistent with applicable law.  These strategies and plans should
include an assessment of:

(i)    climate impacts relevant to broad agency strategies in particular
countries or regions;

(ii)   climate impacts on their agency-managed infrastructure abroad
(e.g., embassies, military installations), without prejudice to existing
requirements regarding assessment of such infrastructure;

(iii)  how the agency intends to manage such impacts or incorporate risk
mitigation into its installation master plans; and

(iv)   how the agency’s international work, including partner
engagement, can contribute to addressing the climate crisis.

(b)  The Director of National Intelligence shall prepare, within 120
days of the date of this order, a National Intelligence Estimate on the
national and economic security impacts of climate change.

(c)  The Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the  Secretary of
Commerce, through the Administrator of the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration, the Chair of the Council on Environmental
Quality, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, the
Director of National Intelligence, the Director of the Office of Science
and Technology Policy, the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration, and the heads of other agencies as appropriate,
shall develop and submit to the President, within 120 days of the date
of this order, an analysis of the security implications of climate
change (Climate Risk Analysis) that can be incorporated into modeling,
simulation, war-gaming, and other analyses.

(d)  The Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff shall consider the security implications of climate change,
including any relevant information from the Climate Risk Analysis
described in subsection (c) of this section, in developing the National
Defense Strategy, Defense Planning Guidance, Chairman’s Risk Assessment,
and other relevant strategy, planning, and programming documents and
processes.  Starting in January 2022, the Secretary of Defense and the
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall provide an annual update,
through the National Security Council, on the progress made in
incorporating the security implications of climate change into these
documents and processes.

(e)  The Secretary of Homeland Security shall consider the implications
of climate change in the Arctic, along our Nation’s borders, and to
National Critical Functions, including any relevant information from the
Climate Risk Analysis described in subsection (c) of this section, in
developing relevant strategy, planning, and programming documents and
processes.  Starting in January 2022, the Secretary of Homeland Security
shall provide an annual update, through the National Security Council,
on the progress made in incorporating the homeland security implications
of climate change into these documents and processes.

Sec. 104.  Reinstatement.  The Presidential Memorandum of September 21,
2016 (Climate Change and National Security), is hereby reinstated. 

PART II — TAKING A GOVERNMENT-WIDE APPROACH TO THE CLIMATE CRISIS

Sec. 201.  Policy.  Even as our Nation emerges from profound public
health and economic crises borne of a pandemic, we face a climate crisis
that threatens our people and communities, public health and economy,
and, starkly, our ability to live on planet Earth.  Despite the peril
that is already evident, there is promise in the solutions —
opportunities to create well-paying union jobs to build a modern and
sustainable infrastructure, deliver an equitable, clean energy future,
and put the United States on a path to achieve net-zero emissions,
economy-wide, by no later than 2050.

We must listen to science — and act.  We must strengthen our clean air
and water protections.  We must hold polluters accountable for their
actions.  We must deliver environmental justice in communities all
across America.  The Federal Government must drive assessment,
disclosure, and mitigation of climate pollution and climate-related
risks in every sector of our economy, marshaling the creativity,
courage, and capital necessary to make our Nation resilient in the face
of this threat.  Together, we must combat the climate crisis with
bold, progressive action that combines the full capacity of the Federal
Government with efforts from every corner of our Nation, every level of
government, and every sector of our economy. 

It is the policy of my Administration to organize and deploy the full
capacity of its agencies to combat the climate crisis to implement a
Government-wide approach that reduces climate pollution in every sector
of the economy; increases resilience to the impacts of climate change;
protects public health; conserves our lands, waters, and biodiversity;
delivers environmental justice; and spurs well-paying union jobs and
economic growth, especially through innovation, commercialization, and
deployment of clean energy technologies and infrastructure.
 Successfully meeting these challenges will require the Federal
Government to pursue such a coordinated approach from planning to
implementation, coupled with substantive engagement by stakeholders,
including State, local, and Tribal governments.

Sec. 202.  White House Office of Domestic Climate Policy.  There is
hereby established the White House Office of Domestic Climate Policy
(Climate Policy Office) within the Executive Office of the President,
which shall coordinate the policy-making process with respect to
domestic climate-policy issues; coordinate domestic climate-policy
advice to the President; ensure that domestic climate-policy decisions
and programs are consistent with the President’s stated goals and that
those goals are being effectively pursued; and monitor implementation of
the President’s domestic climate-policy agenda.  The Climate Policy
Office shall have a staff headed by the Assistant to the President and
National Climate Advisor (National Climate Advisor) and shall include
the Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy National Climate
Advisor.  The Climate Policy Office shall have such staff and other
assistance as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this
order, subject to the availability of appropriations, and may work with
established or ad hoc committees or interagency groups.  All agencies
shall cooperate with the Climate Policy Office and provide such
information, support, and assistance to the Climate Policy Office as it
may request, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law.

Sec.203.  National Climate Task Force.  There is hereby established a
National Climate Task Force (Task Force).  The Task Force shall be
chaired by the National Climate Advisor.

(a)  Membership.  The Task Force shall consist of the following
additional members:

(i)      the Secretary of the Treasury;

(ii)     the Secretary of Defense;

(iii)    the Attorney General;

(iv)     the Secretary of the Interior;

(v)      the Secretary of Agriculture;

(vi)     the Secretary of Commerce;

(vii)    the Secretary of Labor;

(viii)   the Secretary of Health and Human Services;

(ix)     the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development;

(x)      the Secretary of Transportation;

(xi)     the Secretary of Energy;

\(xii\)    the Secretary of Homeland Security;

(xiii)   the Administrator of General Services;

(xiv)    the Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality;

(xv)     the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency;

\(xvi\)    the Director of the Office of Management and Budget;

\(xvii\)   the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy;

(xviii)  the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy;

\(xix\)    the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;

\(xx\)     the Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and
Counterterrorism; and

\(xxi\)    the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy.

(b)  Mission and Work.  The Task Force shall facilitate the organization
and deployment of a Government-wide approach to combat the climate
crisis.  This Task Force shall facilitate planning and implementation of
key Federal actions to reduce climate pollution; increase resilience to
the impacts of climate change; protect public health; conserve our
lands, waters, oceans, and biodiversity; deliver environmental justice;
and spur well-paying union jobs and economic growth.  As necessary and
appropriate, members of the Task Force will engage on these matters with
State, local, Tribal, and territorial governments; workers and
communities; and leaders across the various sectors of our economy. 

(c)  Prioritizing Actions.  To the extent permitted by law, Task Force
members shall prioritize action on climate change in their policy-making
and budget processes, in their contracting and procurement, and in their
engagement with State, local, Tribal, and territorial governments;
workers and communities; and leaders across all the sectors of our
economy.

USE OF THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT’S BUYING POWER AND REAL PROPERTY AND ASSET
MANAGEMENT

Sec. 204.  Policy.  It is the policy of my Administration to lead the
Nation’s effort to combat the climate crisis by example — specifically,
by aligning the management of Federal procurement and real property,
public lands and waters, and financial programs to support robust
climate action.  By providing an immediate, clear, and stable source of
product demand, increased transparency and data, and robust standards
for the market, my Administration will help to catalyze private sector
investment into, and accelerate the advancement of America’s industrial
capacity to supply, domestic clean energy, buildings, vehicles, and
other necessary products and materials.

Sec. 205.  Federal Clean Electricity and Vehicle Procurement Strategy.
 (a)  The Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality, the
Administrator of General Services, and the Director of the Office and
Management and Budget, in coordination with the Secretary of Commerce,
the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Energy, and the heads of other
relevant agencies, shall assist the National Climate Advisor, through
the Task Force established in section 203 of this order, in developing a
comprehensive plan to create good jobs and stimulate clean energy
industries by revitalizing the Federal Government’s sustainability
efforts.

(b)  The plan shall aim to use, as appropriate and consistent with
applicable law, all available procurement authorities to achieve or
facilitate:

(i)   a carbon pollution-free electricity sector no later than 2035; and

(ii)  clean and zero-emission vehicles for Federal, State, local, and
Tribal government fleets, including vehicles of the United States Postal
Service.

(c)  If necessary, the plan shall recommend any additional legislation
needed to accomplish these objectives.

(d)  The plan shall also aim to ensure that the United States retains
the union jobs integral to and involved in running and maintaining clean
and zero-emission fleets, while spurring the creation of union jobs in
the manufacture of those new vehicles.  The plan shall be submitted to
the Task Force within 90 days of the date of this order.

Sec. 206.  Procurement Standards.  Consistent with the Executive Order
of January 25, 2021, entitled, “Ensuring the Future Is Made in All of
America by All of America’s Workers,” agencies shall adhere to the
requirements of the Made in America Laws in making clean energy, energy
efficiency, and clean energy procurement decisions.  Agencies shall,
consistent with applicable law, apply and enforce the Davis-Bacon Act
and prevailing wage and benefit requirements.  The Secretary of Labor
shall take steps to update prevailing wage requirements.  The Chair of
the Council on Environmental Quality shall consider additional
administrative steps and guidance to assist the Federal Acquisition
Regulatory Council in developing regulatory amendments to promote
increased contractor attention on reduced carbon emission and Federal
sustainability.  

Sec. 207.  Renewable Energy on Public Lands and in Offshore Waters.  The
Secretary of the Interior shall review siting and permitting processes
on public lands and in offshore waters to identify to the Task Force
steps that can be taken, consistent with applicable law, to increase
renewable energy production on those lands and in those waters, with the
goal of doubling offshore wind by 2030 while ensuring robust protection
for our lands, waters, and biodiversity and creating good jobs.  In
conducting this review, the Secretary of the Interior shall consult, as
appropriate, with the heads of relevant agencies, including the
Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of
Commerce, through the Administrator of the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration, the Secretary of Energy, the Chair of
the Council on Environmental Quality, State and Tribal authorities,
project developers, and other interested parties.  The Secretary of the
Interior shall engage with Tribal authorities regarding the development
and management of renewable and conventional energy resources on Tribal
lands.

Sec. 208. * *Oil and Natural Gas Development on Public Lands and in
Offshore Waters.  To the extent consistent with applicable law,the
Secretary of the Interior shall pause new oil and natural gas leases on
public lands or in offshore waters pending completion of a comprehensive
review and reconsideration of Federal oil and gas permitting and leasing
practices in light of the Secretary of the Interior’s broad stewardship
responsibilities over the public lands and in offshore waters, including
potential climate and other impacts associated with oil and gas
activities on public lands or in offshore waters.  The Secretary of the
Interior shall complete that review in consultation with the Secretary
of Agriculture, the Secretary of Commerce, through the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration, and the Secretary of Energy.  In
conducting this analysis, and to the extent consistent with applicable
law, the Secretary of the Interior shall consider whether to adjust
royalties associated with coal, oil, and gas resources extracted from
public lands and offshore waters, or take other appropriate action, to
account for corresponding climate costs.

Sec. 209.  Fossil Fuel Subsidies.  The heads of agencies shall identify
for the Director of the Office of Management and Budget and the National
Climate Advisor any fossil fuel subsidies provided by their respective
agencies, and then take steps to ensure that, to the extent consistent
with applicable law, Federal funding is not directly subsidizing fossil
fuels.  The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall seek,
in coordination with the heads of agencies and the National Climate
Advisor, to eliminate fossil fuel subsidies from the budget request for
Fiscal Year 2022 and thereafter.

Sec. 210.  Clean Energy in Financial Management.  The heads of agencies
shall identify opportunities for Federal funding to spur innovation,
commercialization, and deployment of clean energy technologies and
infrastructure for the Director of the Office of Management and Budget
and the National Climate Advisor, and then take steps to ensure that, to
the extent consistent with applicable law, Federal funding is used to
spur innovation, commercialization, and deployment of clean energy
technologies and infrastructure.  The Director of the Office of
Management and Budget, in coordination with agency heads and
the National Climate Advisor, shall seek to prioritize such investments
in the President’s budget request for Fiscal Year 2022 and thereafter.

     Sec. 211.  Climate Action Plans and Data and Information Products
to Improve Adaptation and Increase Resilience.  (a)  The head of each
agency shall submit a draft action plan to the Task Force and the
Federal Chief Sustainability Officer within 120 days of the date of this
order that describes steps the agency can take with regard to its
facilities and operations to bolster adaptation and increase resilience
to the impacts of climate change.  Action plans should, among other
things, describe the agency’s climate vulnerabilities and describe the
agency’s plan to use the power of procurement to increase the energy and
water efficiency of United States Government installations, buildings,
and facilities and ensure they are climate-ready.  Agencies shall
consider the feasibility of using the purchasing power of the Federal
Government to drive innovation, and shall seek to increase the Federal
Government’s resilience against supply chain disruptions.  Such
disruptions put the Nation’s manufacturing sector at risk, as well as
consumer access to critical goods and services.  Agencies shall make
their action plans public, and post them on the agency website, to the
extent consistent with applicable law.

(b)  Within 30 days of an agency’s submission of an action plan, the
Federal Chief Sustainability Officer, in coordination with the Director
of the Office of Management and Budget, shall review the plan to assess
its consistency with the policy set forth in section 204 of this order
and the priorities issued by the Office of Management and Budget.

(c)  After submitting an initial action plan, the head of each agency
shall submit to the Task Force and Federal Chief Sustainability Officer
progress reports annually on the status of implementation efforts.
 Agencies shall make progress reports public and post them on the agency
website, to the extent consistent with applicable law.  The heads of
agencies shall assign their respective agency Chief Sustainability
Officer the authority to perform duties relating to implementation of
this order within the agency, to the extent consistent with applicable
law.

(d)  To assist agencies and State, local, Tribal, and territorial
governments, communities, and businesses in preparing for and adapting
to the impacts of climate change, the Secretary of Commerce, through the
Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration,
the Secretary of Homeland Security, through the Administrator of the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, and the Director of the Office of
Science and Technology Policy, in coordination with the heads of other
agencies, as appropriate, shall provide to the Task Force a report on
ways to expand and improve climate forecast capabilities and information
products for the public.  In addition, the Secretary of the Interior and
the Deputy Director for Management of the Office of Management and
Budget, in their capacities as the Chair and Vice-Chair of the Federal
Geographic Data Committee, shall assess and provide to the Task Force a
report on the potential development of a consolidated Federal geographic
mapping service that can facilitate public access to climate-related
information that will assist Federal, State, local, and Tribal
governments in climate planning and resilience activities.

EMPOWERING WORKERS THROUGH REBUILDING OUR INFRASTRUCTURE FOR
A SUSTAINABLE ECONOMY

**    ** Sec. 212.  Policy.  This Nation needs millions of construction,
manufacturing, engineering, and skilled-trades workers to build a new
American infrastructure and clean energy economy.  These jobs will
create opportunities for young people and for older workers shifting to
new professions, and for people from all backgrounds and communities.
 Such jobs will bring opportunity to communities too often left behind —
places that have suffered as a result of economic shifts and places that
have suffered the most from persistent pollution, including low-income
rural and urban communities, communities of color, and Native
communities. 

     Sec. 213.  Sustainable Infrastructure.  (a)  The Chair of the
Council on Environmental Quality and the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget shall take steps, consistent with applicable law,
to ensure that Federal infrastructure investment reduces climate
pollution, and to require that Federal permitting decisions consider the
effects of greenhouse gas emissions and climate change.  In addition,
they shall review, and report to the National Climate Advisor on, siting
and permitting processes, including those in progress under the auspices
of the Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council, and identify
steps that can be taken, consistent with applicable law, to accelerate
the deployment of clean energy and transmission projects in an
environmentally stable manner.

     (b)  Agency heads conducting infrastructure reviews shall, as
appropriate, consult from an early stage with State, local, and Tribal
officials involved in permitting or authorizing proposed infrastructure
projects to develop efficient timelines for decision-making that are
appropriate given the complexities of proposed projects.

EMPOWERING WORKERS BY ADVANCING CONSERVATION, AGRICULTURE, AND
REFORESTATION

**    ** Sec. 214.  Policy.  It is the policy of my Administration to
put a new generation of Americans to work conserving our public lands
and waters.  The Federal Government must protect America’s natural
treasures, increase reforestation, improve access to recreation, and
increase resilience to wildfires and storms, while creating well-paying
union jobs for more Americans, including more opportunities for women
and people of color in occupations where they are underrepresented. 
America’s farmers, ranchers, and forest landowners have an important
role to play in combating the climate crisis and reducing greenhouse gas
emissions, by sequestering carbon in soils, grasses, trees, and other
vegetation and sourcing sustainable bioproducts and fuels.  Coastal
communities have an essential role to play in mitigating climate change
and strengthening resilience by protecting and restoring coastal
ecosystems, such as wetlands, seagrasses, coral and oyster reefs, and
mangrove and kelp forests, to protect vulnerable coastlines, sequester
carbon, and support biodiversity and fisheries.

**    ** Sec. 215.  Civilian Climate Corps.* * In furtherance of the
policy set forth in section 214 of this order, the Secretary of the
Interior, in collaboration with the Secretary of Agriculture and the
heads of other relevant agencies, shall submit a strategy to the Task
Force within 90 days of the date of this order for creating a Civilian
Climate Corps Initiative, within existing appropriations, to mobilize
the next generation of conservation and resilience workers and maximize
the creation of accessible training opportunities and good jobs.  The
initiative shall aim to conserve and restore public lands and waters,
bolster community resilience, increase reforestation, increase carbon
sequestration in the agricultural sector, protect biodiversity, improve
access to recreation, and address the changing climate.

**    ** Sec. 216.  Conserving Our Nation’s Lands and Waters.  (a)  The
Secretary of the Interior, in consultation with the Secretary of
Agriculture, the Secretary of Commerce, the Chair of the Council on
Environmental Quality, and the heads of other relevant agencies, shall
submit a report to the Task Force within 90 days of the date of this
order recommending steps that the United States should take, working
with State, local, Tribal, and territorial governments, agricultural and
forest landowners, fishermen, and other key stakeholders, to achieve the
goal of conserving at least 30 percent of our lands and waters by 2030.

(i)   The Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Agriculture, the
Secretary of Commerce, through the Administrator of the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration, and the Chair of the Council on
Environmental Quality shall, as appropriate, solicit input from State,
local, Tribal, and territorial officials, agricultural and forest
landowners, fishermen, and other key stakeholders in identifying
strategies that will encourage broad participation in the goal of
conserving 30 percent of our lands and waters by 2030.

(ii)  The report shall propose guidelines for determining whether lands
and waters qualify for conservation, and it also shall establish
mechanisms to measure progress toward the 30-percent goal.  The
Secretary of the Interior shall subsequently submit annual reports to
the Task Force to monitor progress.

(b)  The Secretary of Agriculture shall:

(i)   initiate efforts in the first 60 days from the date of this order
to collect input from Tribes, farmers, ranchers, forest owners,
conservation groups, firefighters, and other stakeholders on how to best
use Department of Agriculture programs, funding and financing
capacities, and other authorities, and how to encourage the voluntary
adoption of climate-smart agricultural and forestry practices that
decrease wildfire risk fueled by climate change and result in
additional, measurable, and verifiable carbon reductions and
sequestration and that source sustainable bioproducts and fuels; and

(ii)  submit to the Task Force within 90 days of the date of this order
a report making recommendations for an agricultural and forestry climate
strategy.

     (c)  The Secretary of Commerce, through the Administrator of the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, shall initiate efforts
in the first 60 days from the date of this order to collect input from
fishermen, regional ocean councils, fishery management councils,
scientists, and other stakeholders on how to make fisheries and
protected resources more resilient to climate change, including changes
in management and conservation measures, and improvements in science,
monitoring, and cooperative research.

EMPOWERING WORKERS THROUGH REVITALIZING ENERGY COMMUNITIES

**    ** Sec. 217.  Policy.  It is the policy of my Administration to
improve air and water quality and to create well-paying union jobs and
more opportunities for women and people of color in hard-hit
communities, including rural communities, while reducing methane
emissions, oil and brine leaks, and other environmental harms from tens
of thousands of former mining and well sites.  Mining and power plant
workers drove the industrial revolution and the economic growth that
followed, and have been essential to the growth of the United States. 
As the Nation shifts to a clean energy economy, Federal leadership is
essential to foster economic revitalization of and investment in these
communities, ensure the creation of good jobs that provide a choice to
join a union, and secure the benefits that have been earned by workers.

     Such work should include projects that reduce emissions of toxic
substances and greenhouse gases from existing and abandoned
infrastructure and that prevent environmental damage that harms
communities and poses a risk to public health and safety.  Plugging
leaks in oil and gas wells and reclaiming abandoned mine land can create
well-paying union jobs in coal, oil, and gas communities while restoring
natural assets, revitalizing recreation economies, and curbing methane
emissions.  In addition, such work should include efforts to turn
properties idled in these communities, such as brownfields, into new
hubs for the growth of our economy.  Federal agencies should therefore
coordinate investments and other efforts to assist coal, oil and gas,
and power plant communities, and achieve substantial reductions of
methane emissions from the oil and gas sector as quickly as possible.

**    ** Sec. 218.  Interagency Working Group on Coal and Power Plant
Communities and Economic Revitalization*. * There is hereby established
an Interagency Working Group on Coal and Power Plant Communities and
Economic Revitalization (Interagency Working Group).  The National
Climate Advisor and the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy
shall serve as Co-Chairs of the Interagency Working Group.

(a)   Membership.  The Interagency Working Group shall consist of the
following additional members:

(i)     the Secretary of the Treasury;

(ii)    the Secretary of the Interior;

(iii)   the Secretary of Agriculture;

(iv)    the Secretary of Commerce;

(v)     the Secretary of Labor;

(vi)    the Secretary of Health and Human Services;

(vii)   the Secretary of Transportation;

(viii)  the Secretary of Energy;

(ix)    the Secretary of Education;

(x)     the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency;

(xi)    the Director of the Office of Management and Budget;

(xii)   the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy and Director
of the Domestic Policy Council; and

(xiii)  the Federal Co-Chair of the Appalachian Regional Commission.

(b)  Mission and Work. 

(i)   The Interagency Working Group shall coordinate the identification
and delivery of Federal resources to revitalize the economies of coal,
oil and gas, and power plant communities; develop strategies to
implement the policy set forth in section 217 of this order and for
economic and social recovery; assess opportunities to ensure benefits
and protections for coal and power plant workers; and submit reports to
the National Climate Advisor and the Assistant to the President for
Economic Policy on a regular basis on the progress of the revitalization
effort.

(ii)  As part of this effort, within 60 days of the date of this order,
the Interagency Working Group shall submit a report to the President
describing all mechanisms, consistent with applicable law, to prioritize
grantmaking, Federal loan programs, technical assistance, financing,
procurement, or other existing programs to support and revitalize the
economies of coal and power plant communities, and providing
recommendations for action consistent with the goals of the Interagency
Working Group.

(c)  Consultation.  Consistent with the objectives set out in this order
and in accordance with applicable law, the Interagency Working Group
shall seek the views of State, local, and Tribal officials; unions;
environmental justice organizations; community groups; and other persons
it identifies who may have perspectives on the mission of the
Interagency Working Group.

(d)  Administration.  The Interagency Working Group shall be housed
within the Department of Energy.  The Chairs shall convene regular
meetings of the Interagency Working Group, determine its agenda, and
direct its work.  The Secretary of Energy, in consultation with the
Chairs, shall designate an Executive Director of the Interagency Working
Group, who shall coordinate the work of the Interagency Working Group
and head any staff assigned to the Interagency Working Group.

(e)  Officers.  To facilitate the work of the Interagency Working Group,
the head of each agency listed in subsection (a) of this section shall
assign a designated official within the agency the authority to
represent the agency on the Interagency Working Group and perform such
other duties relating to the implementation of this order within the
agency as the head of the agency deems appropriate.

SECURING ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE AND SPURRING ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY

**    ** Sec. 219.  Policy.  To secure an equitable economic future, the
United States must ensure that environmental and economic justice are
key considerations in how we govern.  That means investing and building
a clean energy economy that creates well‑paying union jobs, turning
disadvantaged communities — historically marginalized and overburdened —
into healthy, thriving communities, and undertaking robust actions to
mitigate climate change while preparing for the impacts of climate
change across rural, urban, and Tribal areas.  Agencies shall make
achieving environmental justice part of their missions by developing
programs, policies, and activities to address the disproportionately
high and adverse human health, environmental, climate-related and other
cumulative impacts on disadvantaged communities, as well as the
accompanying economic challenges of such impacts.  It is therefore the
policy of my Administration to secure environmental justice and spur
economic opportunity for disadvantaged communities that have been
historically marginalized and overburdened by pollution and
underinvestment in housing, transportation, water and wastewater
infrastructure, and health care. 

**    ** Sec. 220.  White House Environmental Justice Interagency
Council.* * (a)  Section 1-102 of Executive Order 12898 of February 11,
1994 (Federal Actions To Address Environmental Justice in Minority
Populations and Low-Income Populations), is hereby amended to read as
follows:

“(a)  There is hereby created within the Executive Office of the
President a White House Environmental Justice Interagency Council
(Interagency Council).  The Chair of the Council on Environmental
Quality shall serve as Chair of the Interagency Council.

“(b)  Membership.  The Interagency Council shall consist of the
following additional members:

(i)      the Secretary of Defense;

(ii)     the Attorney General;

(iii)    the Secretary of the Interior;

(iv)     the Secretary of Agriculture;

(v)      the Secretary of Commerce;

(vi)     the Secretary of Labor;

(vii)    the Secretary of Health and Human Services;

(viii)   the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development;

(ix)     the Secretary of Transportation;

(x)      the Secretary of Energy;

(xi)     the Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers;

(xii)    the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency;

(xiii)   the Director of the Office of Management and Budget;

(xiv)    the Executive Director of the Federal Permitting Improvement
Steering Council;

(xv)     the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy;

(xvi)    the National Climate Advisor;

(xvii)   the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy; and

(xviii)  the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy.

“(c)  At the direction of the Chair, the Interagency Council may
establish subgroups consisting exclusively of Interagency Council
members or their designees under this section, as appropriate.

“(d)  Mission and Work.  The Interagency Council shall develop a
strategy to address current and historic environmental injustice by
consulting with the White House Environmental Justice Advisory Council
and with local environmental justice leaders.  The Interagency Council
shall also develop clear performance metrics to ensure accountability,
and publish an annual public performance scorecard on its
implementation.

“(e)  Administration.  The Office of Administration within the Executive
Office of the President shall provide funding and administrative support
for the Interagency Council, to the extent permitted by law and within
existing appropriations.  To the extent permitted by law, including the
Economy Act (31 U.S.C. 1535), and subject to the availability of
appropriations, the Department of Labor, the Department of
Transportation, and the Environmental Protection Agency shall provide
administrative support as necessary.

“(f)  Meetings and Staff.  The Chair shall convene regular meetings of
the Council, determine its agenda, and direct its work.  The Chair shall
designate an Executive Director of the Council, who shall coordinate the
work of the Interagency Council and head any staff assigned to the
Council.

“(g)  Officers.  To facilitate the work of the Interagency Council, the
head of each agency listed in subsection (b) shall assign a designated
official within the agency to be an Environmental Justice Officer, with
the authority to represent the agency on the Interagency Council and
perform such other duties relating to the implementation of this order
within the agency as the head of the agency deems appropriate.”

(b)  The Interagency Council shall, within 120 days of the date of this
order, submit to the President, through the National Climate Advisor, a
set of recommendations for further updating Executive Order 12898.

**    ** Sec. 221.  White House Environmental Justice Advisory Council.
 There is hereby established, within the Environmental Protection
Agency, the White House Environmental Justice Advisory Council (Advisory
Council), which shall advise the Interagency Council and the Chair of
the Council on Environmental Quality.

     (a)  Membership.  Members shall be appointed by the President,
shall be drawn from across the political spectrum, and may include those
with knowledge about or experience in environmental justice, climate
change, disaster preparedness, racial inequity, or any other area
determined by the President to be of value to the Advisory Council.

     (b)  Mission and Work.  The Advisory Council shall be solely
advisory.  It shall provide recommendations to the White House
Environmental Justice Interagency Council established in section 220 of
this order on how to increase the Federal Government’s efforts to
address current and historic environmental injustice, including
recommendations for updating Executive Order 12898.

     (c)  Administration.  The Environmental Protection Agency shall
provide funding and administrative support for the Advisory Council to
the extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations.  Members
of the Advisory Council shall serve without either compensation or
reimbursement of expenses.

     (d)  Federal Advisory Committee Act.  Insofar as the Federal
Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), may apply to the
Advisory Council, any functions of the President under the Act, except
for those in section 6 of the Act, shall be performed by the
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency in accordance with
the guidelines that have been issued by the Administrator of
General Services.

**    ** Sec. 222.  Agency Responsibilities.  In furtherance of the
policy set forth in section 219:

     (a)  The Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality shall,
within 6 months of the date of this order, create a geospatial Climate
and Economic Justice Screening Tool and shall annually publish
interactive maps highlighting disadvantaged communities.

     (b)  The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency
shall, within existing appropriations and consistent with applicable
law:

(i)   strengthen enforcement of environmental violations with
disproportionate impact on underserved communities through the Office of
Enforcement and Compliance Assurance; and

(ii)  create a community notification program to monitor and provide
real-time data to the public on current environmental pollution,
including emissions, criteria pollutants, and toxins, in frontline and
fenceline communities — places with the most significant exposure to
such pollution.

     (c)  The Attorney General shall, within existing appropriations and
consistent with applicable law:

(i)    consider renaming the Environment and Natural Resources Division
the Environmental Justice and Natural Resources Division;

(ii)   direct that division to coordinate with the Administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency, through the Office of Enforcement and
Compliance Assurance, as well as with other client agencies as
appropriate, to develop a comprehensive environmental justice
enforcement strategy, which shall seek to provide timely remedies for
systemic environmental violations and contaminations, and injury to
natural resources; and

(iii)  ensure comprehensive attention to environmental justice
throughout the Department of Justice, including by considering creating
an Office of Environmental Justice within the Department to coordinate
environmental justice activities among Department of Justice components
and United States Attorneys’ Offices nationwide.

(d)  The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall, consistent with
applicable law and within existing appropriations: 

(i)   establish an Office of Climate Change and Health Equity to address
the impact of climate change on the health of the American people; and

(ii)  establish an Interagency Working Group to Decrease Risk of Climate
Change to Children, the Elderly, People with Disabilities, and the
Vulnerable as well as a biennial Health Care System Readiness Advisory
Council, both of which shall report their progress and findings
regularly to the Task Force.

(e)  The Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy shall,
in consultation with the National Climate Advisor, within existing
appropriations, and within 100 days of the date of this order, publish a
report identifying the climate strategies and technologies that will
result in the most air and water quality improvements, which shall be
made public to the maximum extent possible and published on the Office’s
website.

**    ** Sec. 223.  Justice40 Initiative.  (a)  Within 120 days of the
date of this order, the Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality,
the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, and the National
Climate Advisor, in consultation with the Advisory Council, shall
jointly publish recommendations on how certain Federal investments might
be made toward a goal that 40 percent of the overall benefits flow to
disadvantaged communities.  The recommendations shall focus on
investments in the areas of clean energy and energy efficiency; clean
transit; affordable and sustainable housing; training and workforce
development; the remediation and reduction of legacy pollution; and the
development of critical clean water infrastructure.  The recommendations
shall reflect existing authorities the agencies may possess for
achieving the 40-percent goal as well as recommendations on any
legislation needed to achieve the 40‑percent goal. 

     (b)  In developing the recommendations, the Chair of the Council on
Environmental Quality, the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget, and the National Climate Advisor shall consult with affected
disadvantaged communities.

     (c)  Within 60 days of the recommendations described in subsection
(a) of this section, agency heads shall identify applicable program
investment funds based on the recommendations and consider interim
investment guidance to relevant program staff, as appropriate and
consistent with applicable law.

     (d)  By February 2022, the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget, in coordination with the Chair of the Council on Environmental
Quality, the Administrator of the United States Digital Service, and
other relevant agency heads, shall, to the extent consistent with
applicable law, publish on a public website an annual Environmental
Justice Scorecard detailing agency environmental justice performance
measures.

PART III — GENERAL PROVISIONS

     Sec. 301.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget, relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

     (b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

     (c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

January 27, 2021.
