---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-01-20'
modified_time: 2021-01-20 22:45:51-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/20/regulatory-freeze-pending-review/
published_time: 2021-01-20 18:01:00-05:00
title: "Regulatory Freeze Pending\_Review"
---
 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE HEADS OF EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES

FROM: Ronald A. Klain  
Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff

SUBJECT: Regulatory Freeze Pending Review

The President has asked me to communicate to each of you his plan for
managing the Federal regulatory process at the outset of his
Administration.  In order to ensure that the President’s appointees or
designees have the opportunity to review any new or pending rules, at
the direction of the President, I ask that you immediately take the
following steps:

1\. Subject to any exceptions the Director of the Office of Management
and Budget (the “OMB Director”) allows for emergency situations or other
urgent circumstances relating to health, safety, environmental,
financial, or national security matters, or otherwise, propose or issue
no rule in any manner — including by sending a rule to the Office of the
*Federal Register* (the “OFR”) — until a department or agency head
appointed or designated by the President after noon on January 20, 2021,
reviews and approves the rule.  The department or agency head may
delegate this power of review and approval to any other person so
appointed or designated by the President, consistent with applicable
law.

2\. With respect to rules that have been sent to the OFR but not
published in the *Federal Register*, immediately withdraw them from the
OFR for review and approval as described in paragraph 1, subject to the
exceptions described in paragraph 1.  This withdrawal must be conducted
consistent with OFR procedures.

3\. With respect to rules that have been published in the *Federal
Register*, or rules that have been issued in any manner, but have not
taken effect, consider postponing the rules’ effective dates for 60 days
from the date of this memorandum, consistent with applicable law and
subject to the exceptions described in paragraph 1, for the purpose of
reviewing any questions of fact, law, and policy the rules may raise. 
For rules postponed in this manner, during the 60-day period, where
appropriate and consistent with applicable law, consider opening a
30-day comment period to allow interested parties to provide comments
about issues of fact, law, and policy raised by those rules, and
consider pending petitions for reconsideration involving such rules.  As
appropriate and consistent with applicable law, and where necessary to
continue to review these questions of fact, law, and policy, consider
further delaying, or publishing for notice and comment proposed rules
further delaying, such rules beyond the 60-day period.  Following the
60-day delay in effective date:

a\. for those rules that raise no substantial questions of fact, law, or
policy, no further action needs to be taken; and 

b\. for those rules that raise substantial questions of fact, law, or
policy, agencies should notify the OMB Director and take further
appropriate action in consultation with the OMB Director.

4\. Exclude from the actions requested in paragraphs 1 through 3 any
rules subject to statutory or judicial deadlines and identify such
exclusions to the OMB Director as soon as possible.

5\. Notify the OMB Director promptly of any rules that, in your view,
should be excluded from the directives in paragraphs 1 through 3 because
those rules affect critical health, safety, environmental, financial, or
national security matters, or for some other reason.  The OMB Director
will review any such notifications and determine whether such exclusion
is appropriate under the circumstances.

6\. Comply in all circumstances with any applicable Executive Orders
concerning regulatory management.

As used in this memorandum, “rule” has the definition set forth in
section 551(4), title 5, United States Code.  It also includes any
“regulatory action,” as defined in section 3(e) of Executive Order 12866
of September 30, 1993, as amended, and any “guidance document” as
defined in section 3(g) of Executive Order 13422 of January 18, 2007,
when that order was in effect.  Thus, the requirements of this
memorandum apply not only to “rules” as defined in section 551(4) of
title 5, but also to: 

a.  any substantive action by an agency (normally published in the
*Federal Register*) that promulgates or is expected to lead to the
promulgation of a final rule or regulation, including notices of
inquiry, advance notices of proposed rulemaking, and notices of proposed
rulemaking; and 

b.  any agency statement of general applicability and future effect that
sets forth a policy on a statutory, regulatory, or technical issue or an
interpretation of a statutory or regulatory issue.

The OMB Director will implement this regulatory review, and any
communications regarding any matters pertaining to this review should be
addressed to the OMB Director.  The OMB Director is also authorized to
establish a process to review pending collections of information under
the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, as codified in chapter 35, title
44, United States Code, and to take actions that the OMB Director deems
appropriate based on that review, consistent with applicable law.

Should actions be identified that were undertaken before noon on January
20, 2021, to frustrate the purpose underlying this memorandum, I may
modify or extend this memorandum, pursuant to the direction of the
President, to request that agency heads consider taking steps to address
those actions.

The OMB Director is authorized and directed to publish this memorandum
in the *Federal Register*.
