---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-01-28'
modified_time: 2021-02-01 09:40:56-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/28/executive-order-on-strengthening-medicaid-and-the-affordable-care-act/
published_time: 2021-01-28 15:15:07-05:00
title: "Executive Order on Strengthening Medicaid and the Affordable Care\_Act"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:

**Section 1.  Policy.**  In the 10 years since its enactment, the
Affordable Care Act (ACA) has reduced the number of uninsured Americans
by more than 20 million, extended critical consumer protections to more
than 100 million people, and strengthened and improved the Nation’s
healthcare system.  At the same time, millions of people who are
potentially eligible for coverage under the ACA or other laws remain
uninsured, and obtaining insurance benefits is more difficult than
necessary.  For these reasons, it is the policy of my Administration to
protect and strengthen Medicaid and the ACA and to make high-quality
healthcare accessible and affordable for every American.

**Sec. 2.  Special Enrollment Period.**  The coronavirus disease 2019
(COVID-19) pandemic has triggered a historic public health and economic
crisis.  In January of 2020, as the COVID-19 pandemic was spreading, the
Secretary of Health and Human Services declared a public health
emergency.  In March of 2020, the President declared a national
emergency.  Although almost a year has passed, the emergency continues —
over 5 million Americans have contracted the disease in January 2021,
and thousands are dying every week.  Over 30 million Americans remain
uninsured, preventing many from obtaining necessary health services and
treatment.  Black, Latino, and Native American persons are more likely
to be uninsured, and communities of color have been especially hard hit
by both the COVID-19 pandemic and the economic downturn.  In light of
the exceptional circumstances caused by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic,
the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall consider establishing a
Special Enrollment Period for uninsured and under-insured Americans to
seek coverage through the Federally Facilitated Marketplace, pursuant to
existing authorities, including sections 18031 and 18041 of title 42,
United States Code, and section 155.420(d)(9) of title 45, Code of
Federal Regulations, and consistent with applicable law.

**Sec. 3.  Immediate Review of Agency Actions. ** (a)  The Secretary of
the Treasury, the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Health and Human
Services, and the heads of all other executive departments and agencies
with authorities and responsibilities related to Medicaid and the ACA
(collectively, heads of agencies) shall, as soon as practicable, review
all existing regulations, orders, guidance documents, policies, and any
other similar agency actions (collectively, agency actions) to determine
whether such agency actions are inconsistent with the policy set forth
in section 1 of this order.  As part of this review, the heads of
agencies shall examine the following: 

(i)    policies or practices that may undermine protections for people
with pre-existing conditions, including complications related to
COVID-19, under the ACA;

(ii)   demonstrations and waivers, as well as demonstration and waiver
policies, that may reduce coverage under or otherwise undermine Medicaid
or the ACA;

(iii)  policies or practices that may undermine the Health Insurance
Marketplace or the individual, small group, or large group markets for
health insurance in the United States;

(iv)   policies or practices that may present unnecessary barriers to
individuals and families attempting to access Medicaid or ACA coverage,
including for mid-year enrollment; and

(v)    policies or practices that may reduce the affordability of
coverage or financial assistance for coverage, including for dependents.

(b)  Heads of agencies shall, as soon as practicable and as appropriate
and consistent with applicable law, consider whether to suspend, revise,
or rescind — and, as applicable, publish for notice and comment proposed
rules suspending, revising, or rescinding — those agency actions
identified as inconsistent with the policy set forth in section 1 of
this order.

(c)  Heads of agencies shall, as soon as practicable and as appropriate
and consistent with applicable law, consider whether to take any
additional agency actions to more fully enforce the policy set forth in
section 1 of this order.

**Sec. 4.  Revocation of Certain Presidential Actions and Review of
Associated Agency Actions. ** (a)  Executive Order 13765 of January 20,
2017 (Minimizing the Economic Burden of the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act Pending Repeal), and Executive Order 13813 of
October 12, 2017 (Promoting Healthcare Choice and Competition Across the
United States), are revoked.

(b)  As part of the review required under section 3 of this order, heads
of agencies shall identify existing agency actions related to or arising
from Executive Orders 13765 and 13813.  Heads of agencies shall, as soon
as practicable, consider whether to suspend, revise, or rescind –- and,
as applicable, publish for notice and comment proposed rules suspending,
revising, or rescinding — any such agency actions, as appropriate and
consistent with applicable law and the policy set forth in section 1 of
this order.

**Sec. 5.  General Provisions*.* ** (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
