---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-01-20'
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/20/executive-order-ensuring-a-lawful-and-accurate-enumeration-and-apportionment-pursuant-to-decennial-census/
published_time: 2021-01-20 21:21:29-05:00
title: "Executive Order on Ensuring a Lawful and Accurate Enumeration and Apportionment\
  \ Pursuant to the Decennial\_Census"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered:  

**Section 1.  Background. ** We have long guaranteed all of the Nation’s
inhabitants representation in the House of Representatives.  This
tradition is foundational to our representative democracy, for our
elected representatives have a responsibility to represent the interests
of all people residing in the United States and affected by our laws. 
This tradition also respects the dignity and humanity of every person. 
Accordingly, the executive branch has always determined the population
of each State, for purposes of congressional representation, without
regard to whether its residents are in lawful immigration status. 

The census and apportionment processes are enshrined in
the Constitution.  The Fourteenth Amendment apportions seats in the
House of Representatives “among the several States according to their
respective numbers, counting the whole number of persons in each
State.”  (U.S. Const. amend. XIV, sec. 2.) Article I, in turn, provides
that, in order to determine those numbers, an “actual Enumeration” of
the population of the United States must be conducted every 10 years. 
(U.S. Const. art. I, sec. 2, cl. 3.)  The Congress has assigned
responsibility for conducting the decennial census to the Secretary of
Commerce (Secretary).  (13 U.S.C. 141(a).)

Once the Secretary, through the Director of the U.S. Census Bureau,
takes the count, the President must carry out the apportionment of
Representatives among the States.  The Secretary prepares the
“tabulation of total population by States . . . as required for the
apportionment of Representatives,” and reports that tabulation to the
President.  (13 U.S.C. 141(b).)  The President then sends a statement to
the Congress showing “the whole number of persons in each State,” as
ascertained under the census, and “the number of Representatives to
which each State would be entitled under” the equal proportions
apportionment method.  (2 U.S.C. 2a(a).)  The Clerk of the House of
Representatives then transmits to each State a certification of the
number of seats that the State receives under that apportionment.  (2
U.S.C. 2a(b).)  Finally, within 1 year of the decennial census date, the
Secretary must also report to the Governor and officers or public bodies
having responsibility for legislative apportionment or districting
of each State the population tabulations to be used for apportioning
districts within that State.  (13 U.S.C. 141(c).)  

At no point since our Nation’s Founding has a person’s immigration
status alone served as a basis for excluding that person from the total
population count used in apportionment.  Before the Civil War and the
abolition of slavery, the Constitution did not give equal weight to
every person counted under the census.  (U.S. Const. art. 1, sec. 2.) 
In accord with constitutional and statutory requirements, however, every
apportionment since ratification of the Fourteenth Amendment has
calculated each State’s share of Representatives based on “the whole
number of persons in each State,” excluding only “Indians not taxed” —
an express constitutional exception that no longer has legal or
practical effect.  (U.S. Const. amend. XIV, sec. 2; 2 U.S.C. 2a(a).) 
The term “persons in each State” has always been understood to include
every person whose usual place of residence was in that State as of the
designated census date.  (*See, e.g.*, Act of Mar. 1, 1790, ch. 2, secs.
1, 5, 1 Stat. 101, 103; *Franklin v. Massachusetts*, 505 U.S. 788, 804
(1992).)  This unbroken practice has ensured that “the basis
of representation in the House” is “every individual of the community at
large.”  (*Evenwel v. Abbott*, 136 S. Ct. 1120, 1127 (2016) (emphasis
and quotation marks omitted).)  And it reflects a sound policy judgment
that the apportionment base be both clear and insulated against
manipulation designed to affect the balance of power among the States.

During the 2020 Census, the President announced a policy that broke from
this long tradition.  It aimed to produce a different apportionment base
— one that would, to the maximum extent feasible, exclude persons who
are not in a lawful immigration status.  *See* Presidential Memorandum
of July 21, 2020 (Excluding Illegal Aliens From the Apportionment Base
Following the 2020 Census).  This policy conflicted with the principle
of equal representation enshrined in our Constitution, census statutes,
and historical tradition.  The policy further required the Census Bureau
to inappropriately rely on records related to immigration status that
were likely to be incomplete and inaccurate.

**Sec. 2.  Policy. ** Both the Fourteenth Amendment of the United States
Constitution and section 2a(a) of title 2, United States Code, require
that the apportionment base of each State, for the purpose of the
reapportionment of Representatives following the decennial census,
include all persons whose usual place of residence was in that State as
of the designated census date, regardless of their immigration status. 
These laws, affirmed by the executive branch’s longstanding historical
practice, do not permit the exclusion of inhabitants of the United
States from the apportionment base solely on the ground that they lack a
lawful immigration status.  Reflecting this legal background, and the
values of equal representation and respect that the Constitution and
laws embody, it is the policy of the United States that reapportionment
shall be based on the total number of persons residing in the several
States, without regard for immigration status.  It is likewise essential
that the census count be accurate and based on reliable and high-quality
data. 

**Sec. 3.  Ensuring that the Apportionment Base and State-Level
Tabulations Include All Inhabitants of Each State. ** In preparing the
report to the President required under section 141(b) of title 13,
United States Code, the Secretary shall report the tabulation of total
population by State that reflects the whole number of persons whose
usual residence was in each State as of the designated census date in
section 141(a) of title 13, United States Code, without regard to
immigration status.  In addition, the Secretary shall use tabulations of
population reflecting the whole number of persons whose usual residence
was in each State as of the census date, without regard to immigration
status, in reports provided to the Governor and officers or public
bodies having responsibility for legislative apportionment or
districting of each State under section 141(c) of title 13, United
States Code. 

**Sec. 4.  Data Quality.**  The Secretary shall take all necessary
steps, consistent with law, to ensure that the total population
information presented to the President and to the States is accurate and
complies with all applicable laws. 

**Sec. 5.  Revocation. ** Executive Order 13880 of July 11, 2019
(Collecting Information About Citizenship Status in Connection With the
Decennial Census), and the Presidential Memorandum of July 21, 2020
(Excluding Illegal Aliens From the Apportionment Base Following the 2020
Census), are hereby revoked. 

**Sec. 6.  General Provisions. ** (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:  

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or 

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. 

(b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
subject to the availability of appropriations. 

(c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. 

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
January 20, 2021
