---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-01-20'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/20/modernizing-regulatory-review/
published_time: 2021-01-20 21:52:01-05:00
title: Modernizing Regulatory Review
---
 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE HEADS OF EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES

SUBJECT: Modernizing Regulatory Review

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.  Background.  For nearly four decades, the Office of
Information and Regulatory Affairs (OIRA) in the Office of Management
and Budget (OMB) has been charged by Presidents of both parties with
reviewing significant executive branch regulatory actions.  This process
is largely governed by Executive Order 12866 of September 30, 1993
(Regulatory Planning and Review), as amended.  This memorandum reaffirms
the basic principles set forth in that order and in Executive Order
13563 of January 18, 2011 (Improving Regulation and Regulatory Review),
which took important steps towards modernizing the regulatory review
process.  When carried out properly, that process can help to advance
regulatory policies that improve the lives of the American people. 

Our Nation today faces serious challenges, including a massive global
pandemic; a major economic downturn; systemic racial inequality; and the
undeniable reality and accelerating threat of climate change.  It is the
policy of my Administration to mobilize the power of the Federal
Government to rebuild our Nation and address these and other
challenges.  As we do so, it is important that we evaluate the processes
and principles that govern regulatory review to ensure swift and
effective Federal action.  Regulations that promote the public interest
are vital for tackling national priorities.

Sec. 2.  Implementation.  (a)  I therefore direct the Director of OMB,
in consultation with representatives of executive departments and
agencies (agencies), as appropriate and as soon as practicable, to begin
a process with the goal of producing a set of recommendations for
improving and modernizing regulatory review.  These recommendations
should provide concrete suggestions on how the regulatory review process
can promote public health and safety, economic growth, social welfare,
racial justice, environmental stewardship, human dignity, equity, and
the interests of future generations.  The recommendations should also
include proposals that would ensure that regulatory review serves as a
tool to affirmatively promote regulations that advance these values. 
These recommendations should be informed by public engagement with
relevant stakeholders. 

(b)  In particular, the recommendations should: 

(i)    identify ways to modernize and improve the regulatory review
process, including through revisions to OMB’s *Circular A-4, Regulatory
Analysis*, 68 Fed. Reg. 58,366 (Oct. 9, 2003), to ensure that
the review process promotes policies that reflect new developments in
scientific and economic understanding, fully accounts for regulatory
benefits that are difficult or impossible to quantify, and does not have
harmful anti-regulatory or deregulatory effects; 

\(ii\)   propose procedures that take into account the distributional
consequences of regulations, including as part of any quantitative or
qualitative analysis of the costs and benefits of regulations, to ensure
that regulatory initiatives appropriately benefit and do not
inappropriately burden disadvantaged, vulnerable, or marginalized
communities; 

(iii)  consider ways that OIRA can play a more proactive role in
partnering with agencies to explore, promote, and undertake regulatory
initiatives that are likely to yield significant benefits; and

\(iv\)   identify reforms that will promote the efficiency,
transparency, and inclusiveness of the interagency review process, and
determine an appropriate approach with respect to the review of guidance
documents. 

Sec. 3.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this memorandum shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:  

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of OMB relating to budgetary,
administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

\(d\) The Director of OMB is authorized and directed to publish this
memorandum in the *Federal Register*.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
