---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-01-22'
modified_time: 2021-01-22 17:08:26-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/22/executive-order-protecting-the-federal-workforce/
published_time: 2021-01-22 17:08:25-05:00
title: "Executive Order on Protecting the Federal\_Workforce"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:

**Section 1. Policy.** Career civil servants are the backbone of the
Federal workforce, providing the expertise and experience necessary for
the critical functioning of the Federal Government. It is the policy of
the United States to protect, empower, and rebuild the career Federal
workforce. It is also the policy of the United States to encourage union
organizing and collective bargaining. The Federal Government should
serve as a model employer.

**Sec. 2. Revocation of Schedule F.** (a) The creation of a new Schedule
F excepted service category in Executive Order 13957 of October 21, 2020
(Creating Schedule F in the Excepted Service), not only was unnecessary
to the conditions of good administration, but also undermined the
foundations of the civil service and its merit system principles, which
were essential to the Pendleton Civil Service Reform Act of 1883’s
repudiation of the spoils system. Accordingly, to enhance the efficiency
of the civil service and to promote good administration and systematic
application of merit system principles, Executive Order 13957 is hereby
revoked.

\(b\) The heads of all executive departments and agencies (agencies)
shall, consistent with law, immediately suspend, revise, or rescind
proposed actions, decisions, petitions, rules, regulations or other
guidance pursuant to, or to effectuate, Executive Order 13957. The
Director of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) shall immediately
cease processing or granting any petitions that seek to convert
positions to Schedule F or to create new positions in Schedule F.

**Sec. 3. Revocation of Certain Presidential and Regulatory Actions.**
(a) Executive Order 13836 of May 25, 2018 (Developing Efficient,
Effective, and Cost-Reducing Approaches to Federal Sector Collective
Bargaining), is hereby revoked. The Interagency Labor Relations Working
Group is hereby disbanded and the Director of OPM shall withdraw all
materials issued by this working group that are inconsistent with the
policy set forth in section 1 of this order.

\(b\) Executive Order 13837 of May 25, 2018 (Ensuring Transparency,
Accountability, and Efficiency in Taxpayer-Funded Union Time Use), is
hereby revoked.

\(c\) Executive Order 13839 of May 25, 2018 (Promoting Accountability
and Streamlining Removal Procedures Consistent with Merit System
Principles), is hereby revoked.

\(d\) The Presidential Memorandum of October 11, 2019 (Executive Orders
13836, 13837, and 13839), is hereby revoked.

\(e\) The heads of agencies whose practices were covered by Executive
Orders 13836, 13837, and 13839 (affected agencies) shall review and
identify existing agency actions related to or arising from those
orders. Such actions include:

\(i\) Actions related to the authorization of union time described in
sections 4(b) and 5(b) of Executive Order 13837;

\(ii\) Actions related to the system for monitoring the use of union
time described in section 5(c) of Executive Order 13837;

\(iii\) Guidance promulgated pursuant to section 7(d) of Executive Order
13837;

\(iv\) Actions taken pursuant to section 8 of Executive Order 13837;

\(v\) Revisions to discipline and unacceptable performance policies,
including ones codified in bargaining agreements, issued pursuant to
section 7(b) of Executive Order 13839; and

\(vii\) The final rule entitled “Probation on Initial Appointment to a
Competitive Position, Performance-Based Reduction in Grade and Removal
Actions and Adverse Actions,” 85 Fed. Reg. 65940 (October 16, 2020).

\(f\) The heads of affected agencies shall, as soon as practicable,
suspend, revise, or rescind, or publish for notice and comment proposed
rules suspending, revising, or rescinding, the actions identified in the
review described in subsection

\(e\) of this section, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law
and the policy set forth in section 1 of this order.

**Sec. 4. Ensuring the Right to Engage in Collective Bargaining.** The
head of each agency subject to the provisions of chapter 71 of title 5,
United States Code, shall elect to negotiate over the subjects set forth
in 5 U.S.C. 7106(b)(1) and shall instruct subordinate officials to do
the same.

**Sec. 5. Progress Toward a Living Wage for Federal Employees.** The
Director of OPM shall provide a report to the President with
recommendations to promote a $15/hour minimum wage for Federal
employees.

**Sec. 6. Severability.** If any provision of this order, or the
application of such provision to any person or circumstance, is held to
be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of such
provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected
thereby.

**Sec. 7. General Provisions.** (a) Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

\(ii\) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
January 22, 2021.
