---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-01-20'
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/20/executive-order-the-revision-of-civil-immigration-enforcement-policies-and-priorities/
published_time: 2021-01-20 21:06:21-05:00
title: "Executive Order on the Revision of Civil Immigration Enforcement Policies\
  \ and\_Priorities"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows: 

**Section 1.  Policy. ** Immigrants have helped strengthen America’s
families, communities, businesses and workforce, and economy, infusing
the United States with creativity, energy, and ingenuity.  The task of
enforcing the immigration laws is complex and requires setting
priorities to best serve the national interest.  The policy of my
Administration is to protect national and border security, address the
humanitarian challenges at the southern border, and ensure public health
and safety.  We must also adhere to due process of law as we safeguard
the dignity and well-being of all families and communities.  My
Administration will reset the policies and practices for enforcing civil
immigration laws to align enforcement with these values and
priorities.  

**Sec. 2.  Revocation. ** Executive Order 13768 of January 25, 2017
(Enhancing Public Safety in the Interior of the United States), is
hereby revoked.  The Secretary of State, the Attorney General, the
Secretary of Homeland Security, the Director of the Office of Management
and Budget, the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, and the
heads of any other relevant executive departments and agencies
(agencies) shall review any agency actions developed pursuant to
Executive Order 13768 and take action, including issuing revised
guidance, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, that
advances the policy set forth in section 1 of this order.

**Sec. 3.  General Provisions. ** (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect: 

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or 

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. 

(b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
subject to the availability of appropriations. 

(c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. 

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
January 20, 2021.
