---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-01-20'
modified_time: 2021-01-20 21:17:14-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/20/executive-order-revocation-of-certain-executive-orders-concerning-federal-regulation/
published_time: 2021-01-20 21:17:13-05:00
title: "Executive Order on Revocation of Certain Executive Orders Concerning Federal\_\
  Regulation"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered that: 

**Section 1.  Policy. ** It is the policy of my Administration to use
available tools to confront the urgent challenges facing the Nation,
including the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, economic
recovery, racial justice, and climate change.  To tackle these
challenges effectively, executive departments and agencies (agencies)
must be equipped with the flexibility to use robust regulatory action to
address national priorities.  This order revokes harmful policies and
directives that threaten to frustrate the Federal Government’s ability
to confront these problems, and empowers agencies to use appropriate
regulatory tools to achieve these goals.

**Sec. 2.  Revocation of Orders. ** Executive Order 13771 of January 30,
2017 (Reducing Regulation and Controlling Regulatory Costs), Executive
Order 13777 of February 24, 2017 (Enforcing the Regulatory Reform
Agenda), Executive Order 13875 of June 14, 2019 (Evaluating and
Improving the Utility of Federal Advisory Committees), Executive Order
13891 of October 9, 2019 (Promoting the Rule of Law Through Improved
Agency Guidance Documents), Executive Order 13892 of October 9, 2019
(Promoting the Rule of Law Through Transparency and Fairness in Civil
Administrative Enforcement and Adjudication), and Executive Order 13893
of October 10, 2019 (Increasing Government Accountability for
Administrative Actions by Reinvigorating Administrative PAYGO), are
hereby revoked.

**Sec. 3.  Implementation. ** The Director of the Office of Management
and Budget and the heads of agencies shall promptly take steps to
rescind any orders, rules, regulations, guidelines, or policies, or
portions thereof, implementing or enforcing the Executive Orders
identified in section 2 of this order, as appropriate and consistent
with applicable law, including the Administrative Procedure Act, 5
U.S.C. 551 *et seq. * If in any case such rescission cannot be finalized
immediately, the Director and the heads of agencies shall promptly take
steps to provide all available exemptions authorized by any such orders,
rules, regulations, guidelines, or policies, as appropriate and
consistent with applicable law.  In addition, any personnel positions,
committees, task forces, or other entities established pursuant to the
Executive Orders identified in section 2 of this order, including the
regulatory reform officer positions and regulatory reform task forces
established by sections 2 and 3 of Executive Order 13777, shall be
abolished, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law.

**Sec. 4.  General Provisions. ** (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This order shall be implemented in a manner consistent with
applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
January 20, 2021.
