---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-09-23'
modified_time: 2021-09-24 08:29:57-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/09/23/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-and-prime-minister-modi-of-the-republic-of-india-before-bilateral-meeting/
published_time: 2021-09-23 17:27:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris and Prime Minister Modi of the Republic of\
  \ India Before Bilateral\_Meeting"
---
 
*Vice President’s Ceremonial Office  
*Eisenhower Executive Office Building**

3:19 P.M. EDT  
  
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Mr. Prime Minister, it is my honor to welcome
you to the White House and to Washington, D.C.  It is my understanding
that this is your first trip outside of South Asia for at least the last
16 months.  On behalf of the President and myself, we are honored to
welcome you for this visit.  
  
India, of course, is a very important partner to the United States. 
Throughout our history, our nations have worked together, have stood
together to make our world a safer and stronger world.   
  
Mr. Prime Minister, when you and I last spoke in June, we talked about
how our world is more interconnected and interdependent than ever
before.  And the challenges that we face today have highlighted that
fact — be it COVID-19, the climate crisis, and the importance of our
shared belief in a free and open Indo-Pacific region.  
  
On COVID-19, our nations have worked together.  Early in the pandemic,
India was a vital source of vaccines for other countries.  When India
experienced a surge of COVID in the country, the United States was very
proud to support India in its need and responsibility to vaccinate its
people.  
  
And I welcome India’s announcement that it will soon be able to resume
vaccine exports.  It is of particular note and admiration that India,
I’m told, is currently vaccinating approximately 10 million people a
day, as of today.  
  
On the issue of the climate crisis, I know that India and you take this
issue quite seriously.  The President and I believe very strongly that
the United States working together with India can have not only a
profound impact on the people of our respective nations, but on the
world itself.  
  
And as it relates to the Indo-Pacific, the United States, like India,
feels very strongly about the pride of being a member of the
Indo-Pacific, but also the fragility and the importance and strength as
well of those relationships, including maintaining a free and open
Indo-Pacific.  
  
Finally, as democracies around the world are under threat, it is
imperative that we defend democratic principles and institutions within
our respective countries and around the world and that we maintain what
we must do to strengthen democracies at home.  And it is incumbent on
our nations to, of course, protect democracies in the best interest of
the people of our countries.  
  
And, Mr. Prime Minister, I look forward to discussing how our nations
can continue to best work together to strengthen our relationship around
our mutual concerns, around the challenges we face, but the
opportunities that those challenges also present.   
  
I know from personal experience and from my family of the commitment of
the Indian people to democracy and to freedom and to the work that may
be done and can be done to imagine and then actually achieve our vision
for democratic principles and institutions.   
  
Thank you.  
  
PRIME MINISTER MODI:  (As interpreted.)  Excellency, first of all, I’d
like to express my gratitude for the warm welcome back you have extended
to me and to my delegation.   
  
Excellency, some months ago, we had an opportunity to talk to each other
on the phone.  We had a detailed discussion at that time.  And the way
you spoke to me so warmly and so naturally, I will always remember
that.  Thank you so much.  
  
It was, Excellency, if you remember, a very difficult time.  India was
confronted with the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic — a very
difficult time for us.  But so — like a family, the sense of kinship and
so warmly you extended a helping hand, the words that you chose when you
spoke to me — I will always remember that, and I’d like to thank you
from the bottom of my heart.  
  
     Like a true friend, Excellency, you had given a message of
cooperation and very full of sensitivity.  And immediately after that,
we found that the U.S. government, the U.S. corporate sector, and the
Indian community all came together to help India.  
  
     Excellency, President Biden and yourself, you took up the
leadership of the United States in a very challenging atmosphere and
challenging times, but within a very short period of time, you have had
many achievements to your credit, whether that be COVID, climate, or the
Quad.  On all these issues, the United States has taken very important
initiatives.   
  
     Excellency, amongst the largest democracy and the oldest democracy,
between India and the United States, we are indeed natural partners.  We
have similar values, similar geopolitical interests, and, also, our
coordination and cooperation is continuously increasing.   
  
     To strengthen the supply chains, Excellency, and as far as the new
and emerging technologies are concerned, and space, these are areas of
special interest for you.  These are areas which are of interest to me
too and a special priority.  And these — and these are areas where our
cooperation is very important.  
     Excellency, between India and the U.S., there are very vibrant and
strong people-to-people connections that we have.  You know that all too
well.  More than 4 million people of Indian origin, the Indian community
is a bridge between our two countries — a bridge of friendship.  And
their contribution to the economies and societies of both our countries
is indeed very praiseworthy.  
  
Excellency, your being elected as the Vice President of the United
States of America itself has been such an important and historic event. 
You are the source of inspiration for so many people across the
world.   
  
I am completely confident that under President Biden and your
leadership, our bilateral relationship will touch new heights.  
  
Excellency, continuing on your — this journey of victory, Indians also
would want you to continue that in India and, therefore, they’re waiting
to welcome you.  And therefore, I extend to you specially an invitation
to visit India.  
  
Once again, Excellency, let me thank you and express my gratitude for
this very warm welcome.   
  
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister.  
  
PRIME MINISTER MODI:  Thank you.   
  
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  And welcome to you.  Thank you.  
  
3:34 P.M. EDT
