---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-09-11'
modified_time: 2021-09-13 08:20:22-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/09/11/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-on-the-20th-anniversary-of-the-september-11th-attacks/
published_time: 2021-09-11 13:07:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris on the 20th Anniversary of the September\
  \ 11th\_Attacks"
---
 
*Flight 93 National Memorial  
*Shanksville, Pennsylvania**

11:03 A.M. EDT  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  Good morning. 
Good morning.  President Bush, it is my honor to be on this stage with
you and Mrs. Laura Bush.  And thank you, President Bush, for your
words.  They are as resonant today as the words you spoke 20 years ago. 
Governor Tom Wolf, Superintendent Stephen Clark, Madam Secretary, and
the President of the Families of Flight 93, Gordon Felt: It is truly an
honor to be with all of you at this field of honor.  
  
We are joined today, of course, by the family and friends of the 40
passengers and crew members of Flight 93.  And we stand today with all
those who lost someone on September 11, 2001, and in the aftermath of
the attacks.    
  
So many in our nation — too many in our nation — have deeply felt the
passage of time these last 20 years.  Every birthday your loved one
missed.  Every holiday.  Every time her favorite team won, or his
favorite song came on the radio.  Every time you’ve tucked in your
children or dropped them off at college.  You have felt every day, every
week, and every year that has passed these 20 years.   
  
So, please know your nation sees you, and we stand with you, and we
support you.   
  
We are gathered today on hallowed ground, at this place that has been
sanctified by sacrifice, to honor the heroism that the 40 passengers and
crew members showed in the face of grave terrorism.    
  
I remember when I first learned about what happened on that fateful
flight.  What happened on Flight 93 told us then and it still tells us
so much about the courage of those on board who gave everything they
possibly could; about the resolve of the first responders who risked
everything; and about the resilience of the American people.   
  
On this 20th anniversary, on this solemn day of remembrance, we must
challenge ourselves — yes, to look back, to remember, for the sake of
our children, for the sake of their children.  And for that reason, we
must also look forward.  We must also look toward the future.  Because
in the end, I do believe that is what the 40 were fighting for: their
future and ours.   
  
On the days that followed September 11th, 2001, we were all reminded
that unity is possible in America.  We were reminded also that unity is
imperative in America.  It is essential to our shared prosperity, to our
national security, and to our standing in the world.  And by unity, I
don’t mean uniformity.  We had differences of opinion in 2001 as we do
in 2021.  And I believe that in America, our diversity is our
strength.    
  
At the same time, we saw after 9/11 how fear can be used to sow division
in our nation as Sikh and Muslim Americans were targeted because of how
they looked or how they worshipped.  But we also saw what happens when
so many Americans, in the spirit of our nation, stand in solidarity with
all people and their fellow American, with those who experience violence
and discrimination — when we stand together.   
  
And looking back, we remember the vast majority of Americans were
unified in purpose to help families heal, to help communities recover,
to defend our nation, and to keep us safe.  In a time of outright
terror, we turned toward each other.  In the face of a stranger, we saw
a neighbor and a friend.  That time reminded us the significance and the
strength of our unity as Americans and that it is possible in
America.   
  
So, moments from now, we will leave this hallowed place, still carrying
with us the pain of this loss — this tremendous loss.  And still, the
future will continue to unfold.    
  
We will face new challenges — challenges that we could not have seen 20
years ago.  We will seize opportunities that were at one time
unimaginable.  And we know that what lies ahead is not certain.  It is
never certain; it has never been.   
  
But I know this: If we do the hard work of working together as
Americans, if we remain united in purpose, we will be prepared for
whatever comes next.   
  
The 40 passengers and crew members of Flight 93, as we all know, they
didn’t — they didn’t know each other; most of them didn’t know each
other.  They were different people from different places.  They were on
that particular flight for different reasons.  But they did not focus on
what may separate us.  No, they focused on what we all share — on the
humanity we all share.  
  
In a matter of minutes, in the most dire of circumstances, the 40
responded as one.  They fought for their own lives and to save the lives
of countless others at our nation’s capital.    
  
After today, it is my hope and prayer that we continue to honor their
courage, their conviction, with our own; that we honor their unity by
strengthening our common bonds, by strengthening our global
partnerships, and by always living out our highest ideals.   
  
This work will not be easy; it never has been.  And it will take all of
us believing in who we are as a nation.  And it will take all of us
going forth to work together.    
  
Thank you all.  May God bless you.  And may God bless America.  Thank
you.  (Applause.)

11:12 A.M. EDT
