---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-09-08'
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/09/08/remarks-by-president-biden-in-honor-of-labor-unions/
published_time: 2021-09-08 15:53:53-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden in Honor of Labor\_Unions"
---
 
East Room

11:58 A.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Jocelyn, thank you.  Please.  Please, please,
please.  Thank you, Jocelyn. 

Please, sit down.  Thank you.  I — nothing to it, is there, Jocelyn? 
Just walking in and stand at the podium, and — (laughter) — speaking at
the White House.  Nothing to it.  You did a great job.  And thank you. 
And thank you.  
  
Before I really begin, I want to say that I think one of the biggest
things that’s changed is — my dear mother, God bless her soul, used to
say, “Out of everything bad, something good will come if you look hard
enough for it.”   
  
And I think one of the good things that’s come out of this godawful
crisis regarding COVID is ordinary people who never thought about the
technician at the drugstore, never thought about the grocery store
worker, never thought about what that firefighter has to do when they go
in.  They don’t ask, “Do you have COVID or not?”  Never thought about
the people who keep this country up and running before.   
  
I really mean this sincerely.  It’s not a — it’s not a political — it’s
a reality.   
  
And I think people went, “Whoa, whoa.”  And instead of — which was a
good thing — banging pots and pans when people came back from rescuing
other folks, I think they began to realize, “You know, this is part of
the deal.”  And to use my dad’s expression — and I mean it sincerely —
and some — a few of you knew my dad — he said, “Everyone is entitled to
be treated with dignity.”  And that’s what the labor union is all about:
dignity.  It provides dignity for people who deserve to be treated
differently.   
  
And I want to thank Jocelyn, and I want to thank President Shuler —
Madam President.  And I know you didn’t expect to be in this role at
this moment, but as I told you before, I believe that the future of
American labor is in very good hands.  I really mean it.  Thank you. 
(Applause.)  
  
And I want to welcome everyone to the White House.  And I really mean
that.  This is your house.  It’s not hyperbole.  It’s a fact.  This is
your house.  I wouldn’t be here without you.  That’s, again, not
hyperbole.   
  
In my White House, you’ll always be welcome.  You’ll always be welcome. 
Labor will always be welcome.  You know, you’ve heard me say many times:
I intend to be the most pro-union President leading the most pro-union
administration in American history.   
  
But I think one of the reasons I’m able to do that is the public is
changing, too.  You’ve changed the public; you’ve educated them a lot.  
  
I want to thank the dues-paying members of the Laborers, Marty —
(laughs) — Marty Walsh, who’s helping make sure that we keep the
commitments across our entire government.   
  
And before I go any further, I’d like to pause for a moment of silence
to honor the hundreds of union workers and essential workers who have
died from COVID-19; and to honor a buddy, John Sweeney, who we lost
earlier this year, and to honor a truly dear friend, Rich Trumka.   
  
A moment of silence, please.  
  
(A moment of silence is observed.)  
  
Thank you.  This is real.   
  
One of the things I admired about Rich is that he understood what people
in this economy are really facing.  He, like most of you, felt it in his
bones.  He understood what had happened to workers in this country, like
you do.  I’ve got to know a lot of you really, really well.  You just
feel it.  You taste it.  You understand it.  
  
I — I get kidded by my staff for — all these years, and I say: I trust
the person most who arrives at the right decision when it starts in
their gut, it goes to their heart, and then they have the ability to
articulate it because they — it goes to the brain.  They’re the ones
that never back down.  They’re the ones that stay with you.   
  
The ones who arrive at it intellectually are the ones that are the ones
who first — I welcome that, but they’re not the ones who stay to the
end.   
  
And, you know, Rich understood the past and the challenges, like so many
of you who lived and led through these moments.  But he also understood
the future.  I think he understood who built this country and the tools
that were needed to — to build it back and build it back better.   
  
You’ve heard me say it a hundred times: We’re the only country in the
world that goes into a crisis and, when we come out of it, we’re
stronger than before we went in it.  That’s by building back better.  
  
We’re going to build back better.  We have to.  We must.  We will. 
Because that’s who we are.  That’s what America is.   
  
On Labor Day, we honor the dignity of the American worker.  And every
day, we remember that America wasn’t built by Wall Street.  They’re not
all bad folks out on Wall Street.  I’m not suggesting that.  But they
didn’t build America.  It was built by the middle class, and unions
built the middle class.  (Applause.)  
  
You gave — you gave workers a voice, all the way back from my
Great-grandfather Blewitt who was a mining engineer, back in the days of
the Molly Maguires and all the way — and folks who were treated in
northeast Pennsylvania, in the coalmines.  You gave people a voice. 
Molly Maguires was — they — they were a little tougher.  (Laughter.) 
You gave them a hard time, and you ended up on the doorstep, in a bag.  
  
But, you know, think about it: What are the basic things — my dad used
to say, “You know, we just thought it would give people ability to just
be able to take a deep breath, have a little bit of breathing room.”   
  
And what — what are those things?  Well, healthcare; a pension, God
willing; higher wages and a safer workplace; and protections against
discrimination and harassment.  That’s not asking too much.   
  
We fundamentally transformed how we live and how we work in this
country.  The reason we have is because of the victories won by labor. 
I’m going to be a bit repetitive: the 8-hour day; the weekend; you know,
time and a half for overtime; safety standards; sick days — victories
for all of us.  Because, I might add, you know, I noticed when you all
do that, everybody benefits — (laughter) — whether they belong to a
union or not.  (Applause.)  Whether they belong to a union or not.   
  
When unions win, workers across the board win.  That’s a fact. Families
win, community wins, America wins.  We grow.  And despite this, workers
have been getting cut out of the deal for too long a time.   
  
You know, from 1948, after the war, to 1979, productivity in America
increased by more than 100 percent while the pay for American workers
grew by nearly 100 percent.   
  
And then along came 1979, and everything began to change.  Productivity
in the country has grown almost four times faster than pay since 1979. 
That means the workers have been giving much more to their employers’
bottom lines than they’ve gotten back in their paychecks, breaking the
basic bargain of this country.   The bargain was: If you work hard and
you contribute to the welfare of the outfit you work with, you got to
share in the benefits.  
  
Well, that stopped for a long time.  So, you can carve out your piece of
the middle class and make it a possibility.  That’s what got taken away
for a lot of people.  
  
Instead, some people started seeing the stock market and corporate
profits and executive pay as the only measure for economic growth.   
  
By the way, the stock market has gone up exponentially since I’ve been
President.  You haven’t heard me say a word about it.  (Laughter.)   I’m
glad it’s gone up.  No problem.  
  
But, look, let me tell you something: My measure of economic success is
how families, like mine growing up — working families busting their neck
— how they’re doing; whether they have a little breathing room; whether
they have a job that delivers some dignity, a paycheck they can support
a family on.   
  
In an economy — you know, in the economy my administration is building,
instead of workers competing with each other for the jobs that are
scarce, everybody is mad at me because now — guess what? — employers are
competing to attract workers, having to raise pay.  (Applause.)  
  
No, I’m serious.  Think about it.  That kind of competition in the
market helps workers earn higher wages.  It also gives them the power to
demand dignity and respect in the workplace.  
  
Simply put, worker power is essential to building our economy back
better than before — it’s just that basic — to counter corporate power,
to grow the economy from the bottom up and the middle out.  I’m so tired
of trickle-down.   
  
I ask, “When has the middle class done better that the wealthy haven’t
done incredibly well?”  I can’t think of a time that all the- — when the
middle class is booming and moving, everybody does well.   
  
And to give workers even more power, I also signed an executive order to
improve competition in the economy, including calling for a ban on
non-compete agreements that deny workers the right to change the job in
the same field, even when there’s no real reason for a company to stop
them.  It was all about suppressing wages.  That’s what it was about.   
  
In Congress — when Congress passed the 1935 Labor Relations Act, it
didn’t just say you can have unions — it should be allowed.  That’s how
it’s kind of viewed for a long time.  It said that we, the government,
should encourage unions and collective bargaining, making it easier. 
(Applause.)  That’s what it said.  
  
And I believe every worker should have a free and fair choice to join a
union.  The law guarantees that choice.  That belongs to workers, not to
their employers or to special interests.   
  
That’s why I signed an executive order creating a White House Task Force
on Worker Organizing and <s>Employment</s> \[Empowerment\]: to
facilitate that choice whenever and wherever we can.   
  
Look, I want to thank Vice President Harris and Secretary Walsh — Marty
— for leading that task force.  That’s why I want to see Congress pass
the PRO Act and send it to my desk immediately.  That’s why I want us to
extend organizing and collective bargaining rights to state and local
government employees, like transit workers, first responders, healthcare
workers, and other essential workers.  And guess what?  The public seems
to agree with that as well.  
  
Government should never be a barrier to workers organizing.  It’s
government’s job to remove those barriers.  But it’s up to workers to
make the choice whether to organize or not, whether to form a union or
not.  And we need to help them understand why that can be the right
choice for them.  
  
We know the economic reasons: Union members get higher wages, better
benefits, like health insurance and paid leave, protections against
discrimination and harassment, and a safer and healthier workplace.  
  
But there’s another reason — a basic American reason.  Workers who join
unions gain power — power over the decisions and the decision-makers
that affect their lives.  Workers’ voices are heard and heeded.  In a
simple word, a union means there is democracy.  Democracy.  Organizing,
joining a union — that’s democracy in action.  
  
And it’s about dignity on the job.  But it’s also about creating good
jobs.  
  
When I came to office, our first job was to stop the economic bleeding,
and it was the worst bleeding since Roosevelt.  
  
We passed the American Rescue Plan.  That delivered shots in arms and
checks in pockets, and provided that extra breathing room for working
families.  
  
It helped state and cities keep essential workers on the job, including
educators, police officers, firefighters, sanitation workers.  
  
And thanks to the part of the Rescue Plan named for Ohio labor leader
Butch Lewis, over a million retirees and workers across the country —
(applause) — they can trust that the pensions they worked for and
sacrificed to secure will be there for them.  (Applause.)  
  
You know, and with the bipartisan agreement we’ve reached to rebuild
America’s infrastructure, we’re going to be putting hundreds of
thousands of people to work, including plumbers, pipefitters, electrical
workers, steel workers, so many other union workers — modernizing roads,
bridges, water systems, broadband systems; capping abandoned oil and gas
wells that are leaking — over 100,000 of them — making the same salary
as digging that well.  
  
It creates jobs for American workers and makes our cities and towns more
resilient and better able to meet the climate crisis.  
  
And to keep those jobs here at home, when your government spends the
taxpayer’s dollar, it’s going to buying American goods made in America,
by American workers.  (Applause.)  
  
Look, over the years, the Buy America\[n\] Act became a hollow promise. 
It’s been there for a long time.  I’m going to make it a reality.  
  
The next stop — the next stop is dealing with the ability to — to pass
the rest of my Build Back Better agenda — once-in-a-generation
investments in our people, making housing more affordable; bringing down
the cost of prescription drugs by giving Medicare the power to negotiate
for lower prices — and you ought to thank Bernie Sanders for a lot of
this.  (Applause.)  Making eldercare and childcare more affordable while
improving the pay for homecare workers and childcare workers.  Providing
paid family and medical leave so that no worker is forced to choose
between their job and their caregiving responsibilities.  (Applause.)  
  
You’ve all fought for all these things.  We got to make them available
to every — provide two years of free, <s>university</s> \[universal\],
high-quality pre-K, and high-quality pre-K — two years that are
needed.  
  
It shows that if you send a kid to school at age three, four, and five,
they increase by 56 percent the possibility they’ll — no matter what the
background — that they’ll go through school all 12 years and do well.

And when I asked — you know, in the Obama administration, I was asked to
find out from the CEOs of the Fortune 500 what they most wanted, what
they most needed, what was their greatest concern.  And over — I think
it was — don’t hold me to the exact number — 348 or -47; I can’t
remember the number we got to — said the single-most important thing is
they needed a better-educated public. 

But guess what?  They weren’t paying for it.  (Laughter.)  And guess
what?  Does anybody think if we were starting off from scratch, setting
up public education, we’d say 12 years was enough for the 21st century?

So, look, we have to invest in high-quality job training and
apprenticeships in fast-growing sectors; compete to give middle-class
families a well-deserved tax cut for daycare and healthcare; and provide
a significant monthly tax cut for working families with children. 
That’s what it is. 

Everybody talks about my Child Tax Credit; it is a tax cut for ordinary
folks.  (Applause.)  That’s what it is.  
  
And as part of that, I want us to see us finally — finally — provide
DREAMers, TPS recipients, farmworkers, essential workers a pathway to
citizenship, bringing them out of the shadows so they can receive the
protection and representation that our laws and our unions provide.
 (Applause.)

Folks, we’re making progress.  Our economy has added 750,000 jobs a
month on average during the past three months since I’ve been here. 
Over — there are more than 4 million jobs since I took office.  
  
In the first half of this year, our economy grew fast — at a fastest
rate in 40 years.  Unemployment is down.   
  
My Build Back Better investments are going to allow us to keep and
progress and move further in the years to come.  
  
I just want to add one more thought in closing.  
  
While the pandemic has prevented me from traveling as much as I’d like,
I’ve had a chance to meet with many of your brothers and sisters and
many of you: the proud UAW members building cars and trucks in
Pennsylvania and Michigan, and noting that the mai- — the Big Three have
decided that, along with the support of those unions, they’re building —
going electric, so we own that market.   
  
Steelworkers in Portsmouth, Virginia.  I’ve met with longshoremen and
firefighters in Columbus.  AFSCME workers in Allentown.  IBEW workers
and ironworkers and nurses and grocery store workers in Cincinnati. 
Plumbers and — and gasfitters in Maryland.  AFT teachers in Virginia.  
  
And — and, by the way, of course I sleep with an NEA member every
night.  Same one.  (Laughter and applause.)  Same one.  
  
Jill had her first day of full-time teaching yesterday, this year. 
She’s back to school.   
  
And, look, I’ve talked with union transit workers, machinists, laborers,
and welders in Wisconsin.  We’ve had Teamsters here in the White House. 
And always — the Teamsters always have my back.  And, last week, I met
with the first responders in New Orleans.  And on Monday, I dropped by
some of the IBEW linemen in Delaware helping recover from Hurricane
Ida.   
  
You know, and the — the last year has taught us anything, it’s what’s
essential.  And what’s essential is you.  Not a joke.  You and your
union members.   
  
Wall Street could go on strike, but if, all of a sudden, the middle of
this cont- — this Ida, every IBEW member resigned, we’d be in real
trouble.  
  
I say that to make a generic point.  I think we significantly
underestimate — and I think even you guys sometimes underestimate — the
incredible value you bring to the safety, security, and growth of the
economy.  You know, you’re America’s heart and you’re America’s soul.   
  
And we all need to fight as hard for them and work as hard for them as
we can.   
  
And I want to say, the press was very, very — not just the press — a lot
of people were very, very skeptical that when I was talking about we had
to deal with the environment, that labor would never help.   
  
Well, guess what?  Labor is the reason it’s working.  Labor stepped up. 
Because they — you all understand.  And I made a promise, and I’ll keep
it — that what we’re talking about here is: When you think of global
warming, you think of jobs —  jobs — all the jobs we’re going to create
— making us, once again, the fastest-growing — we are now — the most
competitive economy in the world.  
  
So, folks, you do it all.  I’m sorry to go on so long, but I can’t — I
can’t thank you enough for all you’ve done for the country and what
you’ve done for me over my career.  You’ve educated me.  You brought me
along.  And you’ve — you’ve always been there.  
  
Now, I’m supposed to stop and walk out of the room here.  (Laughter.) 
I’m going to stop.  But with your permission, I’m going to walk into the
room because I want to say hello to all of you.   
  
Thank you.  (Applause.)   
  
12:21 P.M. EDT
