---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-09-17'
modified_time: 2021-09-17 11:01:12-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/09/17/remarks-by-president-biden-at-virtual-meeting-of-the-major-economies-forum-on-energy-and-climate/
published_time: 2021-09-17 11:01:11-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at Virtual Meeting of the Major Economies Forum\
  \ on Energy and\_Climate"
---
 
Via Teleconference  
South Court Auditorium

8:33 A.M. EDT   
  
THE PRESIDENT:  It’s good to see you all.  Good morning.  Thank you,
Secretary Blinken.  And a special thanks to Special Envoy Kerry.  John
has been a friend for a long time, and I have absolute trust in his
leadership on this issue.  
  
We’re honored to host all of you today as a — as a follow up to the
Leaders Summit on Climate we hosted back in April.  
  
That summit made good on a commitment that I made to the American people
that the United States would return immediately to the world stage and
address the climate crisis.  
  
I wanted to show that we’re at an inflection point, and that there’s a
real consensus — a real consensus that while the climate crisis poses an
existential threat, there is a silver lining.  
  
The climate crisis also presents real and incredible economic
opportunities to create jobs and lift up the standard of living of
people around the world.  
  
And I want to thank you and your efforts so far that I — and I need — I
need to tell you the consequences of inaction.  But you all actually
know it.  It’s somewhat presumptuous for me to say this.  
  
But over the last two weeks, I’ve traveled across the United States to
see the damage and destruction from record hurricanes, record floods,
and wildfires.  
  
China continues across — excuse me — climate continues to change across
Europe, Africa, and Latin America.  And we’ve — and you’ve endured
massive flooding.  Fires have raged across Australia and the Amazon and
the Russian tundra.  In Siberia — this sounds — I found it almost
unbelievable — temperatures reached 118 degrees — 118 degrees — inside
the Arctic Circle.  
  
The finding from the new Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
represents a code red for humanity.  And the time to act is really
narrowing, as the Secretary just pointed out, to get to — close to a
point of no return.  We don’t have a lot of time.  
  
So we have to act — all of us.  We have to act, and we have to act
now.  
  
When we met in April, we agreed to strengthen our efforts as we head to
COP26 in Glasgow.  
  
Today, I’ve called us together again to candidly assess our progress.  
  
I’m grateful to those of you who’ve — who’ve strengthened your
contributions under the Paris Climate Agreement and put forward
ambitious targets for 2030.   
  
And thanks to your leadership, countries representing more than half of
the global GDP are committed to taking steps that will keep us within
reach of our joint pursuit of limiting warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius.  
  
But — but we know there’s still a lot of work to do, and, if anything,
our job has — in my view — has grown more urgent.  
  
The countries representing the Major Economies Forum account for 80
percent of global emissions.  
  
Without adequate commitments from every nation in this room, the goal of
limiting warming to 1.5 degrees slips through our hands.  And that’s a
disaster.  
  
And here’s what I believe we have to do right now and what we — we’re
advancing here in the United States: We have to bring to Glasgow — we
have to bring to Glasgow our highest possible ambitions.   
  
Those that have not yet done so, time is running out.  
  
For our part, in America, I’m working to pass historic investment in —
to modernize our more climate-resilient infrastructure, to build a clean
energy future that creates millions of jobs and ushers in new industries
of the future.  
  
As part of this work, the United States has committed to reduce
greenhouse gas emissions between 50 and 52 percent below 2005 levels by
the year 2030. 

And, you know, we’ve set a goal that by <s>2025</s> \[2035\] our power
sector will be with — free of carbon.  And 2030, 50 percent of cars sold
in the United States, we believe, should be and must be electric
vehicles.  
  
A further step we’re working with the European Union and other partners
to launch is a Global Methane Pledge to reduce global methane emissions
by at least 30 percent below 2020 levels by 2030.   
  
This will not only rapidly reduce the rate of global warming, but it
will also produce a very valuable side benefit, like improving public
health and agricultural output.   
  
We’re — we’re mobilizing support to help developing countries that join
and pledge to do something significant — pledge and seize
this <s>virtual</s> \[vital\] opportunity.  
  
You know, we’ve already taken big steps domestically to tackle these
emissions and create good-paying jobs, introduced by plugging leaks and
capping abandoned wells and gas wells.  
  
We believe the collective goal is both ambitious but realistic.  And we
urge you to join us in announcing this pledge at COP26.  
  
Now, you know, we also have to make additional progress to support
developing countries.   
  
At the time, at the Leaders Summit in April, I announced the United
States is working to double our climate finance, triple our support for
adaptation by 2024 for developing nations.   
  
And I can assure you that we’re looking for ways to go even further
toward meeting the collective goal of mobilizing $100 billion a year
<s>from the developing world and for them</s> \[for the developing
world\].  
  
The next — our emphasis this year is going to be on building the —
building ambition on the — on the road to Glasgow.   
  
Glasgow is not our final destination.  Whatever commitments we make at
COP26, we must all resolve together in Glasgow to continue strengthening
our ambition and our actions next year and throughout the decisive
decade to keep us at one point — below 1.5 degrees and to keep that
within reach.  
  
That’s why this forum, I believe, is so important.  And it was an
important driver in the Paris Climate Agreement.  You know, it was — we
got to continue to play a vital role going forward.  
  
At this crucial juncture — to start — the start of a decisive decade –-
I’d like us to — I’d like to use this forum to forge a political
momentum and consensus to drive concrete actions in four key spheres of
energy, industry, land, the ocean.   
  
And I want to be clear: This forum will — will complement, not
substitute, for other forums.   
  
In fact, with respect to energy and industry, we will closely align our
efforts with the work of the forums like the Clean Energy Ministerial
and the Mission Innovation — both of which, I’m proud to say, the United
States will chair next year.  
  
I plan to kick off these efforts by bringing together ministers in
January to discuss clean energy goals in power, transport, industry,
building sector.   
  
We also want to focus on — on ocean initiatives in advance of Our Ocean
Conference in — next February.  
  
You know, I — I plan to convene a leaders-level gathering so we can take
stock of the collective progress we’ve made.  
  
In closing — and thank you for your patience — I want to again
underscore both the urgency of this moment and the tremendous
opportunity before us.  
  
I look forward to continuing this work — work together and hearing how
you plan to contribute to the climate ambition the world so urgently
needs.  
  
The time is now.  The time is now.  And thank you for your indulgence.  
  
I’m now going to turn this over to Special Envoy John Kerry, but thank
you.  
  
8:41 A.M. EDT
