---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-09-27'
modified_time: 2021-09-27 14:35:09-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/09/27/remarks-by-president-biden-while-receiving-a-covid-19-booster-shot/
published_time: 2021-09-27 14:35:08-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden While Receiving a COVID-\u206019 Booster\_Shot"
---
 
South Court Auditorium  
Eisenhower Executive Office Building

1:08 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, everybody.  How are you doing?  Did you ever
think you’d be seeing your press coming to watch someone get a shot in
the old days?  Me either.  (Laughs.) 

Anyway, like I did in my first and second COVID-19 vaccination shot, I’m
about to get my booster shot and do it publicly.  That’s because the
Food and Drug Administration — the FDA — the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention — the CDC — looked at all the data, completed their
review, and determined that boosters for the Pfizer vaccine — and others
will come later, maybe, I assume — but the Pfizer vaccine are safe and
effective.  They have all the data they need. 

And last week, they laid out who is eligible for those boosters for
now.  You’re eligible for a booster if it’s been six months since your
second Pfizer shot and if you fall into one of these categories: people
over 65, which is hard to acknowledge — adults — I’m only joking folks;
adults with certain underlying health conditions like diabetes and
obesity; and those who are at increased risk of COVID-19 because of
where you work or where you live, like healthcare workers, teachers,
first responders, grocery store clerks. 

If you fall under these categories, you’re eligible for the booster. 
Now, I know it doesn’t look like it, but I am over 65 — I wish I — way
over.  And that’s why I’m getting my booster shot today. 

The booster line is if you’re fully vaccinated — the bottom line is that
if you’re fully vaccinated and — you’re highly protected now from severe
illness, even if you get COVID-19.  You’re safe, and we’re going to do
everything we can to keep it that way with the boosters.

But let me be clear: Boosters are important, but the most important
thing we need to do is get more people vaccinated. 

The vast majority of Americans are doing the right thing.  Over 77
percent of adults have gotten at least one shot.  About 23 percent
haven’t gotten any shots, and that — that distinct minority is causing
an awful lot of us an awful lot of damage for the rest of the country.

This is a pandemic of the unvaccinated.  That’s why I’m moving forward
with vaccination requirements wherever I can.  

On Wednesday, I’ll be traveling to Chicago to talk about why it’s so
important that more businesses are instituting their own vaccine
requirements. 

We know that to beat this pandemic and to save lives, to keep our
children safe, our schools open, our economy going, we need to get folks
vaccinated. 

So, please — please do the right thing.  Please get the shots.  And it
can save your life.  It can save the lives of those around you.  And
it’s easy, accessible, and it’s free.

So, text your ZIP Code to 438829 — that’s 438829 — or visit Vaccines.gov
to find a vaccination location near you.  We can do this.  Get
vaccinated. 

Thank you very much.  Now, I’m going to get my booster shot and — right
here.  And the Major is going to give me the shot.

Q    Did you have any side effects with the second shot, Mr. President?

THE PRESIDENT:  No, I haven’t any side effects the first or second shot,
thank goodness.  I don’t anticipate one now, but we’ll see.

Q    Is the First Lady getting hers as well today, Mr. President?

THE PRESIDENT:  She’s going to get one.  Not that — I think she’s
teaching.  She — but she’s going to get one.  Yes.

Q    Mr. President, what do you say to the world health leaders, like
the World Health Organization, who say wealthy nations should help more
countries without vaccinations to get vaccinated before they get
boosters here in America?

THE PRESIDENT:  We are helping — we are doing more than every other
nation in the world combined.  We’re going to have well over
1,100,000,000 shots, and we’re going to continue going.  We’re going to
do our part.  We’ve also given a great deal of funding to COVAX, which
is the vehicle that does this.

(The President receives a COVID-19 booster shot.)

So, we have plenty, plenty of opportunities to make sure we get everyone
in the world — to play our part — the largest part in the world of
getting everyone vaccinated.

Q    How many — how many Americans need to be vaccinated for us to go
back to normal?  Like what is the percentage of total vaccinations that
have to be deployed?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I think — look, I think we get the vast majority —
like is going on in so many — some industries and some schools — 96, 97,
98 percent.  I think we’re getting awful close.  But I’m not the
scientist. 

I think — but one thing for certain: A quarter of the country can’t go
unvaccinated and us not continue to have a problem.

Q    Any progress on a reconciliation deal today, Mr. President?  How
close do you think you are?

THE PRESIDENT:  You know me, I’m a born optimist.  I think things are
going to go well.  I think we’re going to get it done.  And — but I have
meetings tonight, tomorrow, and for the next little bit. 

Q    So what is at stake — what is at stake for your agenda and your
presidency with what’s happening on the Hill this week? 

THE PRESIDENT:  Victory is what’s at stake. 

Q    Mr. President, how would you define “success” this week,
legislatively?  How would you define “success,” legislatively, by the
end of this week?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, it may not be by the end of the week. I hope it’s
by the end of the week.  But as long as we’re still alive, the longer —
we got three things to do: the debt ceiling, the continuing resolution,
and the two pieces of legislation.  If we do that, the country is going
to be in great shape.

Thank you very much. 

1:14 P.M. EDT
