---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-09-09'
modified_time: 2021-09-10 08:35:14-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/09/09/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-before-a-reproductive-rights-roundtable/
published_time: 2021-09-09 18:09:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris Before a Reproductive Rights\_Roundtable"
---
 
*Vice President’s Ceremonial Office*

3:43 P.M. EDT  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, again, I want to thank the leaders who are at
this table.  You are national leaders.  And at this moment, and for a
long time, you have been leading on an issue that represents the voice —
represents the voices of so many who deserve to be heard, deserve to be
seen, and whose rights must be protected, and in particular, their
constitutional rights and the right to dignity in making their own
choices about their personal healthcare.   
  
So, I want to thank you all for being here today.  We are going to have
a robust and a candid conversation about what’s going on in our country
and, in particular, of what just recently happened in Texas.   
  
But I will repeat what I know you all know: The President and I are
unequivocal in our support of Roe v. Wade and the constitutionality of
Roe v. Wade, and the right of women to make decisions for themselves
with whomever they choose — about their own bodies.  And, needless to
say, the right of women to make decisions about their own bodies is not
negotiable.  The right of women to make decisions about their own bodies
is their decision; it is their body.   
  
And no legislative institutions have the right to circumvent the
Constitution of the United States in an attempt to interfere with, much
less to prevent, a woman to make those decisions.  
  
So we will have a conversation about how what is happening in Texas is
affect- — affecting women in Texas. But, as we know, it’s not only Texas
where this is happening.  And I know we’re going to talk about
Mississippi.  We’re talking about New Mexico.  We’re going to talk about
the United States and what we must do collectively — all of us — to
protect the women of our country and protect their constitutional
rights.  
  
All of this, again, is in the wake of the Supreme Court ruling, as it
relates to the Texas law, which is essentially an abortion bounty law,
empowering vigilantes with a private right of action to interfere with a
woman’s relationship with her healthcare provider.  
  
The Supreme Court has allowed a state law to stand that deputizes
citizens — anyone — to proclaim themselves in a position to have a right
under law to interfere with those choices that that woman has made.  
  
Today, however, the United States Department of Justice has spoken
loudly in saying that this law is patently unconstitutional and that the
United States Department of Justice is prepared to take action and to
sue, understanding that what Texas has done is a violation of the United
States Constitution.  
  
Today, also, our Gender Policy Council, the leaders of whom are here,
will talk — as part of this conversation — about the whole-of-government
approach that our administration is taking to protect women and to
protect healthcare providers and all those who have had the best
interest in protecting the constitutional rights of women so that we can
ensure that — to the extent we are able to elevate the voices and
protect constitutional rights — that we are doing everything within our
power as an administration to get that done.  
  
And on the point about Texas, this is not a one-off.  It’s not the only
state that is doing this.  Right now, there are 22 states that have laws
that could be used to restrict the legal status of abortions. 
Twenty-two.  Ninety provisions that restrict access to reproductive
healthcare were passed in 2021.  Ninety provisions.   
  
Some states, like Kentucky and Mississippi, have only one abortion
clinic.  And we will talk about what that has meant not only to the
healthcare professionals and the residents of those states, but also the
impact to neighboring states and healthcare professionals from
neighboring states.   
  
And today, you know, I simply want to talk also about what happens when
— when we do the right thing, which is to provide all people with access
to healthcare.  Because we made a statement a long time ago that we
agree that it is a human right — should be thought of as a civil right —
for all people to have access to healthcare, regardless of their gender,
regardless of their status, regardless of where they live.  
  
And so, when we move closer to our national goal of women’s full
participation in our nation, including ensuring that all women have
access to healthcare, including reproductive healthcare, I believe we
will be a stronger nation.  I believe we will be closer to what we say
we hold as an ideal, which is all people are equal and should be treated
that way, including their access to essential services.  
  
So, for me, this is truly an issue that is about full participation. 
And in that way, we know that when all people are able to fully
participate, our democracy is stronger and everyone benefits.  And in
that way, this issue connects to everyone.  
  
When people are able to design their lives in a way that they can
determine their own futures, we are a stronger democracy and we are a
stronger nation.  When people are able to make choices without
government interference for themselves — in terms of their wellbeing and
the wellbeing of their family, in consultation with whomever they may
choose — we are a stronger society.   
  
So, it is with that spirit that we will have this conversation now.  
  
And again, I want to thank the leaders who are at this table because you
are on the ground doing this work every day.  And there are a whole lot
of folks looking to you for confidence, for support, and looking to you,
hoping that we as a country understand that they are rightfully entitled
to dignity and protection under the law, as we have declared in our
United States Constitution should be the right of all people.  
  
So, with that, I thank you.  And we’ll begin our conversation.  
  
Q    Madam Vice President, what is — what are some of the immediate
steps that this administration can take to combat this law?  Because, as
you know, litigation can take years.  Is there any legislation that this
administration supports?   
  
And then, as the first woman Vice President, is this an issue that you
want to take ownership of — over?  Would you like to add this to your
portfolio?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, let me tell you, first of all, this is an
issue that I’ve been — along with so many other leaders, including the
leaders at this table — been a strong advocate for, which is the right
of a woman to make decisions about her own body and not to have anybody
interfere with her ability and her right to make that decision.  
  
On the issue of laws, the President has said, I have said, and I will
repeat myself: We need to codify Roe v. Wade.  
  
Thank you. 

3:51 P.M. EDT  
