---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-09-07'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/09/07/remarks-by-president-biden-in-briefing-on-the-impact-of-hurricane-ida-in-hillsborough-township-nj/
published_time: 2021-09-07 15:59:52-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden in Briefing on the Impact of Hurricane Ida in\
  \ Hillsborough Township,\_NJ"
---
 
Somerset County Emergency Management Training Center  
Hillsborough Township, New Jersey

12:23 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Thanks, Gov.  Thank you.  Wish I were here under
different circumstances, but you really took a hit and New Jersey took a
hit; parts of my state as well, but New Jersey and New York in
particular.    
  
And I want to begin by thanking Senator Booker for all the work he’s
doing in the Senate trying to get this infrastructure and other — the
things we have to do to not just build back, but build back better than
it was before.   
  
And I want to thank Representative Watson and — now, am I in your
district or am I in — I’m in Tommy’s district —  
  
REPRESENTATIVE WATSON COLEMAN:  You’ll be in my district in a moment.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  In a moment.  Okay.  We’re right on the line.  
  
REPRESENTATIVE MALINOWSKI:  We’re all one district.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I — I think that’s true.  And you also have one of the
best state police forces in the nation.  I’m a big statey guy, and so is
Delaware.   
  
But thank you very much for all you do.   
  
Look, to the local officials, the mayors, and the county commissioner:
You really get hit first.  They come to you first.  They want to know
what’s going on, what you can do to help them.  And, in some cases, even
with search and rescue, you can have some of the least reach in terms of
availability of resources.  
  
And the one thing I will say — and I really want to thank my FEMA
director.  She’s done one thing that — and we had a great FEMA director
in the past as well — that makes it work.  When you get local, state,
and federal working together, it is more than three times — it’s — it’s
like 10 times what it would be if just having one moving.  
  
And the losses that we witnessed today are profound: dozens of lost
lives; homes destroyed in Manville, including by gas leaks triggered by
the flooding; damaged infrastructure, including the rail system.  And my
thoughts are with all those families affected by the storms and all
those families who lost someone they love.   
  
I understand there are still two — is it two people missing?  Or —  
  
GOVERNOR MURPHY:  Four.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Four people still missing.  And I especially want to
thank — and it’s an overused phrase, but the brave first responders.  I
— you know, we have — you have exemplified the courage, both in New
Jersey and next door in New York.  They’ve done an incredible job.  
  
And we’re working closely with Governor Murphy, and we’re going to
continue to do so.  I’m here to see firsthand what the damage is and
find out directly from you all what — what is most needed.  
  
Now, look, FEMA has been, I hope, as responsive as we’ve intended them
to be, and I’m sure they have.  A hundred and thirty-two personnel from
FEMA, so far, including federal search and rescue teams, including 60
individuals; Incident Management Assistant Teams of 20 people to support
these response operations; and Mobile Emergency Response Support teams —
six of them — to provide communications and logistics support.  
  
And on Sunday, when — when the governor — and we spoke to the governor
and he asked for the major disaster declaration, we made it available
immediately so that we could speed federal assistance as quickly as we
could to hard-hit communities.  
  
The FEMA Administrator was on the ground here in New Jersey yesterday, I
believe, to assess the damage.  She’s visited two communities, Mullica
Hills and Wenonah, hit by the tornado, as — that was on the ground just
— what? — for over 13 miles that was on the ground, that tornado — those
tornados.  
  
The HHS Secretary has worked with the state to make sure folks on
Medicare and Medicaid get the emergency care they need now.  And we’re
going to make sure the relief is equitable so that those hardest hit get
what they need.  And they — and we know there’s a lot more to do, and
that’s why we’re here.  
  
For decades, scientists have warned of extreme — weather would be more
extreme and climate change was here, and we’re living through it now. 
We don’t have any more time.  
  
I hope no one — I’ve been on the telephone or on the road an awful lot
between California, Idaho, New Orleans — excuse me, not New Orleans —
Louisiana, but in New Orleans — Mississippi and, you know, here.  I
mean, every part of the country — every part of the country is getting
hit by extreme weather.  And we’re now living in real time what the
country is going to look like.  And if we don’t do something — we can’t
turn it back very much, but we can prevent it from getting worse.   
  
And so, we’re all in this together, and we’ve got to — we’ve got to make
sure that we don’t leave any community behind.  And it’s all across the
country.   
  
You know, the members of Congress know from their colleagues in Congress
that, you know, the — what looks like a tornado — they don’t call them
that anymore — that hit the crops and wetlands in the middle of the
country, in Iowa, in Nevada, and — I mean, it’s just across the
board.   
  
And, you know, as I said, we’re in this together.  And so, one of the
things that, today, I’m going to ask you about when we get into this —
some question and answers here, is about how we’re going to build back
realizing what the status of the climate is now, what the trajectory of
it is going to be.   
  
And we can no longer — we all know — we can’t just build back to what it
was before.  Whatever damage done in New Jersey, you can’t build back
and restore it — what it was before, because another tornado, another 10
inches of rain is going to produce the same kind of results.   
  
So, I want to talk a little bit about the specifics about the things you
think you would need not just to get back to normal, but to get back to
a place where, if it happened again, the damage would be considerably
less.  That’s what this is all about, in my view.  This is an
opportunity.   
  
I think the country has finally acknowledged the fact that global
warming is real and it’s moving at an incredible pace, and we’ve got to
do something about it.   
  
I’m going to be going from here to what — <s>COP29</s> \[COP26\] in
Glasgow for the world meeting together and how we’re going to deal with
climate change.  And it is — it’s — I think we’re at one of those
inflection points where we either act or we’re going to be — we’re going
to be in real, real trouble.  Our kids are going to be in real
trouble.   
  
So I want to thank you, and I yield back to you, Gov.  
  
GOVERNOR MURPHY:  Thank you, Mr. President.  Amen to all.  And again, we
can’t thank you enough for being here, for all your support.   
  
Another person who we’re going to hear from next has been there for us. 
And Deanne Criswell, who’s the Administrator for FEMA — we’ve had a lot
of conversations over the past several weeks, harking back to Henri,
which also wreaked some havoc in New Jersey but nothing like Ida.   
  
Madam Administrator, it’s an honor to have you here.  
  
ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  Thank you, Mr. President.  Thank you,
Governor.  And thank you to all the elected officials, commissioners,
and mayors that are here today.  
  
I’d actually like to start by giving a big shout-out to all of the first
responders that have been supporting the lifesaving efforts over the
last few days, many of them in your own communities, many of them who
have had damages to their own homes.  And I just want everybody to know:
The hard work that you do is really appreciated at — you know, in your
communities, but also at the federal level as well.  We couldn’t do it
without you.  You’re the ones on the ground.  I always say it, and
you’ve heard from others as well: Disasters always start and end local,
and so we want to make sure that we’re here to support the first
responders.   
  
I did spend yesterday visiting some of the damaged areas and meeting
with local officials.  I toured Mullica Hill and Wenonah, and witnessed
firsthand the destruction that these tornadoes did bring.  
  
But because of the President’s swift action in declaring a major
disaster declaration, we’ve been able to now provide aid to some of the
families who have been impacted, specifically those individuals that
live in Bergen, Gloucester — excuse me if I get these wrong — pronounce
them wrong — Hunterdon, Middlesex, Passaic, and Somerset.  And —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  It’s okay as long as you send the money.  
  
ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  I’m sending money.  I bring a checkbook, Mr.
President, that you gave me.   
  
And we’re continuing to do damage assessments today.  So I have staff on
the ground today that are doing assessments in Essex, Hudson, Union, and
Mercer.  And, you know, we wanted to be able to get this disaster
declaration in place quickly, knowing that we still needed to do
additional damage assessments, to really get a better understanding of
the scope of the impact that the communities are experiencing across New
Jersey.   
  
So far, we actually already have over 7,000 families that have
registered for assistance, and that number will continue to grow.  But
if they haven’t registered yet, individuals can go to
DisasterAssistance.gov, they can go to our FEMA app, or they can call
1-800-621-FEMA.  That’s 1-800-621-3362.   
  
Additionally, we’re going to have teams that are going in the
neighborhoods.  They will also be in the recovery centers when they’re
established.  If you haven’t registered, they can assist you with
registering.  If you have and you have questions about your case, just
find somebody with a FEMA shirt and they’ll help you understand where
it’s at and if you — if you need to provide any more information.  
  
I mean, I think — you know, the thing that’s been remarkable over the
last few weeks in watching the track of Hurricane Ida that really caused
damage across nine states is that the weather events such as these are
just becoming more normal.  They’re becoming more common, but they’re
more severe and they’re more intense.  And the effects of climate change
that are causing these storms is here, and it’s our job to make sure
that we are all ready to respond, as well as prepared.  
  
And FEMA is really committed to helping with making communities more
resilient.  We recently authorized, on behalf of the President, close to
$5 billion in hazard mitigation funding to help give communities that
extra resource to build that resiliency.  It’s just the first step.  But
FEMA wants to be an active participant in this role of making sure that
we’re preparing to reduce the impacts from the future risks that we’re
going to continue to see as a result of climate change.   
  
And then, lastly, I’d just like to say: This is September, and it is
National Preparedness Month, and our theme this year is “Prepare to
Protect.”  And I think what we saw over the last week is that nobody is
immune from the threats that we’re facing from these disasters.   
  
I read recently that it said one in three Americans have already
experienced a major disaster this year.  I can’t, you know, verify that
number, but it’s there.  People are experiencing these events.  We need
to invest in reducing the risk that these communities are facing, but we
also need to make sure that we’re helping individuals be prepared.  
  
And so, if you don’t have an emergency plan, please go to Ready.gov, and
there’s some great information there to help you prepare for what you
may be experiencing in the future.   
  
Thank you, Mr. President.  Thank you, Governor.   
  
GOVERNOR MURPHY:  Thank you.  Thank you, Deanne.  Thank you for the
major disaster declaration for those six counties, including this one,
and for your work to hopefully add to that list.  I know your team is —
is on that.   
  
Again, it’s DisasterAssistance.gov if you’re in those six counties.  If
you’re not in the six counties, we have a website set up — NJ.gov/Ida —
and, hopefully, that’s a landing place for now for folks to go until —
please, God — they get designated as a disaster county.  So, thank you
for everything.  You all have been extraordinary.   
  
We’re in Somerset County and we’re honored to have the Commissioner
Director with us, an outstanding leader.  Hear a few words from Shanel
Robinson.  Shanel.  
  
COMMISSIONER DIRECTOR ROBINSON:  Thank you.  Thank you, Mr.
President.  And thank you, Governor.  And welcome, to all of you, to
Somerset County’s Emergency Operations Center.  And thank you for
visiting to see the catastrophic damage that Ida brought firsthand.  
  
We all greatly appreciate your commitment to our recovery and especially
for our inclusion in FEMA’s disas- — major disaster declaration.  So,
again, thank you for that.  
  
Now, as you tour Manville today, you will see the heart and spirit and
the resilience of the people of Somerset County.  You will see the
devastation that Ida brought, but nevertheless, we will continue to do
and build a better and stronger community.  
  
Hurricane Ida is our fourth — understand, our fourth storm of the
100-year storm in just over two decades.  And as you mentioned, Mr.
President, it’s only going to get worse.  
  
But this historic storm has hit us particularly hard.  You know, in
Somerset County, the result was not just a deluge of waters, but a
deluge of emergencies.   
  
In our own, Somerset County 911 Communications Center fielded over
13,000 calls that night, 5,000 of them being 911; 520 air and water
rescues, where people were rescued from their vehicles or from their
homes; 170 fire alarms; 8 explosions; and there are countless of
automobile accidents and injuries.  
  
But as we all can attest to and can agree to is that our first
responders — state, local rescue teams — risked their own safety to save
the lives of the residents of not only Somerset County, but of the state
of New Jersey.   
  
And I would be remiss if I did not thank our Somerset County Department
of Public Works who were, with their front loaders, rescuing people who
were out there cleaning the debris, making sure the roadways were safe
and blocked from those that entered into dangerous paths.  
  
But also, during the worst of the raging waters in our Millstone and
Raritan rivers — they raged over our 750 bridges here in Somerset County
alone, but yet our workers were there to make sure that they were doing
all that they could to make sure that our residents were safe.  
  
And sadly, six Somerset County residents lost their lives to the
floodwaters.  We must continue to hold their families and loved ones in
our prayers and in our hearts.   
  
But again, because of Ida’s devastation, we know that we cannot forget
that we must endure, as we have thousands of people that are continuing
to seek shelter.   
  
Our collective mission now — as you see around the room, you have local,
county, state, and federal officials coming together to making sure that
we get our families back into our homes, make sure that our businesses
are operating again, and to repair and restore our public
infrastructure.  
  
Here in New Jersey, there is a strong connection — again, the leadership
who are in the room — there’s a strong connection to make sure that
we’re doing all that we can for the residents of New Jersey, not just
Somerset County.  And we must do all that we can to make sure that the
residents know that we have their back.  And as you said, Commissioner —
Administrator, we’re here to prepare to protect.  And if the residents
do not feel that we have their backs, then we failed them.  
  
So, over the weekend, we’ve transitioned from emergency response to
disaster recovery.  This will not only take weeks, but months or even
longer.  We will never be back to close to normal, but all we can do is
do better.  
  
We will need FEMA, the Red Cross, state and local OEM, and nonprofits to
come together to ensure that the recovery is not just for some, but for
all.  
  
So, again, thank you, Mr. President.  And thank you, Governor.  And
thank you to all of you for your resiliency and for your deep concern
for not only Som- — not only Somerset County, but the state of New
Jersey, and your commitment to our recovery.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Shanel.  
  
GOVERNOR MURPHY:  Thank you, Shanel.  Great leadership by you and your
team, as you said, at the county and local level, and heroism all over
the state by first responders.  
  
With your blessing, Mr. President, I think we have one more speaker
before our friends in the press leave, and that is the superintendent of
our state police, Colonel Pat Callahan, who has been there every single
day during this pandemic and certainly through Ida and all the other
weather challenges we’ve had.   
  
Pat, over to you.   
  
COLONEL CALLAHAN:  Thank you, Governor, for that introduction and
certainly for your continued leadership through probably some of the
most challenging times in New Jersey’s history.   
  
And thank you, Mr. President, especially for your kind words about the
state police.  Delaware State Police is pretty good too, Mr.
President.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  The best.  
  
COLONEL CALLAHAN:  (Laughs.)  But your presence here sends a strong
message to all of us and to our residents that that support — from not
only response, to recovery, mitigation — that the federal government is
here, and that we saw that yesterday when the Administrator and I walked
around and spoke to those homeowners.  So, thank you.   
  
And I also want to take this opportunity to thank and offer my gratitude
for the swift offers of assistance that we got from the White House,
from FEMA, Department of Defense, HHS.  It’s an honor to stand
shoulder-to-shoulder with all of you and show the rest of the country
what it means to be a true collaborative effort here.  So, thank you.  
  
And just a little bit about the day of the storm, Mr. President: That
morning of, at 10:00 a.m., we hosted a call with the National Weather
Service, all of our county OEM coordinators, our state emergency
management partners.  We activated our SEOC two hours later.  And then,
in short order, that unprecedented amount of rainfall just stagger- —
staggering rate fell and ravaged our state, upending families and
causing a horrible loss of life, as you’ve heard.  
  
To give a broad picture, very few areas were unscathed.  Flooding
occurred in 10 of our 21 counties that were normally not flood prone. 
And as we witnessed yesterday, that EF-3 that hit down on that 13-mile
path, starting with — over in Harrison Township, all the way up through
Wenonah and out.   
  
So it — that all happened in a period of about 9 or 10 hours.  
  
GOVERNOR MURPHY:  Yep.  
  
COLONEL CALLAHAN:  Almost three months of rain in about five hours. 
Just unprecedented.  The rivers exceeded their levels even today.  The
Passaic rifer \[sic\] is — Passaic River is not expected to fall below
flood stage until tomorrow.  We might even be expecting some rain
tomorrow, which we’re keeping an eye on, as you could well know.   
  
And, Mr. President, while we prepared our roadways, we cleared storm
drains and debris, the amount of rainfall was overwhelming.  Whole
roadways were actually swept completely away.  Motorists were stranded
for hours.  And, as you know, sadly, some of them never made it home.   
  
Our search and rescue personnel, just at the state level alone, had 543
rescues.  And collectively, our local first responders — to your point —
more than 3,500 rescues in that time, leaving their own families,
leaving their own homes.  And our missing persons operations are still
ongoing for those four.  
  
The preliminary damage assessments have been happening at a rapid rate. 
And as we know, that those four additional counties — that we’re
hopefully going to get there.  So, thank you for that.   
  
The debris removal costs alone for this one are going to be staggering,
as everybody in the room knows.  And some of our most economically
vulnerable populations have been hit the hardest, with many individuals
who lost their homes, they lost their vehicles, and they lost their jobs
all in that 10-hour period.   
  
Shelter is going to be a need, temporary housing, the debris removal,
and sadly, unemployment and funeral assistance for several of those
families.   
  
But I would like to point out that the damage that we witnessed probably
would have been significantly worse if it wasn’t for the mitigation
efforts that New Jersey had in place for the past several years, thanks
to our partnership with FEMA.  
  
In New Jersey, we have a return of six dollars in savings for every
dollar spent from our mitigation.  I think that puts us in the top five
of the 50 states, which is pretty phenomenal.  So that’s under Governor
Murphy’s leadership.  
  
Our Climate and Flood Resilience Program and Interagency Council on
Climate Resilience is undertaking bold and comprehensive actions to
ensure that our communities and infrastructure are more resilient for
future storms.  And I know that’s what you spoke of in your remarks:
that resiliency can’t mean bouncing back; resiliency has to be bouncing
forward because these storms are going to keep coming.  
  
So investing that federal funding in our state will certainly ensure
that we’re building a better nation together, and I know that that’s a
priority for you and your administration.  
  
So, in closing, I echo the Governor’s remarks and welcome you here to
New Jersey, while I certainly wish it were under different
circumstances.   
  
But having lived your life in our neighborhood, you know that we’re a
strong, resilient people and a tough state, and I — together, I know
that we’re going to get our families and our citizens back and forward
from where we need to be.  
  
So, thank you, sir.  It was an honor.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Thank all your troopers for us too.  We — for real.  
  
GOVERNOR MURPHY:  Thank you.  And it has to be said, Mr. President — and
I think the mayors you will hear from in a minute — the press, I think,
with your blessing, are going to depart if I’m not — if I’ve got that
right.  
  
Every loss of life is a tragedy, never mind 27 — and four missing.  But,
literally, thousands of rescues —  
  
(The press departs the room.)  
  
12:47 P.M. EDT
