---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-09-24'
modified_time: 2021-09-24 15:37:22-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/09/24/remarks-by-president-biden-and-prime-minister-modi-of-the-republic-of-india-before-bilateral-meeting/
published_time: 2021-09-24 15:45:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and Prime Minister Modi of the Republic of India\
  \ Before Bilateral\_Meeting"
---
 
Oval Office

11:17 A.M. EDT

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, welcome.  I want to welcome my friend — and we
have known each other for some time — back to the White House.  And, Mr.
Prime Minister, we’re going to continue to build on our strong
partnership.

When I showed the Prime Minister to his seat, I pointed out that seat is
occupied almost every day by an Indian American. 

The Vice President’s mother was from India — a scientist and a
remarkable woman.

As — as I think you know, Mr. Prime Minister, I’ve long believed that
the U.S.-India relationship can help us solve an awful lot of global
challenges.

In fact, back in 2006, I set that hope out, where I said that by 2020 —
when I was Vice President — 2020, India and the United States would be
among the closest nations in the world with one another.

And maybe I shouldn’t — these are not part of my prepared remarks.  But
when I was in Mumbai, as Vice President, I finished meeting with the
equivalent of the Chamber of Commerce.  And afterwards, the Indian press
asked me: Do I have any relatives in India?

PRIME MINISTER MODI:  Yes.  (Laughs.)

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  And I said, “I — I’m not sure. But when I was elected
as a 29-year-old kid in 1972, before I was sworn in, I got a letter from
a person named ‘Biden’ — last name — in the Mumbai — from Mumbai.” 

And I — I said, “But I never was able to follow up.”  The next morning,
I had a press conference going away, and the Indian press said — someone
spoke up and said, “You have five Bidens in India.” 

And although I’ve never — never admitted it, jokingly, that — I found
out that there was a Captain George Biden, who was a captain in the East
India Tea Company.  That’s hard for an Irishman to admit. 

I shouldn’t be casual with you all because — I hope you understand the
humor here. 

But — and the end result was that I — he apparently stayed and married
an Indian woman.  And I’ve never been able to track it down.  So, the
whole purpose of this meeting is for him to help me figure out
(inaudible.)  (Laughter.)

But all kidding aside, I think that the relationship between India and
the United States — the largest democracies in the world — is destined
to be stronger, closer, and tighter.  And I think it can benefit the
whole world.

And I think that’s begun to come to pass.  And, today, we’re launching a
new chapter in the history of U.S.-Indian ties, and taking on some of
the toughest challenges we’ve faced together, starting with a shared
commitment to ending the COVID pandemic. 

The Prime Minister and I are going to be talking today about what more
we can do to fight COVID-19, take on the climate challenges that the
world face, and ensure stability in the Indo-Pacific, including with our
— our own Quad partners.

Of course, our partnership is more than just what we do; it’s about who
we are.  It’s rooted in our shared responsibility to uphold democratic
values, our joint commitment to diversity, and it’s about family ties,
including 4 million — 4 million Indian Americans who make the United
States stronger every single day.

As the world celebrates Mahatma Gandhi’s birthday next week, we’re all
reminded that his message of non-violence, respect, tolerance matters
today maybe more than it ever has.

And so I’m looking forward to my discussion with the Prime Minister. 
And thank you.

Mr. Prime Minister, the floor is yours.

PRIME MINISTER MODI:  (As interpreted.)  First of all, Mr. President, I
would like to express my gratitude for this very warm welcome full of
friendship not only to me, but to my delegation.

Mr. President, in 2016 — and even before that, in 2014 — we had an
opportunity to have discussions in detail.  And at that time, Mr.
President, you had laid out your vision for the relations between India
and the United States, and you had enunciated that in great detail. 
And, really, that was a vision that was inspirational. 

And today, Mr. President, as President, you are making all efforts and
taking initiatives to implement that vision, and I warmly welcome that.

Mr. President, you have talked today — spoken in detail about the Biden
surname in India.  And, in fact, you had mentioned that to me earlier
too.  Well, after you mentioned it to me, I hunted for documents.  And
today, I have brought along some documents.  (Laughter.)

Maybe we’ll be able to take this matter forward, and maybe those
documents could be of use to you.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Are we related?

PRIME MINISTER MODI:  Yes.  (Laughter.)

(As interpreted.)  Mr. President, I firmly believe that in our summit
talks and summit meeting today, what I see is that this is the third
decade of the 21st century.  This is the first year of the third decade,
and I see that, when I look at the entire decade, I find that under your
leadership, the seeds have been sewn for the Indo-U.S. relations to
expand.  And for all democratic countries in the world, this is going to
be a transformative period.  I can see that very clearly.

And this is when I see that this transformative period is in Indo-U.S.
relations.  And when I talk about traditions, I’m talking about
democratic traditions, democratic values — traditions to which both our
countries are committed.  And I find that the importance of these
traditions are — will only increase further.

In a similar vein, Mr. President, you mentioned the more than 4 million
Indian Americans who are participating in the journey — the journey of
progress of America.  And when I look at the importance of this decade
and the role that is going to be played by this talent of the Indian
Americans, I find that this people-to-people talent will play a greater
role and Indian talent will be a full partner in this relationship.  And
I see that your contribution is going to be very important in this.

Mr. President, in similar lines, the most important driving force in the
world today will be that of technology and the technology that is going
to be for the service and for the use of humanity.  And I find that
opportunities for this are going to be tremendous.

Similarly, Mr. President, between India and the United States, trade
will continue to assume importance, and we find that the trade between
our two countries are actually complementary.  There are things that you
have and there are things that we have.  And then, we, in fact,
complement each other.  And I find that, in the area of trade during
this decade, that is also going to be tremendously important.

Mr. President, you just mentioned that on the 2nd of October we will be
celebrating the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi.  And Mahatma Gandhi
always used to talk about the principle of trusteeship — trusteeship of
the planet.  And this decade, Mr. President, from that point of view, is
also going to be important as this entire principle of trusteeship.  
  
It means that the planet that we have, we have to bequeath it to the
following generations.  And this sentiment of trusteeship is going to
assume more and more importance globally but also between the relations
between India and the United States.  And it is these ideals that
Mahatma Gandhi espoused when he talked about trusteeship of the planet
and where the responsibility of global citizens is only going to go up.

Mr. President, you mentioned very important issues, and, after assuming
charge as President of the United States, you have taken very unique
initiatives, whether that be COVID-19, climate change, or even the
Quad. 

And in the days after that — after taking this initiative, you have made
and deployed great efforts to bring them to implement your vision. 

And also, today, we have this opportunity to discuss all these issues in
great detail, how — and after our discussions, we will look towards how
we can work further together, not only for our respective countries, but
for the entire world how we can take positive action.  And I am quite —
I’m absolutely convinced that under your leadership, whatever we do, it
will be extremely relevant for the entire world.

Once again, Mr. President, let me thank you profusely for this very warm
welcome.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Thank you.  
  
PRIME MINISTER MODI:  Thank you.

11:38 A.M. EDT
