---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-09-09'
modified_time: 2021-09-09 15:32:55-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/09/09/remarks-by-assistant-to-the-president-for-homeland-security-dr-liz-sherwood-randall-on-the-future-of-the-u-s-counterterrorism-mission-aligning-strategy-policy-and-resources/
published_time: 2021-09-09 08:41:55-04:00
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by Assistant to the President for Homeland\
  \ Security, Dr. Liz Sherwood-Randall on the Future of the U.S. Counterterrorism\
  \ Mission: Aligning Strategy, Policy, and\_Resources"
---
 
September 8, 2021

I am delighted to speak at the Atlantic Council today and want to
express my great thanks to Fred Kempe for his generous introduction.
Fred, your leadership has been transformational, including in the work
that the Atlantic Council has done recently on how counterterrorism
policy needs to evolve. I know you have formed the Atlantic Council’s
Counterterrorism Study Group and that many distinguished former
counterterrorism officials participate in it.  Indeed, I benefit every
day from the meaningful discussions of that group because two of my
closest colleagues on the National Security Council team, Russ Travers
and Josh Geltzer, are both former members of it. So thank you for what
you are doing – on this front as well as on so many others.   
  
In these times I am especially grateful that the Atlantic Council
continues to be a beacon for civil, nonpartisan consideration of
pressing national security challenges – from energy security to the
future of NATO – and on the topic that we are gathering to discuss today
on the US counterterrorism mission.

Twenty years ago this week, I was preparing our youngest child for his
first day of nursery school on a sunny California morning.  As we always
did, my husband and I turned on the news to assess the traffic we would
face along the drive.  Instead, what we witnessed were the horrific
images of the twin towers crashing down, unfolding live on the
television screen.  The maliciousness of the multiple attacks that day,
the human tragedies that ensued, and the collective strength of our
nation in response resulted in a major reorientation of U.S. national
security priorities.

Guided by the commitment to prevent anything like 9/11 from ever
happening again, we remade our national security architecture, rewrote
our laws, restructured our institutions, and refocused our country on
keeping Americans safe from terrorism.

The prevention of another such attack was not a foregone conclusion in
the wake of 9/11. Most people feared and many predicted that this
country would face another terrorist attack on a similar scale soon, and
surely within the next twenty years. The fact that this has not happened
is due to the ingenuity, dedication, and selflessness of countless
national security, law enforcement, military, diplomatic and
intelligence professionals across our government and around the world
over the past two decades.

Twenty years on, our challenge is different. We have learned since 9/11
how to protect Americans from terrorism. It isn’t fail-safe, and
terrible things still happen.  But through a combination of actions
abroad and at home, we have thus far been able to disrupt and prevent
another 9/11-style attack.

We face two intertwined challenges now: first, to counter terrorism
effectively as the terrorist landscape evolves; and second, to integrate
our approach to terrorism into the broader set of current and emerging
national security priorities. Given this evolution, I’d like to outline
the three core counterterrorism principles that we have developed since
President Biden took office in January.

First, terrorist threats have morphed and metastasized, and we need to
keep pace with those evolutions. That means approaching counterterrorism
as an effort calibrated not to contend with the threats we faced in
September 2001 but to the threats we face now and that we will face
going forward.     
  
Second, as a nation, we need to set priorities and match resources to a
range of evolving national security challenges – from a more aggressive
China, to cyber attacks on our critical infrastructure, to pandemics and
biological threats. 

Third, effectively countering terrorism in the future – and doing so in
a manner that allows sufficient focus on other key priorities – will
require that we adapt our approach using the full range of tools at our
disposal, including diplomacy, development, and prevention efforts, all
in a manner tailored to the threats we face and the local contexts in
which they arise.   

That means integrating counterterrorism strategy into regional
strategies, nesting our CT efforts within a broader suite of
initiatives, and investing in an Indicators-and-Warning architecture
that will enable us to understand the evolving threat environment.
Fundamentally, it means building a counterterrorism enterprise that is
positioned to detect threats as they evolve, flexible enough to adapt to
changing threats, and nimble enough to tailor our approach to the
threats we face in real time.

***Starting with the first principle, terrorist threats have changed,
and we need to change to keep pace. ***

Since 9/11, countering terrorism has been a consistent national security
priority. And we have had significant success. We have degraded
Al-Qa’ida and ISIS and reduced the threat of large-scale attacks on the
Homeland directed by foreign terrorist organizations. That said, we
should not be complacent.  The downsides of globalization have empowered
individuals and networks, and as such terrorist threats to the U.S. and
its interests can emerge quickly and manifest themselves in many ways. 

Moreover, we have more sophisticated capabilities and more tools
available than we did on 9/11 or even ten years ago. We have a strong
and effective counterterrorism enterprise that collaborates and
innovates across the Federal government, with state and local
colleagues, with the private sector, and with allies and partners around
the world.

But as last month’s terrorist attack against our forces performing a
noncombatant evacuation operation at the Kabul airport demonstrated,
terrorism remains a scourge.

Compared to 20 years ago, the threats facing us today are more
ideologically diverse and geographically diffuse. Groups such as
al-Qa‘ida and ISIS have expanded across Africa and into Southeast Asia.
Yet while al-Qa‘ida, ISIS, and their dispersed affiliates, branches, and
networks worldwide still aspire to attack the United States, years of
sustained counterterrorism pressure abroad have forced them to shift
their operating models and constrained their capabilities.

At the same time, enhanced security measures at home have made the
Homeland a more hardened target. In fact, the Intelligence Community
assesses that the most significant terrorist threat to the U.S. homeland
today is not posed by foreign terrorist organizations plotting from
ungoverned spaces in faraway lands, but from lone actors and small
cells, including at home, who predominantly radicalize and mobilize to
violence on their own – some based on ideologies associated with
al-Qa’ida and ISIS, other based on ideologies more domestic in nature,
such as racially or ethnically motivated violent extremists, including
those promoting the superiority of the white race.  

What this means is that, even as we continue to work relentlessly to
stop entities such as al-Qa’ida and ISIS from plotting attacks against
us from afar, we also have to address the threat from lone actors here
at home. Terrorist groups who cannot physically cross our borders are
doing so via the Internet, recruiting and radicalizing on social media
and other Internet-enabled platforms. That makes for a different
counterterrorism challenge that involves information-sharing with
technology companies, for example, and community-based prevention
efforts. The point is that as terrorism changes, so must we.

This brings me to my second point: As a nation, we need to set
priorities and integrate our counterterrorism efforts into a range of
evolving national security challenges – from a more aggressive China, to
cyber attacks, to pandemic disease and bio threats.

Make no mistake: Terrorism is a serious threat, and we will continue to
take it seriously. 

We are looking at counterterrorism efforts within the context of the
broader set of national security challenges we face and working to align
our resources to contend with the full range of threats confronting our
nation, including those outside the what some may consider the
“traditional” national security domains, such as modernizing our
nation’s infrastructure, investing in domestic innovation, and fighting
climate change. 

This approach will necessarily involve hard choices about our priorities
and our resources. This is a key reason that the President made the
difficult decision to end the war in Afghanistan.   
  
As the President has said, we will maintain the fight against terrorism
in Afghanistan from over the horizon – just as we will do in other
countries across the world – working with partners, with tools that are
commensurate with the threat, and without an American military presence
on the ground.  We have already established over-the-horizon options and
are adding to them in order to monitor and, when necessary, disrupt
threats that may emanate from Afghanistan.  Our diplomacy plays a
central role on this front as well.

Effectively addressing our other national security priorities will
require a more sustainable and agile counterterrorism approach, focusing
our efforts on countering the most dangerous threats to our country
wherever we find them and seeking innovative ways of conducting the
counterterrorism mission – including empowering partners to address the
terrorist threats in their own backyard ds so that the United States
doesn’t have to carry the entire load – and using the full range of
tools in our counterterrorism toolkit.

This brings me to my last point: Countering terrorism will require a new
approach that prioritizes agility and a greater investment in a broad
set of tools, including diplomacy, development, and prevention efforts
both abroad and at home that can shape the environments in which
terrorists thrive and recruit.

A sustainable counterterrorism approach must be flexible enough to
respond to threats as they emerge. This necessitates having a fully
developed Indicators-and- Warning architecture to detect and identify
threats before they reach an inflection point that threatens our
Homeland and our citizens. Even though we judge that the threat of
large-scale attacks against the homeland is currently diminished, we
must remain vigilant – and intelligence will be key.  A threat that
revolves around people and networks is inherently challenging to detect,
so we must continue to support the intelligence enterprise and ensure
that it has sufficient resources to perform its vital counterterrorism
role.

We also need to continue to invest in preventing threats before they
become imminent. That will require that we use the full set of
counterterrorism tools at our disposal.

Though the military will remain an important tool, it should not be the
option of first resort. That is why President Biden, at the outset of
the Administration, directed a review of the policies governing the use
of force in counterterrorism operations to ensure it is generally
employed only when necessary to disrupt imminent threats to our nation
and our people and, moreover, wielded in a manner that is consistent
with our values.

As we seek to judiciously use military tools in our counterterrorism
efforts, we must expand our use of the full range of non-kinetic tools
and capabilities to accomplish our counterterrorism objectives,
particularly in areas we assess are at greater risk of being exploited
by terrorists seeking to threaten us.

To ensure this more sustainable approach is rooted in diplomacy and
prevention, we must strengthen our partnerships at the international,
national, and local levels. This includes working closely with our NATO
allies, who have stood shoulder to shoulder with us in this fight since
9/11 – and many of whom have faced significant terrorist threats of
their own.

And it includes working with local partners in regions in which
terrorism is unfortunately spreading.  We will need to invest in
building their capacity to prevent violent extremism.

In both cases, we will continue to prioritize information sharing with
our allies and partners, which has been critical to successful joint
efforts.  The United States now has terrorist information sharing
agreements with 80 countries, and we work with partners worldwide to
detect and constrain terrorist travel by sharing U.S. and international
data holdings.  
Turning to our efforts in the Homeland, we have made great strides in
the last 20 years in strengthening our defenses through better border
and transportation security, intense law enforcement efforts, and
expanded private-sector and community partnerships.  
  
Recognizing the evolving threat in the Homeland, President Biden
directed us to develop the first-ever National Strategy for Countering
Domestic Terrorism, which we launched in June.  This strategy seeks to
prevent, disrupt, and deter domestic terrorism by strengthening defenses
and improving partnerships across the Federal enterprise. For example,
the Department of Homeland Security, the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, and others are providing law enforcement partners with
increased information sharing and instructional training to enable them
to identify and disrupt domestic terrorist threats. And the Department
of Defense is working to ensure that service members leaving the
military are aware of the risks that they could be targeted for
recruitment by violent extremists.  
  
But this is only a beginning. We need to position and support our law
enforcement and community partners to contend with a greater diversity
of threats, including threats posed by domestic terrorist groups, and
learn more about how to build resilient communities.  
  
Key to this effort will be strengthening prevention efforts through
education, community-based approaches, and other opportunities to
counter the forms of disinformation, foreign influence, and hate speech
that can lead to violence.  
  
This work is well underway. For example, the Department of Homeland
Security is working to create safe new ways that family, friends, and
co-workers can share information when they have concerns that someone
they know is becoming radicalized.  
  
Meanwhile, we’re also exploring new forms of collaboration with the
private-sector. In May, for example, we announced our decision to join
the Christchurch Call, an international partnership among 56 governments
and 10 technology companies including Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube
that works to develop new solutions to eliminating terrorist content
online while safeguarding free expression.  
  
This framework was forged by some of our closest foreign partners
following the 2017 attack on two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand,
that left 51 dead and dozens wounded. What they have built has energized
and guided an important global conversation about how to address
terrorism threats online while protecting and indeed promoting the
freedom of expression that we as Americans cherish.  
  
***The Way Forward***  
  
Looking ahead, this approach must enable us to be flexible and
adaptable.  We need a counterterrorism architecture that is not static –
but rather one that has the agility to evolve as our adversaries do, and
to be nimble in applying resources where the need arises. That is why we
are vigilant about continuously monitoring and evaluating evolving
threats and applying the most calibrated tools to reduce the drivers of
those threats and, where necessary, taking decisive action.  
  
I don’t want to suggest that this will be easy. The factors and
conditions that give rise to terrorism are complex and do not offer
simple solutions. But this adapted approach is necessary to put us on a
path that is both more effective and more sustainable.  
  
**Conclusion**  
  
This week, we remember those we have lost. We remember the thousands of
victims of 9/11 and their families who walk around every day with a
gaping hole in their hearts, and the many who continue to suffer from
injuries sustained that terrible day. We also remember the thousands of
American heroes who laid down their lives to keep the rest of us safe,
and we remember our obligation to the Gold Star families they left
behind.

As I’ve emphasized, three principles will guide us in the
counterterrorism mission. First is a commitment to keep up with and keep
Americans safe from the terrorist threat landscape of today, not of
twenty years ago.  Second is a recognition that we need counterterrorism
to be effective while also integrating it with the work we are doing to
address a widening and diversifying range of national security
challenges.  Third is an increased emphasis on partnerships, where we
are stronger when we stand together. 

Looking back and looking forward, we know as a nation that we have the
capacity to learn and adapt from our successes and failures.  In this
realm of countering terrorism, we must continue to do both – and remain
steadfast in protecting our homeland and our personnel and facilities
overseas from the full spectrum of threats that we face in the
21<sup>st</sup> century. And through it all, we must remain true to the
values that define us as a people and as a nation.  I know that this
day-long event at which I am speaking is being sponsored by a research
center that bears the name of the late Brent Scowcroft, whose generous
mentorship had a profound influence on my life and work. As he put it,
“America has never seen itself as a national state like all others, but
rather as an experiment in human freedom and democracy.”  As we tackle
evolving terrorist threats both foreign and domestic – and as we meet
the broader set of complex national security challenges that we face –
we must continue to lead the world in advancing human freedoms and
strengthening democracy.

Thank you again to the Atlantic Council for giving me the opportunity to
speak with you today about this vital topic.
