---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-09-21'
modified_time: 2021-09-21 13:16:15-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/09/21/remarks-by-president-biden-before-the-76th-session-of-the-united-nations-general-assembly/
published_time: 2021-09-21 13:30:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden Before the 76th Session of the United Nations\
  \ General\_Assembly"
---
 
United Nations Headquarters  
New York, New York

10:01 A.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Mr. President, Mr. Secretary-General, my fellow
delegates, to all those who dedicate themselves to this noble mission of
this institution: It’s my honor to speak to you for the first time as
President of the United States. 

We meet this year in a moment of — intermingled with great pain and
extraordinary possibility.  We’ve lost so much to this devastating —
this devastating pandemic that continues to claim lives around the world
and impact so much on our existence. 

We’re mourning more than 4.5 million people — people of every nation
from every background.  Each death is an individual heartbreak.  But our
shared grief is a poignant reminder that our collective future will
hinge on our ability to recognize our common humanity and to act
together. 

Ladies and gentlemen, this is the clear and urgent choice that we face
here at the dawning of what must be a decisive decade for our world — a
decade that will quite literally determine our futures.

As a global community, we’re challenged by urgent and looming crises
wherein lie enormous opportunities if — if — we can summon the will and
resolve to seize these opportunities. 

Will we work together to save lives, defeat COVID-19 everywhere, and
take the necessary steps to prepare ourselves for the next pandemic? 
For there will be another one.  Or will we fail to harness the tools at
our disposal as the more virulent and dangerous variants take hold?

Will we meet the threat of challenging climate — the challenging climate
we’re all feeling already ravaging every part of our world with extreme
weather?  Or will we suffer the merciless march of ever-worsening
droughts and floods, more intense fires and hurricanes, longer heatwaves
and rising seas?

Will we affirm and uphold the human dignity and human rights under which
nations in common cause, more than seven decades ago, formed this
institution? 

Will we apply and strengthen the core tenets of inter- — of the
international system, including the U.N. Charter and the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights, as we seek to shape the emergence of new
technologies and deter new threats?  Or will we allow these universal —
those universal principles to be trampled and twisted in the pursuit of
naked political power? 

In my view, how we answer these questions in this moment — whether we
choose to fight for our shared future or not — will reverberate for
generations yet to come.

Simply put: We stand, in my view, at an inflection point in history. 
And I’m here today to share with you how the United States intends to
work with partners and allies to answer these questions and the
commitment of my new administration to help lead the world toward a more
peaceful, prosperous future for all people.

Instead of continuing to fight the wars of the past, we are fixing our
eyes on devoting our resources to the challenges that hold the keys to
our collective future: ending this pandemic; addressing the climate
crisis; managing the shifts in global power dynamics; shaping the rules
of the world on vital issues like trade, cyber, and emerging
technologies; and facing the threat of terrorism as it stands today.

We’ve ended 20 years of conflict in Afghanistan.  And as we close this
period of relentless war, we’re opening a new era of relentless
diplomacy; of using the power of our development aid to invest in new
ways of lifting people up around the world; of renewing and defending
democracy; of proving that no matter how challenging or how complex the
problems we’re going to face, government by and for the people is still
the best way to deliver for all of our people.

And as the United States turns our focus to the priorities and the
regions of the world, like the Indo-Pacific, that are most consequential
today and tomorrow, we’ll do so with our allies and partners, through
cooperation at multilateral institutions like the United Nations, to
amplify our collective strength and speed, our progress toward dealing
with these global challenges.

There’s a fundamental truth of the 21st century within each of our own
countries and as a global community that our own success is bound up
with others succeeding as well.

To deliver for our own people, we must also engage deeply with the rest
of the world. 

To ensure that our own future, we must work together with other partners
— our partners — toward a shared future. 

Our security, our prosperity, and our very freedoms are interconnected,
in my view, as never before.  And so, I believe we must work together as
never before.

Over the last eight months, I have prioritized rebuilding our alliances,
revitalizing our partnerships, and recognizing they’re essential and
central to America’s enduring security and prosperity.

We have reaffirmed our sacred NATO Alliance to Article 5 commitment. 
We’re working with our Allies toward a new strategic concept that will
help our Alliance better take on evolving threats of today and tomorrow.

We renewed our engagement with the European Union, a fundamental partner
in tackling the full range of significant issues facing our world
today. 

We elevated the Quad partnership among Australia, India, Japan, and the
United States to take on challenges ranging from health security to
climate to emerging technologies.

We’re engaging with regional institutions — from ASEAN to the African
Union to the Organization of American States — to focus on people’s
urgent needs for better health and better economic outcomes. 

We’re back at the table in international forums, especially the United
Nations, to focus attention and to spur global action on shared
challenges. 

We are reengaged at the World Health Organization and working in close
partnership with COVAX to deliver lifesaving vaccines around the world. 

We rejoined the Paris Climate Agreement, and we’re running to retake a
seat on the Human Rights Council next year at the U.N.

And as the United States seeks to rally the world to action, we will
lead not just with the example of our power but, God willing, with the
power of our example.

Make no mistake: The United States will continue to defend ourselves,
our Allies, and our interests against attack, including terrorist
threats, as we prepare to use force if any is necessary, but — to defend
our vital U.S. national interests, including against ongoing and
imminent threats.

But the mission must be clear and achievable, undertaken with the
informed consent of the American people and, whenever possible, in
partnership with our Allies.

U.S. military power must be our tool of last resort, not our first, and
it should not be used as an answer to every problem we see around the
world.

Indeed, today, many of our greatest concerns cannot be solved or even
addressed through the force of arms.  Bombs and bullets cannot defend
against COVID-19 or its future variants.

To fight this pandemic, we need a collective act of science and
political will.  We need to act now to get shots in arms as fast as
possible and to expand access to oxygen, tests, treatments to save lives
around the world.

And for the future, we need to create a new mechanism to finance global
health security that builds on our existing development assistance, and
Global Health Thr- — and a Global Health Threat Counc- — Council that is
armed with the tools we need to monitor and identify emerging pandemics
so that we can take immediate action.

Already, the United States has put more than $15 billion toward global
COVID respon- — the global COVID response.  We’ve shipped more than 160
million doses of COVID-19 vaccine to other countries.  This includes 130
million doses from our own supply and the first tranches of the half a
billion doses of Pfizer vaccine we purchased to donate through COVAX.

Planes carrying vaccines from the United States have already landed in
100 countries, bringing people all over the world a little “dose of
hope,” as one American nurse termed it to me.  A “dose of hope,” direct
from the American people — and, importantly, no strings attached.

And tomorrow, at the U.S.-hosted Global 19 — COVID-19 Summit, I’ll be
announcing additional commitments as we seek to advance the fight
against COVID-19 and hold ourselves accountable around specific targets
on three key challenges: saving lives now, vaccinating the world, and
building back better.

This year has also brought widespread death and devastation from the
borderless climate crisis.  The extreme weather events that we have seen
in every part of the world — and you all know it and feel it — represent
what the Secretary-General has rightly called “code red for humanity.” 
And the scientists and experts are telling us that we’re fast
approaching a “point of no return,” in the literal sense.

To keep within our reach the vital goal of limiting global warming to
1.5 degrees Celsius, every nation needs to bring their highest-possible
ambitions to the table when we meet in Glasgow for COP26 and then to
have to keep raising our collective ambition over time.

In April, I announced the United States’ ambitious new goal under the
Paris Agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the United
States by 50 to 52 percent below 2005 levels by 2030, as we work toward
achieving a clean-energy economy with net-zero emissions by 2050.

And my administration is working closely with our Congress to make the
critical investments in green infrastructure and electric vehicles that
will help us lock in progress at home toward our climate goals.

And the best part is: Making these ambitious investments isn’t just good
climate policy, it’s a chance for each of our countries to invest in
ourselves and our own future.  It’s an enormous opportunity to create
good-paying jobs for workers in each of our countries and to spur
long-term economic growth that will improve the quality of life for all
of our people.

We also have to support the countries and people that will be hit
hardest and that have the fewest resources to help them adapt. 

In April, I announced the United States will double our public
international financing to help developing nations tackle the climate
crisis.  And today, I’m proud to announce that we’ll work with the
Congress to double that number again, including for adaptation efforts.

This will make the United States a leader in public climate finance.
 And with our added support, together with increased private capital and
other — from other donors, we’ll be able to meet the goal of mobilizing
$100 billion to support climate action in developing nations.

As we deal with these crises, we’re also encountering a new era — an era
of new technologies and possibilities that have the potential to release
and reshape every aspect of human existence.  And it’s up to all of us
to determine whether these technologies are a force to empower people or
to deepen repression.

As new technologies continue to evolve, we’ll work together with our
democratic partners to ensure that new advances in areas from
biotechnology, to quantum computing, 5G, artificial intelligence, and
more are used to lift people up, to solve problems, and advance human
freedom — not to suppress dissent or target minority communities.

And the United States intends to make a profound investment in research
and innovation, working with countries at all stages of economic
development to develop new tools and technologies to help us tackle the
challenges of this second quarter of the 21st century and beyond.

We’re hardening our critical infrastructure against cyberattacks,
disrupting ransomware networks, and working to establish clear rules of
the road for all nations as it relates to cyberspace. 

We reserve the right to respond decisively to cyberattacks that threaten
our people, our allies, or our interests. 

We will pursue new rules of global trade and economic growth that strive
to level the playing field so that it’s not artificially tipped in favor
of any one country at the expense of others and every nation has a right
and the opportunity to compete fairly.

We will strive to ensure that basic labor rights, environmental
safeguards, and intellectual property are protected and that the
benefits of globalization are shared broadly throughout all our
societies.

We’ll continue to uphold the longstanding rules and norms that have
formed the guardrails of international engagement for decades that have
been essential to the development of nations around the world — bedrock
commitments like freedom of navigation, adherence to international laws
and treaties, support for arms control measures that reduce the res- —
the risk and enhance transparency.

Our approach is firmly grounded and fully consistent with the United
Nations’ mission and the values we’ve agreed to when we drafted this
Charter.  These are commitments we all made and that we’re all bound to
uphold.

And as we strive to deal with these urgent challenges, whether they’re
longstanding or newly emerging, we must also deal with one another.

All the major powers of the world have a duty, in my view, to carefully
manage their relationships so they do not tip

from responsible competition to conflict.

The United States will compete, and will compete vigorously, and lead
with our values and our strength. 

We’ll stand up for our allies and our friends

and oppose attempts by stronger countries to dominate weaker ones,
whether through changes to territory by force, economic coercion,
technological exploitation, or disinformation.

But we’re not seeking — I’ll say it again — we are not seeking a new
Cold War or a world divided into rigid blocs.

The United States is ready to work with any nation that steps up and
pursues peaceful resolution to shared challenges,

even if we have intense disagreements in other areas — because we’ll all
suffer the consequences of our failure if we do not come together to
address the urgent threats like COVID-19 and climate change or enduring
threats like nuclear proliferation.

The United States remains committed to preventing Ira- — to preventing
Iran from gaining a nuclear weapon.  We are working with the P5+1 to
engage Iran diplomatically and seek a return to the JCPOA.  We’re
prepared to return to full compliance if Iran does the same. 

Similarly, we seek serious and sustained diplomacy to pursue the
complete denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula.

We seek concrete progress toward an available plan with tangible
commitments that would increase stability on the Peninsula and in the
region, as well as improve the lives of the people in the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea.

We must also remain vigilant to the threat of terr- — that terrorism
poses to all our nations, whether emanating from distant regions of the
world or in our own backyards.

We know the bitter string \[sic\] of terrorism — the bitter sting of
terrorism is — is real, and we’ve almost all experienced it.

Last month, we lost 13 American heroes and almost 200 innocent Afghan
civilians in the heinous terrorist attack at the Kabul airport.

Those who commit acts of terrorism against us will continue to find a
determined enemy in the United States.

The world today is not the world of 2001, though, and the United States
is not the same country we were when we were attacked on 9/11, 20 years
ago.

Today, we’re better equipped to detect and prevent terrorist threats,
and we are more resilient in our ability to repel them and to respond.

We know how to build effective partnerships to dismantle terrorist
networks by targeting their financing and support systems, countering
their propaganda, preventing their travel, as well as disrupting
imminent attacks.

We’ll meet terrorist threats that arise today and in the future with a
full range of tools available to us, including working in cooperation
with local partners so that we need not be so reliant on large-scale
military deployments.

One of the most important ways we can effectively enhance security and
reduce violence is by seeking to improve the lives of the people all
over the world who see that their governments are not serving their
needs.

Corruption fuels inequality, siphons off a nation’s resources, spreads
across borders, and generates human suffering.  It is nothing less than
a national security threat in the 21st century.

Around the world, we’re increasingly seeing citizens demonstrate their
discontent seeing the wealthy and well-connected grow richer and richer,
taking payoffs and bribes, operating above the law while the vast
majority of the people struggle to find a job or put food on the table
or to get their business off the ground or simply send their children to
school.

People have taken to the streets in every region to demand that their
governments address peoples’ basic needs, give everyone a fair shot to
succeed, and protect their God-given rights.

And in that chorus of voices across languages and continents, we hear a
common cry: a cry for dignity — simple dignity.  As leaders, it is our
duty to answer that call, not to silence it. 

The United States is committing to use — committed to using our
resources and our international platform to support these voices, listen
to them, partner with them to find ways to respond that advance human
dignity around the world.

For example, there is an enormous need for infrastructure in developing
countries, but infrastructure that is low-quality or that feeds
corruption or exacerbates environmental degradation may only end up
contributing to greater challenges for countries over time.

Done the right way, however, with transparent, sustainable investment in
projects that respond to the country’s needs and engage their local
workers to maintain high labor and environmental standards,
infrastructure can be a strong foundation that allows societies in low-
and middle-income countries to grow and to prosper.

That’s the idea behind the Build Back Better World. 

And together with the private sector and our G7 partners, we aim to
mobilize hundreds of billions of dollars in infrastructure investment.

We also — we’ll also continue to be the world’s largest contributor to
humanitarian assistance, bringing food, water, shelter, emergency
healthcare, and other vital, lifesaving aid to millions of people in
need.

When the earthquake strikes, a typhoon rages, or a disaster anywhere in
the world, the United States shows up.  We’ll be ready to help.

And at a time when nearly one in three people globally do not have
access to adequate food — adequate food, just last year — the United
States is committing to rallying our partners to address immediate
malnutrition and to ensure that we can sustainably feed the world for
decades to come.

To that end, the United States is making a $10 billion commitment to end
hunger and invest in food systems at home and abroad.

Since 2000, the United States government has provided more than $140
billion to advance health and strengthen health systems, and we will
continue our leadership to drive these vital investments to make
peoples’ lives better every single day.  Just give them a little
breathing room.

And as we strive to make lives better, we must work with renewed purpose
to end the conflicts that are driving so much pain and hurt around the
world.

We must redouble our diplomacy and commit to political negotiations, not
violence, as the tool of first resort to manage tensions around the
world.

We must seek a future of greater peace and security for all the people
of the Middle East.

The commitment of the United States to Israel’s security is without
question.  And a support — our support for an independent, Jewish state
is unequivocal.

But I continue to believe that a two-state solution is the best way to
ensure Israel — Israel’s future as a Jewish, democratic state living in
peace alongside a viable, sovereign, and democratic Palestinian state.

We’re a long way from that goal at this moment, but we must never allow
ourselves to give up on the possibility of progress.

We cannot give up on solving raging civil conflicts, including in
Ethiopia and Yemen, where fighting between war- –warring parties is
driving famine, horrori- — horrific violence, human rights violations
against civilians, including the unconscionable use of rape as a weapon
of war.

We will continue to work with the international community to press for
peace and bring an end to this suffering. 

As we pursue diplomacy across the board, the United States will champion
the democratic values that go to the very heart of who we are as a
nation and a people: freedom, equality, opportunity, and a belief in the
universal rights of all people.

It’s stamped into our DNA as a nation.  And critically, it’s stamped
into the DNA of this institution — the <s>United</s> States
\[Nations\].  We sometimes forget.

I quote the opening words of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,
quote: “The equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human
family is the foundation of freedom, justice, and peace in the world.”

The founding ethos of the United Nations places the rights of
individuals at the center of our system, and that clarity and vision
must not be ignored or misinterpreted.

The United States will do our part, but we will be more successful and
more impactful if all of our nations are working toward the full mission
to which we are called. 

That’s why more than 100 nations united agai- — around a shared
statement and the Security Council adopted a resolution outlining how
we’ll support the people of Afghanistan moving forward, laying out the
expectations to which we will hold the Taliban when it comes to
respecting universal human rights. 

We all must advocate for women — the rights of women and girls to use
their full talents to contribute economically, politically, and socially
and pursue their dreams free of violence and intimidation — from Central
America to the Middle East, to Africa, to Afghanistan — wherever it
appears in the world.

We all must call out and condemn the targeting and oppression of racial,
ethnic, and religious minorities when it occurs in — whether it occurs
in Xinjiang or northern Ethiopia or anywhere in the world.

We all must defend the rights of LGBTQI individuals so they can live and
love openly without fear, whether it’s Chechnya or Cameroon or anywhere.

As we steer our — steer our nations toward this inflection point and
work to meet today’s fast-moving, cross-cutting challenges, let me be
clear: I am not agnostic about the future we want for the world. 

The future will belong to those who embrace human dignity, not trample
it. 

The future will belong to those who unleash the potential of their
people, not those who stifle it.

The future will belong to those who give their people the ability to
breathe free, not those who seek to suffocate their people with an iron
hand.

Authoritarianism — the authoritarianism of the world may seek to
proclaim the end of the age of democracy, but they’re wrong.

The truth is: The democratic world is everywhere.  It lives in the
anti-corruption activists, the human rights defenders, the journalists,
the peace protestors on the frontlines of this struggle in Belarus,
Burma, Syria, Cuba, Venezuela, and everywhere in between.

It lives in the brave women of Sudan who withstood violence and
oppression to push a genocidal dictator from power and who keep working
every day to defend their democratic progress.

It lives in the proud Moldovans who helped deliver a landslide victory
for the forces of democracy, with a mandate to fight graft, to build a
more inclusive economy.

It lives in the young people of Zambia who harnessed the power of their
vote for the first time, turning out in record numbers to denounce
corruption and chart a new path for their country.

And while no democracy is perfect, including the United States — who
will continue to struggle to live up to the highest ideals to heal our
divisions, and we face down violence and insurrection — democracy
remains the best tool we have to unleash our full human potential.

My fellow leaders, this is a moment where we must prove ourselves the
equals of those who have come before us, who with vision and values and
determined faith in our collective future built our United Nations,
broke the cycle of war and destruction, and laid the foundations for
more than seven decades of relative peace and growing global
prosperity. 

Now we must again come together to affirm the inherent humanity that
unites us is much greater than any outward divisions or disagreements.

We must choose to do more than we think we can do alone so that we
accomplish what we must, together: ending this pandemic and making sure
we’re better prepared for the next one; staving off climactic climate
change and increasing our resilience to the impacts we already are
seeing; ensuring a future where technologies are a vital tool to solving
human challenges and empowering human potential, not a source of greater
strife and repression.

These are the challenges that we — will determine what the world looks
like for our children and our grandchildren, and what they’ll inherit. 
We can only meet them by looking to the future. 

I stand here today, for the first time in 20 years, with the United
States not at war.  We’ve turned the page.

All the unmatched strength, energy, commitment, will, and resources of
our nation are now fully and squarely focused on what’s ahead of us, not
what was behind.

I know this: As we look ahead, we will lead.  We will lead on all the
greatest challenges of our time — from COVID to climate, peace and
security, human dignity and human rights.  But we will not go it alone. 

We will lead together with our Allies and partners and in cooperation
with all those who believe, as we do, that this is within our power to
meet these challenges, to build a future that lifts all of our people
and preserves this planet. 

But none of this is inevitable; it’s a choice.  And I can tell you where
America stands: We will choose to build a better future.  We — you and I
–- we have the will and capacity to make it better. 

Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot afford to waste any more time.  Let’s
get to work.  Let’s make our better future now.

We can do this.  It’s within our power and capacity. 

Thank you, and God bless you all.

10:34 A.M. EDT
