---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-09-24'
modified_time: 2021-09-24 15:41:46-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/09/24/remarks-by-president-biden-prime-minister-morrison-prime-minister-modi-and-prime-minister-suga-at-quad-leaders-summit/
published_time: 2021-09-24 16:00:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden, Prime Minister Morrison, Prime Minister Modi,\
  \ and Prime Minister Suga at Quad Leaders\_Summit"
---
 
East Room

2:09 P.M. EDT

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, let me begin by saying I’m honored to welcome
Prime Minister Morrison, Prime Minister Modi, and Prime Minister Suga
and — to the White House for the first in-person meeting of the Quad
we’ve had.

This group meeting of democratic partners who share a world view and
have a common vision for the future, coming together to take on key
challenges of our age, from COVID to climate to emerging technologies. 
It embodies an approach I spoke of at the U.N. earlier this week.

When we met six months ago, we made concrete commitments to advance our
shared and positive agenda for a free and open Indo-Pacific.  Today, I’m
proud to say that we’re making excellent progress.

Our vaccine initiative is on track to produce an additional 1 billion
doses of vaccine in India to boost global supply.  We’re taking action
on climate change, with new partnership toward a zero-emissions
shipping.

And today, we’re also launching a new Quad fellowship for students from
each of our Quad countries to pursue advanced degrees leading — in
leading STEM programs here in the United States.  It represents an
investment in the leaders, innovators, and pioneers of tomorrow.

In sum, we are four major democracies with a long history of
cooperation.  We know how to get things done, and we are up to the
challenge.  And I’m looking forward to our discussion today, and I thank
you. 

And now I yield to my friend from India. 

PRIME MINISTER MODI:  (As interpreted.)  President Biden, Prime Minister
Morrison, Prime Minister Suga: I thank President Biden for his
initiative to organize this historic, first-ever in-person Quad Summit. 
Our four countries came together for the first time in 2004 to extend
support to the Indo-Pacific region post the tsunami.

Today, when the world is grappling with the COVID-19 pandemic, we are
meeting once again, as Quad, and working in the interest of humanity,
based — our Quad vaccine initiative will greatly help countries in the
Indo-Pacific region.

Based on shared democratic values, Quad has decided to move forward with
positive thinking and a positive approach.  It gives me great pleasure
to discuss with my friends wide-ranging topics from supply chains to
global security, from climate action to COVID response, to cooperation
in the field of technology. 

I am — our Quad, in a sense, will play the role of a force for global
good.  I’m confident that our cooperation under Quad will ensure
prosperity and peace in the Indo-Pacific and in the world.  Thank you.

PRIME MINISTER MORRISON:  Thank you very much, Prime Minister.  Thank
you, Mr. President.  It is a great honor to be here with you, here in
this magnificent place.  And I thank you for your leadership and
bringing us together, in person this time, and to join our great
friends, Prime Minister Modi and Prime Minister Suga.  And, Secretary
Blinken, it’s good to be here with you also.

We are liberal democracies that believe in a world order that favors
freedom.  And we believe in a free and open Indo-Pacific because we know
that’s what delivers a strong, stable, and prosperous region so our
citizens, our peoples can realize their hopes and dreams for their
futures in a liberal and free society.

The Quad is about demonstrating how democracies such as ours, as you
said, Mr. President, can get things done that can deal with the big
challenges that we face in a very complex and changing world.  And there
is no part of the world that is more dynamic than the Indo-Pacific at
this time — a region that has extraordinary opportunity, wide diversity,
great wealth, but many challenges that must be overcome. 

And we see the role of our nations.  We see our home in the Indo-Pacific
as the place that we wish to focus on to ensure that our peoples can
realize everything they would have for themselves. 

So, as we gather here together again as a Quad, in person for the first
time, in just six months from our last meeting, so much has already been
accomplished.  And we come together with great hope for what’s ahead.  
  
Six hundred and seventy million, at least, safe and effective doses of
vaccines already out there.  A billion is our goal, Mr. President, and
we will add more to that today, using our national strengths
collectively to manufacture and distribute these vaccines, to have the
doses but also to ensure they go that last mile to ensure they are
administered in all parts of the region.  
  
We’re working together on low-emissions technologies that will indeed
change the world and take the world to a net-zero economy — a new energy
economy. 

We’re working to make cyberspace and emerging and critical technologies
trusted and secure in open societies, solving problems, and addressing
the supply chain challenges that in many ways hold the keys to our
security and our prosperity and our environment in the 21st century.   
  
So we stand here together in the Indo-Pacific region, a region that we
wish to be always free from coercion, where the sovereign rights of all
nations are respected and where disputes are settled peacefully in
accordance with international law.   
  
We come together in collective strength with mutual respect,
transparently, and, importantly, as one.   
  
So thank you again, Mr. President, for joining us together as Quad
leaders at this meeting.  On behalf of the Australian people, can I
thank all of the leaders of the Quad, who share this great forum, for
their leadership in our region.   
  
I’m in no doubt that together our four nations multiply many times over
the forces of hope for a free, open, and inclusive Indo-Pacific.  And
with that, I’m delighted to hand over to my dear friend, the Prime
Minister of Japan, Prime Minister Suga.

PRIME MINISTER SUGA:  (As interpreted.)  Joe, Prime Minister Modi,
Scott, it’s a great pleasure to see you again.

Under Joe’s leadership, as promised in March, we are here for the
first-ever in-person Quad Summit.  This event demonstrates the strong
solidarity between our four nations and our unwavering commitment to the
common vision of a free and open Indo-Pacific.   
  
The Quad is an extremely significant initiative by four countries who
share fundamental values, cooperating for the cause of realizing a free
and open international order based on the rule of law in the
Indo-Pacific.

To date, the Quad, has been promoting practical cooperation in extensive
areas to deal with regional challenges, including COVID-19.

At this summit, I hope we can take stock of concrete progress achieved
so far and discuss ways to further expand the Quad cooperation in new
areas, such as infrastructure and clean energy, and to promote
people-to-people exchange in science and technology.

I’m sure that we would be able to have an extremely fruitful meeting. 

Further, the lifting of import restrictions by the United States against
Japanese food products — including rice, vegetable, and other produces —
from Fukushima Prefecture, which was a request I made to Joe, in April,
is a major step in supporting the recovery from the earthquake and
tsunami.  And we are most appreciative. 

Thank you.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Thank you.

2:20 P.M. EDT
