---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-09-15'
modified_time: 2021-09-15 17:52:12-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/09/15/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-on-the-administrations-proposed-investments-in-childcare/
published_time: 2021-09-15 17:52:11-04:00
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris on the Administration\u2019s Proposed Investments\
  \ in\_Childcare"
---
 
Treasury Department  
Washington, D.C.

3:55 P.M. EDT  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Thank you.  Good afternoon, everyone. 
Good afternoon.  Thank you, Nicholas, for sharing your story and, as you
and I discussed backstage, for your courage and for the leadership that
you and your wife and your whole family have been providing.   
  
The work that you have been doing reminds us that the work that we have
in front of us is important work.  It is noble work.  It is about
supporting working families in America.  And this work will make a
difference in the lives of all of those working families.  
  
So, it is wonderful to be here at the Treasury Department.  And I want
to thank you, always, Secretary Janet Yellen and the extraordinary team
you have assembled, for welcoming me here today.  
  
In this historic moment, the work each of you do at Treasury could not
be more important.  You have been working around the clock on everything
from regulating global financial markets to implementing the American
Rescue Plan.  Your work is transforming the lives of everyday Americans
and strengthening our entire nation.   
  
So, first of all, I want to thank you, the hardworking, talented team,
staff here at the Treasury Department.  
  
Not long after President Joe Biden and I took office, I called the mass
exodus of women from the workforce a national emergency.  Because that’s
what it is: a national emergency.   
  
The pandemic has hit women workers extremely hard and
disproportionately.  More layoffs in industries in which women are
likely to work.  More closures of small businesses which women owned. 
And without childcare, working parents were totally stranded.   
  
Working mothers took on more and more of the responsibility at home, as
Nicholas has described in his personal experience.  In fact, childcare
issues were cited as the reason many working mothers had to quit their
jobs during the pandemic.  
  
From day one, as Secretary Yellen can attest, our administration has
been hard at work to get women back to work.  And I believe this is a
fight for our future, because when we are talking about fighting for
working families, working women, we are fighting for the children of
America.  And, by extension, we are fighting for the future of our
country.  
  
When women are able to fully participate in our workforce, our families,
our communities, and our country is stronger.  Consider, for example,
the impact on our broader economy.  Some estimates suggest that our GDP
would be five points higher if women participated in the workforce at
the same rate as men.   
  
If we intend to fully recover from the pandemic, if we intend to fully
compete on a global scale, we must ensure the full participation of
women in the workforce.  
  
And even more than the dollar and cents of it all, this, I would
suggest, is about what kind of nation we are — a nation that is stronger
when everyone can participate, and weaker when anyone is left out.   
  
Fundamentally, I believe, this is about our responsibility, as a
government, to ensure everyone — women and men alike — has the power to
determine their own future.  This is about giving people options to live
a life of dignity.  And that includes affordable and accessible options
to send their children to high-quality childcare.  
  
Today, the Treasury Department — and the occasion for our gathering —
has released a report titled “The Economics of Childcare.”   
  
For so many working people — and for women, in particular — childcare is
a prerequisite for being able to work.  Childcare is what makes it
possible for millions of Americans to work.   
  
And yet, this report confirms what millions of American families know
and experience every day: Childcare remains too expensive and out of
reach for far too many working families in our country.  
  
This report confirms we need to bring costs down with a significant
public investment in our childcare industry.   
  
And this report confirms that, tragically, the United States is falling
behind, on a global scale, on this issue of investment in childcare.  
  
In fact, we invest fewer public dollars in early childhood education
than almost all other developed countries.  We must do better.  And
President Joe Biden and I are determined to do just that with all of
you.  
  
At this very moment, Congress is considering our Build Back Better
agenda.  Supporting and strengthening working families is one of our
highest priorities.  Once it passes, our agenda will extend the Child
Tax Credit.  It will expand paid family leave.  And it will lower
childcare costs for every working family.  
  
Our agenda could save the average family nearly $15,000 a year in
childcare costs — about $1,200 every month.  Our agenda will also make
universal pre-care — universal preschool a universal reality.  Every
three- and four-year-old will have access to a high-quality preschool.  
  
By expanding childcare options and lowering childcare costs, we will
give working people everywhere the support they need to dream, to do,
and to determine their own future.  
  
And I know this from my own life.  I learned this at a very young age
based on what I witnessed.  You see, my mother was a scientist.  She was
a breast cancer researcher.  And she had two goals in her life: to raise
her two daughters and end breast cancer.  
  
And every weekday and on many weekends, my mother went to work long
hours in the lab.  And when she did, my sister and I would walk two
doors down — just a couple of feet — to the home of Mrs. Regina
Shelton.   
  
Mrs. Shelton ran a childcare center, and she became a second mother to
my sister and me.  My mother often said that but for Mrs. Shelton, she
would not have been able to do the work that she did.  She would not
have been able to make the contributions that she made in the fight to
end breast cancer.  She would not have been able to fulfill her
ambitions for herself and her two daughters.  
  
All working mothers and working parents deserve the kind of support that
my mother found in Mrs. Shelton.  Through Build Back Better, that is
exactly the kind of support our administration intends to provide.  
  
And with that, I will turn it over to our great Treasury Secretary,
Janet Yellen.  (Applause.)  
  
4:04 P.M. EDT     
