---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-09-10'
modified_time: 2021-09-10 16:54:55-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/09/10/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-in-a-discussion-with-stem-students-at-hampton-university/
published_time: 2021-09-10 15:30:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris in a Discussion with STEM Students at Hampton\_\
  University"
---
 
Hampton University  
Hampton, Virginia

12:00 P.M. EDT  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Vince.  Well, it is an honor to be here
at Hampton University with all of you.   
  
I want to thank the President who — Dr. William Harvey, who warmly
greeted us on our arrival.   
  
Congresswoman Luria, thank you for your leadership, for Hampton, for
HBCUs, for the state of Virginia, and for our country.   
  
Mayor, thank you for the warm welcome as well and for all the work that
you have done.   
  
I also want to thank Chairman Bobby Scott, the congressman who
represents Virginia.  He is a huge supporter of our HBCUs and actually
is in a committee hearing, I believe today, advocating for the
infrastructure bill that we are proposing.  And that includes a
significant contribution that we intend to make to our HBCUs around
infrastructure, as well as research.  
  
I believe we are at the beginning of a new era.  I believe that we, in
this new era, are more interconnected and interdependent than ever
before, as highlighted by the things that you, as our young — our
nation’s young leaders have witnessed in just this last year and a
half.   
  
We’ve seen a pandemic, which has really emphasized the significance of
our mutual investment in the issue of global health.  We have seen
cyberattacks, which tells us the role and the use of technology not only
for good, as we know it in our everyday lives, but can be weaponized.   
  
We know it when we think about climate and the extreme weather we’ve
been experiencing — Ida — in terms of the hurricanes; the floods that
have happened; in my home state of California, the wildfires.  We used
to refer to “wildfire season.”  We don’t do that anymore.  It’s all —
year-round.  
  
You all are the leaders in this new era because, in particular, our
nation and our world will require the smart people that you are to lead
on issues that require dedication, and a development of skills around
science and technology and engineering and math.  
  
And Hampton University is one of the leaders — I say, as a Howard
graduate.  (Laughs.)  Couldn’t let that go, guys.  (Laughs.)  I say that
knowing, as Vice President, what you’re doing here at Hampton
University: The partnership between Hampton and NASA — the fact that, I
believe, there are four satellites because of Hampton that are right now
orbiting, giving us valuable — invaluable information that allows us to
not only predict, but to analyze what is happening in our world and in
our — and atmosphere.  
  
This is extraordinary work that is happening.  And I’m here to say, as
Vice President of the United States, that our HBCUs are some of the
great leaders in this vital work that must happen in the new era that
not only is an era for our country, but for the world.  
  
So I’m very proud to be here.  And I think about the world — of the
challenges, but I think about it in the context of HBCUs.  And I am
reminded Hampton University educated Mary Jackson — NASA’s first Black
female engineer.  It is from Hampton University that we have Dr. Cooper,
who is working on the current Mars mission at NASA right now.  
  
Today, Hampton is the first and only HBCU to fully control a NASA
mission.  I was just upstairs getting the most recent information on the
AIM Satellite, as an example.  
  
And so, when we talk about the role of HBCUs on this issue, let’s be
very clear that HBCUs are not only competing; HBCUs are leading.  And it
is for that reason that it is in the best interest of our nation,
including our national security, to invest in our HBCUs.  So, that’s why
I’m here today, including the fact that this is a week that most of us —
year-round, but this week — formally celebrate the role of our HBCUs in
our nation.  
  
So, the agenda for the President and me includes not only doing
everything we can to lift up our HBCUs, but to know that if we are to
invest in the strength of our nation, we must invest in our HBCUs.  And
that is why, through our Build Back agenda, that we are making a
historic investment in research and development.   
  
One of the things that you all know is that, historically, our HBCUs
have done extraordinary research work.  But over the years, some of the
facilities have experienced the wear and tear, and we need to invest in
allowing our HBCUs to do what all universities should have the ability
to do, all education facilities should have the ability to do, which is
to upgrade.  
  
I was upstairs, on the roof, admiring that impressive telescope.  And
one of the points that was made by the professor is that as technology
evolves, pieces get smaller, they get less expensive.  It makes it more
easy for HBCUs to adapt to, then, the new technology and to bring it in,
but they need the support.  So that’s the other point of our emphasis.  
  
And then, the point also is about the impact on all of this on our
economy.  Right?  So the demand for STEM workers is high throughout our
nation and, frankly, throughout the world.  STEM occupations are
expected to grow at twice the rate of all other occupations in the next
decade.   
  
For women in the workforce, for women of color in particular — for Black
women — STEM careers will help narrow the pay gap.  And we must ensure
that all people are represented in the fields of STEM.   
  
And I’m reminded and think of, for example, the issue of what I call
“machine learning” — AI — and what that means. Because artificial
intelligence is fueling so much of how our systems are analyzing
information.  
  
But understand: Artificial intelligence is, at its core, machine
learning.  What do we know about any kind of learning?  What you learn
will likely be a function of who’s teaching you  
and what their life experience and perspective is.  
  
So, we want to make sure that in this era, where AI is informing so many
decisions, that the people who are teaching the machines represent the
full gamut of those who will be affected by what the machines decide to
do.  
  
So all of these are critical and important aspects of why I am here
today and why the work here at Hampton University, and at so many of our
HBCUs, is critically important to all people in our country.   
  
And the last point I will make is that, for me, at the core of this is
also the importance of self-determination, understanding that this is
about ensuring that when we invest in our HBCUs, that we have full
participation in our society and in these systems that have an impact on
a broad range of people.  
  
And that is why the dedication and the investment of our administration
and all people should understand the significance of our HBCUs.   
  
So with that, I am so happy and proud to be with these leaders — with
these young leaders.  And, Vincent, why don’t we start our discussion.  
  
(The roundtable discussion begins.)  
  
(The roundtable discussion concludes.)  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, again, I think it’s very important that we
highlight in a way that each of you leaders and young leaders has done
today, and the role of our nation’s HBCUs, and the biggest issues that
challenge our nation and the globe, historic role that our HBCUs have
played, and the current role — and the current role in terms of
producing the leaders that are prepared to take on this new era and
emerging challenges for which we may not have been prepared and
certainly for which we need to develop the skillsets to figure out the
solutions to the challenges we face.  And our HBCUs play a critical role
in that work.   
  
And this in-depth conversation, I think, highlights, without any
question, the role of our graduates of HBCUs — and, therefore, the HBCUs
that challenge and educate them — to our nation’s security — we talked
about DOD; to our nation’s development; to our nation’s — we talked
about the global impact, partnerships around the world.  
  
And so I want to thank you all for the representation that you have
provided today about the role of our HBCUs — again, historically,
presently, and in the future.  
  
Thank you all very much.

12:46 P.M. EDT
