---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-09-07'
modified_time: 2021-09-07 18:20:05-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/09/07/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-administrations-response-to-hurricane-ida-2/
published_time: 2021-09-07 18:45:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by President Biden on the Administration\u2019s Response to Hurricane\
  \ Ida"
---
 
4:40 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Chuck, thank you very much.  As the old joke goes, if my
father were here, he’d say, “Thank you.”  If my mother were here, she’d
say, “Who are you talking about?”  (Laughter.)

Look, folks, let me begin by saying I wish every American could walk
down this alley with me to see and talk to the people who have been
devastated.  Just talk to them.  None of them were shouting or
complaining.  Every one of them were thanking me as if it was something
special — I mean it sincerely — that I was here, and hoped that we’d be
able to do something.

This is America, where I’m standing right now.  (Applause.)  These are
the people, whether it was in Scranton or Claymont or anywhere around
the world — the country — who built this country.  And it’s about time
we step up.  They’re always the first ones that are hurt and the last
ones that are helped.  But that’s not going to happen this time.

The group I have standing with me, led by Chuck Schumer and your —
Congresswoman, is this your district?

LEADER SCHUMER:  Grace Meng.

THE PRESIDENT:  Oh, it’s Grace’s district.  No, it’s —

REPRESENTATIVE MENG:  AOC.  Alex.

LEADER SCHUMER:  Ocasio-Cortez.

THE PRESIDENT:  I want to thank her personally for her gumption, the way
she’s fought and hollered and fought so hard for all the people in this
alley.  I really mean it.  Thank you, thank you, thank you. 

But that goes for everybody here.  (Applause.)

And look, folks — you know, I want to thank the governor for — and
Leader Schumer and <s>Kristen</s> \[Kirsten\] — I shouldn’t — I should
say, Senator Gillibrand, and Congresswoman Meng and Maloney and Meeks
and Mayor de Blasio for being here.

You know, it’s not — how can I say this?  Sometimes some very bad things
happen that have a tendency to bring out the best in a people and a
country.  And I think what people are seeing across this country — from
the wildfires in California and the far West, which I’m heading to in a
couple of days; all the way to down in Louisiana, the Gulf, where I was
a couple of days ago; to New Jersey, and Pennsylvania, to a lesser
extent; Delaware, to a lesser extent; and New York — people are
beginning to realize this is much, much bigger than anyone was willing
to believe.  And a whole segment of our population denying this thing
called “climate change.”

LEADER SCHUMER:  Right.

PARTICIPANT:  Right.

THE PRESIDENT:  But I really mean it. 

Sometimes my mother used to say, “Out of everything bad, something good
will come if you look hard enough for it.”  Well, I think we’ve all seen
— even the climate skeptics are seeing that this really does matter. 

And it’s not just whether or not people who are just trying to get by in
these homes, in these alleys here, working their butts off, do well;
it’s people in high towers along the shore will find that as this rain
and all this change takes place in the groundwater, the buildings are
actually beginning to tilt — 100-story buildings. 

This goes so far beyond what anybody is willing to speak to up to now. 

We just finished surveying some of the damage in the neighborhood here
in Queens.  And earlier today, we were in the Raritan Valley in New
Jersey, which also got badly, badly hit. 

Walking these neighborhoods, meeting the families and the first
responders, seeing how folks are doing after this destruction and pain
and another devastating storm, is an eyeopener.  The people who stand on
the other side of the fences who don’t live there, who are yelling that
we’re talking about interfering with free enterprise by doing something
about climate change — they don’t live there. 

PARTICIPANT:  That’s right.  That’s right.

THE PRESIDENT:  They don’t live — they don’t understand. 

And, you know, last week, right here, in so many other communities,
these waves crashed through the streets here, testing the aging
infrastructure and taking lives.  More lives were taken here than down
in Louisiana.  Let me say that again:  They had over 20 inches of rain. 
They had 178-mile-an-hour winds — gusts.  And more lives were taken here
than down in Louisiana. 

And, you know, you all saw the harrowing images of — stories and
families trapped in flooding basements and struggling to survive.  Well,
you didn’t have to — just go along this Valley, talk to the people.  I’m
sure the press has done that. 

My message to everyone grappling with this devastation is: We’re here. 
We’re not going home until this gets done.  I really mean that.  We’re
not leaving.  We’re going to continue to shout as long as it takes to
get real progress here.

Folks — and we have to take some bold action now to tack- — tackle the
accelerating effects of climate.  If we don’t act now — I’m going to be
heading, as Chuck knows, as the Senator knows — I’m going to be heading
from here to Glasgow, in Scotland, for the COP meeting, which is all the
nations of the world getting together to decide what we’re going to do
about climate change.

And John Kerry, the former Secretary of State, is leading our effort
putting it together.  We are determined — we are determined that we are
going to deal with climate change and — and have zero emissions — net
emissions by 2050.  By <s>2020</s> \[2050\], make sure all our
electricity is zero emissions.  We’re going to be able to do these
things, but we’ve got to move.  We’ve got to move.  And we’ve got to
move the rest of the world.  It’s not just the United States of
America. 

And so, folks, this summer alone, communities with over 100 million
Americans — 100 \[million\] American — Americans call home, have been
struck by extreme weather.  One in every three Americans has been
victimized by severe weather — the hurricanes along the Gulf, the East
Coast, up through this community.  And I saw the human and physical
costs firsthand, as I said, in Louisiana. 

But, Governor, you called Phil Murphy, so many of the leading — Governor
Murphy — so many leading with urgency and action are — said, “Enough. 
Enough.”  And there’s not a single request I’m aware of — there may be
something — that we haven’t signed off on — that we haven’t signed off
yet. 

And here’s the deal: The New York Fire Department and the New York
Police Department, the Sanitation Department, and other first
responders, they’re leading with incredible, incredible courage.  Two
linemen have been killed — (applause) — trying to make sure we have —

LEADER SCHUMER:  Bless those fellas.

THE PRESIDENT:  And, folks, the evidence is clear: Climate change poses
an existential threat to our lives, to our economy.  And the threat is
here; it’s not going to get any better.  The question: Can it get
worse?  We can stop it from getting worse. 

And when I talk about building back better — and Chuck is fighting for
my program — our program — on the Hill — when I talk about building back
better, I mean, you can’t build to what it was before this last storm. 
You’ve got to build better, so if the storm occurred again, there would
be no damage — there would be. 

But that’s not going to stop us though.  Because if we just do that,
it’s just going to get worse and worse and worse, because the storms are
going to get worse and worse and worse. 

And so, folks, we got to listen to the scientists and the economists and
the national security experts.  They all tell us this is code red; the
nation and the world are in peril.  And that’s not hyperbole.  That is a
fact. 

They’ve been warning us the extreme weather would get more extreme over
the decade, and we’re living it in real time now. 

Or we can look around the wreckage and the ruins and the heartbreak from
so many communities, to feel it.  (Inaudible) don’t understand.  You can
feel it.  You can taste it.  You can see it. 

Precious lives lost in Louisiana, in New Jersey, in New York.  Families
living in shelters.  Subway stations flooded.  Decaying infrastructure
pushed beyond the limits.  Lives and livelihoods interrupted once
again. 

We’re working closely with the governors and mayors and members of
Congress and community leaders. 

On Sunday, I immediately approved the disaster declaration of Governor
Hochul to rush federal assistance to where it was needed here. 
(Applause.)

FEMA —

PARTICIPANT:  Thank you, President.

PARTICIPANT:  Thank you, Mr. President.

THE PRESIDENT:  FEMA is working —

SENATOR SCHUMER:  Fastest ever.

THE PRESIDENT:  — intensively with state and local officials, assessing
the damage and mobilizing resources. 

One of things I want to thank Chuck for, as Leader of the Senate: He has
helped mobilize state, local, and federal.  When they’re all working
together, that’s when things happen positively. 

The Health and Human Services Secretary is working with the state to
ensure folks on Medicare and Medicaid get the emergency care if they
need it.  They’re going to make sure it’s equitable so that the hardest
hit, including lower-income folks, communities of color, and the
elderly, and the most vulnerable get help and get it first.  They are
the ones in the greatest need. 

And there’s much to be done.  And we’re working around the clock on all
these critical needs in areas. 

Look, I say to anyone who could hear this or if this is broadcast: If
you need help, please go to DisasterAssistance.gov or call
1-800-621-FEMA.  1-800-621-3362.  We can get you help now.  We can get
you help now.  And I know these disasters aren’t going to stop; they’re
only going to come with more frequency and ferocity. 

And as I said, I’m working in Congress to pass two important pieces of
legislation that this man here is honchoing through the Congress for me:
the bipartisan fla- — plan to modernize our physical infrastructure —
our roads, our bridges, our power transmission, our distribution lines. 
(Applause.)  How many bridges I just went — went through in New Jersey
that had been overflowed by the river.  The river has gone higher than
the bridges, having done damage to them. 

My Build Back Better plan, with key investments in — in — to fight
climate change, cutting emissions, and make things more resilient.  Each
dollar we invest, every dollar we raise — a city block by two feet,
flood-proof power stations, sanitations, reduction in the buildup of
kindling in our forest, installing electrical lines underground rather
than overhead — saves us six dollars for every single dollar we spend to
do those things.

Because the next time disaster strikes, the flood is contained, the fire
doesn’t spread as <s>wisely</s> \[widely\], and power stays on, not to
mention those investments save lives, homes, and create good-paying
union jobs.

     LEADER SCHUMER:  Yay!  (Applause.)  

THE PRESIDENT:  I hosted —

LEADER SCHUMER:  We like union jobs.

THE PRESIDENT:  I hosted 56 heads of state in Washington.  And I pointed
out — we’re talking about climate change, and I said, “I think of one
word when I think of climate change: jobs.  Good-paying jobs.” 
(Applause.) 

Each of these things requires a good-paying job.  Not $7 or $12 or $15,
but $45, $50 an hour, plus healthcare.  That’s what is needed. 
(Applause.)

And so, folks, it will also — and Wall Street, not too far from here,
acknowledges if we spend the money on these things, we’re going to grow
the economy, increase employment. 

You know, the fire in Oregon sent smokes all — sent smoke all the way to
the Atlantic.  The storm in the Gulf, as you’ve now figured out, can
reverberate 10 states away.  Supply chains and crop production get
interrupted, driving up costs, devastating industries all over America. 

This is everybody’s crisis — everybody’s crisis. 

And let me just say again: The fact is that the damage done on the West
Coast, which I’ll be heading to — they’ve already burned 5 million acres
to the ground.  That’s bigger than the state of New Jersey, if I’m not
mistaken.  Five million acres.  And you see it by the smoke that ends up
coming over the East Coast.

Folks, we’re all in this.  It’s about time we stopped the regional
fights and understand helping somebody make sure there’s no — fewer
fires in the West warrants helping people in this alley make sure
they’re not flooded. 

And, by the way, it’s not just the flooding — and I’ll end with this. 
It’s not just the flooding.  Flooding ends up overrunning sanitation
systems, and it causes disease, and people get sick.  And it’s serious,
serious business.

So, we got a lot of work to do.  Again, it’s good-paying jobs; we can
put the economy back on the path to real growth.  But in the meantime,
we’re going to save a whole hell of a lot of people’s lives, and we’re
going to save a whole hell of a lot of money. 

God bless you all.  Let’s get this done.  (Applause.) 

LEADER SCHUMER:  Mr. President, look at that nice kid with the American
Flag.  Say hello.

THE PRESIDENT:  How are you, pal?

LEADER SCHUMER:  What’s your name?  He can’t hear us.

THE PRESIDENT:  How old are you?

CHILD:  Seven.

THE PRESIDENT:  Oh, you’re getting old!  (Applause.)

And, by the way, the neat thing about America: Every time we end up with
a problem going into a serious circumstance, we come out better than we
went in.  That’s because we’re so diverse.  That’s America.  Be proud of
it.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  And don’t jump.  (Laughter.)  All right. 

4:55 P.M. EDT
