---
date: '2024-11-15'
modified_time: 2024-11-15 18:30:00-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-15 18:29:59-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/11/15/background-press-gaggle-on-the-u-s-rok-japan-trilateral-meeting/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Gaggle on the U.S.-ROK-Japan Trilateral\_Meeting"
---
 
Lima Convention Center  
Lima, Peru

MODERATOR:  We’ll do this on background, attributed to a senior
administration official.  Just a couple minutes to read out the trilat
meeting.

Do you want to kick us off and provide —

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  Maybe just a few comments.

Just finished the trilateral leaders-level meeting between President
Biden, South Korean President Yoon Suk Yeol, and the Japanese Prime
Minister, Ishiba Shigeru.  The meeting lasted probably just over 40
minutes, simultaneous interpretation.  So they covered a lot of ground.

I was struck by the fact that every leader commented on how
extraordinary this — and how extraordinarily important this trilateral
cooperation has become.  They all noted that since Camp David, there’s
been an incredible acceleration in our work together, and also the areas
in which we’re working has really broadened significantly, from security
to economics to economic security, technology, really across the board.

They did do a tour d’horizon of sorts across the region and across the
world.  They talked about the importance of maintaining peace and
stability in the South China Sea and across the Taiwan Strait.  They
talked about how closely we’re working, all three of us, in Southeast
Asia and in the Pacific Islands.

But the issue that they probably discussed most in depth was the growing
threat posed by the DPRK, both the DPRK’s growing missile and nuclear
capabilities and also, of course, the really escalatory and
destabilizing nature of Russia-DPRK cooperation, particularly, of
course, the deployment of North Korean troops into the Kursk region.

So those were the issues that were covered.  And, again, the one that
was addressed most in depth was the DPRK-Russia issue.

And with that, I’m happy to take your questions.

Q    Sure.  The one person you didn’t mention was Donald Trump.  Did his
name come up in any of the discussions?  Did the Asian leaders express
any concern or seek any insight (inaudible)?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  No.  As a matter of fact, the
President-elect’s name did not come up.  I think you saw in the pool
spray the President did note we’re in a time of transition.  He noted,
of course, we have a newly elected Japanese Prime Minister, Ishiba.  You
know, we’ll have a transition in the United States.

But the focus of the conversation was entirely on, I’d say, two things. 
It was the here and now of the challenges and the common interests that
we share, and then the recognition that both our shared interests and
the shared challenges are enduring.  And that was the nature of the
conversation.

Q    Did they talk about consequences for the DPRK, for the Russian
(inaudible)?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, the way I would term it is all
three leaders said we need to continue to follow very closely these
concerning developments, and, most importantly, we need to coordinate
more closely than ever before on how we’re going to respond.  And of
course, our teams are talking every day about the best ways to do that.

Q    So, did any of the leaders talk about the future of burden sharing
under the new administration?  I understand that South Korea and the
U.S. have just signed sort of like a new agreement that will hold for a
few years ahead, which is an increase of the previous agreement on
burden sharing.  Did they talk about that?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, the Special Measures Agreement
issue, you — I think you’ve described accurately.  That was not
discussed today.  Again, what we discussed today: Every leader noted how
incredibly important this trilateral cooperation has been and will
continue to be going forward.  And then we talked about all the
different areas in which we’re currently cooperating.

Q    Was the sense on the growing DPRK-Russia relationship that there is
something that can be done to sort of break this up?  Or are you all
looking at this as a threat going forward that might intensify?  I
guess, whatever you’re doing, is that going to —

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, I think, one, there’s an
increasing recognition that, more than ever before, security matters
between Europe and Asia are indivisible and more interlinked than
they’ve ever been before.

But we talked about a number of steps, both diplomatic in terms of our
respective military postures and sanctions measures and the like.  All
of those things, I think, are options before us, and we’ll have to
consider, I think collaboratively, how best to engage going forward.

But there was tremendous convergence on just how destabilizing this
growing nexus between Moscow and Pyongyang is for the region.

And, look, I think there was also a recognition that China has a role to
play here as well.  And I think there’s a sense that one would think it
should not be in Beijing’s interest to have this kind of destabilizing
cooperation take place in the region as well. 

Q    There was no discussion of Trump in terms of his relationship with
Kim and how that has sort of changed during his years and then into the
Biden administration?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  None whatsoever.

Q    Do you think it’s hard to have these conversations in a meaningful
way without acknowledging this change in administration that’s going to
be coming up?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  What we’re focused on is the here and
now.  And I know that, of course, as I said at the top, even in front of
the press, there was a recognition that we’re in a period of
transition.  But as we often say, there’s one president at a time, and
the focus of this meeting was what are we going to do together,
especially over the next couple of months, to deter particularly these
growing threats that I’ve

addressed.

Q    I know there was a pull-aside with the Japanese Prime Minister. 
Did Nippon Steel come up?  Was that a discussion today?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I don’t know.  I wasn’t there, so I do
not know.

Q    It didn’t come up in the trilat, I assume?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  No, it did not.

Q    What is the current understanding of how the North Korean troops
are being used?  How many are actually in the fight versus, you now,
sort of —

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I don’t have anything new to report to
that.  I think you’ve seen Admiral Kirby and others have spoken
extensively from the podium.

But as we’ve talked about, the 10,000-plus North Korean troops that are
in Russia, we believe are now all or predominantly in the Kursk region. 
We presume they have gone there to engage in combat, but I don’t have
anything beyond those top lines that you’ve seen already.

Q    Is there anything new in terms of missile warning systems, the
trilateral part?  Or is that just a continuation of what has already
been set up?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, I think you’ll see the three of
us will have a statement coming out soon, and we’ll speak to — perhaps
it’s already out.  You’ll see there’s an agreement to continue to share
in real time missile data.  I think that’s really important.

And even though I’ve emphasized just how broad and deep our cooperation
is, I think there was a recognition among the three leaders that, in
particular, our security cooperation has probably increased most
dramatically, and that’s probably most impactful and most needed at this
time, given the growing threats that we talked about.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  And the strong recognition by the three
leaders that that cooperation, on real-time sharing, needs to be
enhanced further in order to respond to these growing threats.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  And, look, maybe just reinforcing that,
as well, the trilateral military exercise, Freedom Edge, has either —
has wrapped or is just wrapping up.

Again, I think this is, really, a tangible manifestation of what we’re
doing together in real time.

Q    But can I ask just on the missile warning system: On the increase
of that, I think Jake mentioned yesterday that, in particular, a period
of transition is a time where the DPRK might try to act provocatively. 
So is there urgency during this transition period to make this
statement?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  What we’re doing is we’re following
President Biden’s direction.  We’re going to have the most orderly,
peaceful, and effective transition possible, and we’re going to do so in
a way that ensures that we do everything to ensure America’s security
and prosperity.

And I have to say it would be very unwise for any of our adversaries to
think that this is a period of time in which they could try to seek
advantage.  That would be a great miscalculation.

MODERATOR:  All right, I think we got to wrap here.

Q    Do you see alignment with the two countries on potential actions
you would take in response to the DPRK’s troop deployment?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I think — well, look, again, we agree
that we’re going to follow — continue following these developments
closely, continue our intensive conversations about how to go forward. 

But the word that I would use to describe the conversation would be
“convergence.”  Tremendous convergence in our views, our outlook, and
our determination to respond collectively to these challenges.  And as
for how we’ll do that in detail, I think you’ll see more about that in
the coming days and weeks.
