---
date: '2024-11-13'
modified_time: 2024-11-13 16:51:55-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-13 14:50:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/11/13/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-19/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security\
  \ Advisor Jake\_Sullivan"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

12:49 P.M. EST

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Good afternoon, everyone.

Q Good afternoon.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Oh, okay. (Laughter.) I’m excited to see you all too.

Okay. So, today, President Biden met with President-elect Trump for
approximately two hours in the Oval Office. White House Chief of Staff
Jeff Zients and incoming Chief of Staff Susie Wiles joined the meeting.

It was substantive meeting and exchange of views.

They discussed important national security and domestic policy issues
facing the nation and the world.

President Biden also raised important items on Congress’s to-do list for
the lame-duck session, including funding the government and providing
the disaster supplemental funding the president requested.

Finally, the president rei- — reiterated what he said to the
president-elect the day after the election and to the American people in
the Rose Garden just last week: We will have an orderly transition and a
peaceful transition of power.

With that, as you can see, I have the national security advisor with me,
Jake Sullivan, who is going to preview APEC in Peru and also G20 in
Brazil. The president is going to be leaving tomorrow, as you all know.

And, Jake, the floor is yours.

MR. SULLIVAN: Thanks, Karine. And hi, everybody. I’m going to make some
brief comments about the president’s trip that he leaves on tomorrow,
answer a few questions, because I know the issue you are most interested
in is hearing from Karine about the meeting, so I will not dally too
long up here. But I think it is important to lay out the president’s
trip here over the next several days.

Tomorrow, he travels to South America. His first stop will be Peru for
the APEC Summit — the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Summit — and
then he’ll go on to Brazil for the first-ever presidential trip to the
Amazon and then to the G20 Summit in Rio de Janeiro.

At APEC, the president will reinforce America’s leading role in the
Indo-Pacific. And over the last four years, he has markedly enhanced our
strategic position in this vital region, from our treaty alliances to
AUKUS to the Quad to the historic trilateral with Japan and Korea.

And with respect to that trilateral, he will meet with President Yoon of
South Korea and Prime Minister Ishiba of Japan to celebrate the historic
cooperation between our three nations and discuss the importance of
institutionalizing the progress we’ve made so that it carries forward
through the transition.

While in Lima, President Biden will also meet with President Xi Jinping
of the People’s Republic of China. This will be the third in-person
meeting between the two leaders since President Biden came into office
and their final meeting as presidents. They previously met, as you know,
in Bali in 2022 at the G20 Summit and at Woodside, California, near San
Francisco in 2023 on the margins of APEC Summit, which was exactly one
year and one day ago.

And throughout his time in office, President Biden and his team have
worked to effectively and responsibly manage the competition between the
United States and the PRC.

The president’s approach on the PRC has prioritized investments in
sources of American strength at home, including growing the middle class
and ensuring that America maintains its industrial capacity and its
innovation edge in fields such as semiconductors and artificial
intelligence.

He has strengthened our alliances around the world and especially in the
Indo-Pacific, he has boosted American deterrence, and he’s ensured that
America remains the partner of choice for countries both in the region
and across the world.

The president has also taken commonsense measures to advance our
national — national security and protect our most sensitive technologies
to prevent them from being exploited or used against us by the PRC,
including through significant new export control measures.

At the same time, the president has demonstrated that the U.S. and the
PRC can manage our differences and prevent competition from veering into
conflict or confrontation, and he has done that by ensuring the
maintenance of open lines of communication at the leader level, at the
military-to-military level, and at every level of our respective
governments. And we’ve also worked to advance cooperation where our
interests align, including on counternarcotics and climate change, which
is what the people of our two countries expect and what the world
expects.

And this meeting between President Biden and President Xi will be an
opportunity to ensure a smooth transition and also to continue to keep
those channels of communication open, including those especially
critical military-to-military channels of communication.

Of course, in Lima, President Biden will also meet President Boluarte of
Peru to mark the strength and durability of our bilateral relationship
with Peru.

After that, the president will travel to Brazil, and he’ll start with a
historic stop in the Amazon to underscore his personal commitment and
America’s continuing commitment at all levels of government and across
our private sector and civil society to combat climate change at home
and abroad. And this has been, obviously, one of the defining causes of
President Biden’s presidency.

While in Manaus, in the Amazon, President Biden will visit the
rainforest, engage with local leaders who are working to preserve and
protect this critical ecosystem. And as I noted, this will be the
first-ever visit of a sitting U.S. president to the Amazon.

President Biden will then travel to Rio de Janeiro to par- — participate
in his fourth and final G20 Leaders’ Summit.

High on the agenda there will be issues associated with debt
sustainability for low- and middle-income countries; mobilizing finance
for infrastructure — physical, digital, energy infrastructure around the
world; and also dealing, obviously, with the major geopolitical issues
of the day, from Ukraine to the Middle East.

As you all know, the G20 is a unique forum. It includes both our closest
allies and partners as well as our adversaries, and pulling this group
together around shared challenges is never easy, but we do expect to
make some progress, particularly around debt and finance, during our
time in Rio.

The president, of course, will also meet with President Lula of Brazil.
The two leaders have really built a strong, productive relationship over
the last four years, and they’re looking forward to have their final
meeting together as presidents as well.

So, we’ve got a busy week ahead of us.

And with that, as I said, I’ll take a few questions and then turn it
back over to Karine.

Yeah.

Q Thanks again for doing this, Jake. In the run-up to the election,
President Biden warned that allies were worried about America’s
commitment to the world. What’s his message to those allies after this
election?

MR. SULLIVAN: Well, he is going to have the same message that he’s had
for four years as president, which is that he believes that America’s
allies are vital to America’s national security. They make us stronger.
They multiply our capability. They take a burden off of our shoulders.
They contribute to our common causes, including the cause of standing up
for freedom and territorial integrity in Ukraine.

And as I noted in my opening comments, when he goes to this Asia-Pacific
summit in Peru, he’ll go with our alliances in the Indo-Pacific at a
literal all-time high — Japan, Korea, Australia, the Philippines — a
really remarkable record over four years. And that’s what he’s going to
hand off to President Trump.

And he is going to be making the case to our allies and, frankly, to our
adversaries that America is standing with its alliances, investing in
its alliances. And then asking its allies to step up and do their part,
which they have done these past four years, is central to American
strength and capacity in the world.

That will be his message. It’s a message of principle. It’s a message of
practicality. And it’s been one of the causes of President Biden’s life.

Yeah.

Q Karine said national security obviously came up in the meeting today.
You’ve suggested that the president would make the case to the
president-elect not to walk away from Ukraine. Was that message
conveyed? How was — it was — how was it received?

MR. SULLIVAN: Well, I’ll let Karine speak to what happened in the
meeting. I will only note that President Biden reinforced his view that
the United States standing with Ukraine on an ongoing basis is in our
national security interest. And it’s in our national security interest
because a strong Europe, a stable Europe, standing up to aggressors and
dictators and pushing back against their aggression is vital to ensuring
that we don’t end up getting dragged directly into a war, which has
happened, obviously, twice in the 20th century on the European
continent.

So, the president has made this case. He’ll continue to make this case
both privately and publicly. And he will make the case that our
investment in Ukraine, the — the funds that the Congress has
appropriated, these aren’t just dollars that we’re picking up and
shipping over to another country. They’re dollars we’re investing here
in the United States in American jobs, producing American weapons that
we send to Ukraine and American weapons that we are building to expand
our own industrial base and our own military capacity to deter other
adversaries all around the world.

So, he laid this out. He will continue to make this case as we go
forward. And as we go through this transition, it will be our
responsibility as the national security team to lay out for the incoming
team both what we see and a — you know, in terms of the current
situation — and how we believe that the United States of America,
through this transition and beyond, can put Ukraine in the strongest
possible position on the battlefield so that it’s in the strongest
possible position at the negotiating table for an ultimate deal.

Yeah.

Q The families of the American hostages who are held in Gaza are going
to meet with President Biden today. We’ve heard from the families that
they would like to see the Biden administration and the incoming Trump
administration work together to try to secure the release of these
hostages.

Do you see any room for cooperation or coordination between your team,
the president’s team, and Trump’s team to try to get a deal before Biden
leaves office?

MR. SULLIVAN: I met with the hostages myself yesterday, and, as you
noted, President Biden will meet with the — the families of the hostages
yesterday, and President Biden will meet with them very shortly. And
they asked me this question, and I was very simple and emphatic with
them: Yes, of course, we’re prepared to work with the incoming team in
common cause on a bipartisan basis to do everything in our collective
American power to secure the release of the hostages, both living and
deceased.

So, we are open to have that engagement, have that collaboration, and we
will continue to work in every remaining day that President Biden has in
office, that we have in these jobs to try to bring those — those
hostages home to their loved ones.

Yeah.

Q Just to clarify real quick, though. There’s been no discussion yet
with the Trump team about doing that?

MR. SULLIVAN: Well, I will say that this is a topic — obviously, the
American hostages being held in Gaza — that President Biden and
President Trump covered today, but we have not had the opportunity to
engage with the incoming team yet.

I — I’m only expressing, standing here today, as I did to the hostage
families yesterday, we are very much willing to do so. And we’ve sent a
signal to the incoming team that we’re prepared to work with them on
this issue, as with every other issue, because President Biden’s
cardinal direction to us is ensure a smooth and orderly transition.

Q O- — on that, are you finding the Israelis as responsive to the Biden
administration inquiries or requests, given that we know the prime
minister is in pretty frequent touch with the president-elect?

MR. SULLIVAN: I had the opportunity to sit down yesterday with the
Israeli minister of strategic affairs, Ron Dermer. We had a detailed
discussion about every element of the current situation in the Middle
East, and it was a constructive discussion. We are still actively
working in support of our common efforts to push back against our common
adversaries, to try to deal with the situation in Gaza, in Lebanon, and
directly with respect to the Islamic Republic of Iran.

And just to give you an example, we are working on an ongoing, daily
basis to try to increase the amount of humanitarian assistance getting
into Gaza, giving the suffering of the innocent civilians there who are
trapped amidst the crossfire between the IDF and — and the terrorist
group Hamas. We have made some progress in that regard. I — we extracted
further commitments from the Israeli side over the course of the past
couple of days. We want to see those commitments followed through on.

So, we believe that we can continue to work across the board on all of
the relevant issues, whether it’s humanitarian assistance or it’s
ensuring the defense of Israel against Iranian attacks or it’s working
on ceasefire efforts and — and a hostage deal in Gaza or it’s ultimately
bringing a diplomatic resolution to Lebanon, which we’re actively
working on. We’ll continue to do that every day that we have remaining
in office.

Yeah.

Q Jake, I know you can’t speak to what happened in this — in the meeting
earlier. We’ll ask Karine about that. But eight years ago,
then-President Obama explicitly warned incoming-President Donald Trump
about the urgent threat posed by North Korea. He said it was the most
urgent national security threat the U.S. was facing at the time.

What would you communicate to your national security advisor peer, who
is going to be following you in this job? What is the most urgent
national security threat facing the United States today, as Donald Trump
prepares to take office?

MR. SULLIVAN: Well, I would say two things in answer to that question.
The first is that if you look out at a strategic level, the competition
with the People’s Republic of China is going to be defining for what the
world looks like over the course of the next 10, 20, and 30 years, and
so that has got to be a paramount priority for the incoming
administration.

And the person who’s been named as my successor, the person who’s been
floated as the secretary of State, these are people who have very much
focused on that challenge, and we’ll look forward to talking to them
about how we’ve approached it and obviously pass on the current state of
play.

Then there’s the most immediate issue, which is Iran and its proxy
groups continue to take actions that directly threaten Americans and
American interests in the Middle East, and that has to be dealt with on
an urgent basis.

Now, that’s at the macro level and the micro level. In between those
two, you have an ongoing war of aggression by Russia against Ukraine
representing a larger threat to European security and, therefore, global
security. And you’ve got North Korea coming behind to provide troops in
that war.

So, these are all issues for which we have clear approaches, working in
coordination with allies and partners, and we are going to try to ensure
that we pass off each of these areas to the next team in a way that is
as smooth as possible.

Q Last time Donald —

MR. SULLIVAN: Yeah.

Q Last time he was going to — just to follow up quickly. Last time, in
that same meeting, Obama told Trump that he had real concerns about the
hiring of a national security advisor, Mike Flynn. Donald Trump
ultimately hired Mike Flynn. Do you have any concerns about the names
that you have heard mentioned so far and announced so far by Donald
Trump to serve in his administration in a national security role?

MR. SULLIVAN: I know some of them. I’ve engaged with some of them. And —
and people like, for example, Congressman Waltz, who’s been named to be
my replacement, he’s somebody that I have engaged with in the past. I
respect his service to this country in uniform. He’s put his life on the
line. I respect his service in Congress.

He and I obviously don’t see eye to eye on every issue, but I am very
much looking forward to engaging him over these next 60 days, as I said,
so that we can have this smooth handoff.

There are other people that he’s named who I just don’t know, I haven’t
met, and therefore can’t comment on.

Q Thank you.

MR. SULLIVAN: Yeah.

Q So, you — you talk about wanting to engage, wanting to smooth this
transition. Why hasn’t it happened yet? Is there — is the signing of the
MOUs an actual issue that is preventing you from coordinating with the
Trump — incoming Trump team?

MR. SULLIVAN: So, I’ll defer to Karine to kind of go into the
nitty-gritty. What I’ll say at a broad level, though, is the MOU creates
the opening for the landing teams to arrive at the agencies, to include
the NSC.

But that doesn’t mean that we can’t reach out and get — you know, and
express our willingness to engage with our counterparts — our incoming
counterparts. We’ve done that. And so, I expect that in a matter of days
here, we should be able to have some engagement.

Of course, that depends on whether the incoming team wants to engage,
and — and that will be up to them.

But for our part, we are more than willing to do what is our
responsibility as directed by the president and, frankly, as dictated by
the Constitution, which is to ensure the peaceful transition of power.

Yeah.

Q I just have a China-related question as well. You know, the — the
Biden administration largely left in place the Trump-era tariffs on
China. The policy hasn’t been — towards China, it hasn’t been wildly
divergent. Do you see the potential for bipartisan agreement on the
relationship with China in the next administration or going forward?

MR. SULLIVAN: I think for us to succeed in the long-term competition
with the PRC, it will require a bipartisan foundation. The best
traditions of American foreign policy have always had a bipartisan
element. And many aspects of the policy that we have pursued in this
administration, with respect to the PRC and with respect to the
Indo-Pacific, have been bipartisan.

By the way, the same thing is true with respect to Ukraine, where there
has been strong bipartisan support and votes in both the House and the
Senate for the resources and the strategy for Ukraine.

So, from our perspective, we would like to see that continue. Now,
obviously, we don’t know what the incoming team is going to do, how
divergent they will be. Those will be decisions they take. Not for me to
comment on.

All I can say is that when it comes to investing in our alliances, the
sources of strength at home, the protections of our advanced
technologies, these are things we’re going to advocate continue because
we think that they are not political issues. They’re American issues
that can serve all of the people of this country.

Yeah.

Q Thanks, Jake. Will the president raise this alleged hack by a Chinese
hacking group when he meets with President Xi, and are you planning any
kind of consequences for that hack?

MR. SULLIVAN: It is a significant issue. I expect that the FBI and CISA
will have an update in terms of their investigation, which is ongoing
into the hack, soon. We here at the White House have stood up at the —
at the NSC what’s called the UCG, a Unified Coordinating Group, in order
to coordinate the entire U.S. government to be able to deal with this
hack, which is a hack of private telecommunications providers, but
private telecommunications providers that provide services to U.S.
government personnel, among others. So, you will hear from the FBI and
CISA on that.

I do expect this will come up in the meeting in Peru.

And I’m not going to speak to consequences from this podium. I will only
say that we have made clear over time that we will respond when we see
actions taken, in terms of cyberattacks, cyber espionage, cyber
intrusions. That has been a feature of our policy to date. It will
remain a feature of our policy going forward.

I’ll take just a couple more and then let Karine take over.

Go ahead.

Q Thanks, Jake. Can you give us a sense of what else President Biden
said to President Trump about Russia in their meeting?

And also, with regard to China, will he pass on any tips or color from
his meeting with President Trump to President Xi when they meet? And
what will his message be to — to President Xi?

MR. SULLIVAN: I’ve already mildly violated the not reading out the
meeting proviso. (Laughter.) So, I will pass that off to —

Q Keep going.

Q Not a problem with that here.

MR. SULLIVAN: — I will pass that off to Karine. Mild — mild violations.

But with respect to his meeting with President Xi, I don’t expect him to
pass messages. Obviously, President Trump, when he comes into office,
will have his opportunity to engage directly with President Xi.

But I will observe that transitions are uniquely consequential moments
in geopolitics. They’re a time when competitors and adversaries can see
possibly opportunity, because you have this — this change in government
here.

And so, part of what President Biden will communicate is that we need to
maintain stability, clarity, predictability through this transition
between the United States and China.

And he will also really reinforce the point that in order for us to
manage this competition responsibly going forward, we have to sustain,
over the long term, the channels of communication at every level,
particularly the military-to-military level.

And then, of course, he will look to try to consolidate progress on
areas where we can work together, for example, on counternarcotics and
fentanyl coordination, and on trying to manage the safety risks
associated with artificial intelligence.

So, it’s an important meeting. It will not be just a valedictory.
Although there will be an element of reflecting over the course of their
long relationship, there is actual work to do in this critical moment
between the U.S. and China to ensure that we don’t run into any problems
in the next two months in this transition of power.

Last question.

Q Can you sort of explain the strategy for the remaining drawdown
authority for Ukraine, and also, if the administration is going to ask
for any additional drawdown authority in like an end-of-the-year CR or
spending plan?

MR. SULLIVAN: So, the president has made clear and he has directed his
team to ensure that every dollar that the Congress gave to him,
authorized him to spend, he will spend on behalf of Ukraine before he
leaves office.

Now, again, these are not dollars he is putting on an airplane and
flying across the ocean. These are dollars he is investing in the
American defense industrial base. As we provide weapons to Ukraine, we
make new weapons to give to the U.S. military.

All of those dollars will be spent, will be obligated by the time he
leaves office on January 20th.

Therefore, it only stands to reason that in the next two months, the
administration will signal to Congress that we would like to see
additional funds for Ukraine for 2025 so that they can be in the best
possible position, the strongest possible position to negotiate, to
ensure they achieve their objectives, that they win at the negotiating
table.

Now, what form will that take — CR, et cetera — I’m going to not get
myself in trouble by turning into the OMB director up here. I will just
say that the administration very much sees the necessity and the logic
of seeking additional resources for 2025 since we are doing what
Congress asked us to do, which is dispersing the funds they gave us for
2024.

And with that, I’ll turn it over to Karine.

(Cross-talk.)

Q Jake, on the Amazon trip —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Thank you, Jake.

Q Congrats on becoming a congressional spouse. (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I just have one more thing, and then I’ll go into your
questions.

So, today, the president and the first lady welcomed nearly 200
education and workforce leaders to the White House for the Biden-Harris
administration’s Classroom \[to\] Career Summit.

The administration’s Investing in America agenda is creating millions of
good-paying jobs, many of which do not require a four-year college
degree. And its investments will continue to drive job creation for
years to come.

The summit highlighted the record progress to expand career pathways to
these good-paying jobs in infrastructure, clean energy, ad- — advanced
manufacturing, and so much more.

With that, Josh, it’s good to see you, as always.

Q Goo- — good to see you, Karine. Regarding the meeting.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah. (Laughter.)

Q President Biden has given a lot of statements about his concern for
the U.S. democracy. Did he share any of those concerns with
President-elect Trump in their meeting about what he feels should be
done or needs to be done?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I’m not going to go into granular detail of what
was discussed in — in the meeting.

What I can say: that it was indeed very cordial, very gracious, and
substantive. And I mentioned at the top, national security was
discussed. Domestic polishy — policy issues were discussed.

I had an opportunity to speak with the president in the Oval Office
right before coming out to do this press briefing, because I wanted to
make sure that I got what the president wanted to share with all of you,
so certainly that everything that I’m saying is — is sanctioned, if you
will, by the president.

He wanted you all to know that the president-elect, again, was gracious,
came with a detailed set of questions. It was, again, substantive.

But I do want to take a little bit of a step back here, because it’s
really important to note, and you hear — you’re going to hear me
continuing to say this over and over again: the importance of having a
smooth transition, an importance of having an orderly transition.

The president respects the will of the — the American people and wants
to make sure that occurs. That is what he believes the American people
deserve.

And so, that is as far as I can go. That is what I am sharing with you
from the president directly.

And — and, look, we’re going to make sure, as Jake Sullivan was saying,
that his team has what they need. Right? They want to make sure that it
is indeed an efficient, effective transition so that we can — so that we
hand over the people’s business so that they can continue the people’s
business.

Q Can you say how President Biden answered some of those detailed
questions?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I will say that the president certainly looked forward
to — looked forward to the meeting, appreciated the conversation, and
answered any questions that the president-elect had; offered up his —
his thoughts. But I’m not going to go any further than that.

Go ahead, Mary.

Q You said “gracious,” “cordial,” “substantive.”

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q The president obviously hit on a wide range of issues, but did he get
a sense that the issues that he was impressing upon, that any advice he
was giving was being well received?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I think so. I think that’s why the president was saying
— was wanting me to let you all know that there was a — you know, a very
good back-and-forth, and it was substantive, as I mentioned before.

And I want to be mindful. It was a private conversation, so I don’t want
to go into specifics or details.

But, look, they met for more than two hours. They met for a very long
time — or nearly two hours, pardon me. And I think by — the length of
the meeting tells you that they had an in-depth conversation on an array
of issues.

And so, look, the president reached out to the president-elect, wanting
to make sure that he gave an opportunity to the president-elect,
afforded him that opportunity to — to have a meeting with him to talk
about the different issues that matter to the American people.

But nearly two hours says — I think says a lot about how the meeting
went.

Q Any plans to keep a line of communication open?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: The president is always going to, obviously, keep that
line of communication open to the president-elect. We’ve got to
remember, this is not about the two presidents. This is not about
President Biden or President-elect Trump. This is about the American
people and what’s right for the American people. And, if anything, the
president has led by example — right? — over the last week or — week —
week now on making sure that we have this cordial transition of power.

Q Can I ask one on just one other topic?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q President-elect Trump’s nominee for Defense secretary has questioned
whether or not women should serve in combat roles in the military.
Wondering what the administration makes of that. Is there any concern
about women’s ability to serve in certain roles going forward?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I think we’ve made ourselves really clear. I’m not
going to speak to this pick. That’s not — the president is g- — the —
the president-elect is going to lay out his — certainly, his — his
personnel and who he wants to fill these Cabinet position, who he wants
to be in the White House with him. And we will give them the space to do
that.

But I think we’ve been very, very clear about how we see the importance
of — of gender equality, the importance of women in the workforce. I
think we have been an administration that has led on that issue, and
certainly we do not agree with those views. But that is for the pr- —
obviously, the president-elect to — to speak to his picks, and I’m going
to let them do that.

Go ahead, Jeff.

Q You said the president-elect came with a detailed list of questions.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: (Laughs.)

Q That’s — that’s surprising to me. What — what was on his list?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m not going to go into details of what was on the
list. I wanted — I shared that and the president wanted you all to know
that because we want to be very clear, it was a- — actually a
substantive meeting — nearly two hours.

There was a lot discussed. There was a lot of back-and-forth. And I’m
not going to go into specifics. I think if the president-elect wants to
share his set of questions to President Biden, he certainly can and —
and will, if he chooses.

But wanted to give you as much information as I could without — without,
you know, going into too much specifics on a private conversation.

Q Was the list typed out on a piece of paper?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: (Laughs.) I don’t have — I appreciate the — the effort
there, Jeff. I don’t have anything beyond that.

Q Did the issue of the fact that President Trump did not acknowledge Bi-
— President Biden as the winner in the 2020 election come up today?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: What we want to do is move forward. We do. W-

Q Really?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, seriously. What we want to do is move forward. We
respect the will of the people. There was an election, as you know, last
week, and the American people spoke. And so, the president is going to
make sure that he puts the American people first. He’s going to make
sure that we move forward in this process and this transition process in
a way that is respectful to the American people and to sh- — to lead by
example.

And so, that’s our focus. That’s what we want to do. I think the
president has shown that in the past week of — of that leadership. And
so, that’s what you’re going to hear. That’s what we’re going to
continue to do in the 68 days that we have left in this administration.

Q I understand that. I guess —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yep.

Q — that just seems like a piece of unfinished business between them.
Did it come up at all?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, that is something certainly that I would leave
for the president-elect to speak to. What I can speak to is this
president wanting to focus on the American people, wanting to focus on
issues that matter — domestic policy issues, national security issues
that are critical and important in how we move forward as a country.
That’s what the president wanted to focus on.

Again, it was gracious. It was substantive. And I think that’s what’s
important. And what we are showing the American people is how you do
this — how do you have a peaceful transition of power, how it looks
leading by example. And that is quintessential Joe Biden, I believe.

Go ahead.

Q Yeah. Thanks, Karine. I’m just trying to understand. I mean, besides
demonstrating —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — a peaceful transfer of power, what was the big message that
President Biden was trying to convey to incoming-President Trump?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I think just that, and the American people, you know.
You h- — all had an — those who were able to be in the room got to see
the — the two presidents sitting side by side, shaking hands. You heard
what the president-elect talked about politics — politics being tough
and understanding what that looks like. We get that as well. You know?

And I’ll go back to what we said last week. Did the elections turn out
the way we wanted? Absolutely not. Are we disappointed? Yes, we’re
disappointed.

But, again, there was an election. The American people decided. And what
the president wants to focus on is what it looks like — what it looks
like to — to move forward, to put the country first, put — to put the
American people first and move forward in a — in a respectful way. And I
think that was also the message that you saw from this president today.

Q A- — and then, does the White House have any reaction to this
Department of Government Efficiency that Trump announced yesterday? He’s
brought on Elon Musk and Vivek R- — Ramaswamy to lead. Says the group is
— is ta- — is being tasked to find ways to cut government spending
waste, regulations. Does the White House have any concerns about this
effort, or do you think maybe it’s a good idea to look at these things?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I — no comment.

Q Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m not going to comment.

Go ahead.

Q You’ve talked about ensuring that the next administration has all the
resources they need for this transition, but one thing that needs to
happen in order for the Trump transition to have access to agencies and
such are these signings of the memorandums —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — of understanding with both the GSA and the White House, including an
ethics plan. Did that come up in any way in the conversation today, even
if it was just between Jeff Zients and Susie Wiles?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: And I was just going to say that. As you know, Jeff
Zients, the chief of staff, had an opportunity to speak with the
incoming chief of staff. I have not spoken to Jeff on if that issue came
up, but Jeff has been leading this effort of making sure that we have
that smooth transition of power. We are ready. We are ready to go. We —
and I’ve also mentioned that the cochairs of the — of the Trump
transition have said that they are — they are — in public, have said
that they are going to sign the MOUs. So, I’m going to have to leave it
to them.

We are ready. And Jake, I think, put it really well when he said it
doesn’t mean that we can’t still have conversations. It doesn’t mean we
can’t engage with our counterparts or those who are — have been picked
by the president-elect to come into this administration. Certainly, we
are open to that and want that to happen.

But I would have to, you know, refer you to the Trump transition, who
have — they have said they would sign those MO- — MOUs.

Q And back in 2000, then-Vice President Al Gore actually hosted George
W. Bush a few days after he had conceded the election. When Bush came to
meet with Clinton, he then went on to meet with Gore. Did Vice President
Harris stop by the meeting at all today, and does she intend to host
vice — Vance?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I can say the vice president did not attend the
meeting between the two presidents this morning. I would have to refer
you to her team on how she wishes to move forward and — and her part in
all of this. But you also heard from her last week when she talked about
the importance, as well, of having a peaceful transition of power. So,
leave that to her to answer.

Go ahead, Ed.

Q Just to work out a few of the details.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q So, it was the four of them in that room: the president —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yes.

Q — the president-elect —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yes.

Q — the chief of staff, the chief-elect — chief of staff designee?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yes, sir.

Q Were the two presidents ever left alone in the room?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t have anything beyond what I shared. What I can
say is it happened for almost two — approximately two hours, and it
included the two — the current chief of staff, the incoming chief of
staff, and obviously the two presidents.

I can’t speak if — to if the presidents had an opp- — the — the
presidents themselves, president-elect and the pr- — President Biden had
an opportunity to speak privately. I — I can’t speak to that. I didn’t
ask.

Q Because it started over in the Diplomatic Room, right? And then they —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Right. So, to your point, you are correct. We sent out
a pool note about how the — the president — President Biden and also
First Lady Dr. Biden greeted President-elect Trump upon his arrival. And
just to — just to add a little bit of color there, she gave — she gave
the president-elect a handwritten letter to congratulate Mrs. Trump, and
so — also expressed their readiness to be involved and engaged with her
team — Mrs. Trump’s team. And so, that specific piece, obviously, I
would — I would direct to the first lady’s office.

But, yes, they first met and greeted each other in the Diplomatic Room.

Q But Jake or nobody else came in or would —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: It was just the four.

Q — have met with them at all?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: It was just the four of them, as far as out — who — who
was in the room with the president.

Q And it was in the Oval the whole time?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: As far — yes, it was in the Oval. The Ov- — the Oval
meeting was in the Oval, as I just stated, and you flagged for — for me
that they — they greeted the president — they, meaning the first lady
and also the pres- — President Biden, greeted President Trump when —
President-elect Trump when he arrived.

Q I had one other question about this weekend that people might wonder.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q It’s their third meeting since President Biden took office, but why
bother having a meeting with Chinese President Xi if there’s only 68
days left to go on the Biden administration?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I think — I — look, this is — you know Joe Biden. He —
he understands the important of having face-to-face, one-on-one
conversations with world leaders. And I think Jake did a pretty good job
laying out what — what’s next, what they are thinking about — the reason
for having the bilat, but it is — it is an opportunity. They’re both
going to be in Peru. They’re go- — both going to be attending the APEC
conference. It was an opportunity for them to meet.

I think it’s important. The issues that they’re obviously going to speak
about are important to the American people — you think about national
security, you think about Indo-Pacific.

And so, you know, I think it’s in — this is very much something that the
president would do: have that face to face, have those in-person
conversations with other world leaders on issues that matter here to —
to us and, obviously, globally.

Go ahead, Peter.

Q Thanks, Karine. Did President Biden show incoming President Trump
anything classified?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No.

Q No. Why not?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Why would he? This is a — this was an opportunity for
them to speak candidly, openly. I’ve said to you that it was gracious,
it was incredibly subs- — substantive. And I’ll just leave it there.

Q The last time these two were together in the same room was at the
debate. They talked a fair amount about playing golf. Do you know if a
plan was made — (laughter) — for them to play golf in President Biden’s
retirement?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Actually, that’s not the last time they saw each other.
They saw each other at September 11th.

I’m going to move on.

Go ahead, Ed.

Q Thanks, Karine. In — in the meeting, we saw a unified front related to
a transition in the Oval Office meeting. But a lot was said on the
campaign trail, like Trump is a dangerous “threat” to our country and
our democracy. Was there an apology today?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m sorry?

Q Was there an apology from —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Apology from whom?

Q — from President Biden for the words — some of the words he used?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, you — an apology from the president — President
Biden —

Q To President-elect Trump for some of the words that was used on the
campaign trail.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look — and I’ve answered this a couple of times about a
“threat to democracy” in the past week. The president is going to always
feel obligated to be honest with the American people.

What he says still stands. And it’s not just him. You heard this from
former staffers. You’ve heard that from the former chief of staff, John
Kelly, and others. You’ve heard it directly from the president —
president-elect, the former president about “enemy of the people” very,
very clear — very clear.

What we want to be also very clear about is the importance of listening
to the will of the American people. There was an election. It is
important to respect our institution. It is important to respect the
free and fair elections. And that’s what this president is doing:
leading by example and putting — putting that aside and putting the
American people first.

But what he said still stands. And it’s not just him. I don’t — we
should not just put this at the president. His own people said this. So,
I want to be really, really clear about that and not forget the facts.
There are facts here that we should certainly also lift up as you’re
asking me these questions.

Go ahead, Anita.

Q Thank you. Did the two presidents discuss transatlantic security or
climate change efforts and the U.S. role in that?

And relatedly, what is President Biden’s message to G20 leaders on these
two issues and on the institutions and frameworks that hold them up —
talking about NATO and the G- — and the Paris Agreement?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah. So, look, obviously, they talked about national
security issues. Mentioned that already.

There was a substantive, pretty detailed set of questions that the
president-elect presented the — the — President Biden with. They went
back and forth on that. I don’t have anything. I’m not going to get into
the nitty-gritty, into the specifics of what that top- — those topics
were. Not something that I’m going to do from here.

And, look, the president is looking forward to going to the G20. You
heard Jake do a pretty good lay down of the importance of the president
going — it will be his last G20; obviously, he’s also going to go to
APEC — APEC will be first — and the importance of meeting with these
world leaders on issues and matters that ma- — that are important to the
American people. That’s what you’re going to see.

This is going to be a continuation of the progress that we have made in
almost four years on the world stage, whether it’s talking about Ukraine
and continue to support Ukraine, talking about Indo-Pacific, talking
about the Middle East and how to move forward here.

And so, all of those — all of those issues and topics are certainly
going to come up, and the president looks forward to — to —

Q But what is message —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — having those conversations.

Q — considering that we know that President-elect Trump does not look
favorably upon NATO or upon the Paris climate change agreement?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: That’s for — something for the president-elect to — to
speak to. I mean, he has.

What we have done here in the past four years is strengthen NATO. What
we have done here is making sure that we strengthen our relationship
with allies and partners. What we have done here is put the American
people first, put our national security first, and really have
conversation with lur- — world leaders on shared priorities.

And so, that’s going to continue in the next 68 days. And that’s the
progress that the president wants to continue to have conversations
about. And that’s what you’re going to see on this next OCONUS trip.

Go ahead.

Q To the swing counties in the back of the room, perhaps?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead.

Q Thank you. Thank you. I think, in this room, we’ve all watched the
very, like, somber speeches that the president gave on democracy in —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — Philadelphia, at the Capitol. And today, we see these pictures of
two leaders chatting around the fireplace. It’s — it — there’s a stark
contrast here. And isn’t there a risk that, in the future, when voters
are faced with, you know, warnings about democracy, they’re just going
to dismiss them and think, “This is just campaign stuff. This is just
political”?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I think they’re two different things here. When it
comes to what the president said — in the past year, even more s- — more
so — about our democracy, the importance of our democracy, let’s not
forget, you know, we saw that Americans do care about democracy. They
care about protecting our freedoms. That is something that the president
is never going to shy away from. He’s never going to shy away talking
about that. And it is important on how we move forward. Right? It is
important.

But what we’re seeing right now is also a democratic principle. Right?
This is d- — we’re talking about — we’re talking about transition of
power. It is about our democratic principle as well. It is about
continuing that transfer of power. It is about continuing that
democracy. They are — I know I said these are two different things but
are also connected as well.

And so, for him to do that, for him to invite the president-elect and to
have important conversations on issues that matter to the American
people is actually part of what democracy looks like. And the president
is never going to shy away from that.

And, again, were the elections what we had hoped? Absolutely not. We’re
not — we’re not hiding that. We’ve been very clear about that. But we
have to move forward. We have to move forward on behalf of the American
people.

And what you saw and what you’re going to see when we talk about
transition is about our dema- — democratic proc- — principles.

Go ahead.

AIDE: We have time for (inaudible).

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay.

Q Thank you, Karine. Going back to her question on the G20, is — Jake
was saying that he is hoping for some progress. But is progress possible
— possible when allies, the G20 allies are trying to understand and are
expecting a change in the administration here? So, how does the — the
incoming administration can undermine this progress they are trying to
reach there and also progress with the Brazilian government on climate,
democracy, and labor cooperation that are going to expect to discuss
there?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yep. I’m not going to get ahead of what’s going to be
discussed at the G20. And I’m not going to get ahead of what the Trump
administration policies are going to look like. That is certainly
something for them to address in how they move forward on domestic
policies, national security policies, and they will do just that.

What I can talk about is the progress that the president wants to
continue to — to make and the strengthening of our alliances,
strengthening of our partners — partnerships and making sure that we
continue to stand up with Ukraine as they continue to fight against
Russia’s aggression, and a range — range of issues of Indo-Pacific to
the Middle East. You’ve ba- — talked about climate change, especially as
that relates to Brazil.

So, those issues are going to be discussed. We’ve made progress on all
of those policies that we’re going back and forth on.

I’m just not going to — to speak to private conversations that are going
to happen, what’s going to be discussed, and just speak to what we can
do, what we’re looking to do, and why it’s important. This OCONUS that
the president is going to go on is — is a — is going to be a
continuation of what he has been able to do for almost four years now.

Q And what does a Trump victory mean to the world?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: You know, what I can say, and I’m going to sound like a
broken record: What the president is going to do is continuing to make
sure that we follow the — the election results, the will of the people
majority of Americans decided. And what we can do is make sure that
democracy continues here by doing this trans- — transition of power and
doing it in an effective, orderly, peaceful way.

And the president is going to focus on the progress that he has made. He
has relationships with these world leaders, obviously, not just for —
some of them, not just the past almost four years but for some time.
And, you know, he’ll have honest, direct conversations with them.

I’m just not going to get into philosophizing and getting into the
bigger picture. I’m just going to focus on what’s ahead in the next 68
days.

Go ahead, Akayla. I think I have to —

Q Thanks, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — head out.

Q Do you know if President-elect Trump has already started to receive
intelligence briefings or if there’s plans to start doing those
briefings again?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: That’s something for ODNI to speak to, not something
for me to speak from — to from here.

Go ahead.

Q I’m going to kind of try and circle back on this.  
You said that the conversation was cordial, graci- — gracious,
substantive. Was there any acknowledgement about some of the harsh
rhetoric that Donald Trump had issued regarding Kamala Harris, calling
her, for example, a “low-IQ individual,” et cetera?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I — I don’t have anything to share beyond what I stated
at the top and during these back-and-forths. I don’t have anything
outside of that.

Go ahead. Go ahead.

Q Yeah. I — I was going to ask a similar question. Was there any
acknowledgement or discussion about the election and how the vice
president ran her campaign?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t have anything else beyond what I just stated.
(Laughs.)

Q Afghanistan, please.

Q Row six.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Phil.

Q I might be trying the same thing again and again, but —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah. Yeah.

Q — you talked about how this was a cordial discussion between the two
of them —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — how the incoming president came with a list of questions. Were there
any top-level areas of agreement or overlap between the two presidents
in terms of maybe challenges that are ahead for the country or potential
solutions? Any areas of — of agreement?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: A lot was discussed. (Laughter.) It was detailed set of
questions. The pregis- — president appreciated having a substantive
conversation with the president-elect.

I’m not going to go into details. Maybe the president-elect will speak
on his behalf on what he wants to share coming out of the meeting, but
this is what we’re going to share from here.

Two hours is — nearly two hours is a long time to — to talk about what’s
important for the American people and how to move forward. And I think
that’s important. I think that’s impor- —

Q Had to try.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I appreciate the effort.

All right, everybody. Thank you so much.

Q For the —

Q Thanks, Karine.

(Cross-talk.)

Q For the record, can you just share or find out if there was any time
that the two met individually so we’re all on the same page?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay.

Q And should there be — will there be photos?

Q On Afghanistan, Karine.

2:37 P.M. EST
