---
date: '2024-11-21'
published_time: 2024-11-21 17:44:55-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/11/21/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-74/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine\_Jean-Pierre"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:58 P.M. EST

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hi.  Good afternoon, everybody. 

Q    Good afternoon.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh.  Sorry, fixing — fixing the podium — or the
lectern. 

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know.  I know. 

Q    It matters.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It matters.  I know it does.  I know. 

Okay.  So, on Monday afternoon, President Joe Biden and first lady Jill
Biden will travel to the U.S. Coast Guard Sector New York for a
Friendsgiving dinner with the service members and military families as
part of the first lady’s Joining Forces initiative to support military
families. 

This year’s dinner, hosted by the Robert Irvine For- — Foundation will
be prepared by Chef Robert Irvine and his team. 

The U.S. Coast Guard Sector New York is home to over 500 active-duty
members and their family members, and represents the largest military
presence in New York City.

During their visit, the president and the first lady will thank service
members and their families and help serve Thanksgiving meal. 

This is an annual tradition that is very special to the president and
the first lady.  They look forward to yet another Friendsgiving dinner
with some of the men and women who serve our country and their families
who sacrifice so much for our communities. 

And on a related note, as Americans prepare for Thanksgiving, there’s
one more thing to be thankful for: much-needed relief at the grocery
store and the gas pump. 

For the second year in a row, the average cost of a Thanksgiving meal is
falling and many grocery chains are offering deals for the holiday. 
According to the American Farm Bureau, the average price of the typical
Thanksgiving dinner fell 5 percent, with turkey prices down 6 percent. 

And as more Americans are getting ready to travel to see family members
and loved ones, the price of gas has fallen to its lowest point in more
than three years.  Prices at the pump are down about 25 cents per gallon
compared to this time last year and below $3 per gallon in almost 30
states. 

There’s more to do, and we’re fighting to further lower costs and grow
the middle class.  President Biden will continue to use every tool
available to help American families put food on the table and keep money
in their pockets. 

And as you all know, the first week of December, the President will
travel to Angola, where he will meet with President Lourenço, recognize
Angola’s role as a regional leader, and underscore the true
transformation of U.S.-Angola relationship.

Together, the United States and Angola are working to address a full
spectrum of — of pressing challenges, from narrowing the infrastructure
gap in Africa and growing economic opportunities and sustainable
development in the region to expanding technologies and scientific
cooperation, bolstering peace and security, strengthening food security,
and — among others. 

While there, he will also meet with the African — with African and
private-sector leaders and reaffirm U.S. partnership across a host of
high-priority issues, including security, health, and the economy. 

As you all know well, President Biden has made revitalizing our
international alliances and partnerships a key priority, recognizing
that today’s challenges require global perspectives and collective
responses.  The visit reflects his promise to visit the continent during
his term, which he made at the U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit.  And we will
have more to share in the days ahead.

With that, Colleen, it’s good to see you.  I feel like it’s been a
while. 

Q    You too.  I know.

Karine, can you talk about the decision to loosen restrictions on
long-range — long-range — excuse me — weapons for Ukraine?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, just a — a couple of things there that I do want
to add is —  I want to be really clear: I’m not going to get into
specifics about Ukraine’s operation from the podium today.  That is not
something that we’re going to do, and that’s not something we normally
do. 

What — what I will say is something — I’ll just reflect on something
that the national security advisor, Jake Sullivan, said earlier this
week, which was the major escalation we’re seeing is that Russia has
gone to another country from another part of the world.  North Korea
brought in thousands of their troops to the front lines and have added
them into this war. 

This is a significant change and one that we warned the Russians about
before they did it.  We continue to talk to our allies and partners
about this.  And when it — as it relates to any operations on the
ground, this is something for the Ukrainians to speak to directly.

Q    Just staying on Ukraine for a second.  With regard to escalation,
is there concern that, you know, Putin changing Russia’s nuclear rules
is sort of suggesting that the president’s initial instincts on — on,
you know, allowing long-range missiles in — further into Russia could
amount to a deescala- — or, sorry, a dangerous escalation of the war if
he’s right —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, this is —

Q    — or wasn’t right?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:   And just to kind of reiterate what the national
security advisor said — right? — and you’ve heard this from other
members of the NSC team, which is the escalation, at every turn, at
every step, is coming from Russia.  They’re the ones who are escalating
this.  They’re the ones who started this war.  It is because of their
aggression into a sovereign territory: Ukraine. 

And this war can end today, and you hear us say this over and over again
— it can — if Russia would stop, the war would stop — what they’re doing
with their aggression. 

So, this is an aggression from their side, and we’ve been very clear
about that.  You just heard me lay out a couple things that the national
security advisor said just earlier this week — what they’re doing:
thousands of troops from another country that is now part of what Russia
is doing with their aggression into Ukraine. 

So, this is their aggression — not Ukraine’s, not ours.

Go ahead.

Q    Just to follow up here.  For a long time, the White House argued
that using these long-range ATACMS missiles into Russia to attack
targets inside Russia would escalate the war, would be — would really
invite retaliation. 

So, why now?  Why change the policy now?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to get into specifics.  I’m just not
going to get into specifics about Ukraine’s operations, not something
that I’m going to do today.

But I want to be really clear —

Q    But I guess I’m asking about the specifics of the — of the White
House’s decision to change policy.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I’m just telling you that I’m not going to get
into specifics from here from the podium.  I’m going to be very clear
about that.

And what I — I’ve said is: When you’re thinking about bringing in
thousands of troops to the front lines to add to the war — right? —
these are North Korean troops, as you know — that is the aggression from
Russia’s part.  That’s their aggression.

And we’re going to continue to be there for Ukraine.  This is a
president that has led on making sure Ukraine has what it needs on — on
the battlefield.  He’s the one that rallied countries — more than 50
countries to make sure that Ukraine got what it needed. 

But when we’re talking about aggression here or we’re talking about
escalation — pardon me — more so escalation — this is Russia’s — Russia
is the one who’s been escalating every step of the way — every step of
the way here.

Q    And so, if I’m hearing you right, it was that escalation —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I —

Q    — the North Korean troops —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I wouldn’t —

Q    — that was the —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I’m not — I’m not — I’m not saying that.  I’m
saying that I’m not going to get into specifics about Ukraine’s
operations from the podium today.  You asked me about escalation, and
I’m being very clear where the escalation is coming from, but I’m not
going to get into specifics. 

Q    And then two more months left in this administration.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Are there new goals or — or definite goals that the president has
in — in how to support Ukraine in these final two months? 
Realistically, what difference can he make —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — in these last two months of his term?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, I think the president has made a whole
lot of difference. 

Let’s not forget, as — before Russia invaded into Ukraine, the president
was the one that warned about that happening.  He was the one, and we
were able to share that information with Ukraine.  He’s the one that
made sure that NATO was stronger, the NATO Alliance was strengthened. 
He led that effort.  He is the one that helped rally more than 50
countries to get back to Ukraine. 

Let’s not forget — and you all reported this — within days, we had — we
were hearing over and over again, with the day — within days, Kyiv would
fall.  We were hearing that over and over again.  And today, because,
yes, of this president and what he’s been able to do but also the
bravery of the Ukrainians, they continue to fight.  They continue to
fight on. 

And so, the president, in September, as you all know — we’ve talked
about this from the podium — talked about surging — like, surging the —
the security assistance.  We made an announcement yesterday about the —
kind of, the next — the next assistance that we were providing.  And
we’re going to continue to do that — surge that assistance, make sure
that Ukrainians have what they need on the battlefield to push back
against Russia’s aggression. 

Go ahead, Nancy.

Q    Thanks.  A couple questions about that aggression.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Has the U.S. determined that Russia used a ballistic weapon last
night in retaliation for the U.S. authorizing the use of ATACMS by the
Ukrainian government?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So — so, a couple of things.  So, obviously, we are
aware of Russia’s launch of — of an intermediate-range ballistic missile
against Ukraine.  Ukraine has withstood countless attacks from Russia. 
We have seen that repeatedly over the past more than two years now.  We
briefed Ukraine and our close allies, partners in recent days to help
them prepare. 

And as the president announced earlier this year, the United States is
providing Ukraine with hundreds of additional Patriot and AMRAAMs
missiles to strengthen its air defense.  Many of these are — air defense
missiles have been delivered already as a consequence of that —
president’s decisions to divert air defense exports to Ukraine.  And
deliveries of additional air defense missiles to Ukraine are ongoing.

And as I just stated, the president, in September — on September 29th,
to be more exact — he talked about surging continued assistance —
security <s>assistant</s> \[assistance\] to Ukraine.  And so, we’re
going to continue to do that.  And that is going to — to make sure
they’re strengthening their capabilities, including air defense, and put
Ukraine in the best possible position on the battlefield. 

And just yesterday, as I mentioned moments ago, we were able to announce
another security assistance.  And so, that’s going to continue.  And so,
we will not be deterred here.  We are going to continue to make sure
that the Ukrainians have what — what they need on the ground. 

Q    Now that Russia says that it is changing its nuclear doctrine to
essentially lower the bar for when it can use nuclear weapons, does the
U.S. need to change its nuclear posture as well?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let’s not forget, we said earlier this month that
we were not surprised by Russia’s announcement that it would update its
nuclear doctrine.  And so, Russia has been signaling its attempt to
update its doctrine for several weeks.  And observing no changes to
Russia’s nuclear posture, we have not seen any reason to adjust our own
nuclear posture or doctrine in response to Russia’s statements. 

So, this is more of the same irresponsible rhetoric that we continue to
hear from Russia, which we have seen for the past more than two years
now — if you think about their aggression, their war against Ukraine. 

And so, look — and I talked a bit — I’ve talked about it a little bit
moments ago — about the use of — of DPRK soldiers in combat operations
against Ukraine.  It presents a significant escalation of its war. 

Again, they are the ones — “they” meaning Russia — are the ones that are
escalating this war.  And so, we are not going to be ter- — deterred
here.  We’re going to continue — we’re going to certainly continue to —
to be there for U- — for the — the brave people of Ukraine.

Q    Have U.S. officials been able to determine what Russia is giving
North Korea in exchange for North Korean soldiers fighting in this war?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m not going to certainly get into specifics on
that.

What I can say is what we have been very clear about is our
determination to be very clear here about our — our continued support
for — certainly for — for the Ukrainian people as they continue to deal
with this aggression, this escalation from — from Russia. 

And so, we have said that we’re certainly concerned about Russia’s
decisions.  We see it as — as it being born out of desperation, what
they’re doing.  And — and it’s born out of desperation because they are
— now are seeing high casualties — right? — the Russians are.  And — and
so, now what they’re doing is they’re turning to DPRK to supply them
soldiers to continue their brutal war against Ukraine. 

And so, look, it’s not going to deter us.  They’re the ones escalating. 
We’re going to continue to provide support to the Ukrainians as they
continue to push back against Russia’s aggression.  That doesn’t — that
is not going to stop us from doing that.

Go ahead.

Q    Karine, does the White House have any reaction to Matt Gaetz
withdrawing his name for consideration to be the next attorney general?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, what I’ll say is — and we’ve been pretty steadfast
on being consistent here — not going to comment on every personnel
matter or personnel matters here that the president-elect is deciding or
is nominating people for — at these respective agencies.  We really,
truly want to respect the transfer of power.  We want it to be
efficient.  We want it to — to happen in a way that the — the American
people deserve, and that’s what we’ve been trying to do.  And we believe
that is very much part of our democratic principle, and that’s what
you’re seeing this president do and lead by example.

More broadly — as we talk about the Department of Justice more broadly,
look, the president has said when it comes to investigation, that
department should be independent.  There should be no partisanship. 
There should be no loyalty to one party or the other.  The loyalty
should be to the Constitution, and the loyalty should be to the rule of
law.  And that is something I believe and we believe the president has
led also, on that particular issue, by example.

Q    And then on that topic, our understanding is that the Trump
transition team hasn’t signed the MOUs that are outstanding still.  Is
there any update that you can provide on your end?  Any progress there? 
Or is there concern now —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — about how that may impede some of that transfer of power you’re
talking to?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  And so — and, look, as you know, the president,
President Biden, met with the president-elect to show that transition of
power and obviously offering any assistance needed to make sure that
happens in a way that is peaceful, obviously, and efficient.  And so,
that was one part of it.

Our teams continue to stay in touch.  As of now, to your point, the
Trump-Vance transition team has not yet entered into the agreements with
the White House and the General Service Administration.  And, as you
know, the chief of staff, Chief of Staff Jeff Zients, here has reached
out to the — the cochairs and have co- — consistently reiterated the —
the wanting to work together in making sure that they have what they
need.

So, we’re going to continue to engage with the Trump transition team to
ensure that we do have that efficient, effective transition of power. 
And in those conversation, we certainly are stressing that the White
House and the administration stand ready to provide assistance and that
access to services and information certainly outlined in the GSA and the
White House Memorandum of Agreement — those MOUs. 

So, those conversations continue, and we want this to go smoothly, and
that’s what we’re trying to get to.

Q    And just finally —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — what is the White House view on Speaker Johnson saying that he
will bar transgender women from —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — using Capitol bathrooms, as something that Congresswoman Nancy
Mace has clearly raised in regards to Representative-elect Sarah
McBride?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I would — when I think about that question, I
think about what the congresswoman-elect said and — who, as you know,
the president has a close relationship with and is very proud of her. 
And what she said is “I’m not here to fight about bathrooms.  I’m here
to fight for Delawareans and to bring down costs facing families.” 

And we agree with her.  We think that’s incredibly important: to focus
on the American people.  Obviously, for her, it’s Delawareans who she
represents.

And so, again, the president is proud of her.  I’m not going to — I’m
not going to add to that.

Q    Has he called her in recent days over this (inaudible) —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have — I don’t have a conversation to speak
to.  As you know, they did — they had a moment to speak on the — the
night of the election.  He was able to call her and congratulate her.  I
don’t have anything else to add, but I think her words speak volumes.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  U.S. prosecutors charged Indian billionaire Gautam
Adani over his role in an alleged bribery scheme this week.  Is the
administration concerned that this will damage U.S.-India relations,
especially given the recent case with a former Indian intelligence
official being charged in an assassination plot aimed at a U.S. citizen?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, obviously, we’re aware of these allegations, and I
would have to refer you to the SEC and DOJ about the specifics of those
— of those allegations against the Adani Group. 

What I will say is: On the U.S. and India relationship, we believe that
it’s extremely — stands on an extremely strong foundation anchored in —
in ties between our people and cooperat- — and cooperation across a full
range of — of global issues.

And so, what we believe and we’re confident about is that we’ll continue
to navigate this issue, as we have with other — with other issues that
may have come up, as you just stated.  And so, the specifics of this —
this is something that SE- — SEC and DOJ can speak to directly.

But, again, we believe that we are — this has been that — this
relationship between India and the U.S. has been built on a strong
foundation.

Q    I wanted to ask you also about the ICC’s issuing —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — arrest warrants for several top officials, including Netanyahu,
over Israel’s conduct in this war.  I know that the U.S. rejected this
decision. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Does the administration see this ruling as a threat to Israel’s
ability to defend itself? 

And also, Republican Senator Lindsey Graham is calling for the Senate to
sanction the ICC after this decision.  Is that a measure that the White
House would support or is there —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  So, a couple things.  Let me just say, because
this is the first time I’ve had an opportunity to speak to this at the
podium, so let me just say more broadly that we fundamentally reject the
court’s decision to issue arrest warrants for senior Israel officials. 
We remain deeply concerned by the prosecutor’s rush to seek arrest
warrants and the troubling process errors that led to this decision.

The United States has been clear that the ICC does not have jurisdiction
over this matter.  You’ve heard us say this before.  Whatever this
prosecutor might imply, there is no evidence — none — between Israel and
Hamas.  There’s just none.

In coordination with partners, including Israel, we are discussing,
certainly, those next steps, what that’s going to look like. 

And to your question about sanctions, that’s basically — kind of just
answered it in that last — last part of what I said.  We are in
consultation with our partners and also in- — which include Israel,
about our next steps.  We fundamentally, fundamentally reject that the
ICC has jurisdiction over the situation.

And so, that’s something that we’ve been pretty clear about, and we’ll
continue to do so.

Go ahead, M.J.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  At this point, with two months left in the
administration, does the White House see a real value in President Biden
directly engaging with members of the press?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, absolutely.  Yes.  Look, I think we have worked
really hard — and I — and I hope you all have seen this — to make sure
that we brought back the norms that was taken away from our — our
predecessor on how we engage with the press. 

The president respects the freedom of the press, and he actually enjoys
g- — engaging and going back and forth with all of you.  And that is
something — and he’s done that extensively, and that is certainly
something that he’s going to continue to do. 

We have — what? — less than 60 days — I think you just said two months —
left.  That is plenty of time for the president conti- — to continue
that engagement.  He will. 

And, you know, this — this is something that we respect: you know,
bringing back the norms, working with the White House Correspondents’
Association, making sure that we have that healthy back-and-forth with —
you know, with — with the press corps. 

And so, we believe it is important when the president engages with the
press.  He’s done, I believe, more than 50 interviews just this year
alone.  He’s t- — he’s taken hundreds of questions in his back-and-forth
with all of you, and that’s going to continue.

Q    If all of that is true —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — why, on a six-day foreign trip where the president obviously had
a robust American press corps traveling with him, did he not have a
single engagement, whether it is a press conference or maybe just
speaking on the tarmac or really anywhere, where he took questions from
the press? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, as you all just st- — stated and wrote about,
the G20 and APEC was his last opportunity to deal with some of these
world leaders that he has built a close relationship with, has some of —
some — some of them he’s known, certainly, more than his almost four
years in — in this office.  And so, he truly wanted to spend time
engaging and — and listening, having that one-on-one engagement that the
president believes in and trusts in. 

And so, he wanted to spend time doing that.  And so, that’s what you saw
the president do.  And I get it.  I — I get that you all want to hear
from the president.  I — I get that.  I understand that.  And I’m not
saying that you won’t.  You will.  He will certainly continue to engage
with all of you. 

And it is — when I say it’s something that he actually enjoys doing, it
is.  He enjoys having the back-and-forth with all of you, and that’s
going to continue.

Q    Just to be clear —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah. 

Q    — you mean the explanation is that he, on this trip, was extra busy
meeting with world leaders because this is one of his —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, what I —

Q    — you know, last big foreign —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — what I’m saying is, as you know, this was one of his
last opportunities to speak to many of these leaders.  There were 20
leaders at the G20; more than 21 — or about 21 leaders at APEC.  And so,
he wanted to spend that time, certainly, doing what he normally does at
these conferences, obviously, but — but also, you know, speaking
directly to them as one of his final times as president.

And, again, putting that aside, I think your question was do we believe
that he should engage — some version of that.  If — I apologize if I’m
not quoting you directly.  Yeah, we think it’s important for him to
engage with the press.  He thinks it’s important to engage with the
press, and that’s going to continue.  It is. 

You — the p- — you will hear from the president, have an opportunity to
do those back-and-forths that you normally have done with him. 

Q    This is related but separate from —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  Sure.

Q    — just the trip itself.  It — it’s been t- — you know, more than
two weeks since the election.  This was an election that elected a man
that President Biden has repeatedly referred to as an “existential
threat.”  So, why is it that the American people have not heard
President Biden talk about this threat since the election?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Because there was an election and the American people
spoke.  The will of the American people were very clear, right? 

And so, the president is now in a situation where we have to deal with a
peaceful transfer of power.  We have to respect the will of the American
people, and that’s what you have been seeing from this president: trying
to lead by example to make sure that that happens. 

And that’s what the American people deserve.  That’s what the president
deserves.  And that’s what I think he was very clear about in the Rose
Garden when he delivered his remarks two days after the election.  And
he said — he was very honest.  He said these — you know, and, again, I’m
— I’m not quoting him exactly — but these were not the results that we
had wanted, right?  And that’s just being honest.  They weren’t. 

But we are now in a position where we — he believes he has to lead by
example and show what a peaceful transfer of power looks like.  And so,
that’s what you’re seeing from this president. 

And, you know, to the points that you made — you know, I’ve been asked
about “existential threat.”  I’ve been asked about “threat to our
democracy.”  The president is always going to be honest with the
American people.  He feels like he is obligated.  What he said still
stands, but we are now in a different place.  We are.  The American
people spoke.  They deserve a peaceful transfer of power.  That’s what
this president wants to do. 

Q    But does he have a message for people on what they should do about
this existential threat, I — assuming that he —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — still believes Donald Trump —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — is an existential threat?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  His — look, his — his thoughts and what he said — his
— his thinking on that has not changed.  It has not.  And I think he was
very clear about what he believes should have been done or how we should
move forward.  How — you know, he was very clear during those moments
that he spoke about it.

Right now — right now, he wants to lead by example and talk and show the
American people what it looks like to have an efficient, effective
transfer of power.  And he believes that is what the American people
deserve.  And I’m just going to leave it there for now. 

Go ahead, Joey.

Q    Yeah.  Thanks, Karine.  President-elect Trump, this week, confirmed
he intends to declare a n- — national emergency and use U.S. military to
pursue mass deportations of undocumented immigrants.  Does the president
believe this is an appropriate use of the military?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I — I’m not going to go into what the state
attorney — attorney general or state elected leaders might do in the
future as a response to this next administration’s policy, how they’re
going to move forward.  I’m not going to do that. 

What I can speak to is our administration is certainly — is focused on
arresting dangerous criminals and threats to public safety.  We do not
believe — we do not believe in separating families. 

And what I can speak to is what we have been able to do and what — how —
how that has worked out.  Right?  In our remaining time, we’re going to
continue to — to fight to secure our border. 

Since the administration took strong actions back in June, encounters
have dropped by more than 55 percent and are lower than they were four
years ago.  So, what we’re going to do is we’re going to continue to
enforce our laws; remove individuals who do not have a legal basis to be
here, to remain in — in the U.S.; and — and we’re going to do that while
making sure we’re treating people with dignity that they deserve.  We —

Q    And with that — with that said —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — I mean, does the president, though, have concerns about using the
military to — to carry out —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — no — 

Q    — you know, Trump has talked about these mass deportations.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I hear — I heard your question. 

Q    Yeah.  Yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You’re just repeating the question —

Q    That’s true.  I did.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — that you just asked me.  (Laughter.)  I hear that.

Q    I figured I’d say it again.  You know, it’s a —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know.  I hear you.  I appreciate the effort.  I — I
don’t want to get into what attorney generals or other elected officials
might do in the future.  What I’m going to stick to is what we’re doing
right now and what we are going to continue to do in the next less than
60 days in this administration. 

Go ahead, Karen.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Yesterday, the president met with North Carolina
Governor Roy Cooper to talk about the ongoing disaster recovery down
there, and state and local officials were there as well. 

The administration this week — the president has asked Congress for
about $100 billion for disaster relief — emergency disaster relief.  How
does the White House want to see that get done?  Do you want to see that
done quickly as a stand-alone bill or later as tied up with the
government funding that’s likely expected later in December? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, what we want is Congress to act — to   — we’re
going to continue to urge Congress to act quickly to pass a supplemental
funding package to assist communities obviously impacted — recent
hurricanes and other disasters. 

And what we have seen and what we know when we’ve seen these types of
previous — previous natural disasters in the past, we’ve seen Congress
come together in a bipartisan way to get that done, to help out
communities in crisis. 

And so, that’s what we want to see.  That’s what we look forward to
working with congressional — with our congressional partners in
delivering that for — for American people, for the folks, again, who are
in crisis, who need that — who need that additional funding. 

And so, obviously, you saw the — the letter from OMB, and so, certainly,
they can go into more details and specifics of the breakdown of our
ask.  But that’s how we want to see it move forward. 

Q    Would you say this is the top legislative priority right now for
the president in this lame-duck session?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I think — I think in — right after the election, I
talked about four or five legislative priorities.  Obviously, this was
one of them.  Getting our judicial — our — we think our very qualified
judicial nominees through was a — is a prior- — the NDAA is a priority
as well.  So, we have a couple of — of key priorities that we want to
work with our congressional partners on getting through, and this is
certainly one of them. 

And, you know — again, you know, FEMA has — has the money to — to
respond to Hurricanes Helene and Milton, and that’s assuming there’s no
new large, obviously, hur- — hurricanes or a natural disaster. 

But, as you know, when it comes to SBA, that funding is fully
exhausted.  And w- — you have, you know, this — that type of funding is
critical to businesses, homeowners, and renters.  And they really rely
on that — on that funding, that SBA funding to certainly deal with
recovery and rebuilding. 

So, there are — there’s a real need here, a real urgency.  And so, we’re
going to work with con- — congressional members to get that done. 

Q    Did — did he hear a dire message yesterday from those North
Carolina officials?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I think they’re trying to recover and rebuild. 
And I think that they were devastated by the hurricane, as we all know. 
I think some of you were able to — to come with us on that trip, whether
if it was us or with the vice president, and you saw what they — what
they have to deal with here: devastated by — devastated by the
hurricane.

So, I’m sh- — I don’t want to speak for North Carolina, but certainly
there is an urgency.

I would refer you to, obviously, the North Carolina governor, Governor
Cooper, on this particular question.  But we saw how devastated they —
they were from this hurricane. 

And it is important — it is important — it doesn’t matter if you’re a —
you hear it from this president: It doesn’t matter if you’re a red
state, blue state, rural — if you’re a part of — a part of a rural
America, urban America, all American people deserve to have the
assistance that they need when — especially when a crisis like this hap-
— occurs.

AIDE:  Karine —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  Okay.  Go ahead.  Go ahead. 

Q    Thank you.  Can you detail how the White House is thinking about
clemency in these last two months?  Is there a process for how those
pardon decisions are going to be made, and is the president expecting to
make any sort of statement with the pardons he does in the next two
months?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, the president has certainly been committed
to reforming the criminal justice system and has done that through
clemency authority in a manner that provides second chances, ensures
equal justice under the law, and strengthens public safety.  And so,
he’s going to continue to elevate clemency petitions in a thoughtful and
deliberate manner. 

I’m — I’m not going to get into specifics here on that process, but he —
again, he’s going to do this in a way that — that he believes is the
right way to — to move forward.  But I just don’t have anything about
the process and — and getting into the nitty-gritty of this, but I think
you’ve seen how the president has treated this over the last almost four
years. 

Go ahead. 

Q    Thank you.  I have a question about Venezuela, but first on
Brazil.  The Federal Police have just indict — indicted former President
Jair Bolsonaro for an attempt coup d’état after he lost the elections in
2022.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Does the U.S. has a react- — have — do you have a reaction from
this? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    And did the president discuss this when he met with President Lula
da Silva in Brazil?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I have not spoken to our teams about this, so I
would have to connect with them.  I don’t have a response.  I — I want
to make sure I give you the right response.  I don’t have a response. 

And also would — you know, we can talk about this after the briefing. 
What’s your — what’s your next question?

Q    On Venezuela.  The U.S. recently called, for the first time,
“president-elect” the opposition leader, Edmundo González.  And I was
curious a little bit about the timing, if it has something to do with
the inauguration in Venezuela.  It is January 10th.  What message is the
U.S. trying to send with this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I would say, since July, it has been clear to us —
the United States, to democratic nations around the world, and to
independent international organization that observe the July 28th
elections — that opposition candidate Edmundo Urr- — Urrutia won the
most votes, and we said this repeatedly.  You’ve heard me say it a
couple times at the podium, and so we’ve been pretty — pretty consistent
about that.  Winning the most votes makes him what?  The
president-elect.  And so, that’s what we believe. 

It does not change our position at all.  We, the Uni- — United States,
currently recognize the democratically elected 2015 National Assembly as
the legitimate government of Venezuela, and so we do not intend to
change that posture during this administration. 

And, again, the people spoke.

Q    But even though it doesn’t change the position of the United
States, it has been four months since the July elections.  So, why now? 
Why — what did you see that made you make this decision about why it’s
happening?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, it should be up to the people, and it was.  And
that’s what we saw on July 28.  And we were very clear about that.  We
were clear about that. 

And so — and, again, when you win the most votes, that means — in this
instance, obviously, that makes him the president-elect.  But we’ve also
been very — I think very consistent on saying what we saw on July 28th
and that the American pe- — the — pardon me — that the people — the
people in Venezuela spoke.

Go ahead, Michael.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Just quickly following up on M.J.’s questions. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Have you spoke- —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Which one?

Q    (Laughs.)  They sort of grouped together.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  There were — there were a few of them.  (Laughter.)

Q    Have you spoken to your named successor?  And if so, what advice do
you have for her?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh.  Oh, I didn’t know that was where you were going. 
(Laughter.)  “Following up.”  I didn’t see — I didn’t think it was that
follow-up. 

Look, you know, I’m not — again, I’m go- — not going to speak to every —
every personnel pick — specific personnel pick. 

I — I’m going to reiterate a little bit of what I just shared with M.J.,
which is that, you know, over the past four years, we have been — we
have done the best, I think, to stick to expected norms of the office. 
We’ve had over 500 briefings from this podium, with gaggles also on Air
Force One and abroad.  And, you know, we hope that they will continue to
answer the questions of the American people.  That’s what we hope. 

And I will just add that, you know, I’ve not — I have not spoken to my
successor.  What I will say is that I certainly wish her luck.  And this
was a great job, and it is an honor to speak on behalf of the president
of the United States.  It is a privilege, and it is something that I am
very proud to have done for almost four years. 

So, I’ll leave it there. 

Go ahead, April.

Q    Karine, two questions.  One follow-up on the person who’s going to
take your place.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, goodness.  (Laughter.)

Q    When Donald Trump was president the first time, there was a period
of time where we had no press briefings.  In the space that you’re in,
in this moment, and have been in for a while, do you believe it’s
significant in this moment in time for the American public to hear from
the spokesperson on a daily basis, or do you believe that the president
can do it himself?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I’m not going to — to speak how any admingin- —
administration decides to do the business of the American people, how
they decide to communicate with the American people. 

What I can speak to is what we’ve tried to do, which is bring back the
norms of how this all works, how we communicate with the press, and
we’ve tried to do this in a very respectful way. 

I’ve mentioned, we’ve done more than 500 briefings, proudly.  Some have
been tough.  (Laughs.)  Some have been tougher than most, if you will. 
But it is — it is a privilege to stand at this lectern to — it is —
behind this lectern, at this podium.  It is a privilege.  It is a
privilege to speak for this president.  It is a privilege to actually
talk about what we’re doing, to you and to the American people.  

I can’t speak to what th- — what any administration is going to do.  I’m
not going to look into the future. 

What I can say is what we have been committed to: the freedom of the
press, respecting the press, having tough back-and-forths.  But this is
what democracy is all about. 

Q    And lastly, on Africa. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yep.

Q    The last Republic- — the last Republican president to travel to
Africa was George W. Bush.  And since Bill Clinton, except for Donald
Trump, every president has traveled there.  Is there a concern that with
all of this — these last four years, having the vice president and the
secretaries and now the president go to Africa to highlight the
importance of the continent on so many levels, is there a concern that
you will lose ground in the next couple of years because Donald Trump
didn’t go last time, and he’s said some very harsh words about
sub-Saharan Africa before?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I’m not going to — I have no idea what the next
administration is going to do — really, I — truly.  I mean, I — I don’t
know what they’re ex- — going to execute.  I don’t know how they’re —
what they’re going to do. 

What I can say is the president is going to Africa because he made a
commitment.  You saw his commitment to the continent when he had the
leaders of the — the African leaders here about almost three years ago
now, I believe, maybe f- — yeah, maybe a little bit longer.  And he did
that because we believe there are shared interests between the
continent, the countries, obviously, and the U.S and wanted to continue
to transform those relationships — right? — and work on those
relationships. 

And so, that’s what you’re going to see from this president the first
week of December when he goes to Angola. 

I will add that this president believes in respecting people.  Again, it
doesn’t matter where you come from.  It doesn’t matter if you voted for
him or not.  He respe- — he re- — he believes every American has an
opportunity to be uplifted, to have opportunities to have a better life
for themselves.  That’s why he believes in this country, what this
country is founded on, what this country is all about: getting
opportunities; being able to — you know, to — to live that American
dream, whatever that — however that is defined for you. 

And so, that is something that this president will always respect, not
just as president but moving forward.  And obviously, he did that as
vice president and senator.  And so, that’s what I can speak to, and
that’s what he’s going to continue to do. 

And there’s a lot of things that we’re going to cover in Angola — right?
— whether it’s infrastructure; growing ec- — economic opportunities;
tech- — expanding technology.  There’s a lot to talk about, a lot of
shared interest.  And so, we’ll have more to share, certainly, on his
trip to Africa.

Go ahead, Jenny.

Q    Firstly, on M.J.’s question/comment.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  M.J., you’re so popular today.  (Laughs.)

Q    I was on the South America trip, and I just wanted to note —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — if your explanation was that he was engaging with leaders, there
was quite a bit of downtime and, of course, opportunities on the tarmac,
which he has used before the election.  So, I don’t know that re- — that
really explains —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean —

Q    — why he didn’t —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I appreciate that you don’t appreciate my
explanation,  but what I’m saying to you is that the president is go- —
is looking forward to engaging with you all in less than 60 days.  He’s
done it extensively.  It’s not going to stop.  And he will do that — he
will continue to engage with all of you and take your questions. 

He’s done, I believe, more than 600 back-and-forths with you all this
year alone.  Done more than 50 interviews.  That’s not going to stop. 
It’s not.  He’s going to engage.  And I’ll just — I’ll just leave it
there. 

Q    One —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    One actual topic, sorry.  Does he —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, actual topic?  (Laughter.)

Q    Well, this one was — I just have to, like —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What does that mean?

Q    I just had to get out this one comment.

Does the administration have a prevailing theory on how the undersea
cables in the Baltic Sea were damaged, and do you think that China may
have been responsible?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just not going to get into any type of theories
from here.  I will let, you know, the NSC team respond to that
directly.  I’m just not going to get into speculation from here. 

Go ahead, Nadia.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  On the statement you just mentioned about the
ICC issuing an arrest warrant against Mr. Netanyahu and the defense
minister.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    You said that you found the process troub- — has troubling errors. 
What errors do you think it has?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So —

Q    And second —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Sorry.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, no.  I’m sorry.

Q    You talked about the partners — you want to discuss with partners
the next step —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — on the ICC decision.  Few of your closest allies — France, Italy,
Netherlands, and Canada, so far — said they’re abiding by the court
decision, and they can arrest Netanyahu if he steps on their soil.  So,
do they have a different inter- — interpretation of international law
than you?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What — here — so, a couple things.  You asked me a
couple things.  So, the first thing that I will say is that obviously we
reject and we certainly have different opinions on that, and we’re going
to let other countries speak for themselves.  We’re speaking for
ourselves, and so we’re not going to be executing any arrest warrants. 
That is not something that we’re going to do from here. 

And I do have some examples on when you asked me about the process and
why we think it’s essentially a flawed process.  And so, in contrast to
how he has treated — this is the prosecutor — how he has treated others,
including Nicolás Maduro and his associates, the prosecutor failed to
provide Israel with a meaningful opportunity to engage constructively
and to properly consider its domestic processes.  This calls into
question the credibility of the prosecutor’s investigation and — and the
decision today.

But we’ve been very clear, not just today, that, you know, we do not
believe that the ICC has the jurisdiction here, and so — over — over
this matter.  And so, we’ve been very clear about that, and that stance
has not changed. 

But I just laid out an example of why we think that — what process the
ICC did not follow.

Q    And second, on the 19 Democratic U.S. senators voted to block
sending offensive weapons to Israel, and Senator Bernie Sanders said
basically that we cannot criticize human rights violation while the U.S.
itself is violating its own laws.  So, where is your role in that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we strongly oppose this resolution, and we
have made our position clear in — to interested senators.  We’ve been
very clear about that. 

We’ve been also very clear about this: We are very committed to Israel’s
security.  That has been ironclad.  And — and we believe that these
resolutions are counterproductive as we are working to secure a
ceasefire in Lebanon and ceasefire and hostage deal in Gaza. 

And so, we have strong — strong reason to believe that terrorist groups,
like Hamas and Hezbollah, want to see Israel in a position of weakness,
and we don’t want to see that happen. 

And so, look, we appreciate that — the concerns that the senators
raised.  Obviously, we respect their position.  We just do not — we
strongly oppose the resolution. 

Q    Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you so much.  Following up on your comments on the change of
nuclear posture by Russia.  And you said it’s another example of
irresponsible rhetoric.  Is it a way to kind of dismiss what Russia
said, to say there was no real reason to be concerned, these are only
words?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Say that one more time.  There is no —

Q    That — that there would be no re- — that there’s no real reason to
be concerned, that this is just like Putin, you know?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, you’re talking about their —

Q    Yeah, yeah.  Their —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — nuclear doctrine that —

Q    The nuclear doctrine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — they put out. 

Look, here’s what we’re saying.  We haven’t seen any indic- —
indications of Russia preparing to use a nuclear weapon in Ukraine.  We
just have not seen that. 

And so, this is more of the same — right? — more of the irresponsible
rhetoric from Russia, which we have seen the past two years.  We’ve seen
this before.

But it doesn’t stop what we have been saying, that the escalation is
coming from Russia here.  They’re the ones who are escalating.  This is
their war.  They’re the ones who have — you know, went into a — a
sovereign territory, which is Ukraine, and started this war and pushed
forward with their aggression. 

And so, this is a war that they can end.  They can end it today.  And
we’ve been very clear about that. 

I know I have to wrap it up.  Go ahead.

Q    I wanted to follow up on the Trump transition team not signing the
MOUs.  Have they provided any reasoning as to why they have not signed?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  They can speak for themselves.  I’m not going to speak
for the Trump transition. 

Q    Are you concerned about the implications of the delay of the
transition?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to get into — I’m not going to speculate
from here.  We are — we are continuing to have our dis- — discussion
with the Trump transition team.  I’m just not going to speculate. 

All right.  Go ahead.

Q    Good afternoon.  Two topics: one on immigration and one of the
unions. 

Immigration.  New York Post is reporting that ICE is quietly loosening
some of the restrictions on how migrants would have to follow the asylum
procedure.  Basically, they wouldn’t have to do the physical check-ins
with —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — you know, Customs and Border Protection.  The former head of
Customs and Border Protection is calling it “obstructionist
transition.”  Is there any effort by the current administration to kind
of curb any of the immigration overhauls that Trump is likely to go for?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any policies — new policies to — to speak
to at this time.  I just don’t have anything. 

Q    So, it’s just not happening, as far as we know?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t — I would refer you to DHS for any specifics
on that particular question.  But if you’re asking us if we are doing
any policy changes, I don’t have anything to announce. 

I — I laid out for one of your colleagues what we have been doing,
especially since we moved forward with our executive actions, since — in
June.  And what we have seen: Encounters have dropped more than 55
percent, and they’re lower than they were even four years ago. 

And so, that is what we’re going to continue to f- — do.  We’re going to
continue to enforce our — our laws.  That’s going to be our — our
focus. 

But I — I’m not going to speculate on, again, what the next
administration is going to do or not do.  Anything specific about
looseling — loose- — loosening of what’s happening at the border, I
would have to refer you to Department of Homeland Security.

Q    And then, my second question was just on unions. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    The president has talked so much about being the most pro-union
president ever.  This week, the DNC Staff Union put out a pretty
scathing note saying that so many DNC staffers have gotten laid off, no
severance.  They were shocked. 

I’m just curious, from an optics perspective.  The vice president left
town to go to Hawaii on vacation.  Does the president think that’s
appropriate when so many DNC staffers are literally wondering what
they’re going to do for work next?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Let’s not twist this in so many knots
here.  First of all, to your first part of your question, it’s not the
president who called himself the most pro-union president.  It’s other
unions that have called him that, and he is proud to be called the most
pro-union president ever.  That is something that he — was given to him,
and he is proud to own that.

And it’s not because he’s — it’s — it’s a frivolous statement.  It is
because he has shown — he has not just spoken but taken action and has
had the back of union members and union workers throughout his
presidency.

As it relates to the DNC, I would have to refer you to the DNC and —

Q    But does it look bad for the vice president to go to Hawaii —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I —

Q    — while DNC staffers are just wondering —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The vice —

Q    — what they’re going to do for work?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The vice president has taken time off to go spend time
with her family.  I don’t think there’s anything wrong with that.  I
think she deserves some time to be with her family and to have some
downtime.  She has worked very hard over — for the last four years, and
her taking a couple of days to be with her family, good for her.  Good
for her.

Q    Thank you. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thanks, everybody.

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thanks, everyone.

2:48 P.M. EST
