---
date: '2024-11-15'
modified_time: 2024-11-15 18:39:33-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-15 19:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/11/15/background-press-gaggle-on-the-u-s-peru-bilateral-meeting/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Gaggle on the U.S.-Peru Bilateral\_Meeting"
---
 
Lima Convention Center  
Lima, Peru

MODERATOR:  I figured we’d do a quick gaggle on background, attributable
to an SAO, reading out the Peru meeting and answer any questions you all
have.

So, \[senior administration official\], do you want to say anything at
the top?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  So, President Biden had a very
warm meeting with President Dina Boluarte of Peru.  The meeting lasted
for about 50 minutes — 5-0 minutes. 

In the meeting, they discussed the historic nature of the U.S.-Peru
relationship.  The two countries will celebrate 200 years of diplomatic
relations in 2026.

President Biden also remarked that this year, 2024, marks the 15th
anniversary of the U.S.-Peru Free Trade Agreement.

They discussed cooperation between the United States and Peru on
counternarcotics, and President Biden highlighted the $65 million
donation of nine Black Hawk helicopters to Peru that will take place in
the coming period.

They also discussed space cooperation between the United States and
Peru.  NASA Administrator Bill Nelson participated in the bilat as well.

There was some discussion of regional issues, specifically Venezuela,
and the need for democracies in the region, including the United States
and Peru, to continue to support — for the election victory of Edmundo
Gonzalez to be acknowledged by the Maduro authorities, and also
discussion of migration and how the United States and Peru and other
countries in the region can work together to effectively manage the
challenges of migration in the region.

So those were the principal issues discussed.

One other item that was mentioned was a donation that’s been made by
Caltrain of over 100 locomotives and rail cars to Peru, which will help
Peru to modernize its metro system.

And President Boluarte expressed great appreciation for the U.S.
contribution to Peruvian infrastructure, and really was enthusiastic
about deepening that relationship on infrastructure.

MODERATOR:  Any questions?

Q    Can you talk about the counterterrorism part of it?  Sorry.  The
counterterrorism part.  Why are we —

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  It’s counternarcotics.

Q    Yeah, sorry.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Counternarcotics.

Q    Why are we donating Black Hawks?  Is that like — are we going to
use that to, like, eradicate coca crops or something?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, it’s to fight transnational
criminal organizations that are fueling the drug trade in Peru and many
other countries in Latin America.  Peru, after several years of an
increase in coca production, actually saw a decrease last year for the
first time in many years.  And so, the United States is working with
Peruvian authorities to help them to build up the capabilities to fight
the influence of transnational criminal organizations in Peru.

Q    Was there any discussion of the next administration and what to
expect?  Or were they picking your guys’ brains on that aspect at all?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  No, it really focused on the current
U.S. bilateral relationship.  President Biden did underscore the
importance of respect for democracy and strengthening democratic
institutions, as he does in all of his meetings with democratic
counterparts around the world.

But it was a meeting that was very much focused on, frankly, the
accomplishments that the Biden administration has had with Peru over the
past four years.

Q    So no — Trump didn’t come up at all in any sense?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Not explicitly, no.

Q    Any talks of the kind of hub on — that Xi is going to inaugurate,
the megaport?  Like, how are leaders feeling about that?  And do they
have any sense of what they’re expecting from the U.S. in terms of
development financing?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, President Boluarte did mention
the port but in reference to the fact that she also saw greater U.S.
support and investment in infrastructure in Peru.  Infrastructure is one
of her principal priorities.

President Biden did caution that it’s important for countries to
maintain very high standards of transparency in their dealings with
other partners around the world, including China.

Q    One last one.  What’s the U.S.’s plan at the G20 to regain momentum
about Venezuela?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I don’t have any comment on the G20 at
this time.
