---
date: '2024-11-01'
modified_time: 2024-11-01 17:38:23-04:00
published_time: 2024-11-01 17:38:22-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/11/01/press-gaggle-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-acting-labor-secretary-julie-su-en-route-philadelphia-pa/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and Acting Labor Secretary\
  \ Julie Su En Route Philadelphia,\_PA"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

2:43 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right, everybody.  Hey, everyone.

Q    Hi.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hi, hi, hi.  Okay.  I know this is a short flight, but
I do have a couple things at the top that’s important.

So, to start, I wanted to mention that open enrollment in the Federal
Care Act marketplace, where more than 20 million Americans get health
insurance, starts today.  More than a decade after passage of the law,
Americans’ health care remains under threat.  Just this week, Speaker
Johnson promised massive reform to the ACA.  The Republican Study
Committee budget cuts a staggering $4.5 trillion from the ACA, Medicaid,
and the Children’s Health Insurance Program, consistent with every
budget proposed by the former president.

Senator J.D. Vance has taken aim at the very idea of the risk pooling
between healthy and sick which lies at the heart of the ACA.  And
Republicans in Congress have made clear that one of their first orders
of business would be raising premiums in ACA health insurance by an
average of 800 bucks per person per year.

President Biden and Vice President Harris have done the po- — the
opposite, bringing health insurance to more than ev- — more than ever —
mor- — more people than ever before, lowering ACA premiums by 800 bucks
per year, getting rid of red tape that the prior administration used to
try to keep people from enrolling and expanding enrollment support.

The president and vice president will keep standing up for the
affordable health insurance, and they will block any attempt to rip it
away. 

Shifting gears just a second, I wanted to quickly discuss a recent
ProPublica series highlighting reports of women in states like Texas and
Georgia who have died after being denied the lifesaving care they need
because of extreme abortion bans.  The stories are heartbreaking, scary,
and sickening a- — sickening.  It’s hard to believe or accept as
reality, and it’s completely unacceptable. 

This should never happen in America, but, sadly, it is, and tho- — and
these abortion bans that are denying women lifesaving care are only
possible because the former president appointed three Supreme Court
justices who overturned Roe v. Wade.  The devastating and gut-wrenching
consequences of these bans put in place are — enforced by Republican
elected officials are very clear. 

President Biden and Vice President Harris believe that women in every
state must have the right to make deeply personal decisions about their
health.  They also believe that no woman should ever be denied the care
she needs.  They will continue to fight back against these extreme bans
and call on Congress to restore the protections of Roe v. Wade into
federal law.

And finally, we’re en route, as you all know, to Philadelphia, where the
president will announce new actions to further his administration’s
historic support for unions.  While in Philadelphia, he’ll announce that
his administration has protected 1.2 million pensions because of the
American Rescue M- — Rescue Plan’s Butch Lewis Act.  During the visit,
President Biden will announce new funding to prevent cuts to the earned
pensions benefits of 29,000 UFCW workers and retirees.

As you can see to my right, I’m joined by acting secretary — Labor Se- —
Labor — Labor, Julia Su, who will share more about today’s action and
the historic work the President Biden — the president and the vice
president have done to support unions.

ACTING SECRETARY SU:  Thank you so much, Karine.  Thank you all for
being here.  And so, Karine mentioned this.  We are headed to
Philadelphia to announce the restoration of the UFCW Tri-State Pension
Fund.  This is part of the president’s commitment, which he has had from
day one, to do right by working people.  We know that when jobs are
good, when working people are protected, our economy is stronger; our
nation is stronger. 

This is the third event that I’m doing like this.  The — the first one
was with the carpenters in Detroit.  The second was with the Teamsters
in Centralia, Illinois.  Again, you know, a situation where working
people who had worked a lifetime and were expecting to be able to retire
with dignity because of their pensions were seeing the end of those
pensions and were going to see their — their benefits slashed
dramatically.

Because of the Butch Lewis Act, because of the actions of President
Biden and Vice President Harris — noting that Vice President Harris cast
the deciding vote to pass the American Rescue Plan, of which the Butch
Lewis Act is a part — because of that, these individuals are now going
to be able to retire, to be able to live with dignity, to be able to
take care of themselves and their families as they expected.

This announcement also comes, obviously, on the same day that we’ve had
a jobs day, and, you know, it’s always a time to talk about good jobs,
because this administration now, you know, has presided over more jobs
being created than any other administration in the same time period. 
It’s now over 16 million jobs.  GDP remains strong.  Inflation is still
falling.  Wages are still increasing.  Wages have grown faster than
inflation for now 17 months straight.  And the unemployment rate remains
at 4.1 percent, so it’s been around 4 percent for the longest stretch
since the 1960s.

So, labor market remains very strong, and this shows what happens when
you have a president and a vice president who are fighting for workers
every single day.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Thank you.   Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Secretary.  On the jobs report, should Americans be
concerned of — that the economy is cooling in this moment, and what is
the administration doing at the moment to ensure that jobs continue to
be generated going forward?

ACTING SECRETARY SU:  Great.  So, two questions and two answers.  No, we
should not be concerned about cooling.  There were some anomalies last
month that led to a much lower jobs number.  One was, of course, the
devastating hurricanes — back-to-back hurricanes that hit the southeast
part of the country.  You know, we saw people who lost their lives, lost
their homes, lost their businesses.  The federal government was on the
ground immediately, working with state and local authorities to do
everything from search and rescue to clearing roads to making sure that
people had water and power back.

But in terms of the jobs numbers, it meant that there were employers
who, you know, would have been hiring or may have been even ramping up
because of the holiday season coming up who just simply couldn’t do
that.  So, the hurricanes had a really big effect.

And then, of course, there were workers on strike — over 30,000 of
them.  And the — when they’re on strike, their numbers also, you know,
show up as a decrease in the jobs.  Just the — the nature of the — of
the numbers.

But what do we need to do to continue the incredible economy that we
have had is to keep on making the investments that the Biden-Harris
administration has had, you know, the — where we’ve got over 60,000
infrastructure projects going on around the country.  I’ve visited many
of them.  We have apprenticeship programs bursting at the seams.  People
being able to look for jobs and get jobs in communities that were
shuttered, where factories were closed in the last administration, now
opening up again.  And we just need to keep up that work.

Q    Can I ask about the Boeing strike situation?  It sounds like
there’s a vote set for Monday, if memory serves.  Can you speak to what
your view is — is on the latest on that and whe- — whether membership
will accept?  Will you expect that this will pass —

ACTING SECRETARY SU:  Yes.

Q    — as opposed to the previous time when it (inaudible)?

ACTING SECRETARY SU:  Yes.  So, I was in Seattle from Monday to
Wednesday.  I brought the parties together at the — at my office in
Seattle.  They, you know, deserve a lot of credit.  I want to
acknowledge the leadership of both the machinists and Boeing for coming
to the table and doing the hard work of negotiating. 

You know, the president says this all the time; the vice president
acknowledges this all the time: Collective bargaining works.  It doesn’t
always look pretty from the outside, but when workers have a voice, when
unions are strong and workers are able to help determine the conditions
of their work, their wages, the future of their industry, it’s better
for everybody. 

And so, now they have a — an unprecedented offer on the table that many
people thought was impossible.  And — and they’re — they’re going to
vote on it on Monday. 

Q    Sounds like you think it’ll pass. 

ACTING SECRETARY SU:  I don’t know.  You know, I — you know, we believe
as — that — that it’s up to the members, of course.  You know, but these
workers have not seen a wage increase like this in a very, very long
time. 

In fact, the first-year wage increase is more than what they’ve had in —
in the last many years combined.  So, it’s a — it’s really a sign of
collective bargaining working. 

And, you know, workers exercise their right.  They — you know, i- — that
they’re part of what we’re seeing in a Biden-Harris America of — of a
new era of worker power, and it is resulting in not just the tremendous
job growth we keep talking about but really more equity and more — more
powerful working people. 

Q    You touched on this.  But just to be specific, because the
president said in his statement that job growth is expected to rebound
in November as the hurricane recovery and rebuilding efforts continue,
can you give us a sense of what you would project that that could look
like?  What could the November picture be?

ACTING SECRETARY SU:  So, obviously, the — the devastating
weather-related phenomena that we have been facing, you know, has an
impact — right? — has a devastating, direct, personal impact on
communities that are affected.  It also has an impact on the economy. 

And so, barring something else like that, you know, that was not a sign
of weakness in the economy.  That was really a — you know, a
weather-related phenomena.  And so, barring that, we expect, you know,
those communities to recover. 

We’re obviously not just watching it happen or hoping it happens.  We’re
in there helping it to happen. 

And so, you know, again, the investments that we’re making is really the
key here, right?  We would not have seen the kind of economy — the 16
million jobs created — without that.  This is not an administration that
has just, you know, hoped for the best.  It’s one that inherited the
economy that was still reeling from a global pandemic that the last
administration had no idea how to address. 

And what we have done is, you know, really, you know, exceeded all
expectations on the recovery.  We need to keep on doing that work.  We
need to make sure that those infrastructure projects keep breaking
ground; that the fabs that are being built, you know, are completed. 
And having union workers do that is a part of that too. 

And so, you know, there’s no reason to expect that the resilient economy
that we’ve seen so far will not bounce back from the anomalies of
October. 

Q    Was President Biden’s transcript altered — 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hold on — hold on a second.  Wait a minute. 

Q    Yeah.  (Laughs.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wait a minute.  Is — any other for the secretary?  Can
I have her sit down if — if we’re done?

Q    Keep it tight, because we’re going to land soon.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, okay.  All right.

Q    Thank you so much.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Be careful.

ACTING SECRETARY SU:  Thank you all.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Be careful.  Hold on.  I’m going to let AP go first. 

Go ahead, AP.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  On AP’s reporting from last night about the
potential doctored co-  — about the doctored comments in the recent
transcript.  Were you aware that the Press Office — White House Press
Office had done this before the stenographer had taken an approval?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I was asked this question — multiple
versions of this question on Wednesday.  I don’t have anything else more
to share.  What I can say is — and the president put out a statement
that was tweeted out — that’s on X, obviously — ver- — being very clear
what he meant, understanding that his words could have been taken out of
context. 

He was talking about the comedian.  He was talking about the hateful
rhetoric coming out of — from the comedian at the Sunday rally in
Madison Square Garden. 

And I said this on Wednesday, and I’m going to keep saying this is that
the president is always going to continue to call out hateful rhetoric. 

But of course — of course — and you see this today with the pensions
announcement; you saw it this week when he went to Baltimore to an- — to
announce some ports infrastructure investment, $147 million that went to
Baltimore — to Maryland, specifically; 27 states, 11 of those states are
red states.  I mean, these are things that the president wants to
continue about, and he always will be a president for everyone, even if
you did not vote for him. 

I don’t have anything else to share beyond that.  What I — what we want
to make sure — we think what the most important thing for Americans to
know is that this is a president that went back and wanted to clarify
what he said, because he didn’t want to take it out of context.  I think
that says a lot about this president.

And we’ve been pretty consistent about him wanting to be a president and
continuing to be a president for all Americans.  And that’s what you’re
going to see.  I don’t have anything else to add beyond that.

Q    What does the — have you all received reports about Iran
potentially having a re- — a strike against — a retaliatory strike from
its proxies?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you said, there are reports that Israeli in- —
intelligence suggests Iran is preparing to attack Israel from Iraqi
territory in the coming days, possibly before the U.S. presidential
election.  Is — is that the U.S. view as well?  You know, I’m not — I’m
going to be really careful.  I’m not going to — to your question, I’m
not going to speculate or discuss intelligence assessments on this from
here.

So — but we’ve been very clear that Iran should not respond.  I said
this on Wednesday.  We will continue to support Israel.  Our support for
Israel’s security is ironclad.  And — and if they choose this to do so,
obviously we will continue to support Israel as they continue to protect
themselves and their security. 

So, I don’t have anything to share.  I’m not going to read into that.

Q    Is the president aware of former President Trump’s comments about
Liz Cheney that he made last night?  And does he have a reaction to
that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, he’s aware.  Obviously, you all have done — have
covered — covered those remarks.  Here’s what I would say to that.  It
is — it is unacceptable; it is dangerous to — to — to s- — to speak to
political violence, to talk about political vi- — violence, to lift up
political violence. 

And what we are doing and we will continue to do is denounce that,
condemn that.  There is no place, anywhere, for any type of violence, no
place for political violence. 

And it — and this is a time we shouldn’t be using inflammatory
language.  We should be specifically focusing on bringing the country
together, and that’s what this president wants to see, and that’s what
he’s going to continue to speak to. 

Q    Do you think those comments put Liz Cheney at risk?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, I can’t speak to that.  I can’t get into
hypotheticals.  What we know is that those type of comments tend to be
dangerous, right?  They can be dangerous. 

That’s — we’re hearing violent rhetoric, and we’re going to continue to
condemn that.  It is inappropriate in the political space, and — and it
is inflammatory language that should not be said by anyone, certainly by
— not when someone has a — a leadership — national leadership.

Q    Has there been any discussion about heightening the security
preparations this week in response to what we’ve seen?  Whether it’s,
you know, ahead of the election, after the election for certain members
of Congress, what does that look like at this point?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  For certain members of Congress specifically?

Q    Well, just for that and then broader security preparations.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, look, I — I would have to — as it relates to
Congress, obviously, that’s the — something for — the Capitol Police can
speak to.  I can’t speak to that.

Look, I think that what you’ll see from this — from this president is
that, you know, free and fair elections and especially peaceful election
are the cornerstone of our democracy.  And election officials and poll
workers are dedicated <s>to</s> public servants who make our democracy
work, and they deserve to do their job — their job safely and freely
without harassment, without threat of violence. 

So, we strongly condemn anyone who threatens or harasses them.  And so —
but I also believe and we also believe that people should trust in our
institutions and trust that this will be a free and fair election.

Q    What about Lebanon?  Can you give us a status report?  Are those
talks dead?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a couple of things.  As you know, Brett and —

AIR FORCE ONE CREW MEMBER:  Going to need everyone to take their seats,
please.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Well, we got to go.

AIR FORCE ONE CREW MEMBER:  There’s going to be some turbulence.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’ll — we’ll have more fo- — we can share — I would
reach out to the NSC team, and they’ll share more about things.  But we
have to sit down.

Thanks, everybody. 

Q    Thanks, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Be careful.  It’s really bumpy.  
  
2:59 P.M. EDT
