---
date: '2024-11-25'
modified_time: 2024-11-25 16:24:39-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-25 16:30:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/11/25/on-the-record-press-gaggle-by-white-house-national-security-communications-advisor-john-kirby-35/
tags: press-briefings
title: "On-the-Record Press Gaggle by White\_House National Security Communications\
  \ Advisor John\_Kirby"
---
 
Via Teleconference

12:20 P.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  Hey, everyone.  Thanks for joining.  We do not have anything
here at the top, so we’ll go straight into questions. 

Trevor with Reuters, if you want to start us off.

Q    Hey.  Thanks for doing this.  First, do you have any comment about
this DHL plane that crashed on the way to Lithuania and if there was any
suspicion about Russian involvement?

And then second, just any update on Lebanon ceasefire talks.  There’s
some reporting that suggests that that’s towards the end of the process
there.

MR. KIRBY:  So, on your first question, Trevor, what I can tell you is
that the FAA and NTSB are cooperating in the investigation that the
Lithuanians are just now conducting.  This is pretty fresh stuff here;
it just happened.  So we’re certainly not going to get ahead of that
investigation and where the facts are going to lead them, but we are
contributing some expertise on these kinds of things to help them
through that.  And I’m sure that the Lithuanian authorities, as
appropriate, will keep people informed about what they’re learning.

On your second question, look, I’ve seen the press reporting and the
comments by anonymous officials.  I think you can understand that where
we’re going to be today is that this remains a top priority for the
President, has for some time and certainly is today as we speak, to get
this ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah so that the rockets and the
missiles stop and so that people can start moving back to their homes
and restarting their lives along that Blue Line.  And we are actively
involved in trying to bring that about.  But nothing is negotiated until
everything is negotiated. 

And as you and I are speaking here this morning, Trevor — I’m sorry,
this afternoon — those conversations are ongoing.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next — sorry, some user issue here.  Our
next question will go to Zeke with AP.

Q    Thanks, John, for doing this.  Just following up on your answer to
Trevor there.  Can you discuss what remaining sticking points there
are?  What is still being negotiated, if not everything is yet
negotiated?

And then, is there anything in detail about the President’s personal
involvement?  We know Amos has been in the region, but what has the
President’s involvement been in these talks?  Thank you.

MR. KIRBY:  The President has been monitoring this very, very closely. 
He’s been in direct touch with Amos.  Amos is back now. 

I’m not going to get into the details.  You know, there’s still some
process things that I think that they’re working through, and it just
wouldn’t be wise of me to go into much detail at this particular point. 

Look, I can tell you that the discussions that Amos had were
constructive, and we believe that the trajectory of this is going in a
very positive direction. 

But, again, nothing is done until everything is done.  Nothing is all
negotiated until everything is negotiated.  And, you know, we need to
keep at the work to see it through so that we can actually get this
ceasefire for which we’ve been working for so long and so hard.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to MJ with CNN.

Q    Hi, John.  A bunch of weeks ago, the U.S. had put out this
Israel-Hezbollah ceasefire proposal, which was very publicly rejected by
the Prime Minister.  Can you just talk to us about —

MODERATOR:  Sorry, MJ, your audio cut out.  Would you mind starting
again?

Q    Yeah.  I said that a bunch of weeks ago, the U.S. had put out this
ceasefire proposal, which was publicly rejected by the Prime Minister. 
So I wondered if you could talk to us about the timing.  Assuming that
this does come together, why now?  What’s different now versus back
then, when you all, again, first put this proposal out there? 

And then secondly, Mike Waltz said that he has now met with Jake
Sullivan.  Can you give us the top lines?  Who attended this meeting? 
What were the issues discussed?  The Congressman also sort of leaned
into this idea that the current and the incoming administrations are
working hand in glove as one team.  What exactly are you all working on
together at this point?  Thanks.

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, MJ.  So, on the first question, the why now is because
we are at a certain point in the discussions where, again, we believe
that things are moving in a very positive way.  It’s not — I mean, your
question presupposes that, you know, we sort of put an anchor on the
calendar and said, “Well, you know, we got to have it by, you know,
before Thanksgiving.”  And that’s not the thinking here.

You know, with all these negotiations, including the ones that we’ve
been trying to get, you know, with Hamas, it’s try, try again.  Keep
putting things on the table.  Keep exploring things.  Keep moving things
back and forth as both sides are presenting their requirements to you. 
And we are mediating this, and we are where we are today because of a
lot of back and forth, a lot of discussions, a lot of work, principally
by Amos, of course.  And we believe we’ve reached this point where, you
know, we’re close.

But, again, I want to be careful and cautious here in how I characterize
it, because until you get everything done, you don’t have a deal.  So
that’s kind of where we are. 

You talked about it being rejected earlier, but there’s been back and
forth with both sides now for many weeks to get us to this point.

On the Waltz meeting, I can confirm that Jake did meet with Congressman
Waltz, but I’m not going to get into the private conversation, and I
need to really just leave it there.

On your second question, or your third question, I guess, on transition,
the President has been consistent on this that he wants to make sure
across the administration, and that certainly includes us here at the
National Security Council, that we are doing everything that we can to
effect a professional and an orderly transition. 

And we continue to urge the incoming team to take the steps that are
necessary to be able to facilitate that on their end as well.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Barak with Axios.

Q    Hi, John.  Thank you for doing this.  Two quick questions.  First
on the follow-up on Jake’s meeting with Waltz.  I was told that one of
the issues they discussed is how the current administration and the
incoming administration can work together to push for a Gaza hostage
deal in the less than two months that are left until January 20th.  Can
you confirm that?

And second thing: The U.S. is going to give Israel a letter of
assurances, a letter of guarantees, whatever you want to call it, about
Israel’s freedom of operation in Lebanon, if it sees any imminent
threats after a ceasefire is reached.  Can you say anything about that?

MR. KIRBY:  No and no.  I’m sorry, Barak, but I really can’t be more
helpful to you on either one of those ones. 

The only thing I will say is, you know —

Q    (Laughs.)  I tried.

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, you did.  It was a — it was a good effort. 

(Inaudible) rumors of a letter of guarantees (inaudible) and to protect
their people.  And in those efforts, they’ll continue to get support
from the United States.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Danny with AFP.

Q    Hi, Admiral.  Thanks for doing this.  A couple of things.  Firstly,
just for the avoidance of any doubt, when you say, you know, we believe
we’ve reached this point where we’re close, you mean close to a deal. 
Is that right?

MR. KIRBY:  That’s correct. 

Q    Oh, thanks. 

MR. KIRBY:  That’s correct. 

Q    And secondly, there are reports in the region that President Macron
of France is involved in this deal and indeed that there are plans for
him and President Biden to announce it tomorrow.  Any comment on either
of those aspects?

MR. KIRBY:  No, but except to say: I think you all know that the
President spoke with President Macron last week, and, of course, they
talked about a lot of things, including the war in Gaza and how much
they both want to see this conflict end and tensions to be taken down
and a ceasefire to be reached, in this case particularly between Israel
and Hezbollah.  But beyond that, I won’t comment. 

Q    Thanks.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Neria with Channel
13 Israel. 

Q    Hi, Kirby.  Thank you so much for —

Hey, Admiral.  Thank you so much for doing this. 

I wanted to ask: U.S. officials approached the Lebanese today and told
them that Israel is on board.  Did you get any response from the people
in that — from the government in Lebanon, from Hezbollah?

And also, Netanyahu wants to know when he will be able to go back into a
war, if he’d like to, if the Israeli government would think that’s
necessary.  And I understand this is one of the latest things that are
not completed yet.  Can you elaborate more on that, please?

MR. KIRBY:  Hey, I’m not going to be very helpful here.  This kind of
gets, you know, to Barak’s question about this rumor of a letter of
guarantees. 

Q    Yeah, we didn’t hear your answer there.  You muted your Zoom or
something, when Barak asked the question.

MR. KIRBY:  Oh, my answer to Barak was no, and I think he acknowledged
that.

But, look, I understand the great interest in this, and I really won’t
go beyond what I’ve said before.  We believe we’re close.  The
conversations that Amos had were very positive.  And as I said earlier,
we believe the trajectory is going in the right direction here to
potentially getting this ceasefire done.  But it’s not done.  And the
last thing that I’m going to do publicly is speak about the details of
it and what components are in there so that I don’t in any way sabotage
the efforts to actually complete it. 

This remains an important priority for President Biden.  That’s why we
have been working hard to mediate this deal so that people can return to
their lives and their homes around the Blue Line, and the rockets and
missiles can stop. 

So, again, I do understand where all the questions are coming from. 
They’re all fair, they’re all right, they’re all the right questions to
ask today, but I’m just not going to be able to get into too much of the
details.  Actually, I’m not going to get into any of the details here
unless or until we’ve got more to say.

Q    And one last question, if that’s okay, Admiral, about the new
administration.  We do hear that Trump’s administration is getting
messages from Israeli officials about — saying that most of the hostages
are dead, maybe trying to convince them not to try to push to a deal. 
Do you know anything about it?  Do you give the new administration any
info about the hostages that are still alive?

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t know anything about those conversations.  And as I
said earlier to a question about Congressman Waltz’s meeting with Jake,
we continue to urge the incoming team to take the steps necessary so
that we can help effect an orderly, efficient, complete, and
comprehensive transition to them, which includes being able to provide
them the kinds of briefings, and the context, and the material that we
believe will be important to help inform their decisions as they come
into office.  So that’s where we are.

Q    Thank you so much.

MR. KIRBY:  Yes, ma’am.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Nadia.

Q    Thank you.  Thank you for doing this.  I want to follow up on a few
of the questions about Lebanon. 

Number one, John, can you just confirm once and for all that, actually,
we do not expect any announcement between the President and Macron, not
tomorrow, but maybe in the next few days?  Because now everybody talks
about the kind — maybe there is a kind of announcement, maybe not
tomorrow or the day after, but soon.

MR. KIRBY:  All I can tell you, Nadia, is what I’ve been saying here for
15, 20 minutes.  You know, we believe we’re close, and there’s been an
awful lot of work done.  And when we have something we can announce and
we can speak to, well, by goodness, we’ll do that, and we’ll do that as
soon as it is practical to do so. 

But I couldn’t sit here and look at the calendar over the next day or
two and tell you exactly when that might be.

Q    Okay.  Fair enough.  How close does Mr. Hochstein coordinate with
the Trump transitional team on Lebanon, and at what level? 

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going to get into the private conversations that Mr.
Hochstein has been having as he’s been working to try to get this deal. 
He’s been very, very focused on primarily discussing what he’s doing —
or what he’s trying to do with our Israeli counterparts and, of course,
his counterparts on the Lebanon side.  And I’m just going to leave it at
that.

Q    Okay.  And just one last question.  I know you said you don’t want
to talk about any letters of guarantees, but in general, is this any
role that the U.S. playing in this mediation, beyond the facilitating
both points of views, whether in execution later on or whether in some
kind of guarantee to both sides, not just the Israelis?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not sure I understand your question.  I mean, as the
mediator of this, we’re obviously trying to get a ceasefire over the
finish line.

Q    Sure, but let me explain what I meant.  I meant there is lots of
reports saying basically that the U.S. will guarantee — will give to
Israel the right to monitor Lebanese airspace to make sure that
Hezbollah is not going to launch rockets from there, and that will be by
U.S. supervision.  While now you’re saying there is no letter, there’s
nothing like this.  And vice versa — they were saying that they will
make sure that during the 60 days ceasefire, that there’s no violation;
the U.S. will guarantee that by monitoring what’s happening and
reporting it.

MR. KIRBY:  What I said was I’m not going to confirm reports that
there’s some sort of letter out there.  I’m not going to confirm any of
the details that have been discussed between the two sides and the
United States.  We are not there yet.  And if we’re able to get there,
as soon as possible we will lay it all out for everybody.  And you’ll
get to see for yourself, you know, what was negotiated. 

But the last thing I’m going to do is get into speculation from press
reports about what is or what isn’t in this deal at this particular
point.  I’m just not going to do it. 

Q    Okay.  Thank you. 

MR. KIRBY:  Yes, ma’am.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Marek with Polskie
Radio.

Q    Thank you, Sam.  Hi, John.  I have a question on the Russia threats
against Poland.  Moscow says that the new U.S. missile defense base that
was just recently opened in Redzikowo in Poland is considered a priority
target.  So may I ask you for a comment on that?

And my second question is: What’s your assessment on the effectiveness
of the use of ATACMS by Ukraine?  In the past, you kind of downplayed
potential impact of the ATACMS on the battlefield and warned that
allowing Ukraine to strike deep into Russia could lead to escalation by
the Kremlin.  How do you see it now?

MR. KIRBY:  Right now, they are able to use ATACMS to defend themselves,
you know, in an immediate-need basis.  And right now, you know,
understandably, that’s taking place in and around Kursk, in the Kursk
Oblast.  I’d let the Ukrainians speak to their use of ATACMS and their
targeting procedures, and what they’re using them for and how well
they’re doing.

But nothing has changed about the — well, obviously we did change the
guidance and gave them guidance that they could use them, you know, to
strike these particular types of targets.

On your — what was your first question again?  I knew I was going to
forget.

Q    Just about Russia’s threats against Poland, the new missile defense
(inaudible) put on the target list.

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, we’ve seen those comments, and, obviously, you know,
you have to take those kinds of threats seriously, and we do.  As
reckless and irresponsible as they are, we obviously take it seriously. 

President Biden has been rock-solid.  We’re going to do everything we
have to do to make sure our troops on the European continent are safe
and secure.  And just as importantly, you know, we take our Article Five
commitments to our NATO Allies incredibly seriously.  It’s rock-solid,
and that’s not going to change.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Hiba.

Q    Thanks, John.  I want to try again, John, to understand where do
things stand now.  From what we’ve learned, there was an Israeli
response that was then relayed to the Lebanese.  If Israel hasn’t made
any amendment to it, the agreement remains as is.  Now, did you receive
anything from the Lebanese?  Where is the agreement now?  On the Lebanon
side?  On Israel side? 

Second, my second question: Is it an agreed ceasefire?  And within these
60 days or whatever, the negotiations will continue for a broader deal?

And my third question, please, if I may: Will this ceasefire agreement
or deal, or whatever, go to the U.N. Security Council, considering that
you will soon preside over it in December?  I mean, will we have a
resolution?  Will we have a statement from the U.N. Security Council
after this?  Because the Lebanese were opposing that.  Thank you.

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, Hiba, look, I’m simply not going to talk about where
we are in the negotiation process.  As I said several times here on this
call, we believe we’re close.  The conversations that Amos had in the
region were constructive.  I’d go so far as to say we believe they were
productive. 

But nothing is done until it’s all done, and it’s not done right now. 
And if we can get there, as soon as possible we’ll be able to talk in
more detail with all of you about the contents of this.  But I hope you
understand how irresponsible it will be — irresponsible it would be for
me in an on-the-record gaggle to lay out for you and confirm every
single press report out there about what is in or what is not in this
deal.  I’m just not going to do it. 

And I don’t have anything to talk to you today about, you know, if we
get a deal, what a broader timeline (inaudible).  All that gets into the
parameters of the deal itself.  So, again, I’m just not going to go
there.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  And unfortunately, that’s all the time we have
for today.  As always, if we weren’t able to get to your questions,
please reach out to our distro, our NSC press distro.  And I think Kirby
has a few words here before we fully go.

MR. KIRBY:  Yep, just two things.  One, look, I know you all had lots of
very detailed questions, and you’re coming away from the gaggle, I’m
sure, unsatisfied, and I understand that.

I just — as I said many times, I hope you understand why.  I’m not
trying to obfuscate, certainly not trying to be an obstacle or make
things difficult for you.  What I was trying to do is characterize sort
of where we think we are but not do anything or say anything that might
torpedo our chances. 

And obviously, the most important thing here is that we try to get this
ceasefire, because it will mean, literally, that lives will be saved
and, hopefully over a period of time, that livelihoods will be
restored.  And again, last thing any spokesman wants to do is be in the
way of that.  And so, I just want you to understand where I was coming
from. 

The last thing is: I don’t know if we’re going to have a chance to talk
before Thanksgiving.  If not, I just want to wish everybody a happy
holiday.  And if you’re traveling, please do so safely. 

And thanks for all this engagement.  I know it’s been a while since we
did a gaggle.  And hopefully after the holiday is over, we can get back
on to a more normal schedule. 

But anyway, Happy Thanksgiving to all of you if I don’t get a chance to
talk to you before then.  Thanks. 

MODERATOR:  Thanks, everyone.

12:44 P.M. EDT
