---
date: '2024-11-27'
modified_time: 2024-11-27 16:26:20-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-27 16:26:19-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/11/27/background-press-call-on-venezuela/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call on\_Venezuela"
---
 
Via Teleconference  

9:18 A.M. EST

MODERATOR:  All right, so good morning, everyone.  Thank you again for
joining us on somewhat of a short notice here.  We will be speaking
about Venezuela this morning. 

And on the line, not for reporting purposes, we will have \[senior
administration official\].  We will also have \[senior administration
official\].  And we will also have \[senior administration official\]. 

We will be on background, attributable to senior administration
officials, and the call will be embargoed until 10:30 a.m. Eastern
Time. 

At the end of the call, I can also email, also under embargo, some of
our press releases for you to use in your reporting, but the embargo
will lift on all documents and the backgrounder at 10:30 a.m. Eastern
Time.  

With that, I will turn it over to my colleague.  Over to you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  Thank you very much.  And good
morning, everyone.  Really appreciate your time.  We know that most of
you are headed into the Thanksgiving holiday. 

The purpose of the call today is to discuss some actions we’re taking
related to Venezuela.  Tomorrow, November 28th, will mark four months to
the day from Venezuela’s presidential election, which took place on July
28th, and it was an election in which the Venezuelans voted resoundingly
to make Edmundo Gonzalez Urrutia the president-elect.

As we in the U.S. administration have said many times before, we believe
it’s extremely important that the voices of the Venezuelan people are
heard and that their votes are fairly counted and respected. 

In the months since July 28th, we have given Nicolas Maduro and his
representatives every opportunity to do the right thing, and we have
incentivized the possibility of democratic steps.  Instead, Maduro and
his representatives decided to use violent repression and to seize power
at all costs.  This is not something the United States will stand for,
and nor will other countries in the region stand for this. 

Therefore, the United States has taken steps to increase pressure
against Maduro and his representatives, who are responsible for the
electoral fraud that took place on July 28th and afterwards, and the
brutal repression that we’ve seen in the last few months. 

For this reason, today I’m joined by colleagues from the Department of
State and Treasury to inform you of actions the U.S. government will be
taking to continue to hold Maduro and its representatives accountable. 

First, the Department of the Treasury will sanction 21 security and
cabinet-level officials aligned with Nicolas Maduro.  This includes 15
leaders of the Bolivarian National Guard, Bolivarian National Police,
the Bolivarian National Intelligence Service, Bolivarian militia, and
the General Directorate of Military Counterintelligence. 

All of these entities are part of Maduro’s security apparatus and are
responsible for violently repressing peaceful protesters and carrying
out arbitrary detentions. 

We have also included Maduro-aligned officials who have been responsible
for anti-democratic acts. 

Concurrently, the Department of State imposed new restrictions on — new
visa restrictions on a significant number of Maduro alliance officials
who have undermined the electoral process in Venezuela and are
responsible for acts of repression. 

The steps that we are taking today build on multiple actions that we
have taken already to hold the current and former Venezuelan officials
accountable for undermining democracy in Venezuela and to hold them
accountable for violating human rights.  These actions will follow on
similar sanctions and visa restrictions that we announced last
September.

To date, we have sanctioned 180 Venezuelan officials and 100 Venezuelan
entities.  Additionally, we regularly take actions to enforce our
sanctions policy to demonstrate to Maduro and his cronies that their
undemocratic governance has consequences.  This included, last
September, the seizure of Maduro’s illegally acquired aircraft. 

It’s important to point out that the United States does not stand alone
in expressing our concerns with Maduro’s anti-democratic actions and in
our call for the restoration of democratic norms.

I am now going to pass the floor to my colleagues from Department of
State and from Treasury, who can discuss the further efforts that we are
taking to rally support of the international community for Venezuela’s
return to democratic norms, as well as additional information on these
sanctions actions.  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Good morning.  As \[senior
administration official\] mentioned, tomorrow marks four months since
Venezuela’s presidential election.  It also marks four months of Nicolas
Maduro’s refusal to recognize the will of the Venezuelan people and his
brutal repression of those defending the true results of the election.

We have witnessed the Venezuelan people’s courage and commitment to
democracy in the face of repression, threats, unjust detentions, and
censorship.  They overcome daily adversity as they clamor for a
democratic transition and their rights to freedom of expression.

Maduro and his representatives continue to ignore calls from their own
people and the international community for transparency, and instead use
brute force to silence dissenters.  And they fail to present evidence
that supports any shred of Maduro’s false claim to victory.

Democratic governments in the region and around the world press Maduro
as a united front for transparency and a restoration of democracy in
Venezuela.  The Organization of American States, for example, adopted a
U.S.-led resolution on this topic by consensus.  More than 50 countries
supported Panama’s statement of concern in New York, outside the U.N.
Security Council.  And at the U.N. General Assembly in September, more
than 50 countries and the EU called on Venezuela to end political
repression and respect the results of the election. 

Just this week, at the G7 foreign ministers meeting in Italy, G7
countries called on Venezuela to release political prisoners and respect
the voters’ decision for democratic change. 

As \[senior administration official\] already noted, today we are using
our sanctions authorities to impose costs on 21 Maduro-aligned
individuals for their myriad abuses against the Venezuelan people and
attempts to steal the election. 

Our sanctions policy seeks to incentivize democratic actions in
Venezuela, the only path to resolve Venezuela’s political, economic, and
humanitarian crisis.

We will continue to promote accountability for Maduro and his
representatives so long as they continue repressing the Venezuelan
people.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you all for joining today.  As my
colleagues mentioned, today the Department of the Treasury’s Office of
Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, is sanctioning 21 security and
cabinet-level officials aligned with Nicolas Maduro. 

These individuals are sanctioned pursuant to Executive Order 13692, as
amended, for being current or former officials of the government of
Venezuela.  They have supported and carried out Maduro’s orders to
repress civil society in his efforts to fraudulently declare himself the
winner of Venezuela’s July 28th presidential election, thus ignoring the
will of the overwhelming majority of Venezuelan voters who elected
Edmundo Gonzalez Urrutia as their next president. 

Following this election, Venezuelan security forces have arbitrarily
arrested democratic opposition supporters en masse, violently suppressed
protests, and denied individuals the right to assemble peacefully
without backlash.  These tactics also involved issuing an unjustified
arrest warrant against President-elect Urrutia, prompting his departure
from Venezuela. 

The United States joins other democracies in the region and across the
world in condemning this subversion of democratic norms.  We stand with
the Venezuelan people and support those seeking to restore democracy in
Venezuela. 

The Biden-Harris administration will continue to use our tools to hold
Maduro and his cronies accountable, and support the democratic
aspirations of the Venezuelan people. 

The individuals sanctioned today are senior Venezuelan officials,
including from the Maduro-aligned Bolivarian National Guard, Bolivarian
National Police, militia, National Intelligence Service, and General
Directorate of Military Counterintelligence. 

Again, these individuals are being designated pursuant to Executive
Order 13692.

To date, OFAC has sanctioned over 150 Venezuelan individuals and 100
Venezuelan entities to target current or former officials for taking
anti-democratic actions and violating human rights. 

Since the July 28th election, Maduro and his representatives have
indiscriminately arrested Venezuelans for exercising their political and
civil rights, and deployed a range of intimidation tactics to silence
the opposition. 

As a result of today’s action, all property and interests in property of
the designated persons described above, and of any entities that are
owned directly or indirectly, 50 percent or more of them, individually,
or with other blocked persons, that are in the United States or in the
possession or control of U.S. persons must be reported to OFAC.

Unless authorized by a general or specific license issued by OFAC, or
exempt, OFAC’s regulations generally prohibit all transactions by U.S.
persons or within (transiting) the United States that involve any
property or interest in property of designated or otherwise blocked
persons.

We take these actions very seriously by Maduro and his cronies, and will
continue to hold those responsible who are not abiding by the will of
the people.  Thank you.

MODERATOR:  Thank you very much for those opening remarks.  For those
who joined just a couple of minutes late, just a reminder that this call
is on background, attributable to senior administration officials.  It
is embargoed until 10:30 a.m. Eastern Time today. 

With that, I’ll turn it over to questions.  Please raise your hand and
we will unmute you.  Please state your name and your outlet.

With that, we’ll go to Gabe. 

Q    Hi there.  Good morning.  Gabe Gutierrez with NBC.  Appreciate you
doing this.

Question: Have you spoken to the incoming Trump transition team about
Venezuela specifically?  And how aligned are you with them on, you know,
these sanctions and the policy?

And also, while I have you, can anybody from NSC offer up any more
information on the three Americans that have just been released from
China?  Thank you.

MODERATOR:  We’ll take the China question and we’ll get back to you, and
our colleagues at the press team can send you a statement. 

We’ll take your first question.  Over to \[senior administration
officials\].

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  I’ll jump in here.  So we’re
undertaking these actions with respect to Venezuela as part of the Biden
administration’s engagement in advancing democracy in Venezuela and also
holding the Venezuelan regime and regime actors accountable for
practices that include political repression, subverting the democratic
will of the people, and things that run — and issues that run counter to
good governance in Venezuela. 

So these actions, you know, are part of our overall policy framework. 
We obviously are aware that there will be a change in administration on
January 20th.  And at that juncture, a new administration can take up
this issue of Venezuela.

MODERATOR:  All right, we’ll go to the next question.  We’ll go to Juan
Merlano.

Q    Thank you, Vanessa.  Thank you, everybody.  This

is Juan Merlano, Caracol TV, Colombia.  And Happy Thanksgiving, by the
way.

\[Senior administration official\], maybe you can help us with this.  Is
there any plan to have a meeting between President Biden and
President-elect Edmundo Gonzalez Urrutia before he tries to go back to
Venezuela?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  So I can’t speak further to
President Biden’s schedule at this time.  However, the Biden
administration in both word and deed has been very supportive of Edmundo
Gonzalez Urrutia in terms of respecting the electoral victory that he
achieved on July 28th.  And recently, we’ve also proclaimed that we view
Edmundo Gonzalez Urrutia to be the president-elect in Venezuela. 

And so, these policies of continuing to support the will of the
Venezuelan people are going to remain central to how the Biden
administration engages with the issue of Venezuela.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I’ll just add that Secretary Blinken
and other U.S. senior officials have spoken with Edmundo Gonzalez
Urrutia on multiple occasions, and we continue to be in close touch with
him and with Maria Corina Machado and other opposition figures in
Venezuela.  And we prioritize their views and insights as we look to
find a positive way forward.

MODERATOR:  Thank you very much.  We’ll go to Celia Mendoza.  Please
state your outlet. 

Q    Hi.  Thank you so much.  Celia Mendoza, Voice of America. 

So my question goes a little bit more into — we understand that Nicolas
Maduro has not responded to pressure.  What these new sanctions could do
for him to change his course?  As we see it right now, he keeps jailing
people; he keeps moving forward with his government; is expected for him
to be taking power for the next six years in January.  How does the
administration see the last few months of the Biden-Harris strategy to
actually impact or make a dent on what so far has not been any
advancement?

And then, the other part of that question is: Where is the conversations
that were initially talked with Mexico, Colombia, Brazil?  So far, we
have not seen any advancement on that front.  Would it be possible to
reengage those countries, before the administration leaves, to be able
to see any changes? 

Just yesterday, the government in Diosdado Cabello said that they were
going to do a trial against Maria Corina Machado, who’s still in the
country, and they said they will do it even if she’s not present, which,
of course, is a signal that they will go after her.  And the prospective
of that happening within the next few months looks like imminent if we
follow what he has done.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So I think it’s important to recognize
that Nicolas Maduro, with those around him, have never been more
politically isolated.  Scores of countries have come out and recognized
that all indications are that Edmundo Gonzalez won the election. 
They’ve called on Maduro to substantiate his position.  He’s never been
able to provide any evidence to refute Edmundo Gonzalez’s overwhelming
more than 2-to-1 victory in the election on July 28th.

The countries around Venezuela have said that they are not going to
recognize Nicolas Maduro as president of Venezuela absent the provision
of some evidence to demonstrate that.

The international coalition of countries that seeks democracy in
Venezuela is strong, it is large, and it will continue to press Maduro
and those around them to come to the table and talk about a democratic
transition. 

The frontline states have a special role to play in that process. 
Countries like Colombia and Brazil, in particular, with borders with
Venezuela, are influential, and they’ve continued to raise concerns in
ways that we have not seen previously.  This is very important for the
future of Venezuela, the welfare of the Venezuelan people.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  And if I could, I’ll just add to that
that these actions that are being taken today are directed towards the
Maduro regime but also towards specific individuals and entities in the
Maduro regime that have been found credibly accused of perpetrating in
acts of repression and contravening the will of the Venezuelan people. 

And so, I really do encourage you and everyone on this call to read the
OFAC press release, which details the fact that you’ve got people who
are, you know, in some cases, operating regional command zones that have
been under the jurisdiction of Maduro, that have targeted innocent
civilians for repression and reprisals.  It also includes senior
officials in the Venezuelan government who have strong ties to Diosdado
Cabello, a senior regime figure. 

And so, I think that the signal that these sanctions will send is not
merely about holding Nicolas Maduro accountable, but that, in fact,
regime officials who are acting unlawfully to uphold this regime based
on repressive tactics will also find themselves in the crosshairs of
these sanctions.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  We’ll go to David Alandete.  Please state your
outlet.

Q    Thank you so much.  This is David Alandete from Diario ABC in
Spain. 

I just have a question regarding European recognition of Edmundo
Gonzalez, (inaudible) Spain, but there is still delay in the Spanish
government recognizing him as president-elect.  And I wanted to know if
you expect this to happen before the end of President Biden’s term, and
if it would be helpful for these efforts, given the fact that the
European Parliament and the Spanish Senate, separately, have recognized
him.  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, thanks so much.  Those decisions
are sovereign decisions for each country to make.  But as you rightly
point out, key institutions in Europe have already called Edmundo
Gonzalez Urrutia the president-elect.  And the pressure that that puts
on the Maduro authorities is significant. 

We believe that it reflects the reality of the will of Venezuelan
voters, and we believe that it’s urgent that all the countries that are
committed to seeing democratic change in Venezuela publicly continue to
press for that and to express their concern publicly and privately with
Maduro authorities.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  And I’d also like to take this
opportunity to highlight that, yesterday, the G7 foreign ministers put
out a statement — which was released by the foreign ministers of Canada,
France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom, the United States,
and the high representative of the European Union — which treats, among
other subjects, the topic of Venezuela. 

Regarding Venezuela, the G7 foreign ministers said that:

“On July 28th, the Venezuelan people made a clear choice in the polls,
voting for democratic change and supporting Edmundo Gonzalez Urrutia by
a significant majority, according to publicly available electoral
records.  We will continue to support efforts by regional partners to
facilitate a Venezuelan-led democratic and peaceful transition that will
ensure respect for the will of the voters. 

We are deeply troubled by the continued violations and abuses of human
rights, including arbitrary detentions and severe restrictions on
fundamental freedoms, targeting in particular political opponents, civil
society, and independent media.  All unjustly detained political
prisoners must be released.” 

And so, that is a statement — that includes all the G7 foreign
ministers, including the high representative of the European Union.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  We’ll go to Karen DeYoung.

Q    Hi, it’s Karen DeYoung at the Washington Post.  I have a couple of
questions.  First, has any consideration been given to lifting licenses,
such as General License 41, or any individual licenses that have been
given to the energy production and export, or any other part of the
Venezuelan economy?

Secondly, on the recognition of Edmundo Gonzalez as the president,
\[senior administration official\] said that this imposes significant
pressure.  But I wonder if you could talk about exactly what it means. 
If one goes back to the period of Juan Guaidó, what that actually
accomplished and what you expect the recognition to accomplish. 

And finally, after the election, the United States tried to hold some
meetings with representatives of Maduro.  I wonder if you could tell me
when you last met with any representatives of the Maduro government. 
Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  I’ll take question one and three
and then let \[senior administration official\] comment. 

So in terms of the licenses and overall U.S. sanctions and licensing
policy, this is something that is under continual review by us as we
seek to achieve our foreign policy objectives in Venezuela. 

And so, we are obviously always evaluating events on the ground in
Venezuela, how that corresponds to our sanctions policy, what steps that
we can take that may provoke greater divisions in the regime as well. 

And so, this is something we’re going to continue to review moving
forward and certainly all the way to the end of this administration.

And then, with respect to direct talks with Maduro authorities, we
really can’t comment on diplomatic — discreet diplomatic discussions. 
But what we can say is that we remain in constant contact with a wide
range of allies in the region and beyond, with respect to developments
in Venezuela.

MODERATOR:  \[Senior administration official\], are you trying to speak?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I was thinking, I think \[senior
administration official\] covered it all, so I don’t think I have
anything to add.

MODERATOR:  Great.  More chance for questions. 

We’ll go next to Carla Angola.  Please state your outlet.

Q    Good morning.  Thank you for doing this.  My first question is —
Carla Angola from EVTV.

The president of Venezuela has reported that he’s willing to return to
the country on January 10 to take office.  Would the United States be
willing to accompany him, from a logistical point of view, on that
return and protect his physical integrity?  Or would you participate in
some way in the operation to return home the president-elect, Edmundo
Gonzalez? This is my first one.

And regarding the license to Chevron, at first, this administration
assured that Maduro would not have any profit from the sale of that
oil.  But on the contrary, some suspect that the license granted to
Chevron is allowing Maduro to finance the repression of innocent
people.  Does this administration plan to suspend that license before
leaving the White House?  Thank you so much.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, let me just note, in terms of the
logistics question that was asked: The United States government has not
received a request from Edmundo Gonzalez for assistance in his
transportation, and we did not participate in his departure from
Venezuela, and we were not asked to do so.  If we were to receive a
request from him, we would consider that.  But, you know, we don’t
recognize the Maduro authorities, so it’s something that, you know,
we’re not in touch with them on these types of issues. 

And I’ll leave the rest for \[senior administration official\].

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks.  I’ll just share that as we
review our overall sanctions policy and licensing policy towards
Venezuela, this is under constant monitoring and review, and we are
willing to calibrate and adjust as needed in order to advance U.S.
foreign policy objectives.

MODERATOR:  Great.  We have time for one, maybe two questions if we go
through them quickly.

We’ll go to Eric Bazail-Eimil.

Q    Hi.  Thanks for doing this.  Eric Bazail-Eimil from Politico.

Look, can I just get more clarity on why, at this point, the
administration is still reviewing those licenses and isn’t more actively
pursuing energy sanctions?  There’s only a month left until — about a
month, with a rounding error, for, you know, the handover to occur.  And
energy sanctions seem to be the only thing that have gotten Maduro to go
to the negotiating table in the past.  So I’m curious if you could just
explain that.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  Well, I think that there’s — you
know, first of all, there’s a number of things that have moved Maduro to
the negotiating table at different junctures, which includes
international pressure, their desire to seek some sort of legitimacy,
obviously a desire that is not being met, given the malfeasance that
followed the July 28th election. 

And so, we review this policy on a comprehensive basis, both the
sanctions, of which there are still quite extensive sanctions towards
Venezuela at a sectoral level, and also, as we’re discussing today, at
an individual level, targeted at regime officials who have committed
human rights abuses. 

But we also have a number of other aspects of our policy towards
Venezuela which are critical to our overall shaping of this policy. 

And so, this is something that we’re going to continue to look at very
carefully, both with respect to U.S. foreign policy interests and in
consultation with a wider set of partners and allies.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I would just add that just because we
have not taken an action so far, does not mean that we will not take an
action in the future — though, obviously, as we said many times, we do
not preview our sanctions decisions.

MODERATOR:  Great.  And with that, we’ll go with one last question. 
We’ll go to Regina Garcia Cano.  Please state your outlet. 

Q    Hi there.  Thank you for doing this.  I have a follow-up on that,
on licenses. 

The opposition advisors to Maria Corina Machado and Edmundo Gonzalez
have openly said that they would like to see particularly the Chevron
license canceled, and I’m sure they’ve expressed that to you directly. 

The explanation for that license, at least in writing, when it was
issued was all about democracy and getting to have a more free and fair
election.  We already saw what happened on July 28th. 

So with those 45 days left between now and January 10th, when the next
presidential term starts in Venezuela, you say you’re still reviewing
and that you haven’t taken it doesn’t mean that you won’t take it in the
future.  But why — you know, if it was based in the idea of democracy,
why is that still in place?  That was, at least in writing, the argument
for this.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  As we said previously, we are
continually reviewing our sanctions policy to achieve U.S. foreign
policy objectives.

MODERATOR:  Great.  Thank you.  That’s all the time we have for today. 
Thanks again for joining us.

Again, the call was embargoed until — it is embargoed until 10:30 a.m.
Eastern Time, and it is attributable to senior administration
officials.  We will have a transcript also on our WhiteHouse.gov website
later this afternoon.

Thanks again, and happy holidays.

9:53 A.M. EST          
