---
date: '2024-11-14'
modified_time: 2024-11-15 09:19:49-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-14 16:45:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/11/14/press-gaggle-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-en-route-lima-peru/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security Advisor\
  \ Jake Sullivan En Route Lima,\_Peru"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One En Route Lima, Peru

3:40 P.M. EST

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hey, guys.  Oh, it smells like crab cake back here.

Q    Yes.  (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I have a quick thing at the top, and then I’ll hand it
over to Jake. 

So, earlier today, the president announced that Americans have filed
more than 20 million new business applications since he and the vice
president took office.

Under their leadership, we have had the first-, second-, and
third-strongest years of new business applications on — on record and
are on track for a fourth.

Business ownership has doubled among Black households and hit a 30-year
high for Hispanic households.  New business creation rates hit a 30-year
high for Asian Americans.  And the share of women business<s>es</s>
owners is on the rise.

As the president has said, every new small business is an act of hope,
and these new business applications represent 20 million acts of hope by
the American people.

The Biden-Harris administration will continue to use every tool
available to support the small businesses and entrepreneurs that are
powering our economic recovery and his nationwide small-business boom.

With that, as you can see, we have the national security advisor, Jake
Sullivan, joining us for the gaggle.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Thank you, Karine. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yep.

MR. SULLIVAN:  And thanks for joining us here on Air Force One en route
to Lima, Peru, for the APEC Summit. 

I’m sure you all studied very carefully my comments yesterday at the
podium, so I’m not going to repeat in great detail all the various
pieces of business that we intend to get done here over the next few
days at both APEC and the G20, with a stop in the Amazon in between.

I’ll just make a few quick points and then open it up for your
questions.

First, President Biden enters this APEC Summit with the U.S. in a very
strong strategic position in the Asia-Pacific — strong alliances; a
strong competitive economic and technological edge; new initiatives in
terms of investment, supply chains, trade that are already bearing
fruit; the Quad, AUKUS, the Camp David Trilateral, as points on the
board that he has put over the course of the past four years.

And so, we’re very much looking forward to the opportunity to engage
with leaders from across the region as President Biden wraps up his
tenure.

Tomorrow, he’ll have the opportunity to engage with all of the APEC
leaders in a larger plenary session, and then he’ll do a trilateral
meeting with the president of Korea and the prime minister of Japan. 
That trilateral will mark the progress that we’ve made since the Camp
David summit, including in the security, technology, supply chain, and
other realms.

And also, critically, we’ll focus on making sure that we’ve
institutionalized the trilateral so that it will be an enduring feature
of American policy in the Indo-Pacific going forward.  And given the
bipartisan support for it, we fully expect that it would continue under
the next administration — though, of course, they’ll make their own
decisions.

Tomorrow, the president will also have the chance to have a brief
meeting with Prime Minister Ishiba of Japan — a bilateral meeting —
because the two of them, of course, have not had the chance to meet in
person since he became prime minister.

And he will have a meeting with President Boluarte of Peru.  And at that
meeting, we’ll have deliverables in terms of counternarcotics, rail, and
space, as well as, you know, the opportunity to mark nearly 200 years of
strong bilateral ties between our two countries.

Then we’ll roll into the next day: the meeting with President Xi,
further meetings at a plenary level with the other APEC leaders.  And
we’ll have more to share on that on the ground when we do further
gaggles with you all and with the traveling press corps. 

Obviously, that meeting with Xi Jinping will be his final meeting with
President Xi as president.  It’s an important opportunity to mark the
progress that we’ve made in the relationship and also to manage it
through this delicate period of transition where we want to maintain a
degree of stability, even as we continue to compete vigorously with the
PRC.  We need to manage that competition so it doesn’t veer into
conflict.

So, with that, let me open it up for your questions.

Q    Just — thanks, Jake — zero in a little bit more on the trilateral
tomorrow.  Obviously, (inaudible) as you talked about, you’re trying to
institutionalize this trilateral, but it’s also a very tense time with
North Korea’s ballistic missile testing and also Kursk. 

How are you guys look — going into looking at this moment?  And is this
also now maybe a period, hopefully, of a little bit of quiet with North
Korea going past the election?  Or — or is the administration still
feeling a bit on edge of where we’re at?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I do not think we can count on a period of quiet with the
DPRK.  Obviously, they’ve continued their ballistic missile testing just
in recent days and weeks.  The possibility of a seventh nuclear test
remains ever present.  It’s something we’re vigilant for. 

Transitions have historically been time periods when the DPRK has taken
provocative actions, both before and after the transition from one
president to a new president.  So, that’s something we are watching very
carefully and will be watching every day between now and January 20th.

And obviously, it’s a real opportunity for us to consult at the leaders’
level both to be prepared for any provocation that may come, whether it
be with respect to missile testing or a nuclear test or other
provocations.  It also will be an opportunity for the three to get a
coordinated response to the introduction of DPRK soldiers onto the — or
into western Russia. 

And obviously, we’ve consulted at multiple levels of government.  I’ve
spoken with my counterpart; Secretary Blinken, Secretary Austin have
spoken with theirs.  The ROK and Japan have both expressed grave concern
about this, just as we have and our European partners have. 

But in terms of the tangible coordination and the policy steps that we
can take, this will be an opportunity for the three leaders to talk,
make sure we’re on the same page, and that we’re moving out in a
coordinated way. 

This is a significant development, and we’re going to treat it with the
seriousness with which it deserves to be treated. 

(Cross-talk.)

Q    Can I just — can I just hone in — sorry.  Can I just hone in on —
on that trilat?  So, what is the deliverables in terms of actual
statements or agreements that will come out of this?  Is there anything
that involves nuclear deterrence in the region?

MR. SULLIVAN:  We obviously have bilateral extended deterrence dialogues
with both Japan and Korea, and they have both been elevated to new
levels under President Biden, and I would say they’re at as robust and
intense a level as we’ve seen in recent decades.  So, extended
deterrence remains a strong feature of our bilateral relationship. 

There will not be any specific announcement on extended deterrence at a
trilateral level, but this will be an opportunity for us to ensure that
each of these two bilateral dialogues are working to reinforce one
another and that there aren’t gaps and seams between them.  So, it will
be part of the agenda tomorrow.

In terms of the deliverables, one of the main things that will come out
of tomorrow is the establishment of the secretariat for the trilateral
on a going-forward basis so that there is an institutional framework and
this isn’t just a series of leaders’ meetings.  It is, in fact,
something that has a home in all three governments, and the three
governments can cooperate at every level on trilateral collaboration. 

So, for example, on trilateral exercises, we’ve had our first
significant trilateral exercise — Freedom’s Edge — and now, at this
meeting, they’ll talk about how to step up trilateral exercises. 

We’ve made progress on technology protection, on supply chain
diversification, on missile warning and the sharing of data with respect
to missile warning.  In all of those areas, we expect to take further
steps tomorrow.

Q    Jake, can —

Q    On the introduction of DPRK troops into Russia.  How quickly should
we expect to see a response, if you’re using tomorrow to coordinate once
again?  And then, I assume also broaden this to other allies who also
have expressed concern? 

MR. SULLIVAN:  I think it’s important to see this not in terms of a
single action or day where you would be able to point to it and say,
“Aha, that is the response.”  This is a significant development.  It is
going to require us to work with our allies and partners to deal with it
on an ongoing basis.  There will be multiple elements to how we deal
with it that will unfold over time. 

So, I wouldn’t expect to wake up one day and say, “Okay, now we’ve seen
it.  We’ve seen what they’re ‘doing’ — quote, unquote — in response to
that.” 

I think, rather, there will be a coordinated set of policy decisions
that we take — diplomatic, in terms of the material provided to Ukraine,
and otherwise — that we will work with our allies and partners on.  That
includes our allies and partners in Europe, and it includes Japan and
ROK.

Q    And on the — sorry — on the China meeting.  Yesterday, you talked
about how the new administration, regardless of what they do, obviously,
have to manage this relationship.  What do you see as the biggest China
risk for the incoming administration that they face in 2025?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, I’ve talked multiple times about how the most
significant risk for the United States and for the world is somehow
peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait is disturbed and we end up
in conflict there.  That would be catastrophic for everyone involved:
for Taiwan, for Beijing, for us, for the world. 

I wouldn’t necessarily say, given how we have managed cross-strait
relations, that that should be something that is at, you know,
heightened risk in 2025.  But because of the size of the risk, even if
it’s not that likely, it’s something that has to be at the top of the
agenda. 

There are more immediate issues that — where the stakes are high but not
quite as high as that.  For example, China’s continued aggressive
activity and behavior in the South China Sea, its coercion and pressure
on countries like the Philippines — the incoming administration is going
to have to focus on that right out of the gate, just as we’ve had to
focus on that all along. 

And then, of course, there’s the continuing economic and technology
relationship, where the United States is going to have to take steps on
an ongoing basis to maintain our competitive edge.  Of course, we in the
Biden administration have taken a number of those steps, and we’re — you
know, there are more things that we can do before we leave, but also the
new administration is going to have to carry that agenda forward. 

Q    So, Jake, can I just ask — you’ve talked a little bit about
institutionalizing things, making sure that — at the levels below the
two leaders, that things are — are going to continue or you hope they
will continue.  That’s what is normally done in administration — from
one administration to the next. 

You’ve got an incoming administration where people like, you know, Elon
Musk say they want to cut $2 trillion.  You have Pete Hegseth at DOD. 
You have Matt Gaetz at FBI, saying he’s — just want to get rid of the
FBI and the ATF. 

Like, what — forget about the, you know, presidential level.  Do you
have any confidence that even, you know, deep down in the bureaucracy,
that some of these things that you’re putting into place are actually
going to continue?  Or do you — do you feel like even those things that
you’re trying to institutionalize are at risk?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Let me try to answer that question with an example.  My
example is the Quad, which was first conceived of in the Bush — the
George W. Bush administration.  It was then taken forward modestly in
the Obama administration, taken forward a bit more in the Trump
administration, and then elevated to leaders’ level and
institutionalized in the Biden administration.  So, Obama to Trump to
Biden, you see continuity and then acceleration of a critical
institutional initiative in the Indo-Pacific. 

I use that example because I would put the Camp David Trilateral in a
similar category.  It’s the kind of thing that has strong bipartisan
support, that has obvious benefits to the United States, that doesn’t
involve some massive incremental resource commitment. 

So, I do have some measure of confidence that that kind of initiative,
properly institutionalized, can endure and be sustained through the next
administration and the one beyond that and the one beyond that.

With respect to the wider suite of policy questions that your — your
question raised, I can’t speak to that.  All I can do is look at areas
where we believe that we are passing off a strong hand for the United
States with our allies and partners and where we want to do everything
possible to set them up for success should they choose to carry it
forward.

The choice to carry it forward will ultimately be theirs to make.

Q    My question was — was really a kind of tricky way to get you to
comment on the president — the next president’s nominees. 

MR. SULLIVAN:  Oh.

Q    Don’t — you don’t want to do that?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I do not want to do that.  No.  No, I do not want to do
that.  

Q    Can I ask a — can I ask a China question, Jake?  So, Xi Jinping in
Peru will also be inaugurating this $1.3 billion megaport that’s kind of
like a hub for trade connectivity to South America. 

We know that, three years ago, President Biden tried to offer his
counter to the Chinese Belt and Road Initiative.  And since then, it has
been scaled down — or maybe you would call it “refocused” — to the two
corridors: Luzon and Lobito. 

My question is: In these past years, what has the administration learned
in terms of what it can and cannot do in terms of competing with China
and offering a viable and more healthy development financing?

MR. SULLIVAN:  First of all, I think it’s just totally wrong to say that
the Partnership for Global Infrastructure — PGI — has been scaled down
to two corridors.  I don’t know where you got that from.  It’s just not–

Q    Well, you would say “as a refocus.”  But, I mean, in terms of
actual —

MR. SULLIVAN:  Oh, no, no.  Or — or refocused.  I mean, we’ve mobilized
more than $60 billion, just the U.S.  And that’s a part of the larger
G7.  And that’s not just been for two corridors.  That’s been for
investments across Africa, Southeast Asia, and Latin America.

So, I — I couldn’t more emphatically reject the notion that PGI is now
just focused on two corridors.  I — I’m not sure why you’re proceeding
from that premise.

In fact, a lot of that investment is in Latin America, and we will be
making announcements when we go to Brazil connected to PGI.  And in Peru
alone, you mentioned a $1.3 billion port project that China is
inaugurating.  We’ve got more than $6 billion in American foreign direct
investment in Peru.

So, I think there’s an interesting dynamic where every time we fly to
South America or Africa, the press writes the story: “China is doing a
lot; America is doing a little.” 

And then you look at the numbers behind it — the total stock of American
investment in Latin America and the Caribbean — and you compare that to
what China is doing.  We are, across our private sector and now backed
up by tools like the Development Finance Corporation, investing in a
wide range of technology, infrastructure, energy, health, and other
projects and are an incredibly important player.

And the free trade agreement between the U.S. and Peru has been a
significant job creator in the U.S. and a significant job creator in
Peru and will — that will continue to be the case as we go forward.

Q    Jake, any progress on Ukraine or Middle East, particularly at the
G20, since you’ve got so many allies and also adversaries there?  Or is
basically everything on hold until January the 20th with those?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I think you’ll see continued activity on both of those
accounts.  Nothing is on hold between now and January 20th. 

For example, we’re continuing to work on diplomacy relative to Lebanon. 
We’re continuing to seek a hostage deal, even if it’s, you know, the
first step in a hostage deal.  And the president just met with the
hostage families yesterday.

You know, obviously, we’re continuing to coordinate closely with Israel
with respect to the threat posed by Iran and potential response by Iran
to Israel’s actions from a few weeks ago.

So, on the Middle East, every single day is going to bring continued
action, diplomacy, and work on our part right up until the last minute
that President Biden is president. 

I don’t anticipate the G20 is going to be a particularly fruitful venue
for that kind of work, at least not at the plenary level.  But
obviously, in the side conversations with European counterparts, Middle
Eastern counterparts, and others, we’ll continue to try to drive
diplomacy forward.

Similarly, on Ukraine, he will have the chance to see his European
colleagues, and he will be talking about next steps on Ukraine,
including what we’re trying to do to surge military equipment, to
allocate all of the resources that Congress has given us, and also to
find other ways to strengthen Ukraine so that we hand that account off
in the best possible shape to the next administration.

Q    Would that include Eur- —

Q    (Inaudible.)

Q    Would that include Europe doing more for Ukraine?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, we have watched, over the course of the past two
and a half years, Europe stepping up to the plate and sharing the burden
in relatively unprecedented ways in modern times, in terms of the amount
of resources allocated and the types of contributions — military
assistance contributions that they have made.

So, we’re going to argue that should continue and that should intensify,
because the goal should be to put Ukraine in the strongest possible
position on the battlefield so that they have the most possible leverage
going into negotiations.

Q    The hostage families were at the White House yesterday.  Is the
overall message to those families that there will be a deal that gets
done in the next 60 days, or is it better for them to pivot to working
with the Trump administration to getting their loved ones home?

MR. SULLIVAN:  What they asked of us and then what they asked publicly
is that we start work now with the incoming administration on a
coordinated approach so we make maximum use of these 60-plus days so we
don’t just wait it out or so that we don’t work at cross purposes. 
We’ve indicated we’re prepared to do that.

Q    And then —

Q    Jake —

Q    Sorry, just real quick.  The — there’s a lot of new leaders that
are going to be at APEC, at G20.  Biden is an outgoing president.  I
mean, what do- — how does he plan to really speak with those leaders
that he’s — he could be meeting for the first time?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, in some cases, it will be an opportunity to make sure
that he’s taking stock of the health of the relationship. 

So, Prime Minister Ishiba is a good example of this.  They’ve spoken on
the phone.  They haven’t met in person.  They’ll meet for the first
time.  President Biden will be able to review with Prime Minister
Ishiba, really, the historic heights that the U.S.-Japan alliance has
reached and then basically say, “This is what I plan to hand off to my
successor when he comes in.”

With others, you know, it will obviously be an opportunity for him to
convey long-standing American positions that don’t change much from
administration to administration, that didn’t change much from the last
Trump administration to this one. 

And then, in some cases, he’ll say, “I don’t speak for the incoming
administration, so I’m not sure what they’re going to do.  I can only
tell you what I believe in.”  So, it’ll be different kinds of
conversations with different folks. 

There are a lot of people, though, that he has worked closely with over
the last four years at both of these summits, and it will be an
opportunity for him to say thank you for great partnership and work
together. 

And in cases like President Xi Jinping, it will be an opportunity for
him to have a capstone on a relationship dating back more than a decade.

Q    Jake, response to the explosions in Brazil.  Any reaction to that,
and has that changed the plans at all for — for this trip?

MR. SULLIVAN:  It hasn’t changed our plans.  Obviously, we are — have
expressed our concern and condemnation for any kind of violence.  And
we’ve been in touch with Brazilian authorities.  They’re dealing with
the situation.  And we look forward to our visit. 

Q    Jake —

Q    Jake — one more, Jake.  Human rights — sorry.

Q    On — on the hostages and the appointment yesterday — or the
nomination — announcement of the nomination of Governor Huckabee, who
has said some pretty controversial things about Palestinian people. 
Does that help the case for you guys to be able to work together with
the Trump administration?  And does it just generally help the case for
releasing hostages when someone like that is being put forward as the
next ambassador to Israel?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I didn’t see the exact comments that you’re referring to,
so I can’t quite comment on it.

But what I will say is we’ve expressed our willingness to try to come up
with a coordinated approach.  I would hope that President Trump is
committed to getting the hostages out.  President Biden certainly is. 
And so, we ought to be able to work together on it. 

But I can’t speak to Senator — Governor Huckabee’s comments.

Q    If I could stay on the Middle East, Jake.  So, Human Rights Watch
just released a report saying that Israeli officials who have repeatedly
displaced and relocated civilians are — and I quote — “committing the
war crime of forcible transfer.”  What is the administration’s position
on this, considering Israel is well documented to be displacing people
over and over again?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I have not seen that report, so I can’t comment on it.

Q    Jake, but what —

Q    Do you have any concerns, from a national security perspective,
that Elon Musk is joining President-elect Trump’s foreign leader calls
and is weighing in on foreign policy on behalf of leaders like Putin and
Xi Jinping?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I don’t have any comment about that.  I’ve just seen the
reports.  But they’ll make their own decisions about how they want to
engage with foreign leaders.

Q    But can I just come back —

Q    Do you have any concerns about —

Q    Can I just come back on that issue, Jake, about — about forcible
transfer, about displacement of Palestinians over and over?  What is
just the broad administration’s view on that?

MR. SULLIVAN:  The secretary of state and secretary of defense sent a
letter to the Israeli government requesting a series of steps to
alleviate the dramatic and terrible human suffering that is unfolding in
Gaza as the war continues.  They have now received a response from the
Israeli government, and they’re working back and forth together on
that. 

The State Department has spoken at some length on the question you just
posed, and I’d refer you to them.

Q    It was just about Tulsi Gabbard, if I may.  Do you have any
concerns about intelligence sharing with the int- — incoming
administration, given her history of comments about Putin and about
Syria?  And also, do you think it might — that might be a problem for
Five Eyes allies who may be planning to share intelligence and may have
concerns about her positions on those things?

MR. SULLIVAN:  As far as I’m concerned, our transition is going to
unfold on regular order — the regular process of people moving through
the nomination process, people moving through the security clearance
process.  Our intelligence community is doing the briefings. 

I am not going to get engaged in that or play a role in that because
that is properly the work of the relevant intelligence agencies to do
their work.  And so, I don’t — I don’t really have any comment about
President’s Trump — President Trump’s nominees or — or public comments
and how they relate to the — you know, to this — this issue of
intelligence.

Q    Can I just — one more on China.  Part of why you guys manage the
relationship the way you have is because you have a channel with your
counterpart in China.  Would you — and that’s worked well, I guess you
would say.  Would you advise your successor, Mike Waltz, to keep that
channel going?  Or what’s sort of your unsolicited advice to the next
guy?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I hope to have the opportunity, as we go through the
handoff, to speak with my successor about the full range of issues on
our plate, including how we went about managing the U.S.-China
relationship.  He’ll have his own ideas.  The administration will have
their own ideas.  I’ll share my advice, but I’ll share it with him
privately rather than publicly. 

Q    Jake, there’s a — the Biden administration put a freeze on LNG
exports.  That’s important to a lot of allies that — that the president
is going to meet.  Will there be any update on that freeze or — or when
— when those export licenses might go out (inaudible)?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I — that’s one you’re — you’ll have to go to the
Department of Energy on because they are working through a process with
the study.  It was a pause in order to understand fully the implications
of continued granting of permits.  They’ve been working through that
process, and they will make the determination about how — what the next
step is with respect to that study.

Q    You mentioned — Jake, you mentioned work together with Peru on
anti-trafficking — drug trafficking.  Can you confirm that the U.S. will
be sending nine Black Hawk helicopters for this effort?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I can’t confirm that in this gaggle on this plane, but I
will have more to report to you tomorrow in and around the bilat. 

Okay?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Thank you, guys.

Q    Thanks, Jake.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you, Jake.  Thank you.  Okay. 

Q    Can I start?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I feel like — I feel like he did — he did everything. 
I don’t need to do much. 

Q    Oh, there’s more.  There’s more.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  There’s more.  Okay.  Go ahead. 

Q    Thank — thank you.  On the Matt Gaetz nomination.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Does the White House just have any general response?  And is the
president at all concerned, considering some of the things that the
congressman has said in the past?  Is there a concern that he would
weaponize the Justice Department in general but also to go after members
of this administration or even members of his family?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, a couple of things.  We’re going to
certainly continue to respect the process, the transition, the handoff. 
We’re going to continue to not — we’re not going to comment on every
personnel choice or decision that is made by the president-elect and his
transition team.

I will say this — and I think you saw by example from this
administration the importance of the Department of Justice being
independent and especially as it relates to investigations. 

And I will also add: The only loyalty we believe — and it should be
believed — that the Department of Justice should have is to the
Constitution and to the rule of law.  There should not be loyalty to any
political party.  That is not how the Department of Justice should be
run. 

And so, that is something we’ve been very, very clear about — very — and
I think, also, you can see by this president leading by example and —
and continuing to say the Department of Justice should be independent,
especially as we talk about investigations.  Again, any personnel
decision or choice, we’re just not going to — to comment on, but we can
speak, obviously, as I just did, more broadly.

Q    Can I — can I ask you, then, more broadly?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.  Yeah.

Q    The — the president spent so much of the last four years talking
about Donald Trump being an existential threat to the — to democracy, to
this country, and to everything that the — that — that he and — that he
thinks the country believes in. 

Yet, since the election, we essentially haven’t heard anything from him
on that subject.  And I wonder, does — is — is he — I guess, should we —
should we take from that that he’s going to be comfortable leaving the
White House not having expressed any thoughts about what he now fears
for the country, because — because he wants to respect a — a clean
transition and so, therefore —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I’m — I mean —

Q    — that’s it? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look — and he — when he spoke in the Rose
Garden two days after the election —

Q    Right.  He didn’t talk at all about that. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, I — I know.  

Q    Yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Let me — let me —

Q    Okay.  Sorry.  Sorry, sorry, sorry.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Give — give me a second.  Give me a second. 

One of the things that he said, aside from, you know, your — your part
about a peaceful transition of power, but which actually connects it, is
that the will of the people.  The American people decided.  They made a
decision on who they wanted the next president to — to be.  And we have
to respect that.  The president understands that we need to respect the
will of the people. 

And so, this is the time of — any time post-election — right? —
especially on the presidential level, like this moment, until the
transition, actually, the a- — the official part of where the — where
the president — obviously, the president-elect becomes inaugurated on —
on January 20th, we have to respect that process.  We do.

Q    So, just to —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, we do, right?  It — it is — it is — this is
what the American people deserve.  They deserve to have a peaceful
transfer of power, an orderly transfer of power, and that is what the
president is focused on and that’s what he zeroed in on.  And — and
that’s what you’re seeing.

It — it is actually — it’s — it’s quite simple.  You know, it is —

Q    (Inaudible) from —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — quite direct. 

Q    — all of those people —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah?

Q    — millions, tens of millions of people who believed, who were
supporters of the pres- — of President Biden’s —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — and believed him when he said that he thought this would be an
existential — that — that America might not continue if Donald Trump was
elected —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — they now should believe that, you know, it’s whatever, he doesn’t
really need to say anything about it because —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — because it’s more important to respect —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — it — I —

Q    — the process?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wait.  Hold on a second.  I —

Q    Or does he plan —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  First of all —

Q    — to talk about it —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Whoa, whoa, whoa.  No, no, no —

Q    — after he leaves office?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, no, here’s the thing — here’s the thing: What the
president said, and I’ve said this many times at the podium, he always
believes and feels that the American people are obligated to honesty and
the truth.  So, everything that he has shared during the last, you know,
almost four years about his thoughts about democracy, democracy being
<s>a</s> \[under\] threat still stands.  That hasn’t changed.  So, I
just want to be really clear about that. 

Q    Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What has changed — what has changed is there was an
election.  There was.

And here’s the thing: A transition — an orderly transition of power is
part of our democratic principle.  It is actually part of continuing —

Q    So — so, him talking would make it — him talking about what he
believes this means would make it an unorderly or a disorderly
transition?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — you know, I — I’m not going to go that — I’m not
going to go that far. 

Q    Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I’m going to say is that we are in a — po- — a —
a position or a — a transition or a — a part of the next — I guess the
next part of — you know, after an election where the president has been
very clear that the American people — the American people deserve a
transition of power that is orderly, that is peaceful, and something,
obviously, that was not afforded to him four years ago.  He wants to
lead by example, and that is part of our democratic process.  It is.  It
truly, truly is. 

Q    Can I ask it —

Q    Karine, was the president reassured by the meeting?

(Cross-talk.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Whoa.  Whoa.  Okay, guys.  Okay.  (Laughs.) 

Q    Can I ask it in a different way?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    So, if he still believes it, but right now, he is putting the
country over —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Country first.

Q    Yes.  Does that mean right now he’s holding fire until the next
president is inaugurated, and then we should expect to hear that —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I —

Q    — from President Biden again?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I’m — I’m not going to get into hypotheticals
about post-January.  I — I’m not — I’m — I don’t, like — right?  I — I’m
just —

Q    I’m just trying, like, make logic —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not even sure what next week is going to look
like.

Q    — work with —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But, Jenny, I —

Q    — why he thinks that is —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Je- —

Q    –but is holding fire —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, here’s the thing.

Q    — because right now he’s —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t even — we — you know how this is.  I don’t
even know what next week is going to look like.  It’s — we — I’m not
going to get into post-January 20th.

What we’re focused on and zero — zero in on and laser focused on is
making sure that we are coordinated with the transition — the Trump
transition, make sure that they have what they need so we can pass over
what we’ve been able to do and give advice to — to an — an incoming
administration.  That’s our focus. 

I’m not going to get into what the president is going to do when he’s no
longer president.  He’s president right now.

I mean, the American people deserve this.  They deserve to make sure
that we do this the right way.  And you’re seeing from this president
leadership, and he’s leading by actually executing.

Q    Was he reassured at all by the meeting yesterday?

Q    What was the question?

Q    Was he reassured at all?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Was — was he reassured by the meeting. 

Look, I — I’m not going to go into any more details than I shared
yesterday.  It — as you know, it was almost — it was almost two hours. 
It was gracious.  The — the president-elect was gracious.  He — it was a
cordial conversation.  He came with a set of questions that I mentioned
yesterday that the pr- — that he and the president went back and forth
on.  Some were national security pieces, and some were domestic policy
pieces.

I’m not going to go beyond that.  I think the president-elect spoke for
himself on this yesterday, and so — and I think he pretty much echoed
what I shared with all of you in the briefing room.  And so, I’m just
going to leave it there.  I don’t have any more details to share. 

Q    Karine?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    The president will come to this summit meeting world leaders who’s
looking at this on the — you know, the American people electing Donald
Trump and then Joe Biden and then Donald Trump again — like some pretty
extreme swings of ideology and priorities. 

Meanwhile, Xi Jinping is coming in, and he’s projecting this image of
stability — right? — and his vision of China’s role in the global world
order.  What would the president say to — to those leaders who are
saying that, “Well, we just can’t hold U.S. commitment”?

MS.  JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, I think Jake was asked this question multiple
times yesterday and — and ha- — did a pretty good laydown, as the
national security advisor, about how the president — about where we are
and how the president engages with world leaders. 

And I think it’s just going to be a continuation of that: focusing on
the moment, focusing on the — whatever 60-odd days that we have,
continuing the progress that we’ve made in almost four years, continuing
to talk about how we’re going to strengthen those alliances with
partners and also continued shared interest. 

And so, there’s going to be a lot on the agenda.  We’ll have a lot more
to share.  I know there’s going to be more gaggles at — when we’re on
the ground in both countries, as we move forward with this trip.  And
so, we’ll have more to share and more of a readout from different
conversations, and — and certainly, you know, what came out of the — the
meetings when we get there. 

I don’t want to get ahead of that.  But the president truly believes
it’s important to have these leader-to-leader engagements.  You see how
effective that has been over the past almost four years.  And so, he’s
going to give that encouragement, give that assurance. 

And we really can’t speak to what the next administration is going to
do.  We can’t.  You know, what we can do is — and Jake talked about this
— is have the conversation, have the dialogue, engage with them, give
our opinions and thoughts, and we’ll see what happens. 

Q    And if I can ask for an explanation.  A couple of days ago, the
president was asked whether he is confident that he could reach a
ceasefire before the end of his term, and he gave a somewhat flippant
answer.  If you can explain what he meant by that — why did he respond
the way he did?  Was he offended by the question?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think — I think the president — if you — if you know
this president and followed this president, obviously, as many of you
have — if not for the past couple of years, certainly throughout his
career — you know, he’s taken this issue very seriously.  And when we
say that we’ve worked on getting a ceasefire, we’ve worked on wanting to
not escalate what’s happened in the Middle East, you know, having those
diplomatic conversations, for example, with what’s going on in Lebanon. 
He takes this all very seriously.  And —

Q    So, was he offended by the question?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — look, I — I — honestly, I can’t even speak to that
— how he felt about the question — because I haven’t talked to him, so I
can’t make a judgment on that. 

What I can say is this is a president who takes — it doesn’t matter if
it’s diplo- — domestic issues or foreign policy issues, he takes this
very seriously.  And when it comes to a ceasefire, making sure that we
get the hostages home.  Remember, we have American hostages as well who
are there.  We want to make sure we get them home. 

Q    So, why does — why does —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re working on this 24/7.

Q    — taking it seriously lead to a joke about somebody being hit in
the head by a — 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I mean, honestly —

Q    — camera?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — I mean, Michael, I just kind of answered this.  I —
I didn’t talk to him about it.  So, I can’t — I — I —

Q    But, Karine, you —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have eno- — I can’t speak to what the
president meant about it.  What I can tell you is he is deeply committed
to making sure that we get the hostages home, to making sure that we get
to a ceasefire, to making sure that the Palestinian people, who are
suffering in Gaza, get the ho- — get the — get the humanitarian aid that
they need. 

And so, I can’t — I have not spoken to him, so I can’t speak to it
directly.

Q    I know you haven’t spoken to him. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    But, I mean, you know the president —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I do.

Q    — and you know his mood.  So —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I do, but I —

Q    — was he frustrated by the lack of progress?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You’re — it doesn’t matter how many times you ask me
this question, I’m going to give you the same answer.  The president is
committed to getting a ceasefire deal, and he takes this very personally
as well and takes this, obviously, very seriously.  And I’m just going
to leave it there.

Q    What did —

Q    Go ahead.  Go ahead, (inaudible).

Q    Earlier you mentioned — I didn’t hear Patsy’s question; hard to
hear from this corner — the — Biden wants to engage with leaders.  He is
not choosing to engage with the press.  There is no press conference on
either leg of this trip.  I- — he has a matter of days left.  I mean,
what — what was the issue with —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, not days.  What — 60 — 60-some-odd days. 

Q    Sure.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But you make it sound like we’re out of here next
week.  (Laughs.)

Q    Less than a hundred.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Less — okay, that’s better.  Less than a hundred
days. 

Look, the president is very much looking forward to his — this historic
trip.  He often — regularly takes questions from all of you, and he is
going to continue to engage with the press. 

And so, what I would say is stay tuned.  He will continue to do that. 
And I just don’t have anything beyond that.

Q    (Inaudible) these press conferences — post-election press
conferences in most administrations has been sort of a set piece.  Does
that say something about where his head is at, that he’s not in a pl- —
in a place —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, as — as your colleague said —

Q    — where he can engage with us?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — we have less than a hundred days left.  So —

Q    Right, right, right.  But we — we typically have these —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We have — we have time. 

Q    There is — I — I understand that calendar, but we — it’s now —
what? — 10 days now we’re past the election?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Hold on a second.

Q    Typically — typically presidents do engage

with the press —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It — it didn’t happen with the —

Q    With Trump. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  With Trump.  And I don’t believe it —

Q    But when — when —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t —

Q    Obama did within days with George Bush.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He — he held a — he held a — a — well, okay.  I’m not
going to go back and forth on that.  But he continued — he will continue
to engage with the press.  He respects and understands the — obviously,
the importance of the work that you all do, especially as it relates to
communicating and — and communicating directly with the American
people. 

I just don’t have anything more to share.  And he’ll continue — he will
continue to engage with the press.  I don’t have anything beyond that.

Q    But can you commit that he will speak to us during — during —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  I — I — (laughs).

Q    I mean, Karine — Karine, this is a long and expensive trip for our
outlets.  We would —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I understand that.  I get that.  I’m just saying
that he is going to continue to engage with the press.  I don’t have
anything beyond that to say.  He will continue to engage with you.  He
respects and understands the important role that you all have, and we
will continue to do that. 

You’re trying to lock me into something.  I’m just not going to lock —
get locked into anything.  I’m just going to tell you to — continue to
say he will engage with the press, and he enjoys doing that. 

All right.

Q    Can I — did the Trump meeting accelerate some of the formal parts
of the transition process?  I understand their — the MOU hasn’t been
signed yet.  Has that —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Has that accelerated some of the technical parts?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, we believe that it’s going to happen.  And I’ve
said this many times before.  The co-chairs of the Trump transition said
that they’re going to sign the MOUs.  I would refer you to the — to the
Trump transition about that. 

We want to get this going.  We — we are — I mean, it doesn’t stop.  I
know we — we’ve talked about the MOUs.  You all have asked me about
that.  And obviously, that’s important to get that done.  But it doesn’t
stop what has been happening.

Yesterday, a conversation between the — the two presidents.  Our teams
are continuing to talk and have had, I — I think, important
conversations on — as it relates to transition. 

And I would relate y- — refer you, pardon me, to — to the Trump — Trump
team about the MOUs.

Q    Karine —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — on the Amazon part of the trip.  Obviously, in many areas, you
can say you don’t know what the next administration will do, but on
climate, they have been kind of clear.  They do- — you know, they want
to dismantle basically everything you’ve done on climate.  So, how does
that cloud the president’s trip down there and any deliverables that
will come out of it that could literally be ripped up in 60, 70 days
again?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I don’t think it clouds his trip.  He’s very
much looking forward to going to the Amazon.  It’s a historic trip,
obviously, for a president to make. 

We certainly will have more on the deliverables and what that’s going to
look like.  I think we put out a fact sheet this morning on — on that,
specifically. 

Look, we are going to do everything that we can to make this transition
work in a way that it should on behalf of the American people. 

The Trump administration, when they come in on January 20th, they’re
going to do what they believe is — what they believe is — is the way
forward. 

And what w- — we can speak to is what we’re going to continue to do
right now, in this moment, as the president is president, on behalf of
the American people.  That’s our commitment.  That’s what we’re going to
be focused on. 

And outside of that, I just don’t have anything else to share. 

Q    Well, you kind of know that it’s not lasting, whatever will be
announced right now.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I’m not going to get ahead of what — what the
Trump administration is going to do or not do.  I’m just not going to
get ahead of that.

Q    Can you speak to the president’s mood at all?  G- — sorry. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, it’s okay.  It’s okay, Danny.  Go ahead.

Q    Can you speak to the president’s mood at all going into this
meeting? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    You know, I mean, it’s — he was — would have hoped to go — be going
down there with a, you know, Kamala Harris election victory under his
belt.  Now he’s not.  A sense of sadness, regret?  What —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, we have not hid this.  Right?  We’ve
been very clear.  Like, we did not get the results that we wanted.  I
mean, that is just an honest answer. 

And — and I know that it’s very disappointing for many people out there,
and it is disappointing.  But we also are going to respect the will of
the people.  I mean, that is not just a line that I’m throwing out
there.  That is something that we’re actively trying to do and respect
that.  That is certainly part of the democratic process — is what we’re
trying to do here in this transition. 

And he’s very much looking forward — he’s very much looking forward to
this trip.  It’ll be his last G20 he’s g- — obviously, in — in Brazil —
and get to see some of the world leaders that he has worked with not
just for the last almost four years, but some of them he has known for
some time.  And there’ll be, obviously, the APEC in Peru.  And he’s
going to do this historic stop — as I was going back and forth with
Jenny on — in the Amazon. 

And so, I think this is going to be a — a important trip, a good trip
for the president.  He and — and you guys will get to — to see him
engage, as he normally does when he does these trips.  And I think it’s
— I think — you know, I think there’ll be some — I think we’ll have more
to share.  I’ll s- — I’ll leave it there.  We’ll have more to share on
what comes out of it.

Q    Can I ask on one of the initiatives that Brazil —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, you cannot ask any more questions, Patsy. 
(Laughs.)

Q    Karine — Karine, it’s the same — it’s

the same line of questioning that Jenny asked —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.

Q    — in terms of commitment.  Right? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Like, one of the things that — that the president will attend is
this global alliance for —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — to fight hunger and poverty —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — by Brazil, which is a key, important G20 initiative.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes, it is.

Q    So, what can the U.S. commit that will, you know, have durability?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’ll have more to share on that.  You’re right, it is
a key initiative and is important.  It’s so- — it’s a initiative that we
certainly have lead on on the global stage, and we’ll have more to
share.  We’ll have more to share —

Q    Thank you, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — what comes out of that. 

Thanks, guys. 

Q    Thanks, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thanks, everybody.

4:25 P.M. EST
