---
date: '2024-10-31'
published_time: 2024-10-31 14:27:04-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/10/31/a-proclamation-on-national-adoption-month/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Adoption\_Month"
---
 
     Every child deserves to know the unconditional love of a permanent
home.  During National Adoption Month, we honor all the wonderful
families that grow through adoption, we remind our foster youth and
adoptees that we are right by their side, and we rededicate ourselves to
ensuring that every child has the opportunity to reach their full
potential.

     More than 100,000 children are in our Nation’s foster care system
awaiting the adoption that could offer them familial love, a lasting
home, and a stable foundation for them to grow.  That is why I have
called on the Congress to make the adoption tax credit fully refundable,
lowering the cost of adoption and giving families and legal guardians
some breathing room.  I have also called on the Congress to provide
housing vouchers to all 20,000 youth exiting foster care annually — a
key step in helping them secure stable housing during this difficult
transition.  To further support kinship caregivers, the Department of
Health and Human Services issued a final rule last year that requires
States to provide them with the same level of financial support that
other foster parents receive.  My Administration is also working to
eliminate barriers LGBTQI+ families face in the adoption process and
ensure LGBTQI+ foster youth grow up in safe and loving environments.
 And through the expanded Military Parental Leave Program, we are giving
service members more time to spend with their families after a child is
born, adopted, or placed in their homes for long-term foster care.

     My Administration also remains committed to supporting youth who
are aging out of foster care.  Since the beginning of my Administration,
the Department of Housing and Urban Development has awarded over $60
million to provide over 4,000 vouchers to foster youth, helping them
secure housing as they leave the foster care system.  And my
Administration is working to ensure these youth can keep their SNAP
benefits without work reporting requirements, easing a difficult
transition period.  We have also been working to help foster youth stay
in school and graduate, make the successful transition to postsecondary
education, train for jobs, pay their bills, and get their lives off to a
solid start.

     During National Adoption Month, we celebrate the love shared by
adoptive families and professionals across our country.  And we honor
the millions of adoptive and kinship families who have welcomed new
family members into their loving homes.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
November 2024 as National Adoption Month.  I encourage all Americans to
honor this month by helping the children and youth in their communities
secure their forever homes and find the love and connection that they
need to thrive.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
