---
date: '2024-10-11'
published_time: 2024-10-11 16:41:16-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/10/11/a-proclamation-on-national-school-lunch-week-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National School Lunch Week,\_2024"
---
 
     America’s children deserve every opportunity to live fulfilling and
healthy lives, and nutritious meals are key components in building those
lives.  During National School Lunch Week, we reaffirm that the health
and well-being of our Nation’s children are a national priority.  We
recommit to doing everything we can to end child hunger.  And we
celebrate school nutrition professionals, who do the critical work of
planning, preparing, and serving nutritious school meals to more than 30
million students each day.  
  
      Healthy school lunches benefit our Nation’s students and their
families.  Fueled by a good lunch, students can better focus in the
classroom and be set up for success throughout the rest of their day.
 Free and reduced-price school meals provide families with some
breathing room.  And for families that live in areas where there are no
grocery stores with healthy food options nearby, school meals can be a
lifeline — offering children reliable, nutritious meals.  
  
     My Administration is committed to putting a healthy school lunch
within reach of all our Nation’s children, no matter their family’s
income.  That is why we are giving more schools the option to make free
school meals available to every student, and we published a final rule
updating nutrition standards for school meals to improve children’s
health.  For the first time since 1975, we modernized the Thrifty Food
Plan, making a healthy diet more affordable for the millions of families
with Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program benefits.  These actions
are a part of our national strategy to end hunger and reduce
diet-related diseases by 2030.  That plan includes the goal of expanding
access to healthy, free school meals to nine million more kids — working
toward a future where every kid has access to one.  We also hosted the
first White House Conference on Hunger, Nutrition, and Health in over 50
years.  Since then, we have galvanized over $10 billion in external
commitments dedicated to ending hunger and reducing diet-related
diseases in children and families across the country.  Furthermore, we
are giving schools the resources they need to purchase food from local
farmers and ranchers and cook meals from scratch — giving kids healthier
options and powering our rural economy.  
  
     My Administration is taking steps to ensure our Nation’s children
and families do not go hungry and can afford healthy food.  This year my
Administration launched SUN Bucks — also referred to as Summer
Electronic Benefits Transfer — to provide families with money to buy
groceries when school is out, reaching an estimated 21 million children.
 My American Rescue Plan expanded the Child Tax Credit, slashing child
poverty by nearly 50 percent and helping keep food on the table for
millions of families during the pandemic.  I continue to call on the
Congress to restore the enhanced Child Tax Credit to ensure families
have the money they need to feed and care for their kids.  
  
     During National School Lunch Week, we recognize how important
school lunches are to kids and families alike and recommit to expanding
access to healthy, free school meals to support the health of the next
generation.  And we thank all the school staff, school nutrition
professionals, educators, and school leaders, whose tireless work
nourishes the future leaders of our Nation.   
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 13 through October 19, 2024, as National School Lunch Week.  I
call upon all Americans to recognize and commemorate all those who
operate the National School Lunch Program with activities that raise
awareness of the steadfast efforts in support of the health and
well-being of our Nation’s children.  
  
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
eleventh day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand
twenty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the
two hundred and forty-ninth.

                        JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
