---
date: '2024-10-31'
modified_time: 2024-10-31 11:20:15-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-31 11:20:14-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/10/31/a-proclamation-on-national-entrepreneurship-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Entrepreneurship Month,\_2024"
---
 
     Entrepreneurs embody the essence of America — their ideas and
energy have always kept our country on the cutting edge, and their
determination and drive uplift communities, create millions of jobs, and
keep our Nation moving forward.  This month, we celebrate their
unstoppable spirit.

     Supporting entrepreneurs, especially small business owners, has
always been key in growing our economy from the middle out and bottom
up, giving everyone a fair shot to get ahead.  Many entrepreneurs are at
the heart and soul of their communities, running the mom-and-pop shops
that are the glue of our neighborhoods.  But when Vice President Harris
and I took office, hundreds of thousands of small businesses had been
forced to close down due to the pandemic, and millions more were hanging
by a thread.  Not only were entrepreneurs’ livelihoods on the line but
also their life’s savings and hopes of growing wealth for the next
generation. 

     That is why Vice President Harris and I were committed to investing
in America’s entrepreneurs and innovators.  My American Rescue Plan
provided billions of dollars in capital and support to small
businesses.  My CHIPS and Science Act is investing more into research
and manufacturing than ever before, building the high-tech industries of
the future and the small-business supply chains to support them right
here at home while helping them expand their businesses in high-growth,
high-wage industries.  And my Inflation Reduction Act is incentivizing
manufacturers to help tackle the climate crisis using American suppliers
while cutting down on entrepreneurs’ overhead costs like health
insurance and energy bills.

     The Biden-Harris Administration is also committed to ensuring every
small business and entrepreneur has a fair shot.  This year, the Small
Business Administration (SBA) provided a record $56 billion through more
than 100,000 small business financings — the most in more than 15 years
and a 50 percent increase over 2020.  The Federal Government has
invested tens of billions of dollars into small disadvantaged
businesses.  The SBA is lending tens of billions of dollars to small
businesses that would otherwise struggle to access capital.  Since 2020,
the number of SBA-backed loans doubled for women-owned businesses,
tripled for Black-owned businesses, more than doubled for Latino-owned
businesses, and increased by about 70 percent for Asian American-owned
businesses.  And my Bipartisan Infrastructure Law also made the Minority
Business Development Agency permanent to help close the gap for these
and other entrepreneurs from underserved and underrepresented
communities too long left behind. 

     Today, entrepreneurs across the country have filed nearly 20
million new business applications since Vice President Harris and I took
office — each an act of hope and confidence in our economy.  A record
number of those businesses are being opened by Black, Latino, and women
entrepreneurs.  And 16 million new jobs have been created.

     I have often said that America can be defined in one word: 
possibilities.  That is what entrepreneurship is all about.  During
National Entrepreneurship Month, we honor every entrepreneur with a
vision for something better and the grit to make it real, growing our
economy and creating new possibilities for everyone.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
November 2024 as National Entrepreneurship Month.  I call upon all
Americans to commemorate this month with appropriate programs and
activities and to celebrate November 19, 2024, as National
Entrepreneurs’ Day.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
