---
date: '2024-10-04'
published_time: 2024-10-04 19:25:29-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/10/04/president-joseph-r-biden-jr-approves-disaster-declaration-for-the-san-carlos-apache-tribe/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. Approves Disaster Declaration for the San Carlos\
  \ Apache\_Tribe"
---
 
Today, President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. declared that a major disaster
exists for the San Carlos Apache Tribe ordered federal aid to supplement
the Tribal Nation’s efforts in the areas affected by the Watch Fire from
July 10 to July 17, 2024.

The President’s action makes Federal funding available to affected
individuals for the San Carlos Apache Tribe.

Assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs,
low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses, and other programs to
help individuals and business owners recover from the effects of the
disaster.

Federal funding also is available to the San Carlos Apache Tribe and
certain private nonprofit organizations on a cost-sharing basis for
emergency work and the repair or replacement of facilities damaged by
the Watch Fire.

Lastly, Federal funding is available on a cost-sharing basis for hazard
mitigation measures for the San Carlos Apache Tribe.

Mr. Benigno Ruiz of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has
been appointed to coordinate Federal recovery operations in the affected
areas. 

Additional designations may be made at a later date if requested by the
Tribal Nation and warranted by the results of further damage
assessments.

Residents and business owners who sustained losses in the designated
areas can begin applying for assistance at
[www.DisasterAssistance.gov](/SHARE/FORMATS/DHS%200303/Expedited%20Requests%2003.02.21/www.DisasterAssistance.gov),
by calling 800-621-FEMA (3362), or by using the [FEMA
App](https://www.ready.gov/fema-app). Anyone using a relay service, such
as video relay service (VRS), captioned telephone service or others, can
give FEMA the number for that service. 

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION MEDIA SHOULD CONTACT THE FEMA NEWS DESK AT (202)
646-3272 OR
[FEMA-NEWS-DESK@FEMA.DHS.GOV](mailto:FEMA-NEWS-DESK@DHS.GOV).

\###
