---
date: '2024-10-31'
published_time: 2024-10-31 11:26:41-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/10/31/a-proclamation-on-national-veterans-and-military-families-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Veterans and Military Families Month,\_2024"
---
 
     Each veteran and military family represents a link in a chain of
honor that stretches back to our founding days, unwavering in their
devotion to their loved ones who served in uniform.  This month, we
honor all of our military and veteran families.  They too serve and
sacrifice to answer our Nation’s call to duty.  We owe them a debt of
gratitude we can never fully repay.

     I often say that, as a Nation, we have many obligations, but only
one is truly sacred:  to prepare and equip those we send into harm’s way
and to care for them and their families when they come home.

     We are continually working to make sure that our Nation’s veterans
and service members have access to the benefits and care they deserve.
 I have signed more than 34 bipartisan bills to better support our
service members, veterans and their families, caregivers, and
survivors.  One of those bills, the Sergeant First Class Heath Robinson
Honoring our Promise to Address Comprehensive Toxics (PACT) Act, was the
most significant expansion of benefits and services for toxic-exposed
veterans and survivors in nearly 30 years.  To date, more than 1.1
million veterans and over 11,000 survivors are now receiving new
service-connected disability benefits, and over 796,000 veterans have
newly enrolled in Veterans Affairs health care since the law was
enacted.  This law is helping families who lost loved ones to toxic
illness gain access to critical resources and services, including
monthly benefits, educational assistance, home loans, and more.  Actions
outlined in our national strategy to prevent military and veteran
suicide are tackling the root causes of the military and veteran suicide
crisis, including by better supporting families through the Governor’s
Challenge to Prevent Suicide Among Service Members, Veterans, and their
Families.  And we are making progress in eliminating homelessness and
improving financial security for veteran and military families.  Too
often, veteran and military families become the targets of bad actors
and scam artists.  My Administration’s Veteran Service Member Family
Fraud Evasion initiative is providing easy, one stop access to resources
to report fraud and get help from the Federal Government to combat
scams.  Additionally, I signed an Executive Order that implemented
historic, bipartisan military justice reforms to transform how the
military handles sexual assault and domestic violence cases.  And I
directed the Department of Defense to review pay and benefits for our
service members — an important step toward ensuring their compensation
reflects their service and sacrifice.

     Military-connected families sacrifice for our country, answering
the call to duty over and over again.  Many military and veteran
spouses, caregivers, and survivors struggle to achieve their desired
career goals due to unique challenges military-connected families face.
 This is why I signed an Executive Order that takes the most
comprehensive set of administrative actions in history to support the
economic security of military families and veterans’ spouses,
caregivers, and survivors.  I encouraged Federal agencies to do more to
retain military spouses through flexible policies, ensuring they have
access to stable jobs throughout their careers.  Last year, I signed an
Executive Order that directed more than 50 actions to improve the care
economy, which included critical actions to better support military and
veteran caregivers and expand access to military child care.  These
orders build on the efforts taken by my Administration to improve the
quality of life for military families, including initiatives to ease
military moves, afford housing, and find child care.  Joining Forces,
the First Lady’s initiative, is working to better support military and
veteran families — doing everything from making school transitions
easier for military children to expanding economic opportunities for
military spouses and caregivers.

     This is personal for my family and for me.  We know the pride of
seeing your child wear the uniform of the United States.  We know the
pain of long deployments far from home.  We know what it is like to pray
for the safe return of someone you love.  This month, may we show our
immense gratitude for our military and veteran families, whose courage
and dedication represent the best of who we are as a Nation.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
November 2024 as National Veterans and Military Families Month.  I call
upon the people of the United States to honor veterans and military
families with appropriate ceremonies and activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
