---
date: '2024-10-18'
published_time: 2024-10-18 14:49:35-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/10/18/a-proclamation-on-national-forest-products-week-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Forest Products Week,\_2024"
---
 
     Our forests are central to our country’s heritage, history, and
economy.  Forests support livelihoods across Tribal Nations, rural
towns, and big cities — from foresters and loggers to mill workers and
carpenters — while also sustaining the health of our environment and our
communities.  During National Forest Products Week, we recognize that
conserving our bountiful forests is critical to sustaining our economy
and ensuring that Americans can enjoy the wonder of our forests for
generations to come.

     As a Nation, we rely on our forests for so much — from cleaning the
air we breathe and the water we drink to providing the lumber and paper
we use every day.  But the existential threat of climate change
endangers our forests, putting those jobs, livelihoods, and critical
products at risk.  After decades of fire suppression and ignoring
climate change, wildfire seasons have become wildfire years, burning
down communities, destroying forest ecosystems, and upending people’s
lives.

     My first year in office, I launched the “America the Beautiful”
initiative to conserve at least 30 percent of all our Nation’s lands and
waters by 2030 through local, voluntary efforts across the country while
empowering foresters and farmers to advance sustainable practices to
keep working lands productive.  These efforts will help strengthen our
economy and pass on a healthier planet to our children and
grandchildren.

     When I came into office, I was determined to conserve our forests
while protecting the people who rely on them for jobs.  My Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law is creating jobs managing our forests, restoring
ecosystems, and preventing catastrophic fires.  It is investing in the
removal of overgrown vegetation near homes and power lines, preparing
evacuation routes in areas at risk of wildfires, removing invasive plant
species from forests that can cause fire to spread, and planting native
tree species that are more resilient to the changing climate.  And my
Inflation Reduction Act made the largest climate investment ever,
putting people to work planting trees, sustainably managing our forests,
and working on fire prevention.  Together, these actions are producing
new jobs that help us care for our forests and keep all of us safe from
wildfires.

     At the same time, my Administration is working to support the
American workers and rural communities producing our forest products. 
We have awarded millions of dollars in grants to American businesses
that support forest conservation, expand the sustainable use of American
wood products, and find innovative ways to use our wood waste materials,
including to build strong and sustainable buildings.  I also take pride
in having raised the Federal firefighter minimum wage to $15 per hour —
an important first step in ensuring the people who run into flames to
keep all of us safe are paid what they deserve.

     Conserving our forests is good for our economy, the planet, and the
soul of our Nation.  This week, may we recommit to responsibly
stewarding our forests and the abundant resources they provide so that
we may all enjoy their benefits and beauty for years to come.

     To recognize the importance of the many products generated by our
Nation’s forests, the Congress, by Public Law 86–753 (36 U.S.C. 123), as
amended, has designated the week beginning on the third Sunday in
October of each year as “National Forest Products Week” and has
authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in
observance of this week.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 20 through October 26, 2024, as National Forest Products Week. 
I call upon the people of the United States to join me in this
observance and in recognizing all Americans who are responsible for the
stewardship of our Nation’s beautiful forested landscapes.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eighteenth day
of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.  
   
   
                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
