---
date: '2024-10-31'
published_time: 2024-10-31 10:16:30-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/10/31/a-proclamation-on-national-diabetes-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Diabetes Month,\_2024"
---
 
     Over 38 million Americans, or 1 in every 10 people, have diabetes. 
During National Diabetes Month, we raise awareness about this chronic
condition and promote the strategies that can prevent and manage it.  We
recommit to making treatment more affordable and accessible.  And we
strengthen our resolve to find cures.

     Diabetes takes a physical and financial toll on Americans
nationwide, and many Americans must decide between paying for treatments
and putting food on the table.  Insulin — a life-saving drug for some
people with diabetes — can cost Americans upwards of $300, even though
it costs drug companies as little as $10 per vial to make.  Some
Americans end up rationing their medication, which can have serious
effects on their health and well-being.  While Big Pharma makes record
profits, Americans pay exorbitant prices — higher than anywhere else in
the world.  It is unacceptable.  No one should have to lie awake at
night wondering if they can afford their medical bills or their insulin
prescription.

     Since I came into office, I have worked to ensure that health care
is a right in this country, not a privilege — and that meant lowering
the cost of insulin.  That is why my Administration took on Big Pharma
and won.  I signed the Inflation Reduction Act, which capped the cost of
insulin at $35 for people on Medicare.  And the largest manufacturer of
insulin in the United States answered my call to lower the cost to $35
per month for everyone.  My Inflation Reduction Act also empowered
Medicare to negotiate lower drug prices, lowering the costs of
medications used to treat common diseases, including drugs that treat
diabetes.  Further, that law requires drug companies that raise prices
faster than inflation to pay Medicare back the difference, saving
seniors up to $618 per dose of medication.  Moreover, beginning in 2025,
the Inflation Reduction Act will cap total out-of-pocket drug costs at
$2,000 per year for people on Medicare.  There is still more to do,
but this will help ensure Americans — including those with diabetes —
have the dignity, security, and peace of mind they deserve.

     My Administration is also working to drive new breakthroughs in
preventing, detecting, and treating diabetes while ensuring that
Americans have the resources they need to lead healthy lifestyles.  I
secured $4 billion for the Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health
to make strides in transforming the prevention, detection, and treatment
of deadly diseases like diabetes.  We have seen enormous research
advances in recent years to develop promising new diabetes drugs,
including the first cell therapy for adults with Type 1 diabetes and the
first new oral medication for children with Type 2 diabetes in decades. 
At the same time, we recognize that the impact of Type 2 diabetes can be
greatly decreased through improvements in nutrition and physical
activity.  My Administration announced new standards for school meals to
improve their nutritional value and give schools the option to require
locally produced, unprocessed menu ingredients.  We also held the first
White House Conference on Hunger, Nutrition, and Health in over 50
years, bringing together advocates, health care providers, food
companies, and officials from every level of government.  As a part of
that conference, we launched the White House Challenge to End Hunger and
Build Healthy Communities.  In total, we have secured more than $10
billion in bold, new commitments from the public and private sectors to
end hunger and reduce diet-related diseases like diabetes.

     My Administration also recognizes that tens of millions of
Americans have prediabetes and are at risk of developing Type 2 diabetes
within 5 years.  Diabetes increases one’s risk of heart attack, cancer,
stroke, blindness, kidney failure, and the loss of toes, feet, or legs. 
Many of these cases are preventable, and the risk factors are often
related to poor nutrition and inadequate physical activity.  To learn
more about the risks and how to address prediabetes and help prevent
Type 2 diabetes, visit the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
National Diabetes Prevention Program:  cdc.gov/diabetes-prevention. 

     During National Diabetes Month, we celebrate the resilience and
courage of all those affected by diabetes.  We thank the dedicated
medical professionals, loved ones, and advocates who support this
community.  And we recommit to working around the clock to improve care
for those affected and get us closer to finding cures.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
November 2024 as National Diabetes Month.  I call upon all Americans,
school systems, government agencies, nonprofit organizations, health
care providers, research institutions, and other interested groups to
join in activities that raise diabetes awareness and help prevent,
treat, and manage this disease.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
