---
date: '2024-10-12'
modified_time: 2024-10-12 09:32:20-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-12 09:32:19-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/10/12/president-joseph-r-biden-jr-approves-florida-disaster-declaration-8/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. Approves Florida Disaster\_Declaration"
---
 
Yesterday, President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. declared that a major disaster
exists in the State of Florida and ordered Federal aid to supplement
State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the areas affected by
Hurricane Milton beginning on October 5, 2024, and continuing.

The President’s action makes Federal funding available to affected
individuals in the counties of Brevard, Charlotte, Citrus, Clay,
Collier, DeSoto, Duval, Flagler, Glades, Hardee, Hendry, Hernando,
Highlands, Hillsborough, Indian River, Lake, Lee, Manatee, Marion,
Martin, Okeechobee, Orange, Osceola, Palm Beach, Pasco, Pinellas, Polk,
Putnam, Sarasota, Seminole, St. Johns, St. Lucie, Sumter, and Volusia
and the Miccosukee Tribe of Indians of Florida.

Assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs,
low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses, and other programs to
help individuals and business owners recover from the effects of the
disaster.

Federal funding is also available to State, tribal, and eligible local
governments and certain private nonprofit organizations on a
cost-sharing basis for emergency work in the counties of Brevard,
Charlotte, Citrus, Clay, Collier, DeSoto, Duval, Flagler, Glades,
Hardee, Hendry, Hernando, Highlands, Hillsborough, Indian River, Lake,
Lee, Manatee, Marion, Martin, Okeechobee, Orange, Osceola, Palm Beach,
Pasco, Pinellas, Polk, Putnam, Sarasota, Seminole, St. Johns, St. Lucie,
Sumter, and Volusia and the Miccosukee Tribe of Indians of Florida. For
a period of 90 days of the State’s choosing within the first 120 days
from the start of the incident period, assistance for debris removal and
emergency protective measures, including direct Federal assistance,
under the Public Assistance program is authorized at 100 percent of the
total eligible costs.

Finally, Federal funding is available on a cost-sharing basis for hazard
mitigation measures statewide.

Mr. John E. Brogan of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has
been appointed to coordinate Federal recovery operations in the affected
areas. 

Damage assessments are continuing in other areas, and more counties and
additional forms of assistance may be designated after the assessments
are fully completed.

Residents and business owners who sustained losses in the designated
areas can begin applying for assistance at
[www.DisasterAssistance.gov](//fema.net/hqss/rrshare/SHARE/AGREES/Florida/2024/4828%20Helene/www.DisasterAssistance.gov),
or by calling 800-621-FEMA (3362), or by using the [FEMA
App](https://www.ready.gov/fema-app). Anyone using a relay service, such
as video relay service (VRS), captioned telephone service or others, can
give FEMA the number for that service. 

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION MEDIA SHOULD CONTACT THE FEMA NEWS DESK AT (202)
646-3272 OR
[FEMA-NEWS-DESK@FEMA.DHS.GOV](mailto:FEMA-NEWS-DESK@DHS.GOV).

\###
