---
date: '2024-10-31'
modified_time: 2024-10-31 10:22:34-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-31 10:22:33-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/10/31/a-proclamation-on-national-family-caregivers-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Family Caregivers Month,\_2024"
---
 
     Family caregivers are the backbone of our Nation, making tremendous
sacrifices to be there for the people who need and cherish them most.
 This month, we honor their selfless love and courage, and we recommit
to getting them the support they deserve.  They should know their
country has their backs.

     For far too long, the cost of care in this country has been too
high.  Today, millions of Americans are part of the so-called sandwich
generation, caring for both young kids and aging parents at the same
time.  Too many families struggle to afford help, spending their own
retirement savings to pay for the care of their loved ones or quitting
their own jobs to stay home and provide it themselves.  Most often, it
is women who bear the brunt of care work.  And the pay for professional
care workers is far too low.    

     In the United States of America, no one should have to choose
between caring for a parent who raised them, a child who depends on
them, and a paycheck that they need.  That is why I signed the American
Rescue Plan, which made the biggest investment in child care ever.  It
delivered historic support to over 225,000 child care programs serving
as many as 10 million children across the country, helping keep their
doors open for millions of working families who rely on them.  It
expanded the Child Tax Credit, which helped cut the child poverty rate
nearly in half.  Overall, my Administration increased funding for child
care by nearly 50 percent while helping States expand and strengthen
programs that enable low-income families afford child care as well.  We
also required companies seeking significant Federal funding from our
CHIPS and Science Act to submit a plan on how they will help employees
access affordable child care.  

     We have finalized new rules that strengthen staffing standards in
nursing homes to ensure residents can age with dignity.  We have made
sure that home care workers get a bigger share of Medicaid payments so
more Americans can keep living in their own communities and homes.  And
we have worked to increase Medicare resources to promote equitable
access to care and caregiver training.  

     But we have to do more to ease the load on America’s 50 million
unpaid family caregivers, who too often still shoulder the burden of
care all alone.  Through the American Rescue Plan, we devoted $145
million to the National Family Caregiver Support Program, which delivers
counseling, training, and short-term relief to family caregivers and
other informal care providers.  Furthermore, my Administration released
the first-ever National Strategy to Support Family Caregivers, which
includes new initiatives that directly support family caregivers and
strengthen existing programs.  And I signed a historic Executive Order,
representing the most comprehensive set of administrative actions ever
to increase access to high-quality child care and long-term care and
support for caregivers, including military and veteran caregivers.  The
Executive Order is working to make sure caregivers get the support they
deserve while building the supply of high-quality care so families have
options.  My Administration is continuing to work toward lowering the
cost of care across the country and providing stronger paid family and
medical leave. 

     How we treat our young children, aging parents, and loved ones and
how we value those who care for them are fundamental to who we are as a
Nation.  During National Family Caregivers Month, we pledge to get every
family caregiver in this country the same kind of relief, respect, and
support that they give so selflessly to others.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
November 2024 as National Family Caregivers Month.  I encourage all
Americans to reach out to those who provide care for our Nation’s family
members, friends, and neighbors in need to recognize, honor, and thank
them.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
