---
date: '2024-10-31'
modified_time: 2024-10-31 14:25:56-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-31 14:25:55-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/10/31/a-proclamation-on-national-lung-cancer-awareness-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Lung Cancer Awareness Month,\_2024"
---
 
     Too many Americans know the pain of losing a loved one to lung
cancer, the leading cause of cancer death in the United States.  During
National Lung Cancer Awareness Month, we honor all those living with
lung cancer and their loved ones.  We thank the researchers searching
for answers and the medical professionals who are working tirelessly to
care for those with lung cancer, and we recommit to ending cancer as we
know it.

     Although scientists have made incredible breakthroughs that have
improved prevention, detection, and treatment for cancer and saved
lives, a lung cancer diagnosis can be terrifying.  This year, nearly
250,000 Americans will be diagnosed with the disease.  Treatment can be
grueling.  Medical bills can cause concerns for the whole family.  And
the flood of medical information directed toward patients and their
caretakers can be overwhelming.  Too often, people feel lost and left
behind, especially those who are disproportionately impacted by lung
cancer — such as Black men, rural residents, and women under 50 years
old.

     Cancer is personal to many families, including mine, so I made
fighting cancer a top priority in my Administration.  The First Lady and
I began by reigniting the Biden Cancer Moonshot, aiming to cut the
cancer death rate by at least 50 percent over the next 25 years.  I also
secured $4 billion in bipartisan funding and established the Advanced
Research Projects Agency for Health to support scientists, innovators,
and public health professionals in driving innovation to prevent,
detect, and treat cancer and other life-threatening diseases.

     My Administration is also working around the clock to make cancer
treatments more affordable and the treatment process more manageable for
families.  We have saved millions of families $800 per year on their
health insurance premiums by strengthening Medicaid and the Affordable
Care Act.  Through my Inflation Reduction Act, we are capping total
out-of-pocket prescription drug costs for Medicare beneficiaries at
$2,000 per year, including for cancer drugs, which can cost many times
that.  And for the first time ever, families fighting cancer can access
patient navigation services that are fully paid for through Medicare,
Medicaid, and private insurance — helping guide families through the
diagnosis and treatment process and offering them much-needed support.

     My Administration is also committed to preventing cancer
by tackling another driver of cancer deaths in this country:  smoking.
 To ensure that Americans who want to quit have the support they need,
the Department of Health and Human Services created a Framework to
Support and Accelerate Smoking Cessation, setting goals and strategies
to help our communities reduce smoking.  And the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention launched a $15 million program that will help
increase awareness about smoking and options for services to help people
quit.  For anyone looking to quit smoking, you can find resources at
BeTobaccoFree.gov or smokefree.gov or by calling 877-44U-QUIT.

     My Administration is expanding early detection and screening
services because an early diagnosis of lung cancer can save lives. 
Together, Federal agencies, community health centers, and other partners
are providing early detection knowledge and support services to
underserved communities.  I encourage all Americans to talk to their
doctors about lung cancer symptoms.

     During National Lung Cancer Awareness Month, we strengthen our
commitment to standing by all those facing lung cancer and their
families, and we ensure they have access to the care they need.  We also
rededicate ourselves to spreading awareness about lung cancer and
working to end cancer as we know it, in order to save more lives. 

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
November 2024 as National Lung Cancer Awareness Month.  I call upon the
people of the United States to speak with their doctors and health care
providers to learn more about lung cancer.  I encourage citizens,
government agencies, private businesses, nonprofit organizations, the
media, and other interested groups to increase awareness about what
Americans can do to prevent, detect, and treat lung cancer.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
