---
date: '2024-10-11'
published_time: 2024-10-11 14:28:26-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/10/11/a-proclamation-on-indigenous-peoples-day-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Indigenous Peoples\u2019 Day,\_2024"
---
 
     On Indigenous Peoples’ Day, we honor Indigenous peoples’ strength,
courage, and resilience.  We celebrate the vast contributions of
Indigenous communities to the world.  And we recommit to respecting
Tribal sovereignty and self-determination and working to usher in a new
era of our Nation-to-Nation relationships.

     The history of America’s Indigenous peoples is marked by
perseverance, survival, and a deep commitment to and pride in their
heritage, right to self-governance, and ways of life.  Since time
immemorial, Indigenous peoples have built and sustained powerful Tribal
Nations, cultivated rich cultures, and established vibrant communities. 
And their discoveries and knowledge still benefit us today.  But because
of our Nation’s failed policies of the past, generations of Native
peoples have faced cruelty, violence, and intimidation.  They were
forced to leave their homelands, prohibited from speaking their own
languages and practicing their sacred traditions, and forced into
assimilation.  Indigenous lives were lost, livelihoods were ripped away,
and communities were fundamentally altered.  Despite the trauma and
turmoil, Indigenous peoples have persisted and survived.  Their stories
are testaments to the bravery and resolve of generations to preserve
their heritage, cultures, and identities for those to come after them. 

     Today, Indigenous peoples lead in every way, share their histories,
and strengthen their communities.  They are also stewarding lands and
waters, growing our shared prosperity, and celebrating the good of our
Nation while pushing us to tell the full truth of our history. 
Indigenous peoples have long served in the United States military,
fighting for democracy.  And Indigenous communities continue to be an
integral part of the fabric of the United States, contributing so much
to our shared prosperity.

     I remain committed to writing a new and better chapter in our
history.  To make this new era of self-determination a reality, we must
honor the solemn promises the United States made to fulfill our trust
and treaty obligations to Tribal Nations and work together to rebuild
Tribal economies and institutions. 

     From day one, I have worked to include Indigenous voices at the
table in all we do.  I have appointed Native Americans to lead across
the Federal Government, including the Secretary of the Interior, Deb
Haaland — America’s first Native American Cabinet secretary — and so
many others serving in key roles in my Administration.  I was proud to
re-establish the White House Council on Native American Affairs to help
coordinate policy.  Together, we have taken historic steps to improve
the consultation process between Federal agencies and Tribal Nations.  

     I also believe that Tribal Nations know best what is right for
their communities, and they do better when they make their own
decisions.  That is why I signed an Executive Order to respect the
Nation-to-Nation relationship by ensuring Federal agencies respect the
autonomy of tribes, cutting red tape so Tribal leaders can deliver for
their communities.  At the same time, we are strengthening the Buy
Indian Act so that Federal agencies get more goods and services from
Native-owned businesses.  These initiatives will help grow Tribal
economies while respecting Tribal sovereignty and Tribal Nations’ right
to build a future on their own terms. 

     Since I came into office, the Federal Government has made record
investments in Tribal Nations.  My American Rescue Plan -‑ the largest
direct Federal investment in Tribal Nations ever — helped provide
COVID-19 vaccinations to Tribal communities and got our economy going
again.  My Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is the single biggest
investment in Tribal roads, bridges, water, high-speed internet,
electricity, irrigation, environmental cleanup, and more.  My Inflation
Reduction Act is the biggest investment in fighting climate change ever,
anywhere in the history of the world.  It is helping Tribal communities
lead in the transition to clean energy and mitigate the impact of
droughts, wildfires, and rising sea levels that threaten Native lives
and precious homelands.  My Administration has also provided increased
resources to fight the opioid epidemic and expand access to crisis care
in Tribal communities.  Given that Native American women are two times
more likely to die of pregnancy-related causes than White women, my
Administration has taken significant steps to improve maternal health.
 And my Administration also secured the first-ever advance funding for
the Indian Health Service so hospitals can plan ahead, order supplies,
and hire doctors.  
   
     When my Administration reauthorized the Violence Against Women Act
in 2022, we included historic provisions to reaffirm Tribal sovereignty
and expand Tribal jurisdiction in cases where outside perpetrators harm
members of their Nation.  And recognizing the ties of Indigenous peoples
across North America, I supported a Trilateral Working Group with Canada
and Mexico to ensure Indigenous women and girls in all three countries
can live free from violence. 

     My Administration is also preserving important ancestral Tribal
lands and waters.  I have protected and conserved more than 42 million
acres of our Nation’s lands and waters.  I established, expanded, or
restored 11 national monuments — including Bears Ears National Monument,
Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument, Avi Kwa Ame National
Monument, Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni-Ancestral Footprints of the Grand
Canyon National Monument, Berryessa Snow Mountain National Monument, and
others containing sites considered sacred to Tribal Nations.  We are
advancing the proposed Chumash Heritage National Marine Sanctuary, which
stretches along 116 miles of California coastline and has been home to
coastal, ocean-going Tribal Nations and Indigenous peoples for tens of
thousands of years.  My Administration has also signed over 190
co-stewardship or co-management agreements with Tribes, and we are
working to sign more.

     On Indigenous Peoples’ Day, we recognize that it is hard work to
heal the wrongs of the past and to change course and move forward, but
together, nothing is beyond our capacity.  May we take pride in the
progress we have made to establish a new era of Tribal sovereignty and
Indigenous self-determination — one grounded in dignity, respect, and
friendship.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 14, 2024, as Indigenous Peoples’ Day.  I call upon the people of
the United States to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and
activities.  I also direct that the flag of the United States be
displayed on all public buildings on the appointed day in honor of our
diverse history and the Indigenous peoples who contribute to shaping
this Nation.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eleventh day
of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.  
   
   
                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.  
 
