---
date: '2024-10-25'
published_time: 2024-10-25 16:03:30-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/10/25/notice-on-the-continuation-of-the-national-emergency-with-respect-to-sudan-4/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Notice on the Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to\_Sudan"
---
 
On November 3, 1997, by Executive Order 13067, the President declared a
national emergency with respect to Sudan pursuant to the International
Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq.*) and took
related steps to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the
national security and foreign policy of the United States posed by the
actions and policies of the Government of Sudan.  On April 26, 2006, by
[Executive Order
13400,](https://www.federalregister.gov/executive-order/13400) the
President determined that the conflict in Sudan’s Darfur region posed an
unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign
policy of the United States, expanded the scope of the national
emergency declared in [Executive Order
13067,](https://www.federalregister.gov/executive-order/13067) and
ordered the blocking of property of certain persons connected to the
Darfur region.  On October 13, 2006, by [Executive Order
13412,](https://www.federalregister.gov/executive-order/13412) the
President took additional steps with respect to the national emergency
declared in [Executive Order
13067](https://www.federalregister.gov/executive-order/13067) and
expanded in [Executive Order
13400](https://www.federalregister.gov/executive-order/13400).  In
[Executive Order
13412,](https://www.federalregister.gov/executive-order/13412) the
President also took steps to implement the Darfur Peace and
Accountability Act of 2006 ([Public Law
109-344](https://api.fdsys.gov/link?collection=plaw&congress=109&lawtype=public&lawnum=344&link-type=html)).

     On January 13, 2017, by [Executive Order
13761,](https://www.federalregister.gov/executive-order/13761) the
President found that positive efforts by the Government of Sudan between
July 2016 and January 2017 improved certain conditions that Executive
Orders 13067 and 13412 were intended to address.  Given these
developments, and in order to encourage the Government of Sudan to
sustain and enhance these efforts, section 1 of [Executive Order
13761](https://www.federalregister.gov/executive-order/13761) provided
that sections 1 and 2 of [Executive Order
13067](https://www.federalregister.gov/executive-order/13067) and the
entirety of [Executive Order
13412](https://www.federalregister.gov/executive-order/13412) would be
revoked as of July 12, 2017, provided that the criteria in section 12(b)
of [Executive Order
13761](https://www.federalregister.gov/executive-order/13761) had been
met.

     On July 11, 2017, by Executive Order 13804, the President amended
Executive Order 13761, extending until October 12, 2017, the effective
date in section 1 of Executive Order 13761.  On October 12, 2017,
pursuant to Executive Order 13761, as amended by Executive Order 13804,
sections 1 and 2 of Executive Order 13067 and the entirety of Executive
Order 13412 were revoked. 

     On May 4, 2023, by Executive Order 14098, I further expanded the
scope of the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13067,
finding that the situation in Sudan, including the military’s seizure of
power in October 2021 and the outbreak of inter-service fighting in
April 2023, constituted an unusual and extraordinary threat to the
national security and foreign policy of the United States. 

     The crisis that led to the declaration of a national emergency in
[Executive Order
13067](https://www.federalregister.gov/executive-order/13067) of
November 3, 1997; the expansion of the scope of that emergency in
[Executive
Order 13400](https://www.federalregister.gov/executive-order/13400) of
April 26, 2006; the taking of additional steps with respect to that
emergency in [Executive Order
13412](https://www.federalregister.gov/executive-order/13412) of
October 13, 2006, [Executive Order
13761](https://www.federalregister.gov/executive-order/13761) of January
13, 2017, and [Executive Order
13804](https://www.federalregister.gov/executive-order/13804) of July
11, 2017; and the further expansion of the scope of that emergency in
Executive Order 14098 of May 4, 2023, has not been resolved.  The
policies and actions of the Government of Sudan, and the situation in
Sudan and Darfur, continue to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat
to the national security and foreign policy of the United States.  For
this reason, the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13067,
as expanded by Executive Orders 13400 and 14098, must continue in effect
beyond November 3, 2024. 

     This notice shall be published in the *Federal Register* and
transmitted to the Congress.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    October 25, 2024.
