---
date: '2024-10-03'
modified_time: 2024-10-03 16:27:44-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-03 16:27:43-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/10/03/a-proclamation-on-national-manufacturing-day-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Manufacturing Day,\_2024"
---
 
    American workers and the unions who fight for them represent the
best of our country.  They help power our economy and strengthen our
middle class.  On National Manufacturing Day, we celebrate the
ingenuity, grit, drive, and determination of the American worker.  We
thank them for their contributions, and we recommit to investing in
their productivity and success.

     There have always been competing visions for the future of
America.  Some envision a future in which the failed trickle-down
policies that hurt working families for more than 40 years are
continued.  When I think about our future, I see an America where we
grow the economy from the middle out and the bottom up — not the top
down.  I see an America where working people finally have a fair shot. 
Above all, I see a future that is made right here in America. 

     That is why my Administration has invested in American
manufacturing to restore the backbone of our Nation:  the middle class. 
Together, we are doing what has always worked best in this country —
investing in all of America and in all Americans.  My Investing in
America agenda — including my Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, CHIPS and
Science Act, and Inflation Reduction Act — is revitalizing American
manufacturing.  So far, we have attracted over $910 billion in private
sector investment in manufacturing and clean energy nationwide and seen
spending on factory construction soar to new records, roughly triple the
pre-pandemic average.  These investments are helping create hundreds of
thousands of jobs — including over 700,000 manufacturing jobs — building
new semiconductor fabs, electric vehicle and battery factories, and so
much more, here in America.  And we are working with employers, unions,
community colleges, high schools, and other partners to ensure American
workers are trained for the good manufacturing jobs we are generating.

     We have also made sure that Federal funds support American
manufacturing.  “Buy American” has been the law of the land since the
1930s.  Past administrations said a lot but did not do a lot.  On my
watch, Federal projects have been made with American products and built
by American workers.  I fought for the passage of the “Build America,
Buy America Act,” which established domestic content preferences in
Federal infrastructure spending, as part of the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law.  I signed the “Federal Research and Development in
Support of Domestic Manufacturing and United States Jobs” Executive
Order, directing Federal agencies to prioritize domestic manufacturing
when it comes to research, development, innovation, and bringing
inventions to market.  My Administration also made the strongest changes
to Buy American rules in nearly seven decades by increasing the domestic
content threshold for Federal procurement from 55 percent to 65 percent
in 2024.  I also announced new requirements for lumber, glass, fiber
optic cables, and other construction materials used in Federal
infrastructure projects to be made in America.  And we will keep working
to ensure that American taxpayer dollars are invested in American
workers.

     Growing up in Scranton, Pennsylvania, I learned a basic value set —
money does not determine your worth, and all anyone wants is a fair
shot.  When I look at the economy, I see it through the eyes of
Scranton.  That is why I came into office determined to write a new
chapter in our American comeback story — one where we can take pride in
knowing that we can still get big things done in this great Nation. 

     During National Manufacturing Day, may we rededicate ourselves to
writing that story by making the phrase “Made in America” not just a
slogan but a reality.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 4, 2024, as National Manufacturing Day.  I thank our
manufacturing workers for all that they do to strengthen our Nation,
encourage all Americans to look for ways to get involved in their
communities, and call on everyone to join me in participating in
National Manufacturing Day and, most importantly, buying American.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this third day of
October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.  

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
