---
date: '2024-10-23'
published_time: 2024-10-23 11:52:18-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/10/23/a-proclamation-on-united-nations-day-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on United Nations Day,\_2024"
---
 
     Nearly 80 years ago, our forebearers gathered for the first United
Nations General Assembly.  With the horrors of World War II weighing on
their hearts and the hopes of humanity resting on their shoulders, they
opened the General Assembly by declaring, “The whole world now waits
upon our decisions… looking to us to show ourselves capable of mastering
our problems.”  Today, we reflect on the history of this storied
institution.  And together, we recommit to sustaining and strengthening
it to master the challenges of our time.

     Under my Administration, the United States has been a leader at the
United Nations — rallying global action to advance democratic values,
safeguard human rights, and address the issues our world faces.  That
includes standing against Russia’s brutal aggression against Ukraine and
Hamas’ despicable terrorist attack on Israel.  At the United Nations, we
have been working to secure a ceasefire in Gaza, with the release of
hostages, and we have been pushing to expand humanitarian access and
assistance.  The United States has also played a key role in helping
bring security to the people of Haiti and addressing the conflict and
dire humanitarian situation in Sudan, where millions are displaced and
facing famine.

     But we know people need more than the absence of war.  They need
the chance to live with dignity.  They need to be protected from the
ravages of climate change, hunger, and disease.  That is why my
Administration has invested over $150 billion to accelerate progress on
the Sustainable Development Goals, including ending poverty, eliminating
hunger, promoting health and well-being, and promoting gender equality.
 We also forged a historic consensus on the first-ever General Assembly
Resolution on Artificial Intelligence to help people everywhere seize
the potential — and minimize the risks — of this technology.

     As we look ahead, countries need to work together to continue
reforming the United Nations to be more effective.  The United States
will keep pushing for a stronger, more inclusive United Nations,
including a reformed and expanded United Nations Security Council.  And
the Security Council, like the United Nations itself, needs to focus on
making peace, brokering deals to end wars and suffering, stopping the
spread of the most dangerous weapons, and stabilizing troubled regions.

     Finally, the United Nations’ work is carried out by brave and
committed United Nations humanitarian workers, development
professionals, peacekeepers, and members of special political missions.
 And every day, they risk their own lives to save the lives of others,
undertaking often dangerous work.  Like nations around the world, the
United States honors their sacrifices and those of their families.

     Today and every day, let us remember that the forces holding us
together are stronger than those pulling us apart.  Let us continue to
work together to unleash the power of humanity and give people the
opportunity to live freely, think freely, breathe freely, and love
freely.  And in the face of difficult challenges, let us prove that we
are capable of building a better world together.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 24, 2024, as United Nations Day.  I urge the governors of the
United States and its territories, and the officials of all other areas
under the flag of the United States, to observe United Nations Day with
appropriate ceremonies and activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
twenty-third day of October, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-four, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-ninth.  
   
   
                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
