---
date: '2024-10-08'
modified_time: 2024-10-08 13:41:44-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-08 13:41:43-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/10/08/a-proclamation-on-leif-erikson-day-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Leif Erikson Day,\_2024"
---
 
     On Leif Erikson Day, we celebrate the history and heritage of
Nordic communities in the United States, whose contributions and
cultures have helped shape our Nation.

     Many believe that roughly a millennium ago, Leif Erikson — a Norse
explorer — and his crew were the first Europeans to reach the shores of
North America.  His spirit of adventure, curiosity, and resilience would
inspire generations of Danes, Finns, Icelanders, Norwegians, and Swedes
to sail across an ocean and begin new lives in America.  These
immigrants built bustling homes and enriched their communities,
supporting and realizing the American Dream.  They fought for our
freedoms in the military; built new churches, businesses, and schools;
and spearheaded social movements.  Today, Nordic communities continue to
enrich the fabric of the Nation. 

     Nordic-American communities in the United States are foundational
to our partnership and friendship with our Nordic Allies and their
people.  These nations share our vision for a world based on freedom,
security, and opportunities for all.  Together, we are working in
lockstep to tackle the climate crisis and pioneer the next generation of
technology that will power everyone’s economies.  We are also standing
with the brave people of Ukraine as they defend themselves against
Russia’s brutal assault.  I am proud that the United States supported
the ratification process for Finland to join NATO, which was the fastest
ratification in history.  And I was honored to welcome Sweden as NATO’s
32nd Ally earlier this year.  Together, I know that we will continue to
stand for freedom and democracy for generations to come.

     Today, may we celebrate the important contributions and vibrant
cultures of Nordic Americans to our Nation.  And may we continue the
work that so many Nordic communities in this country began:  ensuring
every American has an opportunity to reach the American Dream.

     To honor Leif Erikson, son of Iceland and grandson of Norway, and
to celebrate Nordic-American heritage, the Congress, by joint resolution
(Public Law 88-566) approved on September 2, 1964, has authorized the
President of the United States to proclaim October 9 of each year as
“Leif Erikson Day.”

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, do hereby proclaim October 9, 2024, as Leif Erikson
Day.  I call upon all Americans to celebrate the contributions of Nordic
Americans to our Nation with appropriate ceremonies, activities, and
programs.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of
October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
