---
date: '2024-10-18'
modified_time: 2024-10-18 14:57:37-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-18 14:57:36-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/10/18/a-proclamation-on-minority-enterprise-development-week-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Minority Enterprise Development Week,\_2024"
---
 
Our Nation’s minority-owned businesses are the glue of our communities
and the engines of our economies.  Investing in them is key to growing
our economy from the middle out and bottom up, not the top down.  When
minority-owned businesses do well, everyone does well.  More people get
jobs, first-time business owners build generational wealth, our economy
grows, and more Americans feel a sense of pride and hope in all that is
possible in our Nation.  This Minority Enterprise Development Week, may
we celebrate the talent and ingenuity of the innovators and
entrepreneurs who run our Nation’s minority-owned businesses.  And may
we recommit to ensuring that minority-owned businesses have access to
the resources they need to thrive.

Minority-owned businesses add incredible value to our economy,
generating nearly $2 trillion in revenue each year.  These businesses
not only provide the goods and services we need but are also sources of
hope — helping people realize their American Dream, building
generational wealth, and uplifting their families and communities.  That
is why my Administration is ensuring that minority-owned businesses have
access to capital and can grow.  The Small Business Administration (SBA)
is lending tens of billions of dollars to small businesses that would
otherwise struggle to access capital.  For example, since 2020, the rate
of SBA-backed loans increased by about 40 percent for Asian
American-owned businesses, tripled for Black-owned businesses, and more
than doubled for Latino-owned businesses.  Further, my American Rescue
Plan helped minority-owned small businesses keep their doors open during
the COVID-19 pandemic and represents the largest-ever dedicated Federal
investment to connect minority-owned small businesses to support.  That
law invested $10 billion to launch and expand programs that provide
critical access to capital for small businesses.  The American Rescue
Plan also invested $500 million to fund over 100 awards for
organizations working to connect entrepreneurs to resources to help
their small businesses recover and thrive through initiatives like the
SBA’s Community Navigators Program, the Department of the Treasury’s
Small Business Opportunity Program, and the Minority Business
Development Agency’s Capital Readiness Program. 

My Administration has also been working to ensure that minority-owned
businesses get a fair shot at success.  That is why I signed an
Executive Order that would increase the share of total Federal contracts
going to disadvantaged businesses from 10 percent to 15 percent by 2025
— and in the last 3 years, we have spent over $208 billion on small
disadvantaged businesses.  My Bipartisan Infrastructure Law expanded and
made permanent the Minority Business Development Agency, ensuring that
minority-owned businesses have access to the resources and support they
need to thrive.  And with my Inflation Reduction Act and CHIPS and
Science Act, we are working to make sure that minority-owned businesses
are benefiting from the billions of dollars we are investing in
America’s infrastructure, manufacturing, and clean energy industries
here at home.  In addition, Vice President Harris launched the Economic
Opportunity Coalition in 2022 to provide tens of billions of dollars in
investments to underserved communities. 

Since Vice President Harris and I entered office, our Administration has
created 16 million jobs, and American entrepreneurs have filed nearly 20
million new business applications.  Wages are growing faster than
prices.  Unemployment remains low.  Black- and Latino-owned businesses
are being created faster today than they have been in years and Federal
contracts with Native American-owned companies increased by over $8
billion from 2020 to 2023. I also take pride in my Administration’s
investments in Historically Black Colleges and Universities,
Hispanic-Serving Institutions, Tribal Colleges and Universities, and
Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-Serving Institutions
— all of which are helping launch the next generation of innovators,
entrepreneurs, and business owners.  These investments will ensure that
their graduates will have every opportunity to lead the industries of
the future and build generational wealth.

Across America — from small towns to big cities — we are seeing
thousands of stories of revival, renewal, optimism, and pride.  And each
new business that is created is an act of hope, not just for the
business owner but for the entire community.  During Minority Enterprise
Development Week, may we celebrate all the minority-owned businesses
making our economy stronger, our Nation more competitive, and our
communities more hopeful.  And may we recommit to supporting their
success and longevity.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October 20 through
October 26, 2024, as Minority Enterprise Development Week.  I call upon
the people of the United States to acknowledge and celebrate the
achievements and contributions of minority business owners and
enterprises and commit to promoting systemic economic equality.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eighteenth day
of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
