---
date: '2024-10-31'
published_time: 2024-10-31 10:28:01-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/10/31/a-proclamation-on-national-alzheimers-disease-awareness-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Alzheimer\u2019s Disease Awareness Month,\_2024"
---
 
     Too many Americans know the pain of losing a loved one to
Alzheimer’s — a leading cause of death in older adults.  During National
Alzheimer’s Disease Awareness Month, we honor the courage and resilience
of all those facing this devastating disease.  We recommit to supporting
every caregiver who pours their heart into helping people with
Alzheimer’s face this disease with dignity.  And we strengthen our
resolve to do everything we can to prevent, treat, and eliminate
Alzheimer’s as we know it.

     Currently, over six million Americans have Alzheimer’s disease,
which robs people of their memories, clarity, and identity — taking a
difficult emotional, financial, and physical toll on people facing the
disease and the loved ones standing by their side.  Alzheimer’s also
disproportionately impacts African Americans and Latino Americans, who
are more likely to develop dementias than people of any other race or
ethnicity.  People with Down syndrome also have a higher risk
of developing Alzheimer’s.

     My Administration has taken steps to drive new breakthroughs toward
preventing, detecting, and treating Alzheimer’s.  I secured $4 billion
for the Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health, directing funding
to researchers and innovators who are pioneering new techniques and
technologies to transform the lives of people with Alzheimer’s and
improve human health outcomes.  I was also proud to sign the
reauthorization of the National Alzheimer’s Project Act and the
Alzheimer’s Accountability and Investment Act, ensuring the Federal
Government is doubling down on our commitment to address Alzheimer’s
disease and related dementias.  The National Institutes of Health is
funding new clinical trials that are doing cutting-edge work to improve
the lives of people with Alzheimer’s — from pursuing new drugs that
could prevent and treat dementia to improving cognition and memory for
those who have it.

     My Administration is committed to supporting the caregivers who
care for people with Alzheimer’s.  I signed the Executive Order on
Increasing Access to High-Quality Care and Supporting Caregivers — the
most comprehensive set of executive actions any President has ever taken
to improve care for hardworking families while supporting care workers
and family caregivers.  In response, the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services (CMS) launched the GUIDE Model, which offers a package
of respite services, caregiver support and education, and care
management and coordination for people living with Alzheimer’s and
related dementias.  CMS is also continuing to increase access to
cognitive care assessments so more people with Alzheimer’s get the
resources and care they need.  And the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention is working to increase access to early detection, prevention,
and treatment of dementias like Alzheimer’s.

     During National Alzheimer’s Disease Awareness Month, we recommit to
improving the prevention and treatment of Alzheimer’s disease.  We honor
all the lives we have lost and all those we can still save.  And we
uplift the spirit of hope that countless medical professionals,
researchers, and caregivers working to help people with Alzheimer’s
carry each day.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
November 2024 as National Alzheimer’s Disease Awareness Month.  I call
on the people of the United States of America to honor and support those
living with Alzheimer’s and the many people who continue extraordinary
and tireless efforts to combat this disorder and care for those affected
by it.  I encourage all Americans to visit Alzheimers.gov for
evidence-based resources and information.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
