---
date: '2024-10-01'
published_time: 2024-10-01 00:14:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/10/01/a-proclamation-on-national-youth-justice-action-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Youth Justice Action Month,\_2024"
---
 
     America’s young people are part of the most gifted and talented
generation in our history — and, like anyone, they deserve second
chances.  During National Youth Justice Action Month, we recommit to
ensuring that our communities are safe and supportive so that young
people thrive.  And we recommit to developing a juvenile justice system
that reflects our Nation’s most fundamental values of equality,
fairness, and opportunity.

     Between 2000 and 2022, the number of young people in our juvenile
justice system has declined significantly, but young people of color and
young people with disabilities are still disproportionally represented. 
Additionally, young people who enter juvenile justice facilities often
lack the support, resources, educational opportunities, and guidance
necessary for meaningful rehabilitation and, as a result, are not set up
for success once they leave.  The young people in the juvenile justice
system often spend years in unsafe environments, without treatment for
trauma or mental health conditions.

     My Administration remains committed to improving our youth justice
system so that young people who are released are set up for success.  My
Administration has made historic investments in our youth justice
system.  For youth facing juvenile and criminal justice system
involvement, we are investing in evidence-based diversion programs.  And
we are expanding access to lawyers who will advocate for and advise
these youth.  For those who are exiting the system, we are investing in
programs that help youth find housing, educational opportunities,
mentorship, job training, and other services as they return to their
communities.    

     We are also ensuring that young people have good schools to attend,
safe communities to live in, and exciting opportunities for their
futures.  My Administration launched the National Partnership for
Student Success, which will bring together 250,000 tutors and mentors
for our students.  And we secured $1.3 billion to fund afterschool and
summer learning programs for K-12 students.  To support our Nation’s
youth we increased investments in Full-Service Community Schools
fivefold, including providing $253 million to create over 2,000 new
full-service community schools in the country, providing critical
supports to serve more than one million students’ physical, mental
health, and academic needs.    
  
     We are also making it easier for youth to receive mental health
care.  When we passed the Nation’s first major gun safety law in nearly
three decades, we secured funding to increase the number and diversity
of school psychologists and mental health counselors available to our
children and made it easier for schools to use Medicaid to deliver these
services.  We also launched 988, the National Suicide and Crisis
Lifeline.  By texting or calling 988, young people can connect with
trained crisis counselors 24 hours a day, 7 days a week –- and for those
who need it, the Lifeline now supports unprecedented access to American
Sign Language interpreters.  And we have invested in building mobile
crisis response teams so that people in crisis can be connected with
trained mental health professionals right away. 

     During National Youth Justice Action Month, we recommit to doing
all that we can to ensure that all of our young people can lead full
lives.  We show our gratitude to all those supporting youth, both in and
out of the juvenile justice system, as they work to build lives full of
purpose and meaning.  And we strengthen our resolve to ensure that our
juvenile justice system reflects America’s promise of liberty and
justice for all.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October
2024 as National Youth Justice Action Month.  I call upon all Americans
to observe this month by taking action to support our youth and by
participating in appropriate ceremonies, activities, and programs in
their communities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
thirtieth day of September, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-four, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-ninth.  

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
