---
date: '2024-10-31'
modified_time: 2024-10-31 11:25:45-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-31 11:25:44-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/10/31/a-proclamation-on-national-native-american-heritage-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Native American Heritage Month,\_2024"
---
 
     During National Native American Heritage Month, we honor the
history, rich cultures, and vast contributions of Native peoples.  We
celebrate the hundreds of Tribal Nations that are ushering in a new era
in our Nation-to-Nation relationships.  And we recommit to respecting
Tribal sovereignty and self-determination and working in partnership
with Tribal Nations to bring new prosperity and security to Native
peoples.

     Indigenous peoples’ history in the United States is defined by
strength, survival, and a deep commitment to and pride in their
heritage, right to self-governance, and ways of life.  Native peoples
have built and sustained powerful Tribal Nations, and the knowledge they
developed still benefits us today.  However, our Nation’s failed
policies of the past subjected generations of Native peoples to cruelty,
violence, and intimidation.  The forced removal of Native peoples from
their homes and ancestral homelands; attempts to assimilate entire
generations; and stripping of Indigenous peoples of their identities,
cultures, and traditions are some of the darkest chapters of our
Nation’s history.  The trauma and turmoil fundamentally altered their
communities.  As the first President to visit Indian Country in 10
years, I delivered a national apology for the unspeakable harms caused
to Native peoples at Federal Indian Boarding Schools.

     Indigenous peoples have persisted and survived — a testament to
their resilience and resolve.  Today, Native communities are leading the
way forward and continuing to strengthen the fabric of the United
States.  They have long served in the United States military and
currently serve in the highest levels of government — including the
Secretary of the Interior, Deb Haaland, America’s first Native American
Cabinet secretary.  In every field and sector, Native peoples are
pushing for progress and contributing to our shared prosperity.  

     Since I came into office, the Federal Government has made record
investments in Tribal Nations.  Federal contracts with Native
American-owned companies increased by over $8 billion from 2020 to
2023.  My American Rescue Plan made the largest direct Federal
investment in Tribal Nations ever, helping vaccinate Tribal communities
during the COVID-19 pandemic and keeping the economy going.  My
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law made the single biggest investment in
Tribal roads, bridges, water, high-speed internet, electricity,
irrigation, environmental cleanup, and so much more.  My Inflation
Reduction Act made the biggest investment in fighting climate change
ever — including funding to help Tribal communities lead in the just
transition to clean energy and ease the impact of droughts, wildfires,
and rising sea levels, which threaten Native lives and precious
homelands. 

     My Administration is also working to ensure that Native communities
are safe and secure and have the resources they need to thrive.  I
signed an Executive Order that improves the Federal response to the
epidemic of missing and murdered Indigenous peoples.  When we
reauthorized the Violence Against Women Act in 2022, we included
historic provisions to reaffirm Tribal sovereignty and expand Tribal
jurisdiction in cases where outside perpetrators harm members of their
Nation.  And for the first time ever, my Administration also secured
advance funding for the Indian Health Service so hospitals can plan
ahead, order supplies, and hire doctors.  We have provided historic
funding to Tribal communities to help fight the behavioral health crisis
and taken significant steps to improve maternal health for Native
American women, who are twice as likely to die from pregnancy-related
complications as white women. 

     I have always believed that we must know the good, the bad, and the
truth of who we are as a Nation — we must acknowledge our history so
that we can begin to remember and heal.  That is why I became the first
President to issue a formal apology for the Federal Indian Boarding
School era, one of the most horrific chapters in our Nation’s history. 
For 150 years, the Federal Government mandated the removal of Native
children from their families and Tribes — and as a result, generations
of Native children had their childhoods stolen and whole Tribal cultures
were erased.  I am proud to formally end the silence surrounding this
shameful era and I remain proud that my Administration defended the
Indian Child Welfare Act in court, ensuring that our Nation respects
Tribal sovereignty and protects Native children by helping Native
families stay together and grow up with their languages and cultures. 
And we are working to support Native American families and communities
as they heal from the Federal Indian Boarding School era through the
Department of the Interior’s Road to Healing initiative and by
supporting Native language preservation and public safety initiatives.  

     My Administration has also worked with Tribal Nations to preserve,
protect, and steward important ancestral Tribal lands and waters.
 Through more than 200 co-stewardship and co-management agreements
signed under my leadership, we are working side by side with Tribes to
make decisions about how to manage the lands that are most precious to
them.  And to date, I have protected and conserved more than 45 million
acres of our Nation’s lands and waters.  That includes the Chumash
Heritage National Marine Sanctuary, vast offshore waters off
California’s coast and the first sanctuary to be proposed by Indigenous
communities.  I have also established, expanded, and restored
11 national monuments, many containing sites considered sacred to Tribal
Nations — from Bears Ears National Monument, Grand Staircase-Escalante
National Monument, and Avi Kwa Ame National Monument to Baaj Nwaavjo
I’tah Kukveni-Ancestral Footprints of the Grand Canyon National
Monument, Berryessa Snow Mountain National Monument, and others.  

     During National Native American Heritage Month, we honor the
heritage and contributions of Native peoples, and we work tirelessly to
build a future grounded in dignity, respect, and partnership.  We remain
committed to working with Native communities to write a new and better
chapter in American history for Tribal Nations — one that honors the
solemn promise the United States made to Tribal Nations, fulfills our
Federal trust and treaty obligations, and works together to rebuild
Tribal economies and institutions.  

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
November 2024 as National Native American Heritage Month.  I urge all
Americans, as well as their elected representatives at the Federal,
State, and local levels, to observe this month with appropriate
programs, ceremonies, and activities.  Also, I urge all Americans to
celebrate November 29, 2024, as Native American Heritage Day.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
