---
date: '2024-10-25'
published_time: 2024-10-25 16:02:17-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/10/25/a-proclamation-on-national-first-responders-day-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National First Responders Day,\_2024"
---
 
On National First Responders Day, we recognize and celebrate all the
brave first responders across our country who risk their lives to keep
the rest of us safe.

     Our first responders represent the best of who we are as a people. 
They are the police officers and sheriff’s deputies who answer our
calls, ready to help, no matter the situation.  They are the
firefighters running toward the flames to protect our communities.  They
are emergency medical technicians, paramedics, 911 dispatchers, 988
crisis responders, and all the medical professionals providing emergency
care, who sacrifice so much to be there for us when a crisis hits.  Our
first responders are everyday heroes, and we are so grateful for their
service.  In the wake of Hurricane Milton and Hurricane Helene, we
witnessed the courage and bravery of our first responders firsthand and
just how much they sacrifice to keep the rest of us safe, including the
brave search and rescue teams who have saved thousands of lives in the
aftermath of the storms.

     My Administration is committed to supporting our first responders
and ensuring they have access to the resources they need to thrive. 
During the COVID-19 pandemic, I signed the American Rescue Plan to keep
first responders on the job, which provided billions of dollars to help
cities, States, and Tribal Nations retain and hire more law enforcement
officers, firefighters, and emergency health providers and pay their
bonuses and overtime.  I also signed the Protecting America’s First
Responders Act, which expanded death, disability, and education benefits
for first responders killed or permanently disabled in the line of duty
and their families.  My Administration is also making sure that
firefighters are getting the health care they need by launching the
National Firefighter Registry for Cancer — our Nation’s largest effort
to reduce the risk of cancer among firefighters — providing access to
job-related disability benefits for firefighters diagnosed with certain
kinds of cancer or lung disease, and protecting firefighters from toxic
PFAS chemicals in their gear and equipment.

     My Administration is working to make our communities safer and more
resilient while keeping our first responders safe.  I signed the most
significant gun safety law in nearly 30 years while also strengthening
background checks for gun purchasers and cracking down on illegal gun
sales and ghost guns.  And my Investing in America agenda included
funding to make our communities more resilient to natural disasters.

     This month, Vice President Harris and I visited North Carolina and
Florida in the aftermath of Hurricane Helene and Hurricane Milton.
 Lives were lost.  Entire neighborhoods had been turned into debris. 
Portions of entire cities were underwater.  But our first responders
stepped up in this time of need, picking up the pieces and acting as a
source of strength for everyone else.  Today, may we honor the critical
role first responders play in our lives — showing up in our darkest
times to provide hope, light, and care.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 28, 2024, as National First Responders Day.  I call upon all the
people of the United States to observe this day with appropriate
programs, ceremonies, and activities to honor our brave first responders
and to pay tribute to those who have lost their lives in the line of
duty.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fifth
day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
