---
date: '2024-10-31'
modified_time: 2024-10-31 14:28:12-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-31 14:28:11-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/10/31/a-proclamation-on-critical-infrastructure-security-and-resilience-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience Month,\_\
  2024"
---
 
     From the energy that powers our homes to the networks that connect
us and the systems that protect our health and safety, our critical
infrastructure keeps our economy thriving and our communities secure. 
This Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience Month, we recommit
to strengthening our country’s critical infrastructure and building an
America that is safe and secure for generations to come.

     This year, I signed a National Security Memorandum to secure and
enhance the resilience of United States critical infrastructure —
updating the policy for the first time in a decade.  This represents the
launch of a new era in protecting our infrastructure against all threats
and hazards by safeguarding our strong and innovative economy and
enhancing our collective resilience to disasters before they happen. 
But there is more to do.  Climate change is making natural disasters
more frequent, ferocious, and costly — endangering our supply chains,
creating more instability for our communities, and straining the
critical infrastructure Americans depend on for their livelihoods.  And
we need to stay vigilant against adversaries that seek to maliciously
target our critical infrastructure, including through cyberattacks.  

     To meet this moment, my Administration made a once-in-a-generation
investment in our Nation’s infrastructure — creating an opportunity to
build in resilience to all hazards upfront and by design.  Through my
American Rescue Plan, Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, Inflation Reduction
Act, and CHIPS and Science Act, we are investing billions of dollars to
secure and bolster our infrastructure.  That includes improving our
electric grid so that people can maintain power in any situation,
elevating roads and bridges over possible flood zones, funding community
resilience programs, and more.  These investments have not only helped
to protect Americans — they have benefited our economy, creating jobs
and new possibilities for our communities.  At the NATO summit this
year, I announced an arrangement with Canada and Finland to collaborate
on the production of polar icebreakers.  The partnership will advance
United States economic and national security interests by strengthening
our shipbuilding and industrial capacity while simultaneously opening up
new trade routes and pushing back against foreign aggression and
bolstering our international alliances.  This year, I also announced a
United States Port Security Initiative to reverse our dependence on
foreign manufactured port equipment.

     Ensuring our Nation is resilient in the face of threats also means
working with other nations around the globe to build better, stronger,
and more sustainable infrastructure.  At the G7 Summit in June, I was
proud to announce the historic progress we have made with our
Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment.  This initiative
will strengthen United States national and economic security for
Americans at home and enable sustainable economic growth for partner
countries.  To date, we have mobilized $60 billion to create
high-quality global infrastructure.  That comes on top of our work with
the European Union and African heads of state to develop the Lobito
Corridor as well as our work with the Democratic Republic of the Congo
and Zambia to expand regional and global trade markets through the Port
of Lobito in Angola.  We continue to pursue opportunities to expand our
investments across Africa and around the world, including the
Indo-Pacific, Central Asia, the Middle East, and the Western
Hemisphere.  Investments like these create more shared opportunities,
prosperity, and security for everyone.

     Across the Nation, America is writing the greatest comeback story
we have ever known — people are putting shovels in the ground, founding
new businesses, and creating hope for entire communities.  It is more
important now than ever before that we remain vigilant against any
threats that seek to undermine our collective security and prosperity. 

     During Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience Month, we
recommit to safeguarding and strengthening our Nation’s critical
infrastructure to save lives and allow our Nation to continue doing what
it does best:  creating new possibilities.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
November 2024 as Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience Month. 
I call upon the people of the United States to recognize the importance
of protecting our Nation’s infrastructure and to observe this month with
appropriate measures to enhance our national security and resilience.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
