---
date: '2024-10-04'
published_time: 2024-10-04 10:58:15-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/10/04/a-proclamation-on-fire-prevention-week-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Fire Prevention Week,\_2024"
---
 
     In the face of incredibly dangerous fires, Americans have always
met the moment — whether it is the first responders rushing in to keep
everyone safe or the neighborhoods that come together to rebuild from
the rubble.  During Fire Prevention Week, we encourage all Americans to
learn more about fire safety.  We recommit to preventing fires before
they occur and supporting families affected by fires.  And we extend our
gratitude to the firefighters and first responders whose extraordinary
bravery saves lives.

     As President, I have seen the devastating toll fires take on
families across the country.  I have met with families who lost their
homes and small business owners who lost their livelihoods to fires.  I
have met with firefighters who saved lives while risking their own —
some had fought massive wildfires when they had never been trained for
that before.  This year, more than 1,400 people, including 43
firefighters, lost their lives to fires.  And thousands of acres of land
have been burned by wildfires — in total, more acres have been burned
than the size of some States. 

     With climate change, these fires will only get more ferocious,
deadly, and costly.  But my Administration is doing everything we can to
fight the climate crisis and keep people safe.  That is why I have made
the most significant climate investment anywhere in the world.  Through
my Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, we are investing billions of dollars
to strengthen our early wildfire detection programs, prevent and
mitigate drought, and — in the event of a wildfire — restore and
rehabilitate ecosystems.  At the same time, my Inflation Reduction Act
is putting us on the path to cut America’s carbon emissions in at least
half by 2030 with historic investments in green manufacturing, clean
energy, and climate-smart agriculture.

     My Administration is also committed to ensuring firefighters have
the resources and support they need to do their jobs safely and
effectively.  That is why, in my first months as President, I invested
$350 billion from the American Rescue Plan to help States and cities
keep first responders, including firefighters, on the job.  The law also
increased Federal firefighting grants by $300 million, paying for
hundreds of emergency response vehicles, thousands of sets of turnout
gear, critical cancer research, and more local firefighters in the
field.  The Department of Labor proposed a rule that would substantially
update protections for emergency response workers, including
firefighters, for the first time in more than four decades.  Further, I
am proud to have increased the Federal firefighter minimum wage to $15
an hour — a first step toward giving firefighters the pay they deserve. 
And we have launched new programs to recruit, retain, and train Federal
firefighters.  I also signed the Fire Grants and Safety Act, directing
millions of dollars to fire stations and communities across the country
so they can prevent fires and mitigate the damage if they do occur.

     We are also committed to advancing public safety and uplift Fire
Prevention Week’s theme of “Smoke alarms: Make them work for you!” 
Smoke alarms are essential to ensuring you and your family can leave
home quickly in the event of a fire.  Make sure to install smoke alarms
in every bedroom, outside each sleeping area, and on every floor of the
house.  Once a month, remember to test your smoke alarm by pressing the
test button.  And replace smoke alarms either every 10 years or if they
stop responding when tested. 

     The First Lady and I remain in awe of the heroism and courage of
our firefighters and all the communities who have come together to
rebuild in the wake of devastating fires — we truly are a good Nation
because we are a good people.  During Fire Prevention Week, we honor our
first responders and firefighters for keeping us safe.  We recommit to
supporting all Americans rebuilding their lives after a fire.  And we
spread awareness about smoke alarms and fire safety.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 6 through October 12, 2024, as Fire Prevention Week.  I call on
all Americans to participate in this observance with appropriate
programs and activities and by renewing their efforts to prevent fires
and their tragic consequences.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
fourth day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four,
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred
and forty-ninth.  
  
  
                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
