---
date: '2024-10-08'
published_time: 2024-10-08 15:13:23-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/10/08/president-joseph-r-biden-jr-approves-the-seminole-tribe-of-florida-emergency-declaration-2/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. Approves the Seminole Tribe of Florida Emergency\_\
  Declaration"
---
 
Today, President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. declared that an emergency exists
for the Seminole Tribe of Florida and ordered Federal assistance to
supplement the Tribe’s response efforts due to the emergency conditions
resulting from Hurricane Milton beginning on October 5, 2024, and
continuing.

The President’s action authorizes the Department of Homeland Security,
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), to coordinate all disaster
relief efforts which have the purpose of alleviating the hardship and
suffering caused by the emergency on the local population, and to
provide appropriate assistance for required emergency measures,
authorized under Title V of the Stafford Act, to save lives and to
protect property and public health and safety, and to lessen or avert
the threat of a catastrophe for the Seminole Tribe of Florida.

Specifically, FEMA is authorized to identify, mobilize, and provide at
its discretion, equipment and resources necessary to alleviate the
impacts of the emergency.  Emergency protective measures, including
direct federal assistance, will be provided at 75 percent Federal
funding. 

Ms. Leda M. Khoury of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has
been appointed to coordinate Federal recovery operations in the affected
areas. 

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION MEDIA SHOULD CONTACT THE FEMA NEWS DESK AT (202)
646-3272 OR
[FEMA-NEWS-DESK@FEMA.DHS.GOV](mailto:FEMA-NEWS-DESK@DHS.GOV).

\###
