---
category: blog
date: '2021-05-09'
modified_time: 2021-05-09 10:36:17-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/blog/2021/05/09/how-the-american-rescue-plan-the-american-jobs-plan-and-the-american-families-plan-meet-the-moment-for-moms-this-mothers-day/
published_time: 2021-05-09 10:30:00-04:00
title: "How the American Rescue Plan, the American Jobs Plan, and the American Families\
  \ Plan Meet the Moment for Moms this Mother\u2019s Day"
---
 
*By: The White House Gender Policy Council*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

As we mark Mother’s Day, more than a year has now passed since a
once-in-a-century public health crisis, a once-in-a-generation economic
crisis, and an ongoing caregiving crisis conspired to place an
unprecedented burden on millions of moms — and their families— across
the country.

In a year of extraordinary challenges, mothers have done what they
ordinarily do – care for their families, communities and our nation.
When COVID-19 threw daily life off of its axis, it was often America’s
moms who were forced to make difficult decisions for the well-being of
their families.  Too many struggled as the economy hit hardest in
female-dominated industries, while many other mothers have continued
working essential jobs in difficult conditions — on farms and in
factories; in grocery stores and restaurants; in laboratories and
hospitals; and in so many other places on the front lines.

Far too many mothers have helped shepherd us through the crisis without
the critical support they and their families need, like affordable child
care, paid family and medical leave, and flexible and predictable
schedules.  Over the past year, many mothers have taken on the full-time
jobs of educator and care provider when our schools and care facilities
were closed.  Often, that has meant sacrificing their own jobs, work
hours, or educational pursuits.  And for mothers who are part of the
care workforce themselves — disproportionately women of color and
immigrant women — the burden has only increased, even as they continue
to hold families and communities together in an economy that routinely
undervalues, underpays, and neglects them. 

Despite the progress our nation has made over the last three months,
there remain two million fewer women in the workforce than there were
before the pandemic struck.  Thirty years of progress in women’s labor
force participation has been eroded; millions of moms still don’t have
the realistic option of returning to the workforce due to child care and
other caregiving responsibilities.  The pandemic has exacerbated this
reality, but it isn’t new — a chronic lack of investment in our
caregiving infrastructure through the years has undermined women’s
economic security, particularly for women of color and those who work in
lower-paying jobs.  **To honor America’s moms this Mother’s Day, we must
recognize that it’s not enough for us simply to return to the status
quo.  We need to build back better by building an economy that values
the dignity, labor, and choices of every mom. **

**Together, the American Rescue Plan, American Jobs Plan, and American
Families Plan offer the critical relief and support that mothers and
families need.**  

**The** [**American Rescue
Plan**](https://www.whitehouse.gov/american-rescue-plan/) **— signed
into law in March — delivers for moms.** It provides resources to get
vaccines in arms and children safely back in school and child care —
which helps moms kept out of the workforce this past year to get back on
the job.  It gives Americans direct relief, including $1,400 per-person
checks to 85% of American households.  It also boosts funding for
programs to protect survivors of gender-based violence, and expands
housing and food assistance. Perhaps most impactfully of all, it expands
one of the most important middle-class tax cuts we have — the child tax
credit — putting up to $3,000 per child six and older and, $3,600 per
child under six into the pockets of moms and dads.  That provision alone
is the primary reason why the American Rescue Plan is projected to cut
child poverty in half this year; thanks to this landmark law, poverty
levels are expected to fall by nearly 55% for Black children, and by
nearly 53% for Hispanic children.  

**The American Rescue Plan also addresses head-on the child care
challenges that have contributed to the significant reduction in women’s
labor force participation**.  It expands support for hard-hit childcare
providers and helps families struggling to afford care for their
children.  It also reduces health care costs for millions of women who
buy coverage through the Marketplace, saving families an average of $600
per person per year on their premiums.  The law includes additional
Medicaid funding for home and community-based services, improving the
quality of caregiving jobs and expanding access to services for aging
parents, children, and family members with disabilities.  It also makes
it easier for states to expand Medicaid postpartum coverage from 60 days
to 12 months, ensuring that more new moms can stay healthy and keep the
peace of mind that health coverage provides. 

**The** [**American Jobs
Plan**](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/03/31/fact-sheet-the-american-jobs-plan/)
**will  build on that foundation to create an economy that brings
everyone along.**  This proposed legislation would strengthen our
families, our communities, and our nation by making bold and necessary
investments in America itself.  It would put millions of Americans to
work in good-paying jobs — rebuilding not only our roads, highways, and
bridges, but also modernizing our schools, upgrading our child care
centers, and investing in a robust care infrastructure.  For example, it
includes a $400 billion investment toward expanding access to quality,
affordable home- or community-based care for aging relatives and people
with disabilities.   The plan would deliver high-speed internet to every
American home — and replace every lead service pipe in America, so kids
in up to 10 million homes and 400,000 schools and child care centers can
turn on a faucet and not worry about drinking polluted water.  To ensure
that the economy is built on a foundation of equity, the American Jobs
Plan would also strengthen the workforce pipeline for more women and
communities of color to access these in-demand jobs.  This includes
ensuring jobs with fair and equal pay, safe and healthy workplaces, and
workplaces free from racial, gender, and other forms of discrimination
and harassment.

**The** [**American Families
Plan**](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/28/fact-sheet-the-american-families-plan/)
**will continue to build the economy by making a once-in-a-generation
investment in our families.** It would invest $1 trillion to help cover
basic expenses that families need and care about most — making child
care and higher education more affordable, lowering the cost of health
care over the long term, and continuing to reduce child poverty and put
money in parents’ pockets by extending the historic expansion of the
child tax credit in the American Rescue Plan.  And because 12 years of
public education is often no longer enough to compete in the
21<sup>st</sup> century economy, the American Families Plan would also
provide an additional four years of free education to every student in
America.  On the front end, that would include universal, quality
preschool for all three- and four-year-olds in the nation — which we
know provides benefits throughout their lives.  On the back end, it
would include two years of free community college — so every high school
graduate can train for a good job in the industries of the future.  In
addition, this plan would ensure that low- and middle-income families
spend no more than seven percent of their income on child care, and
would create a national comprehensive paid family and medical leave
program. 

The American Families Plan would also invest $3 billion to improve
maternal health. The COVID-19 pandemic has exacerbated longstanding
disparities in health.  Among those disparities are our country’s
unacceptably high rates of maternal mortality and morbidity, which
disproportionately impact Black and Native American mothers and
families. And, this historic plan would provide critical nutrition
assistance — $45 billion in funding — to families who need it most by
expanding access to healthy food to our nation’s students, both during
the school day and over the summer months.  

Like the American Rescue Plan, the American Jobs Plan and the American
Families Plan are essential to meeting the moment for mothers — they are
critical investments in working families that can be paid for without
adding a dollar to our debt.  When we invest in moms, we expand the
possibilities for every family, every community, and for our entire
nation.  On this Mother’s Day, and every day, we can honor moms across
the country by working to build an economy that works for them — and for
all of us.
