---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-11-30'
modified_time: 2021-11-30 09:12:20-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/11/30/a-proclamation-on-national-impaired-driving-prevention-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-11-30 09:12:19-05:00
title: A Proclamation on National Impaired Driving Prevention Month, 2021
---
 
Every year, thousands of lives are needlessly lost on our Nation’s
roadways because of alcohol — and drug-impaired driving.  These are
avoidable tragedies that leave deep holes in our Nation’s families and
communities.  During National Impaired Driving Prevention Month, we
reaffirm our commitment to preventing impaired driving.  We remember the
victims and honor their memory by making the responsible decision to
drive sober and ensure that others do the same.

Driving while impaired by any substance — legal or illegal — is
dangerous.  Alcohol, illicit drugs, and even over-the-counter and
prescription medications can impair a driver’s judgment, decrease motor
coordination, and slow the reaction time necessary to safely operate a
motor vehicle.  Alcohol-impaired driving has led to over 10,000 deaths
each year.

My Administration is committed to reducing the number of impaired
drivers and raising awareness about the dangers of driving impaired. 
The new Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act calls for the National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration to issue a new standard for
“advanced drunk and impaired driving prevention technology” for new
vehicles, which would help prevent impaired drivers from taking the
wheel.

My Administration is building our capacity to end impaired driving by
supporting innovative strategies that reduce impaired driving-related
crashes, injuries, and fatalities while safeguarding against bias and
ensuring racial equity.  To identify and support people with substance
use disorders, we are increasing impaired driving risk screening,
supporting evidence-based prevention programs, and providing access to
evidence-based treatment and recovery support services.  My
Administration is also raising awareness about the effects of impairment
on driving ability through the *Drive Sober or Get Pulled Over* and *If
You Feel Different, You Drive Different* national media campaigns.

While our technology continues to advance and may one day help solve the
problem of impaired driving, everyone must take individual
responsibility and pledge to never drive while impaired and to deter
others from making that fateful decision.  
During National Impaired Driving Prevention Month, we recommit ourselves
to doing all we can to stop these preventable crashes and remember those
who lost their lives as a result of impaired driving.  We must also
share our appreciation for the law enforcement officers who risk their
lives each day to keep our communities safe while keeping impaired
drivers off of our roadways.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim December 2021 as
National Impaired Driving Prevention Month.  I urge all Americans to
make responsible decisions and take appropriate measures to prevent
impaired driving.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of
November, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
