---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-11-12'
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/11/12/a-proclamation-on-national-apprenticeship-week-2021/
published_time: 2021-11-12 12:34:13-05:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Apprenticeship Week,\_2021"
---
 
For decades, Registered Apprenticeships have been a reliable pathway to
the middle class.  Apprenticeships train workers for good jobs and allow
them to earn while they learn. These educational experiences are
especially important for workers who did not attend college, as they
provide these workers with the type of specialized training needed for
the jobs of today and tomorrow.  During National Apprenticeship Week, we
highlight how this quality industry and worker-driven training model
provides a critical talent pipeline and a means to strengthen our
workforce and address our Nation’s pressing challenges — from rebuilding
our country’s infrastructure to protecting against cybersecurity
threats. 

As we build our economy back better and continue to fight the COVID-19
pandemic, we have seen the especially important role apprenticeships
play in providing training to workers looking to re-enter the workforce
and young people who are seeking to enter the work force — in each case
providing an opportunity to train and develop the skills needed for jobs
of the future while earning a good income.  

My Administration supports the expansion of Registered Apprenticeships
and the pathways they create to good jobs and union
representation.  That is why I rescinded an Executive Order that
undermined Registered Apprenticeship programs by promoting less rigorous
industry-recognized apprenticeships.  To strengthen the voice of our
workers who have been central to rebuilding our economy, my
Administration reinstated the longstanding National Advisory Committee
on Apprenticeships.  Since apprenticeships are central to supporting the
investments made in the American Rescue Plan and the Build Back Better
Agenda, I have proposed we invest in high-quality job training and
Registered Apprenticeships in fast-growing sectors like health care,
child care, advanced manufacturing, information technology, and clean
energy so that every American receives the skills required by employers
for good, middle-class union jobs. 

My Administration also recently awarded nearly $100 million in State
Apprenticeship Expansion, Equity and Innovation grants to bolster
States’ efforts to expand programming and inclusive recruitment
strategies.  These grants also aim to develop partnerships that ensure
we have a workforce ready to staff new industries and non-traditional
occupations, including industry sectors hit hardest by the pandemic.  To
facilitate the expansion of Registered Apprenticeship programs, provide
technical assistance to these programs, and help small- and medium-sized
firms establish Registered Apprenticeships, we also invested nearly $31
million through cooperative agreements to establish four Registered
Apprenticeship Technical Assistance Centers of Excellence.  The centers
will also work with public and private sector partners to expand
opportunities in Registered Apprenticeship programs for women, youths,
people of color, rural communities, justice-involved individuals, and
people with disabilities.  The centers are the culmination of a
longstanding commitment to expand access to apprenticeships for
traditionally underrepresented groups of workers and build on existing
strategies that include the Women in Apprenticeship and Non-Traditional
Occupations (WANTO) grant program, now in its 27th year.

During National Apprenticeship week, we also commit to ensuring that
people from populations that have been historically underserved,
marginalized, and adversely affected by persistent discrimination,
poverty, and inequality have an opportunity to participate in the
workforce.  In particular, given the historic underrepresentation of
women in apprenticeship programs and the impact of the pandemic on
women’s labor force participation, there is even greater urgency to
support women’s participation in Registered Apprenticeships.

Together, and with strengthened Registered Apprenticeships, we can build
an even more successful, competitive, and diverse workforce.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim
November 14 through November 20, 2021, as National Apprenticeship Week. 
I urge the Congress, State and local governments, educational
institutions, industry and labor leaders, apprentices, and all Americans
to support Registered Apprenticeship programs in the United States of
America and to raise awareness of their importance in building a diverse
and robust workforce to strengthen our national economy. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twelfth day of
November, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
