---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-11-09'
modified_time: 2021-11-09 09:10:47-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/11/09/a-proclamation-on-veterans-day-2021/
published_time: 2021-11-09 09:10:46-05:00
title: A Proclamation on Veterans Day, 2021
---
 
For generations, millions of Americans have answered the call to serve —
taking the sacred oath to defend and preserve our Nation’s ideals of
liberty and democracy.  These patriots represent the best of us.  On
Veterans Day, we honor their service, dedication, and valor and are
forever grateful for their sacrifice. 

Our Nation has only one truly sacred obligation:  to properly prepare
and equip our service members when we send them into harm’s way and to
care for them and their families when they return home.  For our 19
million veterans, that means ensuring that they have access to the
support and resources for a future of security, opportunity, and
dignity.  This is even more important as we continue to recover from the
global COVID-19 pandemic. 

Our obligation to support our Nation’s veterans and their families is
personal for me and the entire Biden family, and I remain committed to
ensuring that every veteran receives the care and support they have
earned.  The recently passed bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and
Jobs Act will create millions of good jobs for veterans and grow
opportunities for veteran-owned businesses. My Build Back Better
framework also prioritizes improvements to VA health care, ensuring that
every veteran — including our often-underserved female and LGBTQ+
veterans — receives competent, world-class health care through the
Department of Veterans Affairs.  Last month, the White House Gender
Policy Council released the first-ever United States Strategy for Gender
Equity and Equality, which included the unique needs and contributions
of women service members and veterans.  And the Department of Veterans
Affairs is also working to get every eligible veteran the information
and opportunity they need to register and vote, protecting their voice
in the democracy they fought to preserve. 

Ensuring veterans have timely access to services and benefits is at the
center of my Administration’s commitment to fulfilling our sacred
obligation.  This includes addressing the adverse health effects of
service-related exposures.  In August, the Department of Veterans
Affairs announced it will begin processing disability claims for
respiratory conditions connected to exposure during military service in
Southwest Asia and other areas.  My Administration also added three
conditions to the list of those presumptively associated with exposure
to Agent Orange, ending the long wait for disability benefits for many
Vietnam era veterans.  In the coming months, we are committed to taking
additional action to address potential adverse health effects associated
with military environmental exposures.  

So many of our veterans carry the scars from their service — both
visible and invisible — and it is our Nation’s responsibility to help
them heal. Too many veterans and service members have considered suicide
or taken their own lives, and addressing this tragedy is a national
responsibility. That is why I have made military and veteran suicide
prevention a top priority, and earlier this month, I released a new
comprehensive, cross-sector public health strategy to reduce military
and veteran suicide. Implementing this approach will unite us around a
common mission and accelerate meaningful improvements in suicide
prevention programs, helping us live up to our sacred obligation to
those who have served in our Nation’s Armed Forces.

Fulfilling our Nation’s promise to our veterans and military families,
caregivers, and survivors is not only a moral imperative — it is crucial
to our national security and to maintaining the finest military the
world has ever known.  We are a Nation that keeps our promises.  That is
why my Administration is dedicated to a whole-of-government approach in
responding to the needs of our veterans and their families, caregivers,
and survivors. 

Through the First Lady’s work with Joining Forces — the White House
initiative to support veteran and military families, caregivers, and
survivors — my Administration is addressing employment and
entrepreneurship, military and veteran child education, and health and
well-being for veteran families.  Earlier this year, the First Lady met
with military and veteran families to learn how we can better support
and prioritize their needs, and in September, Joining Forces and the
National Security Council released a report outlining the first round of
Administration-wide commitments and proposals that support veteran and
military families, caregivers, and survivors.  These efforts will honor
our sacred obligation to support our veteran families and ensure they
receive the resources they need to thrive. 

On Veterans Day, we honor our Nation’s veterans, who have given so much
to protect our freedoms and the freedom of others around the globe. 
They represent the highest ideals of our country.  While we can never
fully repay the debt we owe these heroes, we will honor their service
and provide them the care and support they deserve.  We also salute and
show gratitude for all who ensure our Armed Forces remain strong,
united, and unmatched.

In respect and recognition of the contributions our veterans and their
families, caregivers, and survivors have made to the cause of peace and
freedom around the world, the Congress has provided (5 U.S.C. 6103(a))
that November 11 of each year shall be set aside as a legal public
holiday to honor our Nation’s veterans.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, do hereby proclaim November 11, 2021, as Veterans Day.  I
encourage all Americans to recognize the valor, courage, and sacrifice
of our veterans through appropriate ceremonies and private prayers.  I
call upon Federal, State, and local officials to display the flag of the
United States of America and to participate in patriotic activities in
their communities.  And I call on all Americans, including civic and
fraternal organizations, places of worship, schools, and communities, to
support this day with commemorative expressions and programs.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this ninth day of
November, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                                 JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
