---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-11-19'
modified_time: 2021-11-19 09:46:31-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/11/19/a-proclamation-on-national-childs-day-2021/
published_time: 2021-11-19 09:46:30-05:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Child\u2019s Day,\_2021"
---
 
Our Nation’s children are the kite strings that hold our national
ambitions aloft — and it is our shared responsibility to make sure that
they have every opportunity to thrive.  On National Child’s Day, we
recommit ourselves to ensuring that every child in America has a fair
shot at a bright future, regardless of the gender, race, ethnicity, or
the zip code they are born into.

To support our Nation’s children, it is imperative that we work to
deliver equal access to quality child care and education, health care,
good jobs with dignity, and a clean planet.  That is why I am working
with the Congress to pass my Administration’s Build Back Better plan — a
transformative investment in children, families, climate resilience, and
the foundations of our economy.  The Build Back Better Act is poised to
deliver high-quality child care that all families can afford, universal
access to preschool for all 3- and 4-year-olds, lower costs for higher
education so that every child has an equal footing and opportunity to
succeed, historic tax cuts for working families raising children, the
largest expansion of affordable health care coverage since the
Affordable Care Act, and the largest investment to fight climate change
in American history.

This landmark legislation will help ensure that every child has a safer
and healthier upbringing.  It eases the cost burden of raising a family
— delivering a tax cut directly into the pockets of working parents.  It
will help America once again set the pace around the world when it comes
to educational attainment, reversing generations of underinvestment in
our children’s development and care.  It will help us cut greenhouse gas
emissions and reduce pollution so that our children can breathe clean
air.  With the Bipartisan Infrastructure Act — we will also deliver
high-speed internet access to every American household and replace our
Nation’s lead water pipes so that every child can drink clean water at
home and at school.  I will also continue to make the case for
establishing a paid family and medical leave program so no worker has to
make the impossible choice between work and caring for themselves or a
family member.

These historic bills build on the foundation we laid with the American
Rescue Plan, which has set us on a course to reduce child poverty in
America by nearly half.  The law continues to deliver critical resources
that have allowed our Nation’s children to safely return to the
classroom, and it provides essential tools to address the mental health
needs of our children and much-needed relief to families to improve
maternal and child health care.

We owe every child the opportunity to dream and flourish, supported by
adults helping to make their dreams a reality.  On National Child’s Day,
we reaffirm our commitment to uplift the children in our lives and in
our communities.  Their future is our future, and our Nation’s success
tomorrow relies on the care and investment we provide for our children
today.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim November 20, 2021,
as National Child’s Day.  I call upon all government officials,
educators, volunteers, and all the people of the United States of
America to observe this day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and
activities.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this nineteenth day of
November, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
