---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-11-15'
modified_time: 2021-11-15 15:14:56-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/11/15/executive-order-on-implementation-of-the-infrastructure-investment-and-jobs-act/
published_time: 2021-11-15 15:14:55-05:00
title: Executive Order on Implementation of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs
  Act
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, and in order to effectively
implement the historic infrastructure investments in the Infrastructure
Investment and Jobs Act (the Act), it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.  Background.  The Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act is a
once-in-a-generation investment in our Nation’s infrastructure and
competitiveness.  It will help rebuild America’s roads, bridges, and
rails; expand access to clean drinking water; work to ensure access to
high-speed Internet throughout the Nation; tackle the climate crisis;
advance environmental justice; and invest in communities that have too
often been left behind.  It will accomplish all of this while driving
the creation of good-paying union jobs and growing the economy
sustainably and equitably for decades to come.

Critical to achieving these goals will be the effective implementation
of the Act by my Administration, as well as by State, local, Tribal, and
territorial governments.

Sec. 2.  Implementation Priorities.  In implementing the Act, all
agencies (as described in section 3502(1) of title 44, United States
Code, except for the agencies described in section 3502(5) of title 44),
shall, as appropriate and to the extent consistent with law, prioritize:

     (a)  investing public dollars efficiently, working to avoid waste,
and focusing on measurable outcomes for the American people;

     (b)  increasing the competitiveness of the United States economy,
including through implementing the Act’s Made-in-America requirements
and bolstering United States manufacturing and supply chains;

     (c)  improving job opportunities for millions of Americans by
focusing on high labor standards for these jobs, including prevailing
wages and the free and fair chance to join a union;

     (d)  investing public dollars equitably, including through the
Justice40 Initiative, which is a Government-wide effort toward a goal
that 40 percent of the overall benefits from Federal investments in
climate and clean energy flow to disadvantaged communities;

     (e)  building infrastructure that is resilient and that helps
combat the crisis of climate change; and

     (f)  effectively coordinating with State, local, Tribal, and
territorial governments in implementing these critical investments.

Sec. 3.  Infrastructure Implementation Task Force.  (a)  There is
established within the Executive Office of the President the
Infrastructure Implementation Task Force (Task Force).  The function of
the Task Force is to coordinate effective implementation of the
Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act and other related significant
infrastructure programs within the executive branch.

     (b)  The Assistant to the President for Economic Policy
and Director of the National Economic Council shall serve as Co‑Chair of
the Task Force.

     (c)  There is established within the Executive Office of the
President the position of White House Infrastructure Coordinator, who
shall serve as Co-Chair of the Task Force.

     (d)  In addition to the Co-Chairs, the Task Force shall consist of
the following members:

          (i)     the Secretary of the Interior;

          (ii)    the Secretary of Agriculture;

          (iii)   the Secretary of Commerce;

          (iv)    the Secretary of Labor;

          (v)     the Secretary of Transportation;

          (vi)    the Secretary of Energy;

          (vii)   the Administrator of the Environmental Protection
Agency;

          (viii)  the Director of the Office of Management and Budget;

          (ix)    the Director of the Office of Personnel Management;

          (x)     the Assistant to the President and Director of the
Domestic Policy Council;

          (xi)    the Assistant to the President and National Climate
Advisor; and

          (xii)   the heads of such other executive departments,
agencies, and offices as the Co-Chairs may from time to time invite to
participate.

\(e\)  The Co-Chairs may coordinate subgroups consisting of Task Force
members or their designees, as appropriate.

Sec. 4.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

          (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department
or agency, or the head thereof; or

          (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office
of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or
legislative proposals.

     (b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

     (c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
    November 15, 2021.
