---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-11-17'
modified_time: 2021-11-17 16:43:47-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/11/17/a-proclamation-on-national-rural-health-day-2021/
published_time: 2021-11-17 16:43:46-05:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Rural Health Day,\_2021"
---
 
America’s rural communities feed and fuel our country, steward our
precious lands, and are home to 1 out of every 5 Americans.  As we
continue to fight the COVID-19 pandemic and make the investments we need
to build back better, we must ensure that our recovery includes and
strengthens our Nation’s rural communities.  On National Rural Health
Day, we recommit to supporting the health and well-being of rural
Americans and celebrate the rural health care providers who work
tirelessly to meet their needs.

Rural Americans face unique challenges accessing the care they need and
deserve.  They often have to travel greater distances to see a health
care provider, are less likely to have access to broadband to utilize
telehealth services, and are more likely to live in an area that has a
shortage of doctors, dentists, and mental health providers.  While the
impact of the COVID-19 pandemic has spared no part of the country, rural
areas have confronted additional challenges that affect the delivery of
services, including limited health care infrastructure and fewer
clinicians.

My Administration is committed to improving the health of rural
communities and ensuring that those who call these communities home have
equitable access to the resources and services routinely available to
people living in more densely populated areas.  That is why my American
Rescue Plan (ARP) is providing $8.5 billion to rural health providers to
keep their doors open and continue responding to the COVID-19 pandemic.
 This builds on over $820 million in ARP spending from earlier this year
to support COVID-19 testing and mitigation across 4,200 Rural Health
Clinics and over 1,500 small rural hospitals and $100 million in ARP
funding to support the vaccine outreach efforts of Rural Health Clinics.
 My Administration’s plan also provided $500 million to create the
Emergency Rural Health Care Grant Program, which is helping rural
communities provide more COVID-19 testing and treatment, purchase
medical supplies, deliver food assistance, and renovate health care
facilities.  These investments are complemented by funds to expand
telehealth and support training for new rural health care providers,
including community health workers and respiratory therapists.  This
funding has supported thousands of Rural Health Clinics, small rural
hospitals, and community health workers.

My Administration’s Build Back Better framework will build on the
successes of the ARP by delivering lower cost, higher quality health
care to rural Americans.  My Administration’s proposal is the biggest
expansion of affordable health care in a decade and will lower
prescription drug and other health care costs for rural Americans, keep
rural hospitals open, and work to address the root causes of poor
health, including outdated drinking water infrastructure across rural
America.  Additionally, my Administration is coordinating efforts across
Federal, State, Tribal, territorial, and local governments and
incorporating health equity principles, policies, and approaches in our
efforts to better support rural communities.  This means supporting
rural hospitals and clinics, expanding telehealth and workforce
development, improving community health, and providing greater access to
capital so that every American can receive lower cost and higher quality
health care. 

On National Rural Health Day, we recognize the importance of the health
and well-being of our rural communities.  As our Nation builds back
better, we recommit to supporting our rural health care providers and
working together to bring about a stronger, healthier rural America.

NOW, THERFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States of
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim November 18, 2021, as
National Rural Health Day.  I call upon the people of the United States
to reaffirm our dedication to the health and well-being of rural
America.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
seventeenth day of November, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-one, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
