---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-11-16'
modified_time: 2021-11-16 14:33:30-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/11/16/a-proclamation-on-suspension-of-entry-as-immigrants-and-nonimmigrants-of-persons-responsible-for-policies-or-actions-that-threaten-democracy-in-nicaragua/
published_time: 2021-11-16 14:33:29-05:00
title: A Proclamation on Suspension of Entry as Immigrants and Nonimmigrants of Persons
  Responsible for Policies or Actions That Threaten Democracy in Nicaragua
---
 
In light of the importance to the United States of fostering democratic
processes and institutions in Nicaragua to help the Nicaraguan people
achieve their aspirations for democracy, and given the suppression of
human rights and democracy in Nicaragua, I have determined that it is in
the interest of the United States to restrict and suspend the entry into
the United States, as immigrants and nonimmigrants, of members of the
Government of Nicaragua, led by President Daniel Ortega, including his
spouse and Vice President Rosario Murillo, and others described in this
proclamation who formulate, implement, or benefit from policies or
actions that undermine or injure democratic institutions or impede the
return to democracy in Nicaragua. 

The repressive and abusive acts of the Ortega government and those who
support it compel the United States to act.  The Ortega government’s
crackdown on opposition leaders, civil society leaders, and journalists
in preparation for the November 2021 Nicaraguan presidential and
legislative elections harms the institutions and processes essential to
a functioning democracy.  The Ortega government’s undemocratic,
authoritarian actions have crippled the electoral process and stripped
away the right of Nicaraguan citizens to choose their leaders in free
and fair elections.

The Ortega government’s detention of and denial of fair trial guarantees
to peaceful protesters, civil society leaders, private sector leaders,
student leaders, political leaders, journalists, and presidential
candidates in Nicaragua stifles political discourse and the democratic
process.  Police and prison authorities contribute to the repressive
climate the Ortega government promotes by carrying out politically
motivated arrests and detentions of individuals exercising their human
rights and holding political prisoners incommunicado, without access to
lawyers, family members, and needed medical care.  Family members and
the media have reported that some prisoners have lost significant weight
in detention, cannot walk unassisted, have been held in solitary
confinement, and are subjected to frequent, extensive interrogations. 
The physical and psychological abuse of political prisoners at the hands
of police and prison authorities is intolerable and cannot stand.

The Ortega government controls multiple security services, including
non-uniformed, armed, and masked parapolice, who abuse persons to
further the Ortega government’s authoritarian agenda, including by
harassing, threatening, and committing violence against those opposed to
the government.  Members of the Nicaraguan National Police (NNP), along
with violent mobs of pro-government supporters also controlled by
government actors, have attacked religious institutions in retaliation
for their support for political and religious leaders. 

Municipal officials, acting on direct orders from the Ortega government,
have directed violence against pro-democracy protesters in their
communities and other local actors opposed to the government.  For
example, mayors and mayors’ offices loyal to the Ortega government have
organized and channeled state funds to parapolice groups engaged in
violent repression.  These municipal officials wield enormous political
power and discretionary budget authority, conferred upon them from the
highest levels of the Ortega government.  The climate of fear
established and perpetuated by these municipal officials has diminished
the possibility of free and fair elections and undermined democracy in
Nicaragua.

The judiciary has failed the Nicaraguan people by aiding and abetting
the Ortega government’s use of politically motivated charges to lock up
political prisoners.  By stacking the judiciary with
government-controlled judges and prosecutors, the Ortega government has
abused the justice system to silence critics.  Authorities have held
many political prisoners incommunicado for months, without access to
their lawyers, and with no knowledge of the spurious charges presented
against them.  

The widespread impunity for crimes committed against opposition actors;
the persistent corruption practiced by Nicaraguan government officials
in the performance of public functions that has eroded democratic
institutions; and the continued failure of President Daniel Ortega, Vice
President Rosario Murillo, Nicaraguan government officials, and others
to support the rule of law, human rights, and other principles of high
priority to the United States demand a forceful response.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States, including sections 212(f) and 215(a) of the
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(f) and 1185(a)) and
section 301 of title 3, United States Code, hereby find that the
unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of
persons described in section 1 of this proclamation would, except as
provided for in section 4 of this proclamation, be detrimental to the
interests of the United States, and that their entry should be subject
to certain restrictions, limitations, and exceptions.  I therefore
hereby proclaim the following:

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section</span> <span
style="text-decoration: underline">1.</span>  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Suspension and Limitation on
Entry.</span>  The entry into the United States, as immigrants or
nonimmigrants, of the following persons is hereby suspended:  
     (a)  Members of the Government of Nicaragua, including elected
officials and their staff members;  
     (b)  Mayors, vice mayors, or political secretaries who planned,
ordered, assisted, aided and abetted, committed, or otherwise
participated in, including through command responsibility, serious
abuses or violations of human rights to punish peaceful protestors or
deny Nicaraguans fundamental freedoms, or who attempted or conspired to
do so;  
     (c)  Officials of Nicaragua’s security services, including the
Nicaraguan Military, NNP, Directorate of Special Police Operations,
parapolice groups, and paramilitary groups;  
     (d)  Officials of the Nicaraguan penitentiary administration;  
     (e)  Senior members of the Nicaraguan judiciary, Public Prosecutors
Office, and Ministry of the Interior;  
     (f)  Members of Nicaraguan government ministries, regulatory
agencies, parastatal companies, higher education administrators and
faculty, and elected officials who undertake actions, including human
rights abuses, to deny services to those who make peaceful efforts to
demand the return to democracy in Nicaragua;  
     (g)  Non-government persons who serve as agents of or act at the
behest of those described in subsections (a)-(f) of this section to
facilitate or derive financial benefit from policies or actions,
including electoral fraud, human rights abuses, or corruption, that
undermine or injure democratic institutions or impede the return to
democracy in Nicaragua; and  
     (h)  The spouses, sons, and daughters of persons described in
subsections (a)-(g) of this section.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec.</span> <span
style="text-decoration: underline">2.</span>  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Authority of the Secretary of State
to Identify Covered Individuals.</span>  Persons covered by section 1 of
this proclamation shall be identified by the Secretary of State, or the
Secretary of State’s designee, in the Secretary of State’s sole
discretion, pursuant to such procedures as the Secretary of State may
establish.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec.</span> <span
style="text-decoration: underline">3.</span>  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Implementation of Suspension and
Limitation on Entry.</span>  The Secretary of State shall implement this
proclamation as it applies to visas pursuant to such procedures as the
Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland
Security, may establish.  The Secretary of Homeland Security shall
implement this proclamation as it applies to the entry of noncitizens
pursuant to such procedures as the Secretary of Homeland Security, in
consultation with the Secretary of State, may establish.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec.</span> <span
style="text-decoration: underline">4.</span>  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Scope of Suspension and Limitation on
Entry.</span>  Section 1 of this proclamation shall not apply to:  
     (a)  Any lawful permanent resident of the United States;  
     (b)  Any individual who has been granted asylum by the United
States, any refugee who has already been admitted to the United States,
or any individual granted withholding of removal or protection under the
Convention Against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading
Treatment or Punishment, and nothing in this proclamation shall be
construed to affect any individual’s eligibility for asylum, refugee
status, withholding of removal, or protection under the Convention
Against Torture, consistent with the laws and regulations of the United
States;  
     (c)  Any person otherwise covered by section 1 of this
proclamation, upon determination by the Secretary of State that the
person has ceased actions that undermine democratic institutions and
taken concrete steps to help restore democracy in Nicaragua; or  
     (d)  Any person otherwise covered by section 1 of this
proclamation, upon determination by the Secretary of State that the
person’s entry would not be contrary to the interests of the United
States, including when the Secretary of State so determines, based on a
recommendation of the Attorney General, that the person’s entry would
further important United States law enforcement objectives.  In
exercising this responsibility, the Secretary of State shall consult the
Secretary of Homeland Security on matters related to admissibility or
inadmissibility within the authority of the Secretary of Homeland
Security.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec.</span> <span
style="text-decoration: underline">5.</span>  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Termination.</span>  This
proclamation shall remain in effect until terminated by the President. 
The Secretary of State shall, as circumstances warrant, recommend
whether the President should continue, modify, or terminate this
proclamation.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec.</span> <span
style="text-decoration: underline">6.</span>  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">General Provisions.</span>  (a)
 Nothing in this proclamation shall be construed to impair or otherwise
affect:  
          (i)    United States Government obligations under applicable
international agreements;  
          (ii)   the authority granted by law to an executive department
or agency, or the head thereof; or  
          (iii)  the functions of the Director of the Office
of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or
legislative proposals.  
     (b)  This proclamation shall be implemented consistent
with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.  
     (c)  This proclamation is not intended to, and does not, create any
right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in
equity by any party against the United States, its departments,
agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other
person.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this sixteenth day of
November, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
