---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-11-24'
modified_time: 2021-11-24 10:23:33-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/11/24/a-proclamation-on-thanksgiving-day-2021/
published_time: 2021-11-24 10:23:32-05:00
title: "A Proclamation on: Thanksgiving Day,\_2021"
---
 
Thanksgiving provides us with a time to reflect on our many blessings —
from God, this Nation, and each other.  We are grateful for these
blessings, even — and especially — during times of challenge.

That is why George Washington declared a day of Thanksgiving for his
troops as they marched into that dark winter at Valley Forge.  It is why
in the midst of the Civil War — in proclaiming the Thanksgiving holiday
we now celebrate today — Abraham Lincoln urged us to remember our
“fruitful fields and healthful skies.”  Just as 400 years ago when the
Pilgrims were able to celebrate a successful first harvest thanks to the
generosity and support of the Wampanoag, today we too express our
gratitude for those who have helped us get through this difficult past
year. 

We are grateful for the farm workers and frontline workers, many of whom
are immigrants, who make sure our food is harvested and shipped, keep
our grocery stores stocked, and keep our cities and towns clean and
safe.

We are grateful for the educators who are welcoming children back into
their classrooms, helping them make up for lost learning and lost time,
both academically and socially.

We are grateful for the parents who have carried their families through
this challenging time, helping their children navigate this difficult
chapter in our Nation’s history.

We are grateful for the health care professionals working to vaccinate
our Nation, the nurses who comfort and help people, and the doctors who
provide care and compassion.

We are grateful for the researchers and scientists who have developed
safe and effective vaccines and treatments, allowing us to safely enjoy
a Thanksgiving this year with more family around the table.

As always, we are grateful for our troops serving far from home, keeping
us safe and defending our values.

For the First Lady and me, Thanksgiving has always been a cherished time
to enjoy annual traditions that have evolved into sacred rituals with
our children and grandchildren:  throwing the football, preparing family
recipes, lighting candles, and setting the table.  For many Americans,
this Thanksgiving will be the first time gathering with loved ones
in person since the start of the pandemic — a time of full tables and
full hearts.  

As we celebrate, we will also be thinking of the many families feeling
the pain of an empty chair at the Thanksgiving table.  You are not
alone, and our Nation stands with you. 

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim Thursday, November
25, 2021, as a National Day of Thanksgiving.  I encourage the people of
the United States of America to join together and give thanks for the
friends, neighbors, family members, and strangers who have supported
each other over the past year in a reflection of goodwill and unity.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fourth day
of November, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
