---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-11-12'
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/11/12/a-proclamation-on-american-education-week-2021/
published_time: 2021-11-12 12:34:26-05:00
title: "A Proclamation on American Education Week,\_2021"
---
 
I have always believed that our children are the kite strings that hold
our national ambitions aloft — when we invest in their education, we are
investing in the future of our Nation.  During American Education Week,
which marks its 100th anniversary this year, we celebrate the
unparalleled power of education to lift our country to new heights, and
we recommit ourselves to ensuring that every child in America receives a
quality education.

When America made 12 years of public education standard more than a
century ago, it gave us the best-educated, best-prepared workforce in
the world — setting us on a path to lead the world for the better part
of the 20th century.  Not only is quality, equitable education the
engine of innovation and the fuel of a thriving economy — it is also key
to preserving our democracy and advancing American ideals.  But as the
First Lady so often says, any country that out-educates us will
out-compete us.  The truth is that we are no longer keeping pace with
other countries when it comes to investing in the next generation.

While America once led the world in educational achievement, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development now ranks us 35th
out of 37 major economies when it comes to investing in early childhood
education and care.  Only about half of American 3- and 4-year-olds are
enrolled in early childhood education — while in Germany, France, the
UK, Latvia, and other nations, that number is more than 90 percent.
 According to one study from the Pell Institute, we now rank 12th among
advanced economies when it comes to the percentage of our young people
who have attained a post-high-school degree.

Simply put — we cannot be competitive in the 21st century global economy
if we do not accelerate degree attainment.  It is more important than
ever that we invest in education, particularly as schools and
communities are still fighting to overcome the challenges of the
COVID-19 pandemic.  This virus has called upon the extraordinary
resilience of our educators, school staff, students, and families, whose
dedicated efforts over the last 19 months have helped keep millions of
young people on a path to fulfillment and success.  Now, we must match
their determination with bold action to ensure that our children — and
our Nation — are well-positioned to lead the world in the years ahead.

To that end, my Administration provided resources through the American
Rescue Plan that are helping schools and colleges safely return to
in-person instruction and meet the academic, social, emotional, and
financial needs of students most affected by the pandemic.  My budget
proposal for fiscal year 2022 more than doubles funding for schools that
serve low-income students; invests in support for students with
disabilities; increases Federal funding for community schools tenfold;
and works towards my Administration’s goal of doubling the number of
school counselors, social workers, psychologists, and nurses so that
teachers can focus on teaching.  Finally, my Administration’s Build Back
Better framework would make transformational investments in our
education system — including by making 2 years of high-quality
pre-school available to every child in America.  We will also make
significant investments in education beyond high school:  We will
increase Pell Grants to help students from lower-income families attend
college and invest in Historically Black Colleges and Universities,
Hispanic-Serving Institutions, Tribal Colleges and Universities, and
other Minority-Serving Institutions to help ensure that young people
from every neighborhood have a fair shot at the good-paying jobs of the
future.

In celebrating the centennial anniversary of American Education Week,
let us acknowledge education’s power to transform lives, uplift
communities, and strengthen our democratic society.  Let us honor all
those who nurture our students and inspire the future leaders of our
great Nation. 

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim November 14
through November 20, 2021, as American Education Week.  I invite all
Americans to join in expressing gratitude, now and throughout the year,
for the educators and staff of our Nation’s schools and colleges, and I
encourage the observation of this week through appropriate activities,
events, and programs designed to showcase engaging, high-quality
education, celebrate the joy of learning, and prepare students of every
background for success.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twelfth day of
November, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
