---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-11-30'
modified_time: 2021-11-30 09:13:42-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/11/30/a-proclamation-on-world-aids-day-2021/
published_time: 2021-11-30 09:13:41-05:00
title: "A Proclamation on World AIDS Day,\_2021"
---
 
For decades, World AIDS Day has been recognized as an opportunity for
people around the world to stand together in the fight against HIV.
 This year on World AIDS Day, we are focused on addressing health
inequities and inequalities and ensuring that the voices of people with
HIV are at the center of our work to end the HIV epidemic globally.

While we have made remarkable progress in the 40 years since the
first-known reported case of AIDS, this disease remains a serious public
health challenge — and we join the international community to honor and
remember the more than 36 million people, including 700,000 Americans,
who have tragically died from AIDS-related illness since the start of
the epidemic.  We also renew our commitment to stand with the nearly 38
million people living with HIV around the world as we pursue our shared
goal of ending the HIV epidemic.

The COVID-19 pandemic has added to the challenges our heroic health care
and frontline workers face, yet they continue to deliver essential HIV
prevention services and provide vital care and treatment to people
living with HIV.  The pandemic has also interrupted HIV research and
highlighted the work that still remains to achieve equitable access to
HIV prevention, care, and treatment in every community — particularly
for communities of color, adolescent girls and young women, and the
LGBTQI+ community.

My Administration remains steadfast in our efforts to end the HIV
epidemic, confront systems and policies that perpetuate entrenched
health inequities, and build a healthier world for all people.  Earlier
this year, I reinstated the White House Office of National AIDS Policy
to coordinate our efforts to reduce the number of HIV infections across
our Nation.  This week, my Administration is releasing an updated
National HIV/AIDS Strategy to decrease health inequities in new
diagnoses and improve access to comprehensive, evidence-based
HIV-prevention tools. This updated strategy will make equity a
cornerstone of our response and bring a whole-of-government approach to
fighting HIV.

My budget request includes $670 million to support the Department of
Health and Human Services’ Ending the HIV Epidemic in the U.S.
Initiative — to reduce HIV diagnoses and AIDS-related deaths.  My
Administration has also strengthened the Presidential Advisory Council
on HIV/AIDS by adding members from diverse backgrounds who bring the
knowledge and expertise needed to further our Nation’s HIV response. 

My Administration is committed to helping the world end the AIDS
epidemic as a public health threat by 2030.  Through the United States
President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR), we have saved more
than 21 million lives, prevented millions of HIV infections, and
supported at least 20 countries around the world to reach epidemic
control of HIV or achieve their ambitious HIV treatment targets.  This
remarkable progress over the past 18 years has been made possible
through strong, bipartisan United States leadership and American
generosity.  Now, together with partner governments and communities, my
Administration is setting a bold vision for achieving sustained epidemic
control of HIV by supporting equitable health services and solutions,
contributing to improved health for all in PEPFAR-supported countries,
and working with the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and
Malaria; UNAIDS; and other regional and local partners toward the goal
of ending the HIV epidemic everywhere.

Ending the HIV epidemic is within our reach, and we are committed to
finishing this work.  On World AIDS Day, we rededicate ourselves to
building on the progress of the last 4 decades; upholding and advancing
human rights; supporting research, science, and data-driven solutions;
expanding access to housing, education, and economic empowerment; and
fighting stigma and discrimination.  No one living with HIV should
suffer the undeserved guilt and prejudice that too many continue to
experience.  We must innovate and explore new ways to help address
HIV/AIDS in communities here at home and around the world.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim December 1, 2021,
as World AIDS Day.  I urge the Governors of the United States and its
Territories, and the American people to join the HIV community in
activities to remember those who have lost their lives to AIDS and to
provide support, dignity, and compassion to those living with HIV.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of
November, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.  
                             

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
