---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-11-17'
modified_time: 2021-11-17 16:44:38-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/11/17/a-proclamation-on-antibiotic-awareness-week-2021/
published_time: 2021-11-17 16:44:37-05:00
title: "A Proclamation on Antibiotic Awareness Week,\_2021"
---
 
Antibiotic Awareness Week is an occasion to celebrate the miracles of
science and medicine that improve and sustain our lives, including
innovations in antibiotics that have transformed the treatment of
illness. Antibiotics save lives, kill bacteria that cause infections,
and make it possible for many modern health care practices — including
cancer treatments or surgery — to be safely performed.  This week is
also an occasion to raise awareness of the dangers of misuse and overuse
of antibiotics, which can lead to antibiotic resistance.

It is critical to the health of our Nation that antibiotics be used only
as intended.  In recent decades, the misuse of antibiotics has
contributed to infectious germs becoming increasingly resistant to
antibiotic drugs.  Every year, more than 3 million people in the United
States are infected — and nearly 50,000 are killed — by an
antibiotic-resistant germ or an infection that can occur after taking
antibiotics.  Because most of these cases occur as a result of improper
antibiotic use, it is essential that these drugs are used appropriately
and only when necessary.  During Antibiotic Awareness Week, we reaffirm
our commitment to meet the challenge of antibiotic resistance and
preserve the effectiveness of these lifesaving treatments.

My Administration is committed to a strong public health response to
antibiotic resistance.  We are pursuing the ambitious goals laid out in
the National Action Plan for Combating Antibiotic-Resistant Bacteria,
building on evidence-based activities that slow the spread of antibiotic
resistant infections and striving to scale up tracking of antibiotic use
across the country through systems such as the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention’s National Healthcare Safety Network.  We know
the kinds of interventions that work to maintain the integrity of
antibiotics and strengthen antibiotic stewardship across industries, and
we are implementing those interventions and providing resources to
analyze data and address inequities in antibiotic prescribing and use.
 In addition, we are examining how disparities in health care access and
quality of care exacerbate antibiotic-resistant infections.

Every American has a vital role to play in this effort.  Even small
changes in how we use antibiotics can help defend against the threat of
antibiotic resistance.  Using the right antibiotic and the correct
dosage for the proper duration at the prescribed time can help improve
how antibiotics are used to prevent and control infections for all of
us.  During Antibiotic Awareness Week, we commit to doing our part to
take on the threat of antibiotic resistance and pursue strategies that
will make all Americans safer and healthier.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim November 18
through November 24, 2021, as Antibiotic Awareness Week.  I call upon
the scientific community, medical professionals, educators, businesses,
industry leaders, and all Americans to observe this week by promoting
the responsible use of antibiotics and raising awareness of the dangers
inherent to their misuse and overuse.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this seventeenth day of
November, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
