---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-11-15'
modified_time: 2021-11-15 13:49:31-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/11/15/executive-order-on-improving-public-safety-and-criminal-justice-for-native-americans-and-addressing-the-crisis-of-missing-or-murdered-indigenous-people/
published_time: 2021-11-15 13:49:30-05:00
title: "Executive Order on Improving Public Safety and Criminal Justice for Native\
  \ Americans and Addressing the Crisis of Missing or Murdered Indigenous\_People"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, I hereby order as follows:

Section 1.  Policy.  The safety and well-being of all Native Americans
is a top priority for my Administration.  My Administration will work
hand in hand with Tribal Nations and Tribal partners to build safe and
healthy Tribal communities and to support comprehensive law enforcement,
prevention, intervention, and support services.

Generations of Native Americans have experienced violence or mourned a
missing or murdered family member or loved one, and the lasting impacts
of such tragedies are felt throughout the country.  Native Americans
face unacceptably high levels of violence, and are victims of violent
crime at a rate much higher than the national average. Native American
women, in particular, are disproportionately the victims of sexual and
gender-based violence, including intimate partner homicide.  Research
shows that approximately half of Native American women have experienced
sexual violence and that approximately half have experienced physical
violence by an intimate  partner.  LGBTQ+ Native Americans and people
who identify as “Two-Spirit” people within Tribal communities are also
often the targets of violence.  And the vast majority of Native American
survivors report being victimized by a non-Native American
individual.   

For far too long, justice has been elusive for many Native American
victims, survivors, and families.  Criminal jurisdiction complexities
and resource constraints have left many injustices unaddressed.  Some
progress has been made, particularly on Tribal lands.  Given that
approximately 70 percent of American Indian and Alaska Natives live in
urban areas and part of this epidemic of violence is against Native
American people in urban areas, we must continue that work on Tribal
lands but also build on existing strategies to identify solutions
directed toward the particular needs of urban Native Americans. 

In 2020, bipartisan members of the 116th Congress took an important step
forward through the passage of two pieces of legislation — Savanna’s Act
and the Not Invisible Act of 2019 ‑- that include important provisions
for improving law enforcement and justice protocols as well as improving
access to data to address missing or murdered indigenous people.  My
Administration is committed to fully implementing these laws and working
with the Congress to fund these programs for Native Americans. Earlier
this year, the Secretary of the Interior and the Attorney General
announced a Joint Commission, established pursuant to the Not Invisible
Act, that includes: representatives of Tribal, State, and local law
enforcement; Tribal judges; Native American survivors of human
trafficking; health care and mental health practitioners who have
experience working with Native American survivors of human trafficking
and sexual assault; Urban Indian Organizations focused on violence
against women and children; and family members of missing or murdered
indigenous people. The Commission will work to address the persistent
violence endured by Native American families and communities across the
country.  In addition, the Department of the Interior has established a
special unit to focus resources on active and unsolved missing persons
cases.

But more work is needed to address the crisis of ongoing violence
against Native Americans — and of missing or murdered indigenous
people.  Previous executive action has not achieved changes sufficient
to reverse the epidemic of missing or murdered indigenous people and
violence against Native Americans.  The Federal Government must
prioritize addressing this issue and its underlying causes, commit the
resources needed to tackle the high rates of violent crime that Native
Americans experience over the long term, coordinate and provide
resources to collect and analyze data, and work closely with Tribal
leaders and community members, Urban Indian Organizations, and other
interested parties to support prevention and intervention efforts that
will make a meaningful and lasting difference on the ground. 

It is the policy of my Administration to work directly with Tribal
Nations to strengthen public safety and criminal justice in Indian
Country and beyond, to reduce violence against Native American people,
and to ensure swift and effective Federal action that responds to the
problem of missing or murdered indigenous people.  My Administration
understands that Native American people, particularly the survivors of
violence, know best what their communities need to make them safer. 
Consistent engagement, commitment, and collaboration will drive
long-term improvement to public safety for all Native Americans.

Sec. 2.  Coordination of a Federal Law Enforcement Strategy to Prevent
and Respond to Violence Against Native Americans.  The Attorney General,
working with the Secretary of the Interior and the heads of other
executive departments and agencies (agencies) as appropriate, shall
assess and build on existing efforts to develop a coordinated and
comprehensive Federal law enforcement strategy to prevent and respond to
violence against Native Americans, including to address missing or
murdered indigenous people where the Federal Government has
jurisdiction.  The strategy shall set out a plan to address unsolved
cases involving Native Americans; provide for coordination among the
Department of Justice, the Department of the Interior, and the
Department of Homeland Security in their efforts to end human
trafficking; seek to strengthen and expand Native American participation
in the Amber Alert in Indian Country initiative; and build on and
enhance national training programs for Federal agents and prosecutors,
including those related to trauma-informed and victim-centered interview
and investigation techniques. The strategy shall also include protocols
for effective, consistent, and culturally and linguistically appropriate
communication with families of victims and their advocates, including
through the creation of a designated position within the Department of
Justice assigned the function of serving as the outreach services
liaison for criminal cases where the Federal Government has
jurisdiction.  The Attorney General and the Secretary of the Interior
shall report to the President within 240 days of the date of this order
describing the strategy developed and identifying additional resources
or other support necessary to implement that strategy. 

Sec. 3.  Supporting Tribal and Other Non-Federal Law Enforcement Efforts
to Prevent and Respond to Violence Against Native Americans.   
     (a)  The Attorney General and the Secretary of the Interior,
working with the heads of other agencies as appropriate, shall develop
guidance, identify leading practices, and provide training and technical
assistance, consistent with applicable law and available appropriations,
to:

          (i)    assist Tribal governments in implementing special
domestic violence criminal jurisdiction pursuant to the Violence Against
Women Reauthorization Act of 2013, enabling them to prosecute certain
non-Indian defendants for domestic violence and dating violence offenses
in Indian Country, and also assist Tribes in implementing any relevant
Tribal provisions in subsequent Violence Against Women Act
reauthorization legislation;  
          (ii)   assist Tribal governments within Oklahoma, consistent
with the United States Supreme Court’s decision in McGirt v. Oklahoma,
140 S. Ct. 2452 (2020), to build capacity to handle cases within their
criminal jurisdiction, including the capacity to provide victim
services;  
          (iii)  promote coordination of Federal, State, local, and
Tribal law enforcement, including, as appropriate, through the
development and support of Tribal Community Response Plans;  
          (iv)   continue to assist Tribal law enforcement and judicial
personnel with training, as described in 25 U.S.C. 2451, on the
investigation and prosecution of offenses related to illegal narcotics
and on alcohol and substance abuse prevention and treatment; and  
          (v)    assist Tribal, State, and local law enforcement
entities’ ability to apply linguistically appropriate, trauma-informed,
and victim-centered practices when working with victims of crime, and to
develop prevention strategies and recognize the indicators of human
trafficking affecting Native Americans.

     (b)  The Attorney General and the Secretary of the Interior shall
continue to assess their respective grantmaking operations to evaluate
whether any changes, consistent with applicable law, are warranted to
make that grantmaking more equitable for Tribal applicants seeking
support for law enforcement purposes and for the provision of services
to victims and survivors.  
  
Sec. 4.  Improving Data Collection, Analysis, and Information Sharing. 

     (a)  The Attorney General, in coordination with the Secretary of
the Interior and the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS), as
appropriate, shall sustain efforts to improve data collection and
information-sharing practices, conduct outreach and training, and
promote accurate and timely access to information services regarding
crimes or threats against Native Americans, including in urban areas,
such as through the National Crime Information Center, the Next
Generation Identification system, and the National Violent Death
Reporting System, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law. 

     (b) The Attorney General shall take steps, consistent with
applicable law, to expand the number of Tribes participating in the
Tribal Access Program for National Crime Information, which provides
Tribes access to national crime information systems for federally
authorized purposes.

     (c) The Attorney General, in coordination with the Secretary of the
Interior and the Secretary of HHS, shall develop a strategy for ongoing
analysis of data collected on violent crime and missing persons
involving Native Americans, including in urban Indian communities, to
better understand the extent and causes of this crisis.  Within 240 days
of the date of this order, the Attorney General, the Secretary of the
Interior, and the Secretary of HHS shall report jointly to the President
on the strategy they have developed to conduct and coordinate that
analysis and shall identify additional resources or other support
necessary to implement that strategy.

     (d) The Attorney General shall assess the current use of DNA
testing and DNA database services to identify missing or murdered
indigenous people and any responsible parties, including the
unidentified human remains, missing persons, and relatives of missing
persons indices of the Combined DNA Index System and the National
Missing and Unidentified Persons System.  Within 240 days of the date of
this order, the Attorney General shall report the outcome of this
assessment to the President, along with recommendations to improve the
use and accessibility of DNA database services.     

     (e) The Secretary of HHS shall evaluate the adequacy of research
and data collection efforts at the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention and the National Institutes of Health in accurately measuring
the prevalence and effects of violence against Native Americans,
especially those living in urban areas, and report to the President
within 180 days of the date of this order on those findings and any
planned changes to improve those research and data collection efforts. 

Sec. 5.  Strengthening Prevention, Early Intervention, and Victim and
Survivor Services. 

     (a)  The Secretary of HHS, in consultation with the Secretary of
the Interior and Tribal Nations and after conferring with other
agencies, researchers, and community-based organizations supporting
indigenous wellbeing, including Urban Indian Organizations, as
appropriate, shall develop a comprehensive plan to support prevention
efforts that reduce risk factors for victimization of Native Americans
and increase protective factors, including by enhancing the delivery of
services for Native American victims and survivors, as well as their
families and advocates.  The comprehensive plan shall, to the extent
possible, build on the existing evidence base.  The plan shall include
strategies for improving mental and behavioral health; providing
substance abuse services; providing family support, including
high-quality early childhood programs for victims and survivors with
young children; and preventing elder abuse, gender-based violence, and
human trafficking.  In addition, the plan shall also include
community-based strategies that improve community cohesion and cultural
connectivity and preservation, educational programs to increase
empowerment and self-advocacy, and strategies to encourage culturally
and linguistically appropriate, trauma-informed, and victim-centered
service delivery to Native Americans, including for survivors of
gender-based violence.  The Secretary of HHS shall report to the
President within 240 days of the date of this order describing the plan
and actions taken and identifying any additional resources or other
support needed.    

     (b)  The Secretary of HHS and the Secretary of the Interior shall
review procedures within their respective departments for reporting
child abuse and neglect, including barriers to reporting, and shall take
appropriate action to make reporting of child abuse and neglect by the
Indian Health Service easier and more streamlined.  In addition, the
Secretaries shall assess and identify ways to expand Native American
access to child advocacy center services such as pediatric medical
forensic examination services, mental health care providers with
advanced training in child trauma, and culturally and linguistically
appropriate activities and services geared toward pediatric patients. 
The Secretaries shall report to the President within 180 days of the
date of this order describing actions taken, findings from the
assessment, and planned actions to expand access, and identifying any
additional resources or other support needed.    

     (c)  The Secretary of the Interior, consulting with the Attorney
General and the Secretary of HHS, as appropriate, shall evaluate the
effectiveness of existing technical assistance and judicial support
services for Tribes to provide community-based conflict resolution, as
well as culturally and linguistically appropriate, trauma-informed, and
victim-centered strategies, including traditional healing services and
healing courts, and shall identify and make improvements as needed.  The
Secretary of the Interior shall report to the President within 180 days
of the date of this order describing the evaluation findings and the
improvements implemented.

Sec. 6.  Consultation and Engagement.  In accordance with the
Presidential Memorandum of January 26, 2021 (Tribal Consultation and
Strengthening Nation-to-Nation Relationships), the Departments of
Justice, the Interior, HHS, Energy, and Homeland Security shall conduct
timely consultations with Tribal Nations and shall engage Native
American communities to obtain their comments and recommendations
regarding implementing sections 2 through 5 of this order.  Tribal
consultation and engagement shall continue as the strategies required by
this order are implemented.

Sec. 7.  Definitions.  For the purposes of this order

     (a) “Tribal Nation” means an American Indian or Alaska Native
tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, or community that the Secretary of
the Interior acknowledges as a federally recognized tribe pursuant to
the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994, 25 U.S.C. 5130,
5131.  
     (b) “Native American” and “Native” mean members of one or more
Tribal Nations.  
     (c) “Urban Indian Organization” means a nonprofit corporate body
situated in an urban center, governed by an urban Indian controlled
board of directors, and providing for the maximum participation of all
interested Indian groups and individuals, which body is capable of
legally cooperating with other public and private entities, pursuant to
25 U.S.C. 1603(29).

Sec. 8.  General Provisions.   
     (a)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or
otherwise affect:   
          (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department
or agency, or the head thereof; or  
          (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or
legislative proposals.  
     (b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.  
     (c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.  
  

  JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
November 15, 2021.
