---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-11-18'
modified_time: 2021-12-01 11:42:33-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/11/18/executive-order-on-nondisplacement-of-qualified-workers-under-service-contracts/
published_time: 2021-11-18 13:15:09-05:00
title: "Executive Order on Nondisplacement of Qualified Workers Under Service\_Contracts"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including the Federal Property and
Administrative Services Act, 40 U.S.C. 101 *et seq.*, and in order to
promote economy and efficiency in procurement, it is hereby ordered as
follows:  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section</span> <span
style="text-decoration: underline">1.</span>  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Policy.</span>  When a service
contract expires, and a follow-on contract is awarded for the same or
similar services, the Federal Government’s procurement interests in
economy and efficiency are best served when the successor contractor or
subcontractor hires the predecessor’s employees, thus avoiding
displacement of these employees.  Using a carryover work force reduces
disruption in the delivery of services during the period of transition
between contractors, maintains physical and information security, and
provides the Federal Government with the benefits of an experienced and
well-trained work force that is familiar with the Federal Government’s
personnel, facilities, and requirements.  These same benefits are also
often realized when a successor contractor or subcontractor performs the
same or similar contract work at the same location where the predecessor
contract was performed.   
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec.</span> <span
style="text-decoration: underline">2.</span>  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Definitions.</span>  
     (a)  “Service contract” or “contract” means any contract,
contract-like instrument, or subcontract for services entered into by
the Federal Government or its contractors that is covered by the Service
Contract Act of 1965, as amended, 41 U.S.C. 6701 *et seq*., and its
implementing regulations.  
     (b)  “Employee” means a service employee as defined in the Service
Contract Act of 1965, as amended, 41 U.S.C. 6701(3).  
     (c)  “Agency” means an executive department or agency, including an
independent establishment subject to the Federal Property and
Administrative Services Act, 40 U.S.C. 102(4)(A).  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec.</span> <span
style="text-decoration: underline">3.</span>  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Nondisplacement of Qualified
Workers.</span>  (a)  Each agency shall, to the extent permitted by law,
ensure that service contracts and subcontracts that succeed a contract
for performance of the same or similar work, and solicitations for such
contracts and subcontracts, include the following clause:  
  
“Nondisplacement of Qualified Workers:  (a)  The contractor and its
subcontractors shall, except as otherwise provided herein, in good faith
offer service employees (as defined in the Service Contract Act of 1965,
as amended, 41 U.S.C. 6701(3)) employed under the predecessor contract
and its subcontracts whose employment would be terminated as a result of
the award of this contract or the expiration of the contract under which
the employees were hired, a right of first refusal of employment under
this contract in positions for which those employees are qualified.  The
contractor and its subcontractors shall determine the number of
employees necessary for efficient performance of this contract and may
elect to employ more or fewer employees than the predecessor contractor
employed in connection with performance of the work solely on the basis
of that determination.  Except as provided in paragraph (b), there shall
be no employment opening under this contract or subcontract, and the
contractor and any subcontractors shall not offer employment under this
contract to any person prior to having complied fully with the
obligations described in this clause.  The contractor and its
subcontractors shall make an express offer of employment to each
employee as provided herein and shall state the time within which the
employee must accept such offer, but in no case shall the period within
which the employee must accept the offer of employment be less than
10 business days.  
  
“(b)  Notwithstanding the obligation under paragraph (a) above, the
contractor and any subcontractors (1) are not required to offer a right
of first refusal to any employee(s) of the predecessor contractor who
are not service employees within the meaning of the Service Contract Act
of 1965, as amended, 41 U.S.C. 6701(3), and (2) are not required to
offer a right of first refusal to any employee(s) of the predecessor
contractor for whom the contractor or any of its subcontractors
reasonably believes, based on reliable evidence of the particular
employees’ past performance, that there would be just cause to discharge
the employee(s) if employed by the contractor or any subcontractors.    
  
“(c)  The contractor shall, not less than 10 business days before the
earlier of the completion of this contract or of its work on this
contract, furnish the Contracting Officer a certified list of the names
of all service employees working under this contract and its
subcontracts during the last month of contract performance.  The list
shall also contain anniversary dates of employment of each service
employee under this contract and its predecessor contracts either with
the current or predecessor contractors or their subcontractors.  The
Contracting Officer shall provide the list to the successor contractor,
and the list shall be provided on request to employees or their
representatives, consistent with the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a, and
other applicable law.  
  
“(d)  If it is determined, pursuant to regulations issued by the
Secretary of Labor (Secretary), that the contractor or its
subcontractors are not in compliance with the requirements of this
clause or any regulation or order of the Secretary, the Secretary may
impose appropriate sanctions against the contractor or its
subcontractors, as provided in Executive Order (No.) \_\_\_\_\_\_\_, the
regulations implementing that order, and relevant orders of the
Secretary, or as otherwise provided by law.  
  
“(e)  In every subcontract entered into in order to perform services
under this contract, the contractor will include provisions that ensure
that each subcontractor will honor the requirements of paragraphs (a)
and (b) with respect to the employees of a predecessor subcontractor or
subcontractors working under this contract, as well as of a predecessor
contractor and its subcontractors.  The subcontract shall also include
provisions to ensure that the subcontractor will provide the contractor
with the information about the employees of the subcontractor needed by
the contractor to comply with paragraph (c) of this clause.  The
contractor shall take such action with respect to any such subcontract
as may be directed by the Secretary as a means of enforcing such
provisions, including the imposition of sanctions for noncompliance:
 provided, however, that if the contractor, as a result of such
direction, becomes involved in litigation with a subcontractor, or is
threatened with such involvement, the contractor may request that the
United States enter into such litigation to protect the interests of the
United States.”  
  
     (b)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to require or
recommend that agencies, contractors, or subcontractors pay the
relocation costs of employees who exercise their right to work for a
successor contractor or subcontractor pursuant to this order.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec.</span> <span
style="text-decoration: underline">4.</span>  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Location Continuity. </span> (a)
 When an agency prepares a solicitation for a service contract that
succeeds a contract for performance of the same or similar work, the
agency shall consider whether performance of the work in the same
locality or localities in which the contract is currently being
performed is reasonably necessary to ensure economical and efficient
provision of services.  
     (b)  If an agency determines that performance of the contract in
the same locality or localities is reasonably necessary to ensure
economical and efficient provision of services, then the agency shall,
to the extent consistent with law, include a requirement or preference
in the solicitation for the successor contract that it be performed in
the same locality or localities.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec.</span> <span
style="text-decoration: underline">5.</span>  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Exclusions.</span>  This order shall
not apply to:  
     (a)  contracts under the simplified acquisition threshold as
defined in 41 U.S.C. 134; or  
     (b)  employees who were hired to work under a Federal service
contract and one or more nonfederal service contracts as part of a
single job, provided that the employees were not deployed in a manner
that was designed to avoid the purposes of this order.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec.</span> <span
style="text-decoration: underline">6.</span>  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Exceptions Authorized by
Agencies.</span>  (a)  A senior official within an agency may grant an
exception from the requirements of section 3 of this order for a
particular contract by, no later than the solicitation date, providing a
specific written explanation of why at least one of the following
circumstances exists with respect to that contract:   
          (i)    Adhering to the requirements of section 3 of this order
would not advance the Federal Government’s interests in achieving
economy and efficiency in Federal procurement;  
          (ii)   Based on a market analysis, adhering to the
requirements of section 3 of this order would:  
               (A)  substantially reduce the number of potential bidders
so as to frustrate full and open competition; and  
               (B)  not be reasonably tailored to the agency’s needs for
the contract; or  
          (iii)  Adhering to the requirements of section 3 of this order
would otherwise be inconsistent with statutes, regulations, Executive
Orders, or Presidential Memoranda.  
     (b)  To the extent permitted by law and consistent with national
security and executive branch confidentiality interests, each agency
shall publish, on a centralized public website, descriptions of the
exceptions it has granted under this section, and ensure that the
contractor notifies affected workers and their collective bargaining
representatives, if any, in writing of the agency’s determination to
grant an exception.  
     (c)  On a quarterly basis, each agency shall report to the Office
of Management and Budget descriptions of the exceptions granted under
this section.   
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec.</span> <span
style="text-decoration: underline">7.</span>  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Regulations and
Implementation.</span>  (a)  The Secretary of Labor (Secretary) shall,
to the extent consistent with law, issue final regulations within 180
days of the date of this order to implement the requirements of this
order, other than those specified in sections 6(b) and (c) of this
order.    
     (b)  Within 60 days of the Secretary issuing final regulations, the
Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council (FAR Council), to the extent
consistent with law, shall amend the Federal Acquisition Regulation to
provide for inclusion in Federal procurement solicitations and contracts
subject to this order the clause described in section 3 of this order.  
     (c)  The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall, to
the extent consistent with law, issue guidance to implement section 6(c)
of this order.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec.</span> <span
style="text-decoration: underline">8.</span>  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Enforcement.</span>  (a)  The
Secretary shall have the authority to investigate potential violations
of, and obtain compliance with, this order.  In such proceedings, the
Secretary shall have the authority to issue final orders prescribing
appropriate sanctions and remedies, including, but not limited to,
orders requiring employment and payment of wages lost.  The Secretary
may also provide that, if a contractor or subcontractor has failed to
comply with any order of the Secretary or has committed willful
violations of this order or the regulations issued pursuant thereto, the
contractor or subcontractor, and its responsible officers, and any firm
in which the contractor or subcontractor has a substantial interest, may
be ineligible to be awarded any contract of the United States for a
period of up to 3 years.  Neither an order for debarment of any
contractor or subcontractor from further Federal Government contracts
under this section nor the inclusion of a contractor or subcontractor on
a published list of noncomplying contractors shall be carried out
without affording the contractor or subcontractor an opportunity to
present information and argument in opposition to the proposed debarment
or inclusion on the list.  
     (b)  This order creates no rights under the Contract Disputes Act,
41 U.S.C. 7101 *et seq.*, and disputes regarding the requirements of the
contract clause prescribed by section 3 of this order, to the extent
permitted by law, shall be disposed of only as provided by the Secretary
in regulations issued under this order.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec.</span> <span
style="text-decoration: underline">9.</span>  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Revocation.</span>  Executive Order
13897 of October 31, 2019 (Improving Federal Contractor Operations by
Revoking Executive Order 13495), is revoked.  Executive Order 13495 of
January 30, 2009 (Nondisplacement of Qualified Workers Under Service
Contracts), remains revoked.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec.</span> <span
style="text-decoration: underline">10.</span>  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Severability.</span>  If any
provision of this order, or the application of any provision of this
order to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the
remainder of this order and its application to any other person or
circumstance shall not be affected thereby.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec.</span> <span
style="text-decoration: underline">11.</span>  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Effective Date.</span>  This order
shall become effective immediately and shall apply to solicitations
issued on or after the effective date of the final regulations issued by
the FAR Council under section 7 of this order.  For solicitations issued
between the date of this order and the date of the action taken by the
FAR Council under section 7 of this order, or solicitations that have
already been issued and are outstanding as of the date of this order,
agencies are strongly encouraged, to the extent permitted by law, to
include in the relevant solicitation the contract clause described in
section 3 of this order.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec.</span> <span
style="text-decoration: underline">12.</span>  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">General Provisions.</span>  (a)
 Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise
affect:  
          (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department
or agency, or the head thereof; or  
          (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or
legislative proposals.  
     (b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.  
     (c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.  
  
                              

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.  

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
    November 18, 2021.
