---
date: '2025-09-22'
modified_time: 2025-09-22 10:02:24-04:00
published_time: 2025-09-22 10:02:23-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/09/the-white-house-announces-two-newly-designated-high-intensity-drug-trafficking-areas/
tags: articles
title: The White House Announces Two Newly-Designated High Intensity Drug Trafficking
  Areas
---
 
*This designation allows for additional resources for law enforcement in
the areas most plagued by drug trafficking, supporting the Trump
Administration’s agenda policies and Homeland Security Task Forces, to
reduce illicit drug use and save American lives.*

**Washington, D.C.** – The White House Office of National Drug Control
Policy (ONDCP) announced the designation of two new counties to the
ONDCP-funded High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA) Program. The
HIDTA Program coordinates and assists federal, state, local, tribal, and
territorial agencies to disrupt and dismantle drug trafficking
organizations in all 50 states, Puerto Rico, and the District of
Columbia. The HIDTA Program provides support to the Homeland Security
Task Force, working collaboratively to ensure a seamless and
deconflicted counterdrug effort.

The two newly-designated areas are:

-   St. Joseph County, Indiana (Indiana HIDTA)
-   Rogers County, Oklahoma (Texoma HIDTA)

“The Trump Administration is leveraging all available authorities to
stop dangerous illicit drugs from reaching our communities,” said Acting
Director Victor Avila. “The HIDTA Program is a force-multiplier in the
effort to eliminate the criminal production and distribution networks
that have flooded our neighborhoods with deadly substances like
fentanyl. These new designations will ensure these areas get the
critical resources and support they need to combat drug trafficking
organizations.”

Since its inception in 1988, the HIDTA Program has helped public safety
officials implement integrated operations against drug trafficking
organizations and, with ONDCP’s leadership, has provided the American
people with a cost-effective solution to address addiction and the
overdose crisis. In 2024, the HIDTAs seized an estimated $18 billion in
illicit drugs and cash—representing a return on investment of $68.07 for
every $1 budgeted for the HIDTA Program.

For a map of the HIDTA Program, please click
[HERE](https://www.hidtaprogram.org/index.php).

Read the Trump Administration’s Statement of Drug Policy Priorities
[HERE](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/2025-Trump-Administration-Drug-Policy-Priorities.pdf).
