---
date: '2025-09-29'
modified_time: 2025-09-29 15:15:14-04:00
published_time: 2025-09-29 15:15:13-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/09/ceq-releases-guidance-to-streamline-nepa-reviews/
tags: articles
title: CEQ Releases Guidance to Streamline NEPA Reviews
---
 
***Federal permitting reforms are driving unprecedented results under
President Trump.***

Today, the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) released its updated
National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) implementation guidance and
associated agency implementing procedures template.

  
Major infrastructure projects in the United States often take longer to
receive Federal permits than to build, highlighting a failure in our
system that stalls economic growth and hinders American competitiveness.
That is why President Trump came into office with a promise to fix a
broken permitting system – a promise that he has delivered on with speed
and efficiency.

  
Consistent with President Trump’s day-one *Unleashing American Energy*
Executive Order, the guidance provides clarity to Federal agencies
establishing or revising their agency-specific NEPA implementing
procedures – in order to expedite and simplify the permitting process.

  
The guidance updates and replaces guidance issued in February, building
upon 2023 and 2025 amendments to NEPA passed by the United States
Congress, and accounts for the United States Supreme Court’s recent
landmark decision in *Seven County Infrastructure Coalition v. Eagle
County*.

  
“There’s been a consensus across all three branches of government that
we need permitting reform. Now, at the direction of President Trump,
Federal agencies have a clear and consistent roadmap to get us there,”
said **Council on Environmental Quality Chairman Katherine Scarlett.**
“I am proud of the work that has been accomplished in this
Administration to streamline the Federal environmental review and
permitting process. We have seen tremendous progress across Federal
agencies, and this guidance will continue this Administration’s momentum
toward the greatest permitting reform ever to take place in the 55-year
history of NEPA.”

  
Under President Trump’s leadership, Federal agencies have begun
delivering results by modernizing their agency-specific NEPA procedures,
most of which had never been updated since NEPA became law more than
five decades ago. On June 30, 2025, the first tranche of Federal
agencies updated their NEPA implementing procedures in consultation with
CEQ, delivering historic reforms in record time. Those updates brought
the agencies’ NEPA procedures in line with the President’s policies, the
statute as amended by Congress, and the Supreme Court’s ruling.

  
Through interagency working groups and regular consultation meetings,
CEQ continues to work with other Federal agencies for consistency as
they establish or revise their respective NEPA implementing procedures.
This historic effort to restore common-sense to NEPA will unleash
American energy dominance and strengthen American leadership across
critical sectors.

[**View: NEPA Procedures
Guidance**](https://ceq.doe.gov/docs/ceq-regulations-and-guidance/Agency-NEPA-Implementation-Guidance.pdf)

[**View: NEPA Procedures
Template**](https://ceq.doe.gov/docs/ceq-regulations-and-guidance/Appendix-1-Agency-NEPA-Procedures-Template.pdf)

In Case You Missed It: **[President Trump Is Delivering Historic
Permitting Wins Across the Federal
Government](https://www.whitehouse.gov/fact-sheets/2025/06/fact-sheet-president-trump-is-delivering-historic-permitting-wins-across-the-federal-government/)**
