---
date: '2025-09-29'
modified_time: 2025-09-29 10:45:16-04:00
published_time: 2025-09-29 10:44:35-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/09/democrats-put-veterans-seniors-public-safety-at-risk-with-shutdown-push/
tags: articles
title: Democrats Put Veterans, Seniors, Public Safety at Risk with Shutdown Push
---
 
As Democrats bring the nation to the brink of a government shutdown,
they jeopardize critical funding for veterans, seniors, law enforcement,
and many others. As Democrats threaten to disrupt the lives and
livelihoods of millions of Americans, organizations across the country
are urging them to [follow through on their
word](https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/09/democrats-threaten-a-shutdown-over-radical-left-insanity/),
join with President Donald J. Trump and Republicans, and keep government
functioning for the people it serves.

**Here’s what they’re saying:**

[**American Federation of Government
Employees:**](https://x.com/igorbobic/status/1971209116149227653)
“Federal employees are not bargaining chips. They are veterans,
caregivers, law enforcement officers, and neighbors who serve their
country and fellow Americans every day. They deserve stability and
respect, not pink slips and political games.”

[**America First Policy
Institute**](https://www.majoritywhip.gov/uploadedfiles/cr_statement_afpi.pdf)**:**
“The only way to keep our country on the path to delivering the America
First Agenda and meaningful change is for Congress to consider and pass
a clean CR before the September 30th deadline. Continuing America’s
comeback success means funding our government. Failing to protect our
economic and national security interests at home and abroad would
diminish this momentum.”

[**Americans for
Prosperity**](https://americansforprosperity.org/commentary/avoiding-a-shutdown-is-good-ending-the-crisis-to-crisis-governing-is-even-better/)**:**
“Americans for Prosperity (AFP) today expressed support for the House
Republican proposal to avert a government shutdown through a relatively
clean continuing resolution (CR), which maintains current funding levels
and includes targeted security enhancements for lawmakers, executive and
judiciary. The measure, which extends funding through November 21, is an
effort to keep our government open and functional. This continuing
resolution is a necessary step to avoid a harmful and unnecessary
government shutdown.”

**[American
Legion](https://thehill.com/homenews/senate/5525253-veteran-groups-warn-congress-against-shutdown/):**
“The American Legion urges Congress to pass the Continuing
Appropriations and Extensions Act, 2026 and the VA Extenders Act Of
2025. This legislation ensures continuity for programs that are vital to
veterans’ health care, housing, and benefits. By extending authorities
for critical initiatives such as the Staff Sergeant Parker Gordon Fox
Suicide Prevention Grant Program, the RANGE rural mental health program,
and the Supportive Services for Veteran Families program, Congress will
protect lifelines that combat veteran suicide, expand access to mental
health in rural communities, and prevent veteran homelessness. The Act
also safeguards education benefits, strengthens housing assistance for
disabled and homeless veterans, and maintains oversight tools like the
VA Inspector General’s subpoena authority. These extensions are not
simply bureaucratic measures; they directly affect the lives of veterans
and their families. The American Legion urges swift passage of these
bills to keep these essential promises to those who served.”

[**American Telemedicine
Association**](https://www.americantelemed.org/in-the-news/its-not-too-late-ata-action-urges-congress-to-dodge-the-telehealth-cliff-calls-for-retroactive-reimbursement-in-event-of-a-government-shutdown/)**:**
“We are asking – urging – Congress to not leave millions of patients and
beleaguered healthcare providers dangling on the telehealth cliff while
they deliberate over dynamics around a government shutdown.”

[**Association of American Mature
Citizens:**](https://amac.us/newsline/advocacy/amac-action-statement-on-the-continuing-resolution/)
“AMAC Action, the advocacy affiliate of the Association of Mature
American Citizens (AMAC), with over 2 million members nationwide, urges
Congress to pass a clean Continuing Resolution (CR) to prevent a
government shutdown and ensure that essential services remain
uninterrupted. A government shutdown would jeopardize critical services
that seniors rely on, from Social Security offices and Medicare
assistance to veterans’ benefits and health programs. The confusion,
backlogs, and service disruptions that accompany a shutdown create
needless anxiety and hardship for older Americans living on fixed
incomes. The demands reportedly being made by Democrat leaders to keep
the government open, including healthcare for illegal aliens and funding
for public broadcasting stations that consistently peddle harmful
falsehoods about conservatives, are unpopular and unreasonable requests.
President Trump and Republican leaders have the support of America’s
seniors in rejecting these demands. We urge lawmakers to avoid political
brinkmanship, act now, and honor their commitment to the American
people, especially our nation’s seniors. Pass a clean CR. Keep the
government open. Protect America’s seniors.”

**[AMVETS](https://www.majoritywhip.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=3478#:~:text=AMVETS%2C%20Joe%20Chenelly,our%20nation%27s%20veterans.%E2%80%9D):**
“AMVETS supports the passage of the Continuing Appropriations and
Extensions Act, 2026, which contains vital extensions for the Department
of Veterans Affairs. These provisions safeguard critical programs,
including the Staff Sergeant Parker Gordon Fox Suicide Prevention Grant
Program, the Health Care for Homeless Veterans (HCHV) Program, and the
Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) Program. Congress must
act without delay to pass this measure and ensure the VA can continue
delivering lifesaving services to veterans and their families. Looking
ahead, AMVETS encourages Congress to prioritize timely, full-year
appropriations to provide the VA with the stability and predictability
needed to best serve our nation’s veterans.”

[**Concerned Veterans for
America**](https://cv4a.org/news-media/cva-urges-congress-to-prevent-government-shutdowns/)**:**
“This government shutdown could be catastrophic for the veteran
community, especially the most vulnerable among us, including vets who
are service-connected, elderly, and homeless. The VA exists to keep the
government’s promise to provide care for our nation’s heroes. If these
extensions are not passed, it will halt the VA’s ability to deliver
these vital services to veterans and their families, potentially
preventing thousands of veterans from life-saving care. Passing the
Continuing Resolution and ending shutdown threats through permanent
solutions like the Preventing Government Shutdowns Act allows Congress
to focus on tackling the real priorities: cutting waste, practicing
fiscal responsibility, and advancing policies that expand opportunity
and prosperity for all Americans ― including veterans and military
families who continue to safeguard America’s interests. CVA urges
principled lawmakers to take shutdowns off the table. We know they don’t
solve problems ― they make them worse. We’re calling on all lawmakers to
do the right thing, for veterans and for America.”

**Council of Local Prisons:** “I am writing to you on behalf of the
thousands of men and women who serve in the Federal Bureau of Prisons
(BOP). As you know, these individuals perform some of the most
difficult, dangerous, and essential work in government service. A
government shutdown would not only threaten their livelihoods but would
also directly jeopardize institutional security and public safety
nationwide. I strongly urge you to work together to avoid this outcome.
Unlike many agencies, the BOP cannot reduce hours, close its doors, or
pause operations during a shutdown. Correctional facilities must remain
fully operational around the clock. Inmates must be housed, fed,
transported, and supervised regardless of political gridlock. The
mission of the BOP is continuous, and its staff are required by law and
duty to report to work—even if pay is withheld… On behalf of
correctional officers, case managers, medical professionals, teachers,
and countless others within the Bureau of Prisons, I implore you to set
aside political differences and prioritize the security of this nation
by preventing a government shutdown. Passage of funding measures is not
simply a matter of politics—it is a matter of safety, stability, and
justice. Every day a shutdown continues, correctional staff are asked to
risk their lives without pay, institutions operate under mounting
strain, and the American people are put at greater risk. The cost of
inaction far outweighs any perceived political gain.”

[**CURE:**](https://x.com/CUREpolicy/status/1971266428440559988) “The
Senate should pass a clean Continuing Resolution (CR) to keep the
government funded when the current fiscal year expires on Tuesday,
September 30th. House Republicans and a Democrat congressman from Maine
have already taken this responsible action.”

[**CTIA (The Wireless
Association)**](https://www.ctia.org/news/ctia-statement-on-cisa-2015-extension-in-continuing-resolution)**:**
“We support the extension of the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act
of 2015 included in the House of Representative’s Continuing Resolution.
CISA 2015 established a vital legal framework that enables trusted cyber
threat information sharing between the public and private sectors, and
this collaboration has strengthened cybersecurity efforts across
critical infrastructure, including wireless networks. This will ensure
Americans continue to be protected from evolving cyber threats while
Congress pursues a long-term extension of the Act.”

[**Independent Women’s
Voice**](https://www.iwvoice.com/2025/09/independent-women-supports-clean-continuing-resolution/)**:**
“This clean continuing resolution is a necessary step to keeping the
government running even as Congress does the good work to pass
responsible appropriations bills through regular order. Americans did
not vote for a dysfunctional government. They want a right-sized
government, and so far, this Congress has taken that mandate seriously.
Furthermore, in light of the horrendous slaying of Charlie Kirk, this CR
provides members of Congress with additional protections so that they
can serve their constituents. We urge all members to pass this clean CR
to prevent disruptions to national security, public safety, veterans
care, and social safety net programs while bringing back fiscal
responsibility.”

[**National Association of Home
Builders**](https://www.majoritywhip.gov/uploadedfiles/nahb_support_h.r._5371_johnson.pdf)**:**
“On behalf of the more than 140,000 members of the National Association
of Home Builders (NAHB), I am writing in support of H.R. 5371, the
Continuing Appropriations and Extensions Act, 2026 that would continue
to fund operations of the federal government including the extension of
the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) until November 21. Without
this bill, the NFIP program is set to expire on September 30. Past
disruptions of the NFIP have caused immediate and widespread negative
impacts on property sales, home values and consumer confidence. Home
sales would cease in areas where flood insurance is mandatory in order
to obtain a mortgage. Homeowners who have current NFIP policies would
also be unable to renew them during a lapse. NAHB believes that it is
critically important for the economy, and the housing industry
specifically, that Congress extend this vital program to provide
certainty, predictability, and peace of mind to policyholders who rely
on the NFIP for the flood protection and mitigation strategies for which
it was designed. What the housing market needs now is stability and
certainty. NAHB calls upon the House to act quickly to continue to fund
the operations of the federal government including the extension of the
NFIP.”

[**National Association of Police
Organizations**](https://www.napo.org/washington-report/napo-calls-on-congress-to-pass-continuing-resolution-and-keep-the-federal-government-open/)**:**
“The National Association of Police Organizations (NAPO), representing
some 250,000 sworn state and local law enforcement officers across the
United States, calls on Congress to come together and pass a continuing
resolution to extend funding for the federal government before the end
of the fiscal year on September 30. If lawmakers neglect their
constitutional duties, allow funding to runout and shutdown the
government, federal law enforcement officers, who are working to protect
our cities and communities from violent crime, drugs, and guns, will be
putting their lives on the line without getting paid. Federal funding
for task forces will stop flowing. Federal grants, resources, and
supports for state and local law enforcement will stop, leaving vital
public safety initiatives in the lurch. Now is not the time to let
federal funding run out. As the deadly shooting at the Dallas
Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) facility yesterday
illustrates, American law enforcement officers are working in an
increasingly dangerous and charged environment. To have them risk their
lives without pay undermines support for the work they are doing and
increases the stresses and strains the job puts on them and their
families. We are calling on all lawmakers to do the right thing and
enact a continuing resolution to fund the government before time runs
out.”

[**National Cattlemen’s Beef
Association**](https://www.ncba.org/news-media/news/details/44113/cattlemen-thank-house-for-passage-of-continuing-resolution)**:**
“We commend the House for passing the continuing resolution. America’s
hardworking farmers and ranchers need predictability and stability from
government, and House leadership is leading the charge to do just that.
We encourage the Senate to follow suit and ensure that this continuing
resolution reaches the President’s desk as soon as possible.”

[**National Chicken
Council**](https://www.nationalchickencouncil.org/ncc-urges-government-to-keep-the-lights-on/)**:**
“Following House passage, NCC today is urging the Senate to follow-suit
and pass a Continuing Resolution (CR) that would prevent the government
from shutting down. Businesses need certainty and the President signing
a CR would help provide it.”

[**National Fraternal Order of
Police**](https://fop.net/2025/09/national-fop-president-calls-on-senate-to-pass-government-funding-bill/)**:**
“One of the most fundamental responsibilities of Congress is to provide
funding for the operations of our Federal government—they have got to
pay the bills. Political divisions and Congressional dysfunction seem to
be a growing problem no matter which party controls Congress and the
White House. The legislation, which passed the House last week, requires
60 votes to pass the Senate. It was rejected by the Senate on a 44-48
vote, with eight Senators missing the vote. The bill is a ‘clean’
continuing resolution that will prevent the partial government shutdown
that is swiftly approaching. The Senate’s rejection will cause major
disruptions for programs that fund public safety efforts in our
communities. Government officials throughout the U.S. Departments of
Justice and Homeland Security won’t be able to man their posts and
provide support for operations in the field. This should be unacceptable
to all Americans. On behalf of the FOP’s 382,000 members, I urge the
Senate to reconvene, reconsider, and enact the continuing resolution.
Congress has an obligation to the American people to fulfill one of its
core responsibilities—keeping the government open and continuing the
services it provides to our citizens.”

[**National Grocers
Association**](https://www.nationalgrocers.org/news/nga-statement-on-potential-government-shutdown/)**:**
“The National Grocers Association (NGA), representing America’s
independent community grocers, supports passage of a temporary
continuing resolution to keep the government funded while Congress
completes the FY26 appropriations process. A lapse in funding will
seriously jeopardize critical programs that grocers and their customers
rely on – including SNAP and WIC – which will have limited funding and
threaten food access for millions of low-income Americans should a
shutdown occur. Compounding the risks of a shutdown for local grocers
and the communities they serve, is the current prohibition on EBT
processing fees that is set to expire on October 1st. NGA urges Congress
to resolve these dual threats to American communities before the October
1 funding deadline. Without an extension on the EBT prohibition,
independent grocers will face millions in new costs simply as a result
of participating in this successful public-private partnership, which
may limit grocer participation, and drive-up food prices for American
families who can least afford it.”

[**Parents Defending
Education**](https://x.com/nickineily/status/1970599601993666798)**:**
“Keeping the government open should be bipartisan. A clean CR does that
without wasting taxpayer money on things like earmarks, pet projects,
and attempts to re-fund programs that deserve to be shut down.”

[**Small Business & Entrepreneurship
Council**](https://sbecouncil.org/2025/09/18/sbe-council-statement-of-support-for-the-continuing-appropriations-and-extensions-act-2026/)**:**
“SBE Council strongly supports the CR and urges every U.S. House member
to vote in favor of this sensible step to keep the federal government
open, allowing for discussions to continue on longer-term funding
matters. Small business owners, their employees, and local communities
are still transitioning through the effects of past policies that
imposed multi-year inflationary pressures and higher borrowing costs,
among other challenges. They need certainty and confidence that elected
officials and government leaders are delivering on stability, not
disruptive action that could potentially undermine growth and planning.
Advancing the CR signals that Congress is serious about supporting a
stable environment and getting back to regular order. Again, we urge
U.S. House members to support the CR.”

[**Unify.US**](https://unifyus.us/)**:** “Unify.US strongly supports
H.R. 5371, a clean, short-term continuing resolution that will keep the
government open while Congress continues to work on a full-year funding
package. Shutting the government down while this work continues is
irresponsible and will be harmful to the American people.”

[**U.S. Travel
Association**](https://www.ustravel.org/press/1-billion-lost-every-week-impact-government-shutdown-travel)**:**
“A shutdown is a wholly preventable blow to America’s travel
economy—costing $1 billion every week—and affecting millions of
travelers and businesses while placing unnecessary strain on an already
overextended federal travel workforce… The longer a shutdown drags on,
the more likely we are to see longer TSA lines, flight delays and
cancellations, national parks in disrepair and unnecessary delays in
modernizing travel infrastructure. Nearly nine in 10 Americans agree
Congress should work together to prevent a shutdown. Americans deserve
better—lawmakers must act before October 1 to keep our government funded
and protect jobs, travelers and our economy.”

**[Vietnam Veterans of
America](https://thehill.com/homenews/senate/5525253-veteran-groups-warn-congress-against-shutdown/):**
“On behalf of Vietnam Veterans of America (VVA), I urge you to act
quickly to pass a clean continuing resolution to prevent a government
shutdown. For veterans, a shutdown is not a distant political exercise,
but an immediate disruption of care, support, and progress on
life-saving Initiatives. While some services like medical care and the
veteran’s crisis lines will remain open, many others will grind to a
halt. Claims processing, appeals, and benefits decisions will stall,
leaving veterans waiting longer for the support they have earned.
Community-based programs that fight veteran homelessness will face
funding delays, putting already vulnerable veterans at greater risk. And
promising new initiatives, such as the Warrior Independence Center, will
be forced to wait, undermining urgently needed efforts to reduce both
homelessness and suicide among veterans. Every day of delay caused by
partisan conflict means veterans remain on the streets, families wait
for benefits decisions, and momentum toward solving the suicide crisis
is lost. I appeal to both of you, as leaders of your caucuses, to resist
the pull of political brinkmanship and work together with the President
to keep the government open.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[**Fox
News**](https://www.foxnews.com/politics/exclusive-democrats-risk-flood-insurance-lapse-shutdown-fight-home-builders-white-house-warn)**:
Democrats risk flood insurance lapse in their shutdown fight, home
builders and White House warn**

*“As the Sept. 30 government funding deadline looms, the Trump
administration is warning that millions of Americans could lose flood
insurance coverage if Democrats refuse to back a House-passed spending
bill that also extends the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP)…
According to administration figures reviewed by Fox News Digital, a
lapse in NFIP authorization could disrupt about 1,300 property sales
every day. That’s roughly 40,000 closings in a single month, all in
areas where flood insurance is required to secure a mortgage. More than
400,000 policies are set to expire in October. Officials say about
152,000 of those have been prepaid, but more than 250,000 households
could still lose coverage if the program stalls.”*

[**RealClearPolitics**](https://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2025/09/26/wh_to_dems_shutdown_threatens_wic_benefits_for_mothers_children.html)**:
WH to Dems: Shutdown Threatens WIC Benefits for Mothers, Children**

*“The pain of a government shutdown won’t just be political: Millions of
low-income women and children could be left hungry as soon as next week
if congressional Democrats and the White House do not come to a deal.
The Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and
Children will soon run out of funding. If they don’t cut a deal to keep
the government open, a senior White House official told
RealClearPolitics, ‘Democrats would be turning their back on WIC
recipients.’”*

[**The
Hill**](https://thehill.com/homenews/senate/5525253-veteran-groups-warn-congress-against-shutdown/)**:
Veteran groups warn Congress against shutdown: ‘Resist the pull of
political brinkmanship’**

*“Several veteran groups are urging Congress to pass a short-term
spending measure to avert a potential government shutdown, warning that
the GOP-led continuing resolution (CR) contains extensions vital for
veterans’ housing, benefits and health care.*

*Four veteran groups — American Legion, AMVETS (American Veterans),
Vietnam Veterans of America and Mission Roll Call — said on Saturday
that the CR, which passed the House earlier this month, contains “vital
extensions” for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) that “safeguard”
important programs, including the Staff Sergeant Parker Gordon Fox
Suicide Prevention Grant Program, the Health Care for Homeless Veterans
(HCHV) Program and the Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSVF)
Program.”*

[**The Daily
Wire**](https://www.dailywire.com/news/democrat-led-shutdown-will-put-law-enforcement-lives-on-the-line-without-pay-top-orgs-warn)**:
Democrat-Led Shutdown Will Put Law Enforcement ‘Lives On The Line’
Without Pay, Top Orgs Warn**

*“Top law enforcement organizations are warning that a government
shutdown would put the lives — and livelihoods — of many American law
enforcement officers in danger. The National Association of Police
Organizations (NAPO), which represents 250,000 state and local law
enforcement officers throughout the United States, warned in a statement
Saturday that ‘if lawmakers neglect their constitutional duties, allow
funding to run out and shut down the government, federal law enforcement
officers, who are working to protect our cities and communities from
violent crime, drugs, and guns, will be putting their lives on the line
without getting paid.’”*

[**The Daily
Wire**](https://www.dailywire.com/news/popular-health-program-will-expire-if-senate-dems-force-government-shutdown-white-house-warns)**:
Popular Health Program Will Expire If Senate Dems Force Government
Shutdown, White House Warns**

*“If Democrats in the Senate continue to block a short-term government
funding plan, a program that allows low-income and Medicare patients to
be treated at home rather than in a hospital will expire, the White
House warns. The Acute Hospital Care at Home Initiative enables
hospitals to obtain approval to treat Medicare patients with conditions
such as respiratory diseases or bacterial infections at home. The
program, which was rolled out during the COVID-19 pandemic, is set to
expire on September 30 unless reauthorized by Congress.”*
