---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2022-01-29'
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/01/29/statement-by-president-biden-on-the-13th-anniversary-of-the-lilly-ledbetter-fair-pay-act/
published_time: 2022-01-29 15:35:02-05:00
title: "Statement by President\_Biden on the 13th Anniversary of the Lilly Ledbetter\
  \ Fair Pay\_Act"
---
 
Thirteen years ago, Lilly Ledbetter became a household name, as the bill
named in her honor became the first bill signed into law during the
Obama-Biden Administration. The Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act was an
important step forward in the fight to close the gender and racial wage
gaps that unfairly hold women, especially women of color, back in the
workplace, and it underscored the role that equal pay plays in
supporting both working families and our broader economy. 

We still have work to do to fulfill the promise of equal pay. During the
COVID-19 pandemic, this country has depended on frontline workers –
in sectors like child care, elder care, home health care, retail, and
hospitality – many of whom are women of color and often paid low wages.
 Even as they have borne the brunt of the health and economic crisis,
women continue to be paid less than their male counterparts, denying
them hundreds of thousands of dollars over their lifetimes. 

Vice President Harris and I are committed to using the tools available
to us to prevent pay discrimination.  I took executive action to raise
the minimum wage for federal contractors, which goes into effect
tomorrow and will significantly benefit women. I also signed
an Executive Order to promote Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and
Accessibility in the federal workforce, which included a focus on
advancing pay equity for federal workers. I continue to call on Congress
to pass the Paycheck Fairness Act, common sense legislation that would
give workers more tools to fight sex-based discrimination and take major
steps towards increasing pay transparency.

We will continue working to ensure women aren’t held back in the
workplace, by prioritizing equal pay, improving the quality of jobs
that are disproportionately held by women, and dismantling the barriers
that keep women from fully participating in the labor force—including by
making child care more affordable, increasing access to elder care and
home health care, and investing in care workers. To boost these
efforts, **the White House will host a convening on Equal Pay Day later
this spring, bringing together partners across the government,
non-profit and private sectors to fight for equal pay. **

We look forward to coming together to drive progress on equal pay and
strengthen the economic security of women and their families across this
country.

\###
