---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2022-01-19'
modified_time: 2022-01-19 08:12:21-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/01/19/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-historic-investment-to-americas-port-and-waterway-infrastructure/
published_time: 2022-01-19 08:12:20-05:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces Historic Investment\
  \ to America\u2019s Port and Waterway\_Infrastructure"
---
 
*U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to Invest $14 Billion from President’s
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and Other Appropriations to Strengthen
Port and Waterway Supply Chains and Bolster Climate Resilience*

Modern and resilient infrastructure strengthens our supply chains,
supports U.S. competitiveness and economic growth, and protects
communities from the accelerating impacts of climate change. Yet,
decades of underinvestment and neglect have left our nation’s
infrastructure – from ports and waterways to levees and dams to the
aquatic ecosystems that supply our water and energy – vulnerable to
climate change and struggling to keep up with our strong economic
recovery from the pandemic.  
  
Recognizing the vital role of modern, resilient infrastructure in
reducing costs for American families and businesses, President Biden
secured unprecedented investments through the Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to increase climate resilience
and make long overdue improvements at ports and waterways, as well as
additional funds through supplemental appropriations to help impacted
states and Tribes recover and become more resilient to natural
disasters. Today**, the Biden-Harris Administration is announcing that
it will invest more than $14 billion of this funding in fiscal year 2022
for over 500 projects across 52 states and territories.** These key
projects will strengthen the nation’s supply chain, provide significant
new economic opportunities nationwide, and bolster our defenses against
climate change, including through:

-   The largest single investment ever to restore and revitalize the
    Everglades in Florida.
-   Expanding capacity at some of the nation’s largest and
    fastest-growing ports, including the Port of Long Beach.
-   Commitments to help underserved coastal communities build back more
    resilient from extreme weather.

A full list of projects receiving funding from the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law and other appropriations can be found
[HERE](https://www.usace.army.mil/Media/News-Releases/News-Release-Article-View/Article/2903380/army-civil-works-studies-projects-and-programs-to-be-accomplished-with-bipartis/).  
  
The investments announced today further advance the President’s
Justice40 commitment to ensure that 40 percent of the overall benefits
of Federal climate and clean energy investments flow to historically
marginalized, underserved, and overburdened communities to build their
economies. The investments also underscore how President Biden’s
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is [delivering
results](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/01/14/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-hits-the-ground-running-60-days-into-infrastructure-implementation/)
to communities across America, advancing racial equity, combatting
climate change, and creating job opportunities for American workers.  
  
In just over two months since the President signed the historic
legislation into law, the Administration has already mobilized resources
to connect Tribal Nations to reliable, high-speed internet, replace,
repair, and rehabilitate bridges across the country, upgrade critical
infrastructure at 3,075 airports, update America’s aging water
infrastructure, sewerage systems, pipes and service lines, stop toxic
waste from harming communities, and more. With these additional
investments, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers will initiate projects in
fiscal year 2022 that:

**STRENGTHEN DOMESTIC SUPPLY CHAINS**

American ports and waterways are a cornerstone of the U.S. economy.
According to the 2021 Report Card for America’s Infrastructure Report
issued by the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE), in 2018,
America’s ports supported more than 30 million jobs and approximately
26% of our nation’s GDP. However, decades of neglect and underinvestment
have strained their capacity and jeopardized supply chains.  
  
Building on the
[work](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/13/fact-sheet-biden-administration-efforts-to-address-bottlenecks-at-ports-of-los-angeles-and-long-beach-moving-goods-from-ship-to-shelf/)
this Administration has done this past year to get goods flowing from
ships to shelves faster, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers is committing
**$4 billion** through the President’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to
expand capacity at key ports, allow passage of larger vessels, and
further enhance the country’s ability to move goods. These waterside
investments will compliment landside investments at our ports and across
the goods movement chain such as the Port Infrastructure Development
Grants announced in December. Specific projects for fiscal year 2022
include work to:

-   **<u>Enhance the Country’s Ability to Move Goods.</u>** America’s
    waterways are vital to getting goods moving faster and more
    efficiently through the nation. Recognizing the role of inland
    waterways in creating and sustaining jobs, relieving landside
    congestion, and providing more cost-effective transportation
    capacities, the Administration will provide $858 million to support
    the replacement of locks that keep water levels high enough for
    large cargo ships to pass through the **upper Ohio River, west of
    Pittsburgh**. The Administration will also provide more than $470
    million to complete construction of a new lock along **St. Mary’s
    River in Sault Saint Marie, Michigan**, which serves as a passageway
    for nearly all domestically-produced iron ore. These funds will
    build on the Department of Transportation’s [recent
    investments](https://www.transportation.gov/briefing-room/us-transportation-secretary-pete-buttigieg-announces-126-million-grants-americas)
    to enhance the movement of goods along the nation’s navigable
    waterways.  
-   **<u>Reinforce America’s Largest Port Complex.</u>** The
    Administration will invest $8 million to improve commercial
    navigation and allow larger and more ships to pass at the **Port of
    Long Beach, California** – part of the nation’s largest port
    complex. The investment will support design work to widen the port’s
    main channel, deepen the entrance channel, and build an approach
    channel and turning basin. It also builds on the [$52 million
    grant](https://polb.com/port-info/news-and-press/port-receives-52-3-million-grant-for-rail-project-12-22-2021/)
    the Administration previously announced to support the Port of Long
    Beach’s on-dock rail facility, as well as a [multi-billion dollar
    loan
    agreement](https://www.transportation.gov/briefing-room/california-us-department-transportation-announce-partnership-supply-chain)
    with California to modernize the state’s ports, freight, and other
    goods movement infrastructure.  
-   **<u>Move More Goods Faster at One of the Nation’s Fastest Growing
    Ports.</u>** The Administration will invest $69 million to improve
    navigation and expand capacity at **Norfolk Harbor, Virginia**,
    which handled 67 percent more containers in 2021 than it did 10
    years ago. Work will include deepening and widening the harbor’s
    shipping channels to improve navigation and enable safer access for
    larger commercial and naval vessels, and to provide significant new
    economic opportunities to the region.  

**BOLSTER THE NATION’S DEFENSES AGAINST CLIMATE CHANGE AND ADVANCE
ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE**  
  
Damage from extreme weather events and natural disasters, including
those from Hurricane Ida, were estimated to cost the United States [at
least $141 billion](https://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/billions/events.pdf) in
2021, and is expected to increase significantly in the coming years.
President Biden knows that down payments now to bolster the resilience
of our infrastructure to climate change will save Americans money in the
long run. The Biden-Harris Administration will commit **$5.5 billion**
through the President’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to better protect
communities from climate change, and protect vital ecosystems and the
people and businesses throughout the country that rely on them.

For instance, the funding from the President’s Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law announced today will:

-   **<u>Restore and Protect Critical Ecosystems and Water Supplies,
    Including the Everglades.</u>** The Administration is making the
    largest single investment in the **Everglades** in U.S. history. The
    iconic American landscape provides drinking water supply for over 8
    million Floridians, supports the state’s $90 billion tourism
    economy, and is home to dozens of endangered or threatened species.
    However, rising sea levels and other climate change impacts are
    endangering this vital ecosystem and the people, businesses, and
    habitats it supports. Through President Biden’s Bipartisan
    Infrastructure Law, the Army Corps will invest $1.1 billion to
    restore, protect, and preserve the **South Florida ecosystem** and
    increase its resilience to the impacts of climate change. These
    funds will support improvements to the Everglades by capturing and
    storing excess surface water runoff, reducing excess water releases
    to water conservation areas, and minimizing seepage losses during
    dry periods.  
-   **<u>Advance Environmental Justice.</u>** The investments announced
    today will further deliver on the President’s Justice40 commitment
    to ensure that 40 percent of the overall benefits from Federal
    investments in climate and clean energy flow to disadvantaged
    communities in building their local economies. The Administration
    will provide $163 million to restore the **Cano Martin Pena**
    **urban tidal channel** and surrounding areas of the **San Juan Bay
    National Estuary**. The urban waterway project will significantly
    improve the health and welfare of the surrounding communities in San
    Juan by reducing exposure to contaminated waters and sediments,
    improving water quality, and restoring fish and mangrove
    habitat. The Administration is also committing $40 million to the
    **Espanola Valley, Rio Grande and Tributaries, New Mexico** to
    restore and protect 958 acres of aquatic and riparian habitats.
    These habitats are critical to the functioning of the third longest
    river in the country, and are an integral part of constructing
    social identity and transmission and retention of traditional
    knowledge for both the Pueblo of Santa Clara and Ohkay Owingeh. In
    addition, the Army Corps is committing nearly $28 million to prevent
    coastal erosion of **Kenai River Bluff in Alaska**. In the coming
    year, the Army Corps will also engage with environmental justice
    communities in the development of a strategy to allocate $130
    million for two pilot programs that target the needs of
    economically-disadvantaged communities.  
-   **Reduce Flood Risk.** The Army Corps will leverage funds from the
    Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to increase community resilience to
    flooding, including $645 million to reduce coastal flood risk
    through 15 projects and $1.7 billion to reduce inland flood risk
    through an additional 15 projects across the country.  Projects
    include $378 million to protect people, property, and the fragile
    marshland in **coastal Louisiana,** $250 million for storm surge
    barriers, levees, and pump stations to reduce storm risk to the City
    of **Norfolk, Virginia**, $66 million to refurbish the levee system
    along the Little Colorado River **outside of** **Winslow, Arizona**
    **in Navajo County,** and $35 million in the **San Joaquin River
    Basin** to help reduce flood risk to the **City of Stockton,
    California**. As a result of Hurricane Ida, 90 percent of Terrebonne
    Parish in Louisiana sustained significant damages, including to five
    floodgates of the **Morganza to the Gulf** Hurricane Protection
    System.

In addition to the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law funds announced today,
the Administration will invest **more than $5.7 billion** in fiscal year
2022 through the Disaster Relief and Supplemental Appropriations Act to
reinforce disaster mitigation and recovery efforts in communities
recovering from extreme weather events, and to better enable homes and
businesses to reduce their risks of climate change. This includes $3.3
billion in funding for Louisiana, New Jersey, New York, and
Pennsylvania, where major disasters were declared due to Hurricane Ida.
In **Louisiana**, for instance, the Biden-Harris Administration will
invest over $1.7 billion to help the state build back more resilient
from extreme weather events, including through the replacement or
modification of levees infrastructure on the east and west banks of
**Plaquemines Parish**, completion of construction of the Atachafalaya
Basin floodway system, and initiation construction for the Algiers
sub-basin in southeast Louisiana.  

\###
