---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2022-01-27'
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/01/27/readout-of-vice-president-harriss-meeting-with-president-castro-of-honduras/
published_time: 2022-01-27 16:44:22-05:00
title: "Readout of Vice President Harris\u2019s Meeting with President Castro of\_\
  Honduras"
---
 
Vice President Kamala Harris met today with Honduran President Xiomara
Castro, which was President Castro’s first meeting with a foreign leader
following her inauguration. They discussed deepening our
cooperation across a broad range of issues, including addressing the
root causes of migration, combatting corruption, and expanding economic
opportunity. Vice President Harris welcomed the opportunity to engage
with President Castro at the outset of her administration and
underscored that the recent election is a mandate for positive change in
Honduras and there are multiple ways we can advance our shared interests
together.   
  
The two leaders discussed ongoing cooperation to save lives and address
the COVID-19 pandemic, including the United States donation of 3.9
million vaccines through COVAX thus far.  Vice President Harris informed
President Castro that several hundred thousand additional doses would be
arriving in the next two months, the first of several donations to come
in 2022. More specifically, they discussed the importance of education
and President Castro’s desire to safely reopen schools.  Vice President
Harris shared the U.S. government’s commitment to provide over 500,000
pediatric syringes and $1.35 million for refurbishment of educational
and health facilities to help with this effort. The United States will
provide an additional $500,000 to support the Government of Honduras’
COVID-19 vaccine and biosafety communications campaign and to strengthen
vaccine deployment.  
  
Vice President Harris emphasized that combating corruption and impunity
remains at the center of our commitment to address the root causes of
migration. To that end, Vice President Harris welcomed President
Castro’s focus on countering corruption and impunity, including her
intent to request the assistance of the United Nations in establishing
an international anti-corruption commission and commitment to advancing
necessary legislative reforms to enable such a commission to succeed. 
They also discussed ways the United States and Honduras can work
together to promote an equitable and inclusive economic recovery by
stimulating economic growth and creation of good jobs.  The United
States committed to a senior-level trade mission and business delegation
led by the Department of Commerce to generate business opportunities in
Honduras as part of the U.S. government’s Call to Action, which the Vice
President announced in May and which has generated more than $1.2
billion in private sector investment in the region.   
  
The two leaders also discussed their shared concerns with gender-based
violence in Honduras. Vice President Harris stressed the importance the
U.S. places on combating sexual, gender-based and domestic violence and
how this work is a core pillar of the U.S Strategy for Addressing the
Root Causes of Migration in Central America. They also committed
that United States and Honduran government agencies will initiate a
strategic dialogue to take action on key bilateral issues, including
anti-corruption, irregular migration, economic recovery, human rights,
and security.    

\### 
