---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-01-31'
modified_time: 2022-01-31 14:01:44-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/01/31/fact-sheet-biden-administration-tackles-super-polluting-methane-emissions/
published_time: 2022-01-31 14:13:00-05:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden Administration Tackles Super-Polluting Methane\_Emissions"
---
 
*Interior Announces $1.15B from Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to Create
Jobs Capping Wells Alongside Additional Federal Action*

  
 When President Biden reestablished U.S. climate leadership on the world
stage in Glasgow at the U.N. climate conference,
he [unveiled](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/02/fact-sheet-president-biden-tackles-methane-emissions-spurs-innovations-and-supports-sustainable-agriculture-to-build-a-clean-energy-economy-and-create-jobs/) the [U.S.
Methane Emissions Reduction Action
Plan](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/US-Methane-Emissions-Reduction-Action-Plan-1.pdf).
The ambitious action plan outlined how the United States will leverage
all available tools to tackle super-polluting methane emissions – a
major contributor to climate change – while protecting public health,
promoting U.S. innovation in new technologies, and helping employ
thousands of skilled workers across the country.

Today, the Biden Administration is announcing new actions in line with
the Methane Emissions Reduction Action Plan to tackle methane emissions
and support a clean energy economy, including:

-   The Department of the Interior announcing $1.15 billion for states
    to clean up orphaned oil and gas wells, a significant source of
    methane emissions.
-   The Department of Energy announcing the launch of a Methane
    Reduction Infrastructure Initiative to provide technical assistance
    to the orphaned well clean-up efforts of Federal agencies, states
    and tribes.
-   The Department of Transportation announcing new enforcement of the
    PIPES Act to requires pipeline operators to minimize methane leaks.
-   The Department of Agriculture highlighting ongoing research efforts
    and investments to reduce methane emissions from beef and dairy
    systems.
-   The White House announcing the formation of a new interagency
    working group to coordinate the measurement, monitoring, reporting
    and verification of greenhouse gas emissions and removals.
-   The President’s Interagency Work Group on Coal and Power Plant
    Communities and Economic Revitalization announcing a national
    workshop for energy communities on repurposing fossil fuel
    infrastructure, including orphan oil and gas wells, for use in new
    industries.

These steps demonstrate how President Biden and the United States are
taking bold action at home to follow through on international
commitments. At the US-led Major Economies Forum on Energy and Climate
in September 2021, the [President and the EU announced the Global
Methane
Pledge](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/11/02/remarks-by-president-biden-at-an-event-highlighting-the-progress-of-the-global-methane-pledge/):
a global partnership to collectively cut emissions of methane by 30%
compared with 2020 levels by 2030. President Biden has helped rally more
than 110 countries to join the initiative, which now covers nearly half
of all methane emissions and 70% of global GDP.  
  
Together, today’s actions will:  
  
**<u>Clean Up Orphaned Wells</u>**  
  
As part of a new $4.7 billion orphan wells clean up program established
under President Biden’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the Department of
the Interior today announced $1.15 billion is available for states to
begin cleaning up thousands of orphaned oil and gas wells that are
hazardous to the health and safety of communities across the country.
Many of these orphaned wells are located in rural communities,
environmental justice communities and communities of color that have
suffered from years of divestment. Plugging these wells will not only
reduce methane emissions and stop dangerous pollution, but it will
create good-paying, union jobs and spur economic revitalization,
especially in hard-hit energy communities. The funding announced today
will be available to states to identify and plug orphaned wells,
remediate and reclaim lands impacted by oil and gas development
activities, and remove infrastructure associated with the wells. The 26
states eligible for this funding collectively represent nearly every
state with documented orphan wells in the country.  
  
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law also includes additional investments
that support methane reduction, including:

-   $11.3 billion in new funding for abandoned mine land reclamation
    through the Department of the Interior;
-   $1 billion for natural gas pipeline modernization at the Department
    of Transportation;
-   $100 million for wastewater efficiency investments, including
    methane capture or transfers, at the Environmental Protection
    Agency; and
-   $30 million for the Department of Energy to assist in identifying,
    characterizing and mitigating the environmental risks of
    undocumented orphaned wells.

**<u>Launch a Methane Reduction Infrastructure Initiative</u>**

The Department of Energy announced that it has begun coordinating with
the Department of the Interior and other relevant stakeholders on the
implementation of the **Methane Reduction Infrastructure Initiative
(MRII), which is funded with $30 million from the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law**. The MRII will enable the federal government,
states and Tribes to develop a better understanding of the various
challenges and opportunities to accelerating the detection,
characterization, and mitigation of methane emissions from undocumented
wells throughout the United States. As a first step, the MRII will host
a technical workshop to begin discussing research, development,
demonstration, and deployment (RDD&D) needs for the new Orphaned Wells
Program created by the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law. This workshop will
bring together technology developers, industry partners, federal
agencies, states, and others and focus on topics such as identification,
characterization, methane measurement, and collaboration for the
plugging of orphaned wells. The workshop will include discussions on
advanced remediation and methane detection technologies, tools and
methods, and best practices that can be used for the prioritization of
well plugging and abandonment activities.

**<u>Minimize Pipeline Methane Leaks</u>**

The Department of Transportation (DOT) announced that it has begun
enforcement of Section 114 of PIPES Act which will help ensure pipeline
operators immediately begin to minimize their methane emissions and will
help inform the development of a new rulemaking that will require
pipeline operators to minimize their methane emissions across their
pipeline systems. DOT will be convening a public webinar later this
month to provide more information on the new enforcement activity in
this space and make clear the agency’s expectations for immediate action
to minimize methane emissions by the pipeline sector.

**<u>Reduce Methane Emissions from Beef and Dairy Systems</u>**

The Department of Agriculture’s Agricultural Research Service (ARS) is
developing science-based models and tools that are helping industry
partners assess and track progress toward net zero emissions from the
U.S. dairy sector. ARS researchers have collaborated with university and
industry partners to conduct a full life cycle assessment of U.S. beef
and dairy systems in order to further improve dairy’s environmental
footprint and reduce ammonia and methane emissions from manure storage
sources with a goal of reducing overall methane emissions. In addition
to the cutting-edge research being pursued by USDA scientists, the
Department’s Rural Development mission area **has supported over $200
million in methane reducing anaerobic digester projects over the past
year**. 

**<u>Advance Greenhouse Gas Monitoring and Measurement</u>**

The White House is announcing the formation of a Greenhouse Gas (GHG)
Monitoring & Measurement Interagency Working Group to help identify and
deploy the best available tools and data systems to measure, monitor,
report, and verify (MMRV) carbon dioxide, methane, and other GHG
emissions and removals. The new GHG measurement interagency working
group will work with scientists, technologists, and mappers to develop a
comprehensive national GHG MMRV system that will facilitate the
dissemination and availability of validated, science-based GHG data for
use by federal agencies, local, state, and Tribal governments, the
private sector, and the public. In the near term, the GHG Measurement &
Monitoring Interagency Working Group will focus on presidential climate
priorities including carbon dioxide and methane emissions and removals
under the U.S. Methane Emissions Reduction Action Plan and the USDA’s
Climate-Smart Agriculture and Forestry initiatives. The Working Group is
co-led led by the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy,
the Office of Management and Budget, and the White House Climate Policy
Office.

**<u>Spur New Industries in Energy Communities</u>**

The President’s [Interagency Work Group on Coal and Power Plant
Communities and Economic
Revitalization](https://energycommunities.gov/events/past-events/),
which focuses on economic diversification and community-driven solutions
in historic coal, oil, and gas regions across the United States,
announced that it will hold a national workshop on the potential to
reduce methane emissions from legacy fossil fuel infrastructure,
including orphan oil and gas wells, while supporting new emerging
industries including clean energy and manufacturing. Leveraging and
transforming legacy fossil fuel infrastructure opens up the opportunity
for a skilled workforce to access new sources of long-term high-quality
jobs and for states and communities to increase tax revenues. As an
example, the [Department of Energy recently awarded $8.4 million in
grant
funding ](https://www.energy.gov/eere/articles/doe-awards-84-million-accessing-geothermal-potential-abandoned-oil-and-gas-wells)to
establish new geothermal energy and heat production from orphaned oil
and gas wells. This workshop will be hosted by the Interagency Working
Group and will include technical expertise from across the
Administration on site remediation and reclamation, worker training and
upskilling of dislocated workers, and the broad range of options for
repurposing fossil fuel infrastructure.

\###
