---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2022-01-13'
modified_time: 2022-01-12 17:01:46-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/01/13/president-biden-announces-key-regional-appointments-for-usda-and-hud/
published_time: 2022-01-13 16:00:00-05:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Regional Appointments for USDA and\_HUD"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden appointed the following
individuals to serve in key regional leadership roles at the United
States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the Department of Housing
and Urban Development (HUD):

-   Blong Xiong, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
    California
-   Matt Gellings, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
    Idaho
-   Whitney Place, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
    Minnesota
-   Heidi Secord, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
    Pennsylvania
-   Ronald Howell, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
    Virginia
-   Lakeisha Hood, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Florida &
    U.S. Virgin Islands
-   Rudy Soto, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Idaho
-   Helen Price Johnson, USDA State Director, Rural Development,
    Washington
-   Margaret Salazar, HUD Regional Administrator, Region 10

These regional appointees will be critical to the President’s efforts to
rebuild communities most impacted by the pandemic, the economic
recovery, and climate change. They bring deep expertise in their issue
areas as well as critical relationships with federal, state, tribal, and
local leaders. And, consistent with the President’s commitment to
building an administration that looks like America, these regional
appointees represent the diversity of America and the communities they
serve.  
  
**<u>UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (USDA)</u>**  
The USDA’s Farm Service Agency implements agricultural policy,
administers credit and loan programs, and manages conservation,
commodity, disaster, and farm marketing programs in each U.S. State. Its
mission is to equitably serve all farmers, ranchers, and agricultural
partners through the delivery of effective, efficient agricultural
programs for all Americans. State Executive Directors oversee this work,
ensuring the needs of local constituents are met and that USDA resources
are distributed equitably and fairly.  
  
USDA’s Rural Development mission area is committed to helping improve
the economy and quality of life in rural America. State Directors lead
offices that offer grants, loans, and loan guarantees to help create
jobs and support economic development and essential services.  
  
**<u>Blong Xiong, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
California</u>**  
As the Executive Director for Asian Business Institute & Resource Center
(ABIRC), and with over 20 years of community service, Xiong works with
the Board to carry out the vision and mission of ABIRC to serve the
small Southeast Asian farmers and small Asian businesses in the Central
Valley. Prior to being the Executive Director for ABIRC, Xiong served
two terms as a Council Member for the City of Fresno from 2007-2014,
where he was the first elected Hmong Council Member in the State of
California and the first Asian Council Member in the City. He has also
served as Deputy Director for The Fresno Center,), a nonprofit
organization that assists immigrants, refugees, and New Americans. Xiong
is very active in issues that span education, economic development,
health, and equitable access to resources, and has sat on statewide
commissions, the Asian Pacific Islander Commission, the California
Volunteer Commission, as a committee member on the Insurance Diversity
Board, and was a local board member of Valley Small Business Development
Corp. and API collaborative member.  Xiong holds a Bachelor of Science
degree in Business Administration from Marian College of Fond du Lac and
a master’s degree in Business Administration from National University.  
  
**<u>Matt Gellings, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
Idaho</u>**  
Gellings is a fourth-generation farmer from Idaho Falls, Idaho. Alfalfa,
wheat, malt barley and potatoes are crops produced on his irrigated
acreage. Gellings also operated a cow/calf operation for 26 years. He
has served on the Farm Service Agency State Committee for the past
twelve years and has been a strong advocate in all aspects of
agriculture. From county, state and national boards, Gellings has always
wanted to serve the Idaho farmer/rancher community.  
  
**<u>Whitney Place, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
Minnesota</u>**  
Place has extensive experience in state government. She has served in
various roles at the Minnesota Department of Agriculture, most recently
as Assistant Commissioner. As Assistant Commissioner, Place led state
efforts around water quality, pesticides, industrial hemp, dairy
assistance, and rural mental health. Place earned a B.S. in Applied
Plant Science and an M.S. in Science, Technology and Environmental
Policy from the University of Minnesota. She grew up in Okabena,
Minnesota where she learned about agriculture in her high school FFA
program and on her family’s farms.  
  
**<u>Heidi Secord, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
Pennsylvania</u>**  
Secord owns and operates the Josie Porter Farm in northeastern PA. She
has over 26 years of farming and regenerative agriculture experience and
a degree in Business Management from the University of Rhode Island. She
served as a Peace Corps volunteer for three years in Mali and Lesotho.
She is a strong advocate for food, agriculture, and social justice
issues. She also served as the State President for the Pennsylvania
Farmers Union and sat on the National Farmers Union Board of Directors.
Secord has been actively engaged in agricultural policy committee work
with multiple state organizations including: PASA Sustainable
Agriculture Board, Pennsylvania State Council of Farm Organizations
(PSCFO), All Together Now Pennsylvania, and as a farmer Board member of
the Monroe County Conservation District. She currently serves as a
Farmer member on the Pennsylvania State Conservation Commission, a
Governor appointed position. Secord, an Oxfam “Sister on the Planet”,
brings her organizational leadership, her work and experience in
sustainable agriculture and policy work to her new position with the
Farm Service Agency.  Secord and her husband Gary Bloss reside in
Stroudsburg, Pennsylvania.  
  
**<u>Ronald Howell, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
Virginia</u>**  
Howell comes to this new position with more than 12 years of
professional experience in higher education, state, and federal
government. In summer 2018, he began his tenure as the Director of
Operations and Management in the College of Agriculture at Virginia
State University. In this capacity, he oversees day-to-day operations of
the College and the University’s Farm. He also carries an administrative
appointment in the Department of Agriculture and serves as a faculty
instructor, teaching courses in agriculture education and mechanization.
Previously, Howell served as the Special Assistant/Advisor for Strategic
Partnerships and Initiatives to the Secretary of Agriculture and
Forestry, in the Office of Virginia Governors McAuliffe and Northam,
respectively. Across the Commonwealth, he worked to strengthen outreach
efforts as well as minority and limited resourced producers’
participation in USDA and state-based agricultural and conservation
programs. Additionally, he provided recommendations for the Virginia
Farm Business Development Program (VFBD) and the Governor’s Agriculture
and Forestry Industries Development (AFID) Program.  
  
Howell received his B.S. in Agriculture Business and Economics from
Virginia State University in 2009 and earned a Master’s degree from
Virginia Tech in Agricultural and Life Sciences in 2012. In 2021, he
received his doctorate degree in P-20 Education and Community Leadership
with a focus in Agriculture Education from Murray State University in
Murray, Kentucky. He resides in Spring Grove, Virginia.  
  
**<u>Lakeisha Hood, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Florida &
U.S. Virgin Islands</u>**  
Most recently, Hood served as the Director of the Division of Food,
Nutrition and Wellness in the Florida Department of Agriculture and
Consumer Services (FDACS). In that role, she managed the implementation
of the state’s food and nutrition programs, including oversight of a $12
million operational budget and more than $1 billion of federal
pass-through funds. Prior to joining FDACS, Hood served as a legislative
assistant in the Florida Senate. A graduate of Alabama State University,
Hood obtained her Master of Education degree from Auburn University at
Montgomery and has earned law degrees from North Carolina Central
University School of Law and the University of the Pacific McGeorge
School of Law. Hood currently resides in Tallahassee, Florida and is a
licensed member of the State Bar of Georgia.  
  
**<u>Rudy Soto, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Idaho</u>**  
Born and raised in Nampa, Idaho, Soto is a member of the Shoshone
Bannock Tribes of the Fort Hall Reservation and the son of a farmworker.
He is a proud veteran of the United States Army National Guard. Soto’s
professional experience includes working in the fields of economic
development, public health, conservation, and child welfare. He
previously served as a legislative staffer in the U.S. House of
Representatives and covered energy, environment, agriculture, education,
transportation, and tribal issues as part of his portfolio. Soto
received his bachelor’s degree from Portland State University. Most
recently, Soto worked for Western Leaders Network, a nonpartisan
nonprofit organization of local and tribal elected officials across the
Interior West focused on protecting public lands, water, and air. Soto’s
recent run for Idaho’s 1<sup>st</sup> Congressional District allowed him
to learn firsthand about the distinct challenges people face in each
region of the state. His campaign RV tour took him to every county
throughout western and northern Idaho where he held town halls and meet
& greets to discuss solutions to longstanding rural issues. He is
passionate about serving rural communities like the ones he comes from
in Idaho and ensuring people from all walks of life have access to
affordable housing, broadband, and pathways out of poverty.  
  
**<u>Helen Price Johnson, USDA State Director, Rural Development,
Washington</u>**  
Dedicated to community service and good governance, Price Johnson has
extensive leadership experience with rural communities. She is a past
president of the Washington State Association of Counties, a three-term
Island County Commissioner, and a two-term South Whidbey School Board
member. Her passion lies in strengthening Washington’s rural communities
to thrive through support of smart, sustainable economic development
while protecting the environment. Price Johnson has worked statewide
advocating for small towns, small businesses, and rural lands. She is a
third-generation small business owner and also enjoys supporting her
community through non-profit service.  
  
**<u>DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT (HUD)</u>**  
Regional Administrators lead HUD’s 10 Regional Offices that directly
serve state and local organizations. Regional Administrators oversee
field offices across each state in their region and ensure the
Department directly serves local communities. Regional Administrators
play a key role in leading assignments of housing assistance funds
within the region and coordinating those assignments with HUD
headquarters.  
  
**<u>Margaret Salazar, HUD Regional Administrator, Region 10</u>**  
Salazar serves in the cabinet of Oregon Governor Kate Brown and is
Executive Director of Oregon Housing Community Services (OHCS), the
state’s Housing Finance Agency. During her five-year tenure at the helm,
OHCS tripled its production of affordable rental housing, created nearly
1,000 units of Permanent Supportive Housing statewide, deployed $500
million in emergency rental assistance, passed legislation to expand
racial equity in homelessness programs, and expanded mortgage lending to
homebuyers of color. Salazar led the agency to respond to the state’s
historic 2020 wildfires with innovative modular developments and
services for Oregon’s agricultural workers. A national leader in
affordable housing finance, Salazar previously served in leadership
roles in HUD Headquarters, where she stewarded the Rental Assistance
Demonstration and financed the recapitalization of hundreds of
properties while safeguarding affordability for thousands of vulnerable
seniors and families. Salazar began her career in philanthropy, funding
community organizations working for social and economic justice across
the Western States. A long-time housing advocate, she led a successful
grassroots campaign for just cause eviction protections in Oakland,
California in 2002.  Salazar is a graduate of Wesleyan University and UC
Berkeley’s Goldman School of Public Policy and has served on the Boards
of Directors of the Low Income Investment Fund, National Housing Trust,
and National Council of State Housing Agencies. She grew up on a cherry
orchard in Hood River, Oregon and is proud to call the Pacific Northwest
home.  
  
Region 10 serves Alaska, Idaho, Oregon, and Washington.

\###  

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 100%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><br />
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
