---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-01-20'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/01/20/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-advances-equity-and-opportunity-for-asian-american-native-hawaiian-and-pacific-islander-communities-across-the-country/
published_time: 2022-01-20 12:56:56-05:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden- \u2060 Harris Administration Advances Equity and Opportunity\
  \ for Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander Communities Across the\
  \ Country"
---
 
For generations, Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific
Islanders (AA and NHPIs) have faced entrenched disparities,
discrimination, and inequitable barriers to reaching the American dream.
 President Biden and Vice President Harris know that America’s future
prosperity and global leadership is tied to the success of individuals,
families, and communities. As we recover from the pandemic and build a
better America, the Biden-Harris Administration has worked to advance
equity by making long overdue investments in AA and NHPI communities and
responding forcefully to the spike in anti-Asian violence.  

The administration remains committed to lifting up AA and NHPI
individuals, families, and communities and will continue building on the
historic progress we’ve already made towards safety, equity, and
opportunity for AA and NHPIs.

### Advancing Safety for Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians and Pacific Islanders By Combatting Hate, Xenophobia, and Intolerance

AA and NHPI communities have faced a recent spike in anti-Asian
violence, and persistent xenophobia, religious discrimination, racism,
and violence since long before the pandemic. President Biden has led a
historic whole of government approach to combat hate, xenophobia and
intolerance facing AA and NHPI communities in the United States,
including:

***Condemning and combating racism, xenophobia, and intolerance against
Asian Americans, Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islanders in the United
States*. **In his first week in office, President Biden signed a
Presidential memorandum that established an official policy to ensure
the federal government stands up against racism, xenophobia, nativism,
and bias. The memorandum directs all federal agencies to take steps to
ensure their actions mitigate anti-Asian bias and xenophobia, especially
in the response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The memorandum also charged
the Department of Justice to partner with AA and NHPI communities to
respond to and prevent hate crimes and violence*.*****

***Signing the COVID-19 Hate Crimes Act into law.* **In May, President
Biden signed into law the COVID-19 Hate Crimes Act, bipartisan
legislation that makes significant improvements to our Nation’s response
to hate crimes. The bill [addresses two
challenges](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/05/28/fact-sheet-president-biden-establishes-the-white-house-initiative-on-asian-americans-native-hawaiians-and-pacific-islanders/):
the lack of resources and training for state and local law enforcement
to accurately identify and report hate crimes to the FBI, and the
language and cultural barriers that many AA and NHPI communities and
communities of color face in reporting hate crimes to law enforcement.

***Funding critical research to prevent and address bias and xenophobia
against AA and NHPI communities.*** The National Science Foundation
(NSF) is taking a comprehensive approach to [investing in
research](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/05/28/fact-sheet-president-biden-establishes-the-white-house-initiative-on-asian-americans-native-hawaiians-and-pacific-islanders/)
to understand, address, and end bias, discrimination and xenophobia,
including against AA and NHPI communities.  NSF is currently funding 100
grant programs across the country that are helping a wide array of
researchers advance innovative studies to reveal new and more effective
strategies for reducing the frequency and severity of discrimination and
violence experienced by historically underrepresented groups, including
AA and NHPI communities.

***Issuing a memoranda from the Attorney General on hate crimes and hate
incidents. *** Attorney General Merrick B. Garland’s first directive was
a 30-day expedited [internal
review](https://www.justice.gov/ag/page/file/1381396/download) to
determine how the Justice Department could deploy all the tools at its
disposal to counter the recent rise in hate crimes and hate incidents. 
In May, Attorney General Garland followed up by issuing a [comprehensive
memorandum](http://www.justice.gov\ag\page\file\1399221\download) on
improving the Department’s efforts to combat hate crimes and hate
incidents. 

***Translating information about hate crimes reporting.*** The
Department of Justice has added information to its
[website](https://www.justice.gov/hatecrimes) on reporting hate crimes
in additional languages, including six of the Asian languages most
frequently spoken in the United States:  Chinese, Japanese, Korean,
Punjabi, Tagalog, and Vietnamese.  The Justice Department is working to
add additional languages in the coming months.

***Providing funding for justice programs***.  In October, [the Justice
Department
announced](https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-department-will-award-more-21-million-prevent-and-respond-hate-crimes#:~:text=Justice%20Department%20Will%20Award%20More%20Than%20%2421%20Million,prosecute%20hate%20crimes%20and%20assist%20hate%20crime%20victims)
that its Office of Justice Programs (OJP) would award more than $21
million to state and local partners to investigate and prosecute hate
crimes and assist hate crime victims.  In December, the Department
announced that it was beginning to award these funds, including grants
of up to $300,000 to state, local and Tribal law enforcement and
prosecution agencies, working with community-based partners, to conduct
outreach, education, investigations and the prosecution of hate
crimes. In addition:

-   OJP’s Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA) awarded grants to local law
    enforcement and prosecution agencies to support collaborative
    efforts with local community-based organizations to prevent hate
    crimes in their communities.  BJA
    [awarded](http://data.ojp.usdoj.gov/stories/s/O-BJA-2021-11001/sn76-d29x/)
    one of these grants to the Los Angeles Police Department to prevent
    and address anti-Asian hate crimes in the city of Los Angeles.  The
    proposal included the following partners: the Los Angeles City
    Attorney’s Office, the Japanese American Citizens League, the
    Chinatown Business Improvement District, the Little Tokyo Business
    Improvement District, the Mid-City West Neighborhood Council, and
    Research Partner Justice & Security Strategies, Inc. 

<!-- -->

-   OJP’s Office for Victims of Crime (OVC) has awarded $2 million to
    Futures Without Violence to respond to the needs of individuals and
    communities victimized by hate crimes. OVC’s Services to Support
    Victims of Hate Crime and Strengthen Communities program funds
    innovative, field-generated projects that promote awareness,
    healing, reconciliation, service access and resource development. 
    OVC is also providing technical assistance to state, local and
    tribal service providers to help identify and serve hate crime
    victims.

***Revitalizing the Justice Department’s Community Relations
Service*. **  The Justice Department is strategically revitalizing the
Community Relations Service (CRS), an office which provides facilitated
dialogue, mediation, training, and consultation for communities facing
bias-related conflict, including AA and NHPI communities. [CRS has been
meeting](http://www.justice.gov/crs/highlights/AAPI-hate-crimes) with
national and local AA and NHPI organizations to address community
concerns about the rise in anti-Asian incidents and individuals’ safety
during the pandemic. CRS will continue [sharing
resources](http://www.justice.gov/file/1426866/download) and information
with affected communities, as well as working with government leaders,
faith leaders, community groups, universities, and schools to help them
build the capacity to address and prevent hate crimes.

***Providing trainings to enhance civil rights reporting and strengthen
relationships between law enforcement and community members.*** Between
June and November, the FBI held regional conferences with hundreds of
law enforcement agencies in Denver, Louisville, San Francisco,
Philadelphia, Tampa Bay, and New Orleans.  These conferences help local
police agencies better understand federal civil rights and hate crimes
laws; encourage reporting; strengthen relationships between law
enforcement and local civil rights organizations; and build trust within
the diverse communities they serve.

***Assessing Threats Against AA and NHPIs.***  The Department of
Homeland Security’s(DHS)Office of Intelligence and Analysis (I&A) issued
an “Intelligence in Brief” publication that assessed the threats
targeting AA and NHPI communities. The brief examines physical threats
and incidents of violence against AA and NHPI community members over the
last year and provides context for what the office views as the
potential threats facing the community in the near future.

***Identifying systemic barriers in accessing nonprofit security grant
benefits and opportunities.*** In July, the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) and the Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties at
Homeland Security collaborated to award [FEMA Nonprofit Security
Grants](https://www.fema.gov/grants/preparedness/nonprofit-security) to
17 AA and NHPI serving organizations. 

***Integrating AA and NHPIs into community-based violence prevention
efforts.* ** DHS’s Center for Prevention Programs and Partnerships (CP3)
Regional Prevention Coordinators conducted outreach and built
connections with local and regional partners across the country to
ensure that AA and NHPI communities are integrated into broader local
community-based prevention efforts to increase the ability of local
community leaders to prevent violence and build community resilience
against discrimination and hate. 

### Safeguarding AA and NHPIs from COVID-19 and Advancing Health Equity

Because of systemic inequities in our economy and healthcare system, AA
and NHPI communities have been disproportionately burdened by the
COVID-19 pandemic. Native Hawaiians and Pacific Islanders, in
particular, have faced significant COVID-19 health inequities. Since his
first day in office, President Biden has used every lever and tool to
ensure access to safe, free, and convenient vaccines; expand access to
free and convenient testing; and invest in more equitable public health
infrastructure to better serve communities of color

***Supporting COVID-19 public education and vaccine confidence campaigns
to engage AA and NHPI communities through HHS programming***. The
Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has launched several
campaigns to advance health equity during the COVID-19 pandemic for AA
and NHPI communities, including:

-   The “Slow the Spread” campaign and the “Building Vaccine Confidence”
    campaign, which includes public information about vaccines in 14 AA
    and NHPI languages.
-   Television ads funded by HHS that promote vaccination in English,
    Cantonese Chinese, Mandarin Chinese, Hindi, Japanese, Korean,
    Tagalog, and Vietnamese.

This outreach is responsive to the recommendations in the [final
report](https://www.minorityhealth.hhs.gov/assets/pdf/HETF_Report_508_102821_9am_508Team%20WIP11-compressed.pdf) of
the Presidential COVID-19 Health Equity Task Force, which included a
working group specifically dedicated to addressing challenges faced by
the AA and NHPI communities. Many AA and NHPI communities have led the
way in our vaccination efforts and comprise a share of the vaccinated
population that exceeds their share of the overall population. The
Biden-Harris Administration will continue working closely with these
communities to promote vaccination during this critical period of our
response.

***Expanding access to health care.***  The American Rescue Plan has
lowered or eliminated health insurance premiums for millions of lower-
and middle-income families enrolled in health insurance marketplaces,
including [197,000 uninsured AA and NHPI
people](https://aspe.hhs.gov/sites/default/files/private/pdf/265581/aspe-uninsured-trends-aapi-ib.pdf).

***Ensuring health care resources are readily available for AA and NHPI
communities.*** The Department of Health and Human Services Centers For
Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) is expanding culturally appropriate
and understandable health care information for the AA and NHPI
community, including releasing the “Medicare & You” handbook in Chinese,
Korean, and Vietnamese.  CMS has also conducted targeted outreach to AA
and NHPI communities for the 2022 Affordable Care Act (ACA) Open
Enrollment season, including specific social media and television
advertisements, and hosting an AA and NHPI week of action during
December.

HHS has also launched an Equity Technical Assistance (TA) Center to
provide training, tools, and TA for HHS employees to make sure that
policies, programs, research, and analyses more equitable, including TA
on strategies for reducing disparities in access to, and use of, grants
and other HHS policy levers. As part of this effort, HHS released a
Request for Information (RFI) in the Federal Register in July 2021 to
gather public input on best practices to advance cultural competency,
language access, and sensitivity toward AA and NHPIs.

### Providing Immediate Relief to AA and NHPI Individuals and Families through the American Rescue Plan

When President Biden signed the American Rescue Plan (ARP) into law, it
provided a
[lifeline](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/ARP-Fact-Sheet-AAPI-Communities.pdf)
to millions of AA and NHPI families who were struggling from the
economic fallout and health impacts of the pandemic. The ARP is:

***Reducing poverty. *** The ARP was projected to reduce poverty by
nearly 22 percent in AA and NHPI communities
[through](https://static1.squarespace.com/static/5743308460b5e922a25a6dc7/t/601acf15866c634924d12963/1612369686861/Poverty-Reduction-Analysis-Biden-Economic-Relief-CPSP-2021.pdf)
increases in the value of Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program
(SNAP) benefits), direct relief payments, extension of unemployment
insurance expansions, a  fully refundable Child Tax Credit, and an
expanded Earned Income Tax Credit for workers without children.

***Expanding relief for mixed-status families.*** Thanks to the ARP,
more than 1.4 million spouses and nearly 3.7 million children who have a
Social Security number in mixed-status families were eligible for $1,400
each in cash relief. For the first time, this relief applied to all
spouses and children with Social Security numbers in mixed status
families, meaning that 2.2 million more children, including AA and NHPI
children who are part of mixed-status families, received cash payments
under this bill than under the CARES Act of 2020.

***Keeping families housed.*** The ARP and Consolidated Appropriations
Act of 2021 allocates over $46 billion to keep families safely housed
with emergency rental assistance and culturally and linguistically
relevant outreach and stability services. In addition, the ARP includes
funding for housing counseling and homeless prevention services,
programs which are critical to supporting individuals who face
eviction.  Additionally, in July, the Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD) made available over $19 million in American Rescue
Plan (ARP) funding for the Fair Housing Initiatives Program to address
discriminatory housing practices related to the COVID-19 pandemic.

### Advancing Educational Equity and School Safety for AA and NHPI Students

***Confronting COVID-19 related harassment in schools.*** In May, the
U.S. Department of Education wrote a
[letter](http://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/correspondence/stakeholders/educator-202105-aapi.pdf)
to educators to address the increased harassment and violence directed
at AA and NHPI students and families and remind schools about their
roles in protecting AA and NHPI students as they returned to in-person
learning. The Department’s Office for Civil Rights (OCR) [shared a
resource
guide](http://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/docs/ocr-factsheet-aapi-202105.pdf)
on how to navigate these situations, and also shared “[How to File a
Discrimination Complaint with the Office for Civil
Rights](http://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/docs/howto-index.html)”
in 24 languages, including in 11 Asian languages.

The Civil Rights Divisions of the Department of Justice and Department
of Education also partnered to create a resource on [Confronting
COVID-19-Related Harassment in
Schools](http://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/docs/ocr-factsheet-aapi-202105.pdf),
to assist AA and NHPI students who have reported bullying and harassment
by classmates because of their race or national origin, including their
ethnicity, ancestry, and language.

***Safely reopening K-12 schools.*** The American Rescue Plan has
provided more than $122 billion to help K-12 schools reopen safely. 
These investments include set asides at the local and state level to
ensure states and districts address the learning loss and social and
emotional needs of students disproportionately impacted by COVID-19,
including AA and NHPI students, English learners, and students with
disabilities.

***Supporting college students.*** The American Rescue Plan provided
more than $36 billion in support to institutions of higher education,
including institutions that primarily serve AA and NHPI students, to
ensure learning continues during the COVID-19 pandemic. All students,
regardless of citizenship, who met the appropriate criteria were
eligible to receive financial aid from the Higher Education Emergency
Relief Fund.

### Advancing Equity for AA and NHPI Communities Through White House Leadership and Initiatives

***Advancing equity and racial justice for AA and NHPI communities
throughout the federal government.*** On his first day in office,
President Biden signed a historic [Executive
Order](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/20/executive-order-advancing-racial-equity-and-support-for-underserved-communities-through-the-federal-government/) establishing
a cross-government initiative to advance equity and racial justice for
communities that have been historically underserved, marginalized, and
adversely affected by persistent poverty and inequality, including AA
and NHPI communities. The President directed all agencies to advance
equity by taking comprehensive action to root out systemic racism from
federal policies, programs, institutions, and laws. Under this Executive
Order, all federal agencies are charged with affirmatively advancing
equity, civil rights, racial justice, and equal opportunity for the
American people, including AA and NHPIs.

***Reestablishing and expanding the White House Initiative on Asian
American and Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islanders.*** In May, the
President signed [Executive Order
14031](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/05/28/fact-sheet-president-biden-establishes-the-white-house-initiative-on-asian-americans-native-hawaiians-and-pacific-islanders/)
reestablishing the White House Initiative on Asian Americans and Native
Hawaiian and Pacific Islanders, and delivering on the President’s
commitment to reinstate and reinvigorate this historic Initiative. The
Initiative is led out of the Department of Health and Human Services
(HHS), and is co-chaired by HHS Secretary Xavier Becerra and Ambassador
Katherine Tai. The Initiative is charged with driving an ambitious,
whole-of-government agenda to advance equity, justice, and opportunity
for AA and NHPI communities by:

-   Coordinating a comprehensive Federal response to the rise in acts of
    anti-Asian bias and violence;
-   Addressing the systemic lack of disaggregated data on AA and NHPI
    communities in Federal statistical systems;
-   Expanding language access and language assistance programs for AA
    and NHPI individuals across federal programs;

<!-- -->

-   Strengthening economic security and opportunity for AA and NHPI
    communities by empowering AA and NHPI entrepreneurs, building new
    workforce training opportunities, and promoting workplaces that are
    free from harassment against AA and NHPI workers;
-   Addressing the concentration of poverty experienced in many AA and
    NHPI communities;
-   Addressing disparities in educational outcomes for AA and NHPI
    students of all ages, and addressing bullying, harassment, and
    discrimination in our Nation’s schools;
-   Advancing climate and environmental justice for AA and NHPI
    communities who are particularly impacted by the climate crisis and
    are overburdened by environmental degradation;
-   Promoting inclusion and belonging for all AA and NHPI communities by
    strengthening public awareness and education about AA and NHPI
    communities, cultures, and traditions;
-   Empowering AA and NHPI communities to be civically engaged,
    including through electoral participation;
-   Building a Federal workforce where AA and NHPI public servants are
    leaders at the most senior levels of our government; and
-   Ensuring that AA and NHPI communities are empowered and equitably
    served by Federal funding, grants, and contracts.

In addition, the Executive Order establishes a Presidential Advisory
Commission on AA and NHPIs that will advise the President on ways the
public, private and non-profit sectors can work together to advance
equity and opportunity for AA and NHPI communities.  The Commission is
also charged with advising the President on policies to address
anti-Asian xenophobia and violence, ways to build capacity in AA and
NHPI communities through federal grantmaking, and policies to address
the barriers that AA and NHPI women, LGBTQI+ people, and people with
disabilities face.  The
[Commission](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/20/president-biden-announces-intent-to-appoint-commissioners-to-the-presidents-advisory-commission-on-asian-americans-native-hawaiians-and-pacific-islanders/)
is made up of leaders who reflect the rich diversity of AA and NHPI
communities across the country.

***Advancing Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Accessibility in the
Federal Government.*** In June, the President signed an [Executive
Order](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/06/25/executive-order-on-diversity-equity-inclusion-and-accessibility-in-the-federal-workforce/)
advancing diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility in the federal
government. The Executive Order establishes that it is the policy of the
Biden-Harris Administration to cultivate a workforce that draws from the
full diversity of the nation. As the nation’s largest employer, the
federal government must be a model for diversity, equity, and inclusion,
and accessibility, where all employees are treated with dignity and
respect. In particular, the Executive Order directs agencies to mitigate
barriers that AA and NHPI employees, first generation professionals,
religious minorities, and workers with limited English proficiency face
in accessing federal employment opportunities, including in positions of
leadership.

### Reducing Barriers and Increasing Access to Federal Services to AA and NHPI Communities

At the President’s direction, agencies across the Biden-Harris
Administration have taken a number of steps to improve access to vital
federal programs for AA and NHPI communities.

***Promoting affordable housing for AA and NHPI communities.*** Earlier
this year, HUD finalized its new [Language Access
Plan](https://www.hud.gov/sites/dfiles/FHEO/documents/HUD_Language_Access_Plan.pdf),
which updates a previous version issued 13 years ago. The Plan outlines
HUD’s commitment to providing meaningful access for people with limited
English proficiency across all programs, services, and activities
conducted by the Department. HUD also developed social media and
[web-based
resources](https://www.hudexchange.info/programs/housing-counseling/fheo/)
for housing counseling agencies to reach those with limited English
proficiency who may be struggling to make their mortgage payments due to
COVID-19. These materials are available in multiple languages, including
Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Samoan, Tagalog, Thai, Vietnamese, and
Punjabi. Similarly, HUD has general homebuying information available for
housing counselors to use with clients in multiple languages, including
Korean, Laotian, Tagalog, Mandarin, and Vietnamese.

***Expanding language access and assistance for arts programs. *** Using
American Rescue Plan (ARP) funds, **** the National Endowment for the
Arts (NEA) expanded language access and language assistance, including
for the first time translating [guidelines and supporting
materials](https://www.arts.gov/about/news/2021/nea-offers-relief-funds-help-arts-and-culture-sector-recover-pandemic)
into Chinese. The NEA has also held grant workshops with the Asian
American Arts Alliance, the Asian American Writers’ Workshop, the
Consortium of Asian American Theaters & Artists, and HowlRound. These
workshops provided technical assistance for ARP grant applications,
better equipping culturally-specific organizations to apply successfully
for relief funding.

***Increasing access to contracting, grant, employment, and internship
opportunities at the Department of Defense. *** Through the
implementation of specific outreach programs to advance inclusivity, the
Department of Defense’s Taking the Pentagon To The People Program
(TTPTTP) is aimed at increasing access to contracts, federal grants,
resources, and employment programs for AA and NHPIs and other
underserved communities.  In addition, DOD is working to strengthen the
capacity and the infrastructure of Asian American Native American
Pacific Islander Serving Institutions (ANNAPISIs) and other
Minority-Serving Institutions (MSIs) and increase opportunities for AA
and NHPI serving institutions to participate in Federal programs. 

### Providing Direct Support for Native Hawaiians and Pacific Islanders

Since taking office, the Administration has taken a number of steps that
meet the unique needs of Native Hawaiians and Pacific Islanders,
including:

***Restoring Hawaiian Home Lands Trust.* ** As part of the Biden-Harris
Administration’s commitment to honor relationships with Indigenous
communities and uphold trust responsibilities, the Departments of
Commerce and the Interior
[announced](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/interior-and-commerce-departments-restore-lands-native-hawaiian-community)
the transfer of an 80-acre parcel of surplus federal property at the
former NOAA Pacific Tsunami Warning Center on O‘ahu for inclusion in the
Hawaiian Home Lands Trust. The land has the potential to provide
homesteads for 200 to 400 Native Hawaiian families. The transfer of this
land helps move the government closer to a settlement of claims against
the United States for its taking and continued use of approximately
1,500 acres set aside a century ago as “available lands” for the Native
Hawaiian Community under the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act. 

***Establishing Native Hawaiian Community Consultation Standards.***  In
January of 2021, the Department of Interior’s Office of Native Hawaiian
Relations published the [Native Hawaiian Community Consultation Standard
Operating Procedure
(SOP).](https://www.doi.gov/sites/doi.gov/files/20201022-consultation-appendices-sop-onhr_0.pdf)
 This SOP outlines seven basic steps for working with the Native
Hawaiian Community on regulatory, policy, or other administrative
decision-making matters.  The SOP emphasizes maintaining a clear
administrative record, setting realistic metrics, and communicating
outcomes with the consulting parties. The SOP lays out how the federal
government should utilize the expertise available in the Native
communities when engaging in Federal actions that will impact the
rights, resources, or lands of Native Hawaiians. 

***Improving the protection of sacred sites.***  The Interior Department
[announced](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/secretary-haaland-announces-interagency-effort-protect-and-increase-access-indigenous)
a new interagency initiative to improve the protection of and access to
Indigenous sacred sites through enhanced and improved interdepartmental
coordination, collaboration, and action. This commits participating
agencies to work together and consult with Native Hawaiian organizations
and spiritual leaders, as well as Indian Tribes, in developing and
implementing actions to improve the protection of and access to Native
Hawaiian, Tribal, and Alaska Native sacred sites.

***Providing education, employment, and training opportunities for
Native Hawaiian youth***. The Department of the Interior released [draft
guidelines](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Flnks.gd%2Fl%2FeyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiJ9.eyJidWxsZXRpbl9saW5rX2lkIjoxMDEsInVyaSI6ImJwMjpjbGljayIsImJ1bGxldGluX2lkIjoiMjAyMTEwMjguNDgwMTQ5MjEiLCJ1cmwiOiJodHRwczovL3d3dy5ucHMuZ292L29yZ3MvMTAxNS91cGxvYWQvRFJBRlQtVGhlLUluZGlhbi1Zb3V0aC1TZXJ2aWNlLUNvcnBzLVByb2dyYW0tRmVkZXJhbC1Hb3Zlcm5tZW50LUd1aWRhbmNlLU9jdG9iZXItMjAyMS01MDgtY29tcGxpYW50LnBkZiJ9.E6zk5XD5KWp2UZJB0PHtSuKBrvQGoy9zrZnCif50oj8%2Fs%2F1434048034%2Fbr%2F114825627734-l&data=04%7C01%7Ckate_kelly%40ios.doi.gov%7Cf81ae98ae14543ad40b508d99a16d57e%7C0693b5ba4b184d7b9341f32f400a5494%7C0%7C0%7C637710245130276937%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000&sdata=nZd7fh%2F%2Fp1GHUSiE3vw%2F9T0IiLb4Ei8GxH6Sb%2FOMM%2Bs%3D&reserved=0)
to implement the Indian Youth Service Corps (IYSC) Program and is
working closely with Native Hawaiian community members on implementation
of the program. The IYSC Program will provide meaningful education,
employment, and training opportunities to Indigenous youth through
conservation projects on public lands, Indian lands, and Hawaiian
homelands – putting young people on a path to good paying jobs working
to tackle the climate crisis.  
  

***Supporting the ‘Umeke ‘ai Waimea Nui program****.* The Department of
Interior assisted the [Waimea Nui Hawaiian Home Lands Beneficiary
Association](https://www.doi.gov/hawaiian/homestead-beneficiary-associations-list-waimea-nui)
with the development of the [‘Umeke ‘ai Waimea Nui
program](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.waimeahomestead.com%2FWaimea-Nui-Mea--Ai.html&data=04%7C01%7Cemily_horadam%40ios.doi.gov%7Ce79a2cc82d9841bf5e1a08d9b44ab70f%7C0693b5ba4b184d7b9341f32f400a5494%7C0%7C0%7C637739055258162905%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000&sdata=7p2VYPri9jQza2vQxcNregRheauUsY%2FQq%2FPgttzfcV0%3D&reserved=0). 
The ‘Umeke ‘ai program was developed in response to the COVID-19
pandemic economic slowdown and achieved two main outcomes: purchasing
fresh produce from Waimea Community Farmers to keep the farm workers
employed and the farm businesses from collapsing during the COVID-19
pandemic and providing healthy nutritional foods to the community at a
highly discounted price.  The food baskets provided to families
contained: beef, fresh fish, pork, kalo, ‘uala, tomato, lettuce, and
mamaki tea.  The cost to families who participate in the program is $20
for 8 weeks, totaling $160.  This cost is supplemented by multiple
government and private foundation grants along with volunteers from
Waimea Nui.  The program has helped feed close to 1,000 Native Hawaiians
in need. 

***Providing Pacific Islanders with CARES Act grant assistance.*** The
Department of Interior’s Office of Insular Affairs provided $55 million
in CARES Act grants to support Pacific Islander communities in United
States territories and Insular Area Pacific Islander populations in the
contiguous United States prepare for, prevent, and protect against
COVID-19.

***Reducing health disparities and mitigating the spread of COVID-19 in
Hawaii. *** In August, the Centers For Medicare & Medicaid Services(CMS)
released a [State Health Official
Letter](https://www.medicaid.gov/federal-policy-guidance/downloads/sho-21-004.pdf)
that detailed temporary Federal Medical Assistance Percentage (FMAP)
increases under the American Recovery Plan. This determines the amount
of federal matching funds for state expenditures for assistance
payments.  Expenditures for Medicaid services received through Native
Hawaiian Health Care Systems will be matched at [100 percent
FMAP](https://www.cms.gov/newsroom/press-releases/biden-harris-administration-releases-medicaid-and-chip-guidance-targeting-vaccination-and-testing)
because Native Hawaiians [suffer health
disparities](https://www.cms.gov/newsroom/press-releases/biden-harris-administration-releases-medicaid-and-chip-guidance-targeting-vaccination-and-testing)
at higher rates than other U.S. racial and ethnic groups. 

Additionally, HHS’s Health Resources and Services Administration awarded
$20 million to six Native Hawaiian Health Care Improvement Act award
recipients in August 2021 to strengthen vaccination efforts, respond to
and mitigate the spread of COVID-19, and enhance health care services
and infrastructure in their communities.

***Supporting NH and PI partners to develop and execute economic
development projects. *** Through the [Indigenous Communities
program](https://www.grants.gov/web/grants/view-opportunity.html?oppId=334764),
the Department of Commerce’s Economic Development Agency (EDA) is
allocating $100 million in American Rescue Plan funding specifically for
Indigenous communities, including Pacific Islanders, which were
disproportionately impacted by the pandemic. EDA will support these
partners to develop and execute economic development projects that they
need to recover from the pandemic and build economies for the future. A
wide range of technical, planning, workforce development,
entrepreneurship, and public works and infrastructure projects are
eligible for funding under this program. Eligible organizations include:
a public or private non-profit organization or association serving
Native Pacific Islanders of Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of
the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the
Federated States of Micronesia, or the Republic of Palau.

***Awarding $3.9 million in grants to help Native Hawaiian Businesses
Grow.***  The U.S. Department of Commerce’s Minority Business
Development Agency (MBDA) awarded $3.9 million in federal funding to 13
projects that support American Indian, Alaska Native, and Native
Hawaiianbusiness growth. Each of the projects aim to address one or more
of three strategic initiatives: innovation and entrepreneurship (*e.g.*,
business trainings, incubators, coaching); strategic planning (*e.g*.,
entrepreneurial and economic development); and/or transformative
projects (*e.g.*, infrastructure focused public-private partnerships and
broadband).

***Investing in broadband deployment, digital inclusion, workforce
development, telehealth, and distance learning.***  The Tribal Broadband
Connectivity Program (TBCP), funded by the Consolidated Appropriations
Act of 2021 (Act), makes $980 million available for grants to eligible
Native Hawaiian entities, as well as Native American and Alaska Native
entities, for broadband deployment, digital inclusion, workforce
development, telehealth, and distance learning.  The recently enacted
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law provides an additional $2 billion in
funding for this program.

***Providing stable housing for Native Hawaiian families.*** The
Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Office of Native American
Programs(ONAP) made $5 million in Native Hawaiian Housing Block Grant
funding available under the American Rescue Plan to provide critical
rental assistance to 223 low-income Native Hawaiian families. ONAP also
issued approximately 60 mortgage loan guarantees representing over $17
million dollars in mortgage capital to Native Hawaiian families.

***Funding Native Hawaiian*** ***educational organizations*. ** In
September, the Department of Education announced 35 grants totaling
nearly $85 million through the Native Hawaiian Education (NHE) program
and 33 grants totaling more than $100 million through the Alaska Native
Education (ANE) program.  Grants were made to Native Hawaiian
educational organizations; Native Hawaiian community-based
organizations; public and private nonprofit organizations, agencies, and
institutions with experience in developing or operating Native Hawaiian
programs or programs of instruction in the Native Hawaiian
language. Grantees under these programs use their funds for activities
such as the development of curricula and education programs that address
the education needs of Native Hawaiian students and the development and
operation of student enrichment programs in science and mathematics.
 Eligible activities also include professional development for
educators, activities carried out through Even Start and Head Start
programs, family literacy services, and dropout prevention programs.
Over 58,000 students, educators, and community members will
[benefit](https://oese.ed.gov/2021-grant-awards/) from these grants in
2021. 

***Launching a new interagency initiative to preserve, protect, and
promote the rights and freedom to use, practice, and develop Native
languages.***  The Departments of the Interior, Education, and Health
and Human Services joined five other agencies in signing a [memorandum
of
agreement](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Flnks.gd%2Fl%2FeyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiJ9.eyJidWxsZXRpbl9saW5rX2lkIjoxMDEsInVyaSI6ImJwMjpjbGljayIsImJ1bGxldGluX2lkIjoiMjAyMTExMTUuNDg4NTkwNjEiLCJ1cmwiOiJodHRwczovL3d3dy5kb2kuZ292L3NpdGVzL2RvaS5nb3YvZmlsZXMvbmF0aXZlLWFtZXJpY2FuLWxhbmd1YWdlLW1vYS0xMS0xNS0yMDIxLnBkZiJ9.PQHTzXc3w_9DHJYglAIVF_kvEgfYPgU68yVm9-BYA-o%2Fs%2F1434048034%2Fbr%2F120970202794-l&data=04%7C01%7Ckate_kelly%40ios.doi.gov%7Ceecd285dfaed43d9677a08d9a848f4e6%7C0693b5ba4b184d7b9341f32f400a5494%7C0%7C0%7C637725853569868448%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000&sdata=%2BbwDXLifhbxtr1l1fyor2TMpFY34yXmvDwqYePJjCOA%3D&reserved=0)
to further the Native American Languages Act of 1990 by establishing new
goals and programs that support the protection and preservation of
Native languages, including Native Hawaiian languages.

***Removing Derogatory Names from The Nation’s Geographic Features***. 
Secretary of the Interior Deb Haaland established a process to review
and replace derogatory names of the nation’s geographic features, such
as creeks and mountains. The Advisory Committee on Reconciliation in
Place Names will establish a process to solicit and assist with
proposals to the Secretary to change derogatory names, and will include
representation from Native Hawaiian organizations, as well as Tribal
partners, civil rights, anthropology,  history experts, and members of
the general public.

### Ensuring that AA and NHPI Owned Small Businesses Grow and Thrive

***Leveraging federal procurement to expand Opportunity for AA and NHPI
owned small businesses.*** Federal procurement is one of our most
powerful tools to advance equity and build wealth in underserved
communities, but only around 10 percent of federal agencies’ total
eligible contracting dollars typically go to small disadvantaged
businesses, a category under federal law for which AA and NHPI-owned
businesses are presumed to qualify. Recognizing the importance of using
the government’s purchasing power to advance opportunity and equity, the
Administration has already taken steps to expand contracting
opportunities for underserved small businesses, setting a new goal of
increasing the share of contracts going to small disadvantaged
businesses by 50 percent over the next five years.

***Supporting AA and NHPI owned small businesses.*** AA and NHPI owned
small businesses were hit especially hard during the COVID-19 economic
crisis, in part fueled by stigma and bias against Asian-owned small
businesses and restaurants. The ARP has supported small businesses,
including those owned by AA and NHPIs, through a $28.6 billion
Restaurant Revitalization Fund that has helped restaurants and bars
recover from the pandemic and an additional $7.25 billion for the
Paycheck Protection Program. The ARP also made changes to the COVID
Economic Injury Disaster Loan program – including raising the cap from
$500,000 to $2 million, and created a $100 million Community Navigator
pilot program that works with community groups to connect eligible
business owners with American Rescue Plan and other pandemic-relief
programs.

***Accessing federal resources through trusted community leaders.*** A
program funded by the Department of Commerce’s Minority Business
Development Agency has helped more than 500 AA and NHPI-business owners
apply for federal resources through virtual programming and one-on-one
application assistance. The program helped more than 400 AA and NHPI
entrepreneurs aged 22-48 participate in the program, many of whom have
created jobs, secured loans, and pivoted their business model during the
pandemic.

***Enhancing access to capital.***  The Small Business Administration’s
(SBA) Office of Capital Access has provided more than $179 billion to AA
and NHPI business owners and entrepreneurs. Additionally, SBA’s Office
of International Trade has also provided 70 loans to AA and NHPI-owned
small business exporters in Fiscal Year 2021, worth $106.3 million.

***Training and counseling AA and NHPI entrepreneurs.***  Small Business
Development Centers (SBDCs), a resource partner of the Small Business
Administration, have provided training and counseling to more than
20,000 clients who identified as Asian American and more than 3,600
Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander entrepreneurs, and published
resources that are specifically geared toward helping AA and NHPI
entrepreneurs thrive.

### Advancing Immigration Reform 

Given the four years of chaos and cruelty under the previous
Administration, President Biden is rebuilding our immigration system and
ensuring it is more fair, humane, and orderly, including for AA and NHPI
immigrants and new Americans.  These actions include:

***Pushing for immigration reform legislation in Congress.*** On his
first day in office, the President sent Congress the [United States
Citizenship
Act](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/01/20/fact-sheet-president-biden-sends-immigration-bill-to-congress-as-part-of-his-commitment-to-modernize-our-immigration-system/)
– comprehensive legislation that seeks to create a pathway to permanent
residence and eventual citizenship for the nearly 11 million
undocumented immigrants, including AA and NHPI immigrants, living in and
contributing to our country. The President’s plan also modernizes our
immigration system and responsibly manages our borders, while addressing
the root causes of migration. President Biden and Vice President Harris
have repeatedly expressed their strong support for including immigration
reform in reconciliation legislation moving through Congress to enable
DREAMers, TPS recipients, farmworkers, and essential workers to gain
long-awaited pathways to permanent residence and eventual citizenship. 

***Promoting naturalization.**** *President Biden is committed to making
the naturalization process more accessible for eligible noncitizens. The
President established an Interagency Working Group to Promote
Naturalization and directed the Attorney General, the Secretary of
Homeland Security, and the Secretary of State to improve the
naturalization processing, including identifying and removing barriers
to naturalization and reducing backlogs for naturalization applications.

***Protecting DACA recipients and Dreamers.***  On his first day in
office, President Biden issued a [Presidential
Memorandum](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/20/preserving-and-fortifying-deferred-action-for-childhood-arrivals-daca/)
directing the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the
Attorney General, to take appropriate actions to preserve and fortify
the 2012 DACA policy, under which eligible undocumented immigrant youth,
including undocumented AA and NHPI youth, could be permitted to work and
study in our communities on a temporary basis. The Department of
Homeland Security recently published a [new proposed
rule](https://www.dhs.gov/news/2021/09/27/dhs-publish-notice-proposed-rulemaking-daca)
on DACA.

***Addressing the backlog for U Visa Petitioners*. ** In June, the U.S.
Citizen and Immigration Services (USCIS) implemented a [bona fide
determination
policy](https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-3-part-c-chapter-5)
for U visa petitioners that enables USCIS to address a five-year backlog
by issuing employment authorization and granting deferred action to
petitioners in the United States with pending U visa petitions in cases
that USCIS determines are bona fide and merit a favorable exercise of
discretion.

***Using a victim-centered approach to crime, including noncitizen
victims*. ** In August, U.S. Immigrations and Customs Enforcement (ICE)
issued a [new
directive](https://www.ice.gov/doclib/news/releases/2021/11005.3.pdf) on
using a victim-centered approach with noncitizen crime victims. The
directive emphasizes exercising prosecutorial discretion in immigration
enforcement actions for noncitizen individuals and individuals with
pending applications for victim-based immigration benefits. In
October, Secretary Mayorkas directed all DHS components and offices to
incorporate a victim-centered approach into all policies, programs, and
activities governing DHS interactions with victims of crime.  Components
and offices were given 90 days to prepare and transmit implementation
plans to the Secretary.

***Deferring enforced departure for Hong Kong*.** In August, President
Biden signed a [“Memorandum on the Deferred Enforced Departure for
Certain Hong Kong Residents for 18
months”](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/05/memorandum-on-the-deferred-enforced-departure-for-certain-hong-kong-residents/)
which authorized the Secretary of Homeland Security to take measures to
defer the removal of any qualified Hong Kong resident for 18 months.

***Slowing removals to Burma, Cambodia, and Laos*. ** The DHS AA and
NHPI Task Force analyzed key policy issues surrounding the visa
sanctions on Burma, Cambodia, and Laos and continues to monitor removals
to these countries. To date, ICE has slowed removals to Burma, Cambodia,
Laos, and Vietnam based upon conditions in the countries.

### Building an Administration that Represents America

President Biden has assembled the most diverse Administration in our
nation’s history and is proud to serve alongside Vice President Kamala
Harris—the first Black American and South Asian American to be elected
Vice President— as well as the 15 percent of all agency appointees that
are AA and NHPI, far exceeding their 7 percent share of the Census
population.  In the White House itself, 17 percent of all staff and
26 percent of the President’s commissioned officer staff identify as AA
and NHPI.  The President has taken further action to ensure diversity is
emphasized throughout the administration, including:

***Appointing AA and NHPIs to lead critical agencies.*** AA and NHPIs
are represented at the top level of the administration in the
President’s Cabinet and as heads of agencies. This list of senior
officials includes United States Trade Representative Katherine Tai,
Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Rohit Chopra,
Surgeon General of the United States Vice Admiral Vivek Murthy, Chair of
the Federal Trade Commission Lina Khan, Director of the Office of
Personnel Management Kiran Ahuja, and Director of the Office of National
Drug Control Policy Rahul Gupta.

***Nominating AA and NHPIs to Federal Judicial Positions.***  The
Biden-Harris Administration has nominated 16 AA and NHPI federal
judicial nominees so far, which represents 18 percent of all federal
judicial nominees. *** ***This includes several historic appointments,
including:

-   Lucy Haeran Koh (9th Cir.), the first Korean-American woman to serve
    on any federal appeals court.
-   Jennifer Sung (9th Cir.), the first Asian American judge from Oregon
    on the Ninth Circuit.
-   Angel Kelley (D. Mass), who, at the time of her confirmation, was
    the second African American judge and the second Asian American
    judge actively serving on the U.S. District Court for the District
    of Massachusetts.
-   Zahid N. Quraishi (D.N.J.), the first ever Muslim American federal
    judge in the United States and the first Asian American judge in the
    District of New Jersey.
-   Sarala Vidya Nagala (D. Conn.), who, at the time of her
    confirmation, was the only woman of South Asian descent on the
    District of Connecticut.
-   Regina M. Rodriguez (D. Colo.), the first Asian American to serve as
    a district judge in the state.
-   Florence Y. Pan (D.D.C.), the first Asian American woman on the
    district court for the District of Columbia.
-   Tana Lin (W.D. Wash.), the first Asian American federal judge in the
    Western District of Washington, which is particularly notable since
    Asian Americans are the largest minority group in Seattle,
    comprising approximately 14 percent  of the city’s population. Lin
    was born in Taiwan and immigrated to the United States at age 3.
-   Shalina D. Kumar (E.D. Mich.), the first federal judge in Michigan
    of South Asian descent.
-   John Chun (W.D. Wash.), who, if confirmed, would be the first Asian
    American man on the United States District Court for the Western
    District of Washington, and just the second Asian American federal
    judge to serve in the district.
-   Jinsook Ohta (S.D. Cal.), who is the first Asian American woman to
    ever sit on the Southern District of California bench.
-   Dale E. Ho (S.D.N.Y.), who, if confirmed, would be just the third
    Asian American federal judge on the United States District Court for
    the Southern District of New York and the only AA or NHPI man
    actively serving on that court.
-   Cindy K. Chung (PA-W) was sworn in as the first Asian American
    person to serve as U.S. Attorney for the Western District of
    Pennsylvania.
-   Robert Huie (S.D. Cal.), who, if confirmed, would be the third Asian
    American ever to serve on the Southern District of California.
-   Judge Nina Wang (D. Colo.), who, immigrated from Taiwan as a child
    and, if confirmed, would be the second Asian American to serve on
    the United States District Court for the District of Colorado.
-   Nusrat Choudhury (E.D.N.Y). who, if confirmed, would be the first
    Bangladeshi-American, the first Muslim-American woman, and only the
    second Muslim-American person to serve as a federal judge.

***Creating a White House Senior Liaison to the Asian American, Native
Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander communities.***  President Biden
announced the appointment of [Erika L.
Moritsugu](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/14/president-biden-announces-erika-l-moritsugu-as-deputy-assistant-to-the-president-and-asian-american-and-pacific-islander-senior-liaison/)
to serve as Deputy Assistant to the President and the first-ever Asian
American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander Senior Liaison to the
White House.  

***Native Hawaiian leadership of the White House Initiative on Asian
Americans, Native Hawaiians and Pacific Islanders.* In May, President
Biden appointed** [Krystal
Ka’ai](https://www.hhs.gov/about/leadership/krystal-ka-ai.html) **to
serve as the Executive Director of the Initiative. Ka’ai is the first
Native Hawaiian to serve as head of the WHIAANHPI.**

**\###**
