---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-01-26'
modified_time: 2022-01-27 09:02:41-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/01/26/president-biden-announces-appointees-for-the-united-states-holocaust-memorial-council/
published_time: 2022-01-26 16:15:00-05:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Appointees for the United\_States Holocaust Memorial\_\
  Council"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announces his intent to appoint the
following individuals to serve as members on the United States Holocaust
Memorial Council:

-   Stuart Eizenstat, Chair
-   Allan M. Holt, Vice Chair
-   Tom A. Bernstein
-   Abraham H. Foxman
-   Meryl Frank
-   Judith Gold
-   Marsha Z. Laufer
-   Samuel Lauter
-   Jeffrey Peck
-   Leah Pisar
-   Mark A. Siegel
-   Susan K. Stern

The United States Holocaust Memorial Council was established by Congress
in 1980 to lead the nation in commemorating the Holocaust and to raise
private funds for and build the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum.
Once the Museum opened in 1993, the Council became the governing board
of trustees of the Museum, an independent establishment of the United
States government operating as a public-private partnership that
receives some federal funding to support operations of the Museum
building.   

**<u>Stuart Eizenstat, Chair</u>**

Ambassador Eizenstat is a senior member of Covington & Burling LLP’s
international practice. During a decade and a half of public service in
four U.S. administrations, Ambassador Eizenstat has served as chief
White House domestic policy adviser to President Jimmy Carter, and held
a number of key roles in the Clinton Administration, including U.S.
Ambassador to the European Union, Under Secretary of Commerce for
International Trade, Under Secretary of State for Economic, Business and
Agricultural Affairs, and Deputy Secretary of the Treasury. He also
served as a member of the White House staff for President Lyndon B.
Johnson. He has made Holocaust justice and memory a major part of his
career.  During the Carter Administration, Ambassador Eizenstat
recommended to the President a Presidential Commission on the Holocaust,
chaired by Elie Wiesel, and helped draft the legislation authorizing
creation of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum, which the Commission
proposed.  In addition, in the Clinton Administration, he served as
Special Representative of the President and Secretary of State on
Holocaust-Era Issues and during the Obama-Biden Administration as
Special Advisor to Secretaries of State Hillary Clinton and John Kerry
on Holocaust-Era Issues, negotiating major recoveries from foreign
corporations and governments on behalf of Holocaust survivors and
families of victims. As Special Negotiator for the Jewish Claims
Conference since 2009, he has negotiated additional compensation and
social services for survivors, with an increasing emphasis on Holocaust
memory and lessons. He is currently Special Adviser to Secretary of
State Blinken on Holocaust Issues. He chairs the board of the Defiant
Requiem Foundation, honoring the memory of the musicians and artists at
the Theresienstadt concentration camp. He has received eight honorary
doctorate degrees from academic institutions, and over 75 awards,
including the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum’s highest award, the Eli
Wiesel Award, and from the governments of France (Legion of Honor),
Germany, Austria, Belgium, Israel and the United States. He has authored
three books, including *Imperfect Justice: Looted Assets, Slave Labor &
the Unfinished Business of World War II*. He is Phi Beta Kappa, cum
laude graduate of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, which
created the Ambassador Stuart E. Eizenstat Chair of Modern Jewish
History, and of Harvard Law School. He and his late wife, Frances
Eizenstat, have two sons and eight grandchildren.

**<u>Allan M. Holt, Vice Chair</u>**

Allan M. Holt of Washington, DC, is Vice Chairman of the United States
Holocaust Memorial Council and Chairman of the Strategic Advancement
Committee. He is a Senior Partner and Managing Director of The Carlyle
Group, serving most recently as Chairman of Carlyle’s US Buyout group,
the firm’s largest investment fund. Prior to joining Carlyle in 1992 he
spent three and a half years with Avenir Group, Inc., an investment and
advisory company. Allan was also previously with MCI Communications
Corporation, where as Director of Planning and Budgets he managed a
group responsible for the development, review and analysis of MCI’s
multibillion-dollar financial operating and capital plans. He is
currently a member of the Boards of Directors of several Carlyle
portfolio companies, including Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics and Veritas
Technologies. Mr. Holt is the former Chair of The Smithsonian National
Air and Space Museum Board, currently serving as an Emeritus Member, and
is a Member of the Johns Hopkins University Wilmer Eye Institute Board
of Governors. He is also a Member of the George W. Bush Presidential
Center’s Human Freedom Advisory Council. Mr. Holt is a graduate of
Rutgers University and received his MBA from the University of
California, Berkeley. He is the son of Holocaust survivors.

**<u>Tom A. Bernstein</u>**

Tom A. Bernstein is President and Co-Founder of Chelsea Piers, L.P.,
formed in 1992, to develop and operate the Chelsea Piers Sports and
Entertainment Complex along Manhattan’s Hudson River. In addition, Mr.
Bernstein was one of the two principals of Silver Screen Management,
Inc., and the affiliated Silver Screen companies, which from 1983 to
1998 financed 75 films with the Walt Disney Company. Mr. Bernstein was
appointed to the United States Holocaust Memorial Council in 2002, and
is now Chairman Emeritus and serves on the Executive Committee and as
Chair of the Committee on Conscience.  Mr. Bernstein also serves as
Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Partnership for Public
Service; Chair of the Advisory Council of the NYU Center for Business &
Human Rights; and Co-Chair Emeritus of Human Rights First.

**<u>Abraham H. Foxman</u>**

Abraham H. Foxman is a world-renowned leader in the fight against
antisemitism, bigotry and discrimination and a decades-long advocate for
Holocaust education and awareness. Born in Poland, Foxman is a Holocaust
survivor, having survived as a hidden child in Lithuania. When the war
ended, Foxman reunited with his parents, also Holocaust survivors, and
spent several years in DP camps in Austria, before immigrating to
America. Foxman has served as a member of President Carter’s Commission
on the Holocaust. Chaired by Elie Wiesel, that commission would go on to
establish the United States Holocaust Museum. Foxman has also served as
a Member of the Council appointed by Presidents Ronald Reagan, George
H.W. Bush, and Bill Clinton. Foxman is National Director Emeritus of the
Anti-Defamation League (ADL). After serving 50 years with the
organization, including serving as National Director for 28 years,
Foxman retired in 2015. He is the author of four books on antisemitism
and the recipient of numerous honorary degrees and awards, including the
2021 Jewish Heritage Congressional Tribute Honoree. The proud father of
two children and grandfather to four grandchildren, Foxman lives with
his wife Golda in Bergen County, New Jersey.

**<u>Meryl Frank</u>**

Meryl Frank is an international champion of women’s leadership and
political participation. She was appointed as the United States
Representative, and subsequently, as the United States Ambassador to the
United Nations Commission on the Status of Women (CSW) by President
Barack Obama in February 2009.  Prior to her appointment as Ambassador,
Frank was elected Mayor of Highland Park, New Jersey. She served in that
capacity for ten years, from January 2000 to January 2010. She has
served on the Boards of Jewish Women International, The Sisterhood of
Salaam Shalom and The American Jewish Congress. Frank was selected as
one of “The Fifty Most Influential Jews in the World” by the Jerusalem
Post (2012) for her work on behalf of women around the world. Her book,
*Unearthed: A Lost Actress, a Forbidden Book, and a Search for Life in
the Shadow of the Holocaust*, is forthcoming from Hachette Books in
April 2023.

**<u>Judith Gold</u>**

Judith Gold is a business executive, attorney and national advocate for
equality, social justice and local civic causes. Ms. Gold is the
Managing Director and Senior Counsel of LAMB LLC, a privately held
investment firm, and prior to that was a partner at Perkins Coie in the
Corporate Law Department. In addition to her private practice, Ms. Gold
has a distinguished record of public service having served as Policy
Director for the city of Chicago as well as serving as a past chair of
the Governor’s Commission on the Status of Women in Illinois. Ms. Gold
currently serves on numerous boards including the Illinois Coalition
Against Sexual Exploitation, Columbia College of Chicago, the Civic
Federation of Chicago, the Women’s Media Center and is a member of the
Government Affairs Committee of the Jewish Federation of Metropolitan
Chicago.

**<u>Marsha Z. Laufer</u>**

Dr. Marsha Zlatin Laufer (Ph.D. Northwestern University), raised in a
Jewish family in Baltimore, Maryland, has had two successful careers as
a speech-language pathologist and as a political activist. She has been
engaged in clinical practice, undergraduate and graduate teaching, and
in conducting research in clinical phonology and in infant development
studying precursors to and evolution of language at the National
Institutes of Health, Purdue University, and Stony Brook University.
Marsha and her husband Henry, a theoretical mathematician who went on to
have a second career in finance, resided in Long Island where she
chaired the Village of Old Field Ways and Means Committee, the Stony
Brook University Bach Aria Festival, served on the Boards of the Staller
Center for the Arts and Planned Parenthood, and received an honorary
doctoral degree from the State University of New York at Stony Brook. As
a political activist, Marsha led a successful local council district
good government referendum, chaired the Brookhaven Town Democratic
Committee, and has served on the DNC National Finance Committee, and as
a County, State, and National Democratic Committeewoman.  After retiring
to Florida where they belong to the Temple Emanu-El Congregation, Marsha
has maintained a high level of political, community, and cultural
activism. Marsha and Henry have three married sons who, with their
families that include nine grandchildren, reside in Jerusalem, Israel,
New York, and Piedmont, California.

**<u>Samuel Lauter</u>**

Sam Lauter, a fifth-generation San Franciscan, is a public affairs
professional with over 40 years of experience in local, state and
national politics. Currently Sam is a partner in Barnes Mosher
Whitehurst Lauter & Partners’ (BMWL), one of California’s leading
boutique public affairs and political consulting firms. Sam began his
professional career at the age of 18 on the district staff for
Congressman Philip Burton (D-CA). After graduating UC Berkeley in 1986,
Sam moved to Washington, DC, to work on the presidential campaign and
Senate staff for Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE), where he served as the
Senator’s personal assistant. In his volunteer life, Sam is a key voice
in the organized Jewish community in both California and Washington,
D.C., most prominently with AIPAC, the Democratic Majority For Israel
and A Wider Bridge. Sam’s mother, the late Naomi Lauter, spearheaded
organizing the Survivor community in San Francisco in the early 1970’s
leading to the San Francisco Holocaust Memorial, the San Francisco
Holocaust Center, and the annual community-wide Shoah commemoration
committee which Sam served on for almost 20 years.  Sam and his wife
Stephanie live in San Francisco and have two children, Aliza and Jacob.

**<u>Jeffrey Peck</u>**

Jeffrey Peck joined Peck Madigan Jones in May 2001, and was Chairman of
the Tiber Creek Group between 2007-2018. He began his political and
policy career in 1987, when he was tasked by then Chairman Joseph R.
Biden, Jr. to serve as Special Counsel to the Senate Judiciary Committee
for the nomination of Robert Bork to the Supreme Court. Continuing to
serve Chairman Biden as the Committee’s General Counsel and Staff
Director between 1988-1992, Jeff played a leading role on three
additional Supreme Court nominations, proposed constitutional amendments
to ban flag burning, the Civil Justice Reform Act of 1990 and a number
of civil rights, intellectual property and antitrust issues. Jeff served
as Treasurer and Vice Chair of the Biden Foundation and also served as a
Volunteer Senior Advisor to the Biden Presidential Transition, helping
to establish the Transition and working on a range of major projects.
Jeff graduated Duke University (1979) summa cum laude and received his
law degree from the University of Chicago Law School (1982).

**<u>Leah Pisar</u>**

Dr. Leah Pisar is Chair of Project Aladdin, which seeks to counter
anti-Semitism and all forms of bigotry, hate and extremism by teaching
the universal lessons of the Holocaust and building bridges of knowledge
among Jews, Christians and Muslims. Her father, one of the youngest
survivors of Auschwitz, Dachau and Majdanek, instilled in her a duty to
remain vigilant against all forms of hatred and discrimination. Since
his death in 2015, she has taken this on as her mission, through
educational projects and exchanges in Europe, North Africa and the
Middle East. Currently working on a family memoir, she regularly
narrates the text her father wrote for Leonard Bernstein’s “Kaddish”
Symphony with leading world orchestras. She also serves on the Jury of
the Zayed Award for Human Fraternity, under the patronage of Pope
Francis and the Grand Imam of Al-Azhar. She held several positions in
the Clinton administration: At the White House as Director for
communications at the National Security Council, at the U.S. Department
of State in the Bureau of Public Affairs, and at the U.S. Embassy in
Paris as Speechwriter to Ambassador Pamela Harriman. Dr. Pisar holds a
BA from Harvard College, a Masters from the Institut d’Etudes
Politiques of Paris and a PhD from the University of Paris. 

**<u>Mark A. Siegel</u>**

Dr. Mark A. Siegel served as Deputy Assistant to President Jimmy Carter,
where among other duties he was White House liaison to the American
Jewish Community.  He also served as Executive Director of the
Democratic National Committee; on the staffs of the House and the
Senate; and as a domestic and international political and strategic
consultant. He won a Peabody Award as co-producer of the documentary,
“Bhutto”, about assassinated Pakistani Prime Minister Benazier Bhutto,
with whom he had collaborated on the international best-seller
“Reconciliation: Islam, Democracy and the West.”  He has served on
numerous boards, including the National Democratic Institute for
International Affairs.  Siegel holds a Ph.D. in Political Science from
Northwestern University. In Washington he taught at George Washington
and American Universities, and currently is an adjunct professor at
NYU’s Center for Global Affairs.  Siegel lives in Rehoboth Beach,
Delaware and New York City.  He is married to Dr. Judith Siegel and is
parent to Robert (Rona) Siegel, Rebecca (Craig) Siegel Baron, Sarah
(Josh) Siegel Muncey, and seven grandchildren.

**<u>Susan K. Stern</u>**

Susan K. Stern is a community activist, political advocate and
philanthropist. She was appointed by President Obama as Chair of the
President’s Advisory Council on Faith-Based and Neighborhood
Partnerships, focusing its work on human trafficking.  She is a
Commissioner and past chair of the New York State Commission on National
and Community Service, serving under three governors. Stern has been
dedicated to Jewish communities in New York and across the globe
throughout her life.  She was Chair of the Board and Campaign Chair of
UJA-Federation of New York, Vice Chair and National Campaign Chair of
the Jewish Federations of North America (JFNA), where she also was
co-creator of the International Lion of Judah Conference in 1993.  Susan
is a member of the Executive Committee of the American Jewish Joint
Distribution Committee, a founding member of the Jewish Democratic
Council of America (JDCA), has served on the President’s Advisory
Council for the Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion and
the Dean’s Advisory Committee at the University of Michigan, and is
currently a Vice President of Central Synagogue in Manhattan. Susan and
her husband, Jeffrey, have two sons – Michael (Janna) and Peter (Amanda)
– and six grandchildren.

\###
