---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2022-01-20'
modified_time: 2022-01-20 20:20:22-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/01/20/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-administration-supports-puerto-ricos-recovery-and-renewal-in-its-first-year-in-office/
published_time: 2022-01-20 14:35:49-05:00
title: "FACT SHEET: The Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Supports Puerto Rico\u2019\
  s Recovery and Renewal in its First Year in\_Office"
---
 
From the first day in office and every day since, the Biden-Harris
Administration has been fully committed to supporting Puerto Rico’s
recovery and renewal. President Biden has long believed that Puerto
Rico, and the more than 3 million American citizens who call it home,
deserves to be treated with dignity, equality, and respect, with good
jobs and a bright future for all of its residents.

One year in, the Administration has delivered real and concrete change
for Puerto Rico:

**Unlocking Unprecedented Disaster Recovery Funds**

The Biden Administration has taken historic action to address Puerto
Rico’s ongoing recovery and resilience needs. This includes obligating
long-awaited disaster recovery funds and removing unfair and unnecessary
restrictions that were uniquely applied to Puerto Rico, such as
incremental grant obligations, Federal Financial Monitor review, and
more.

In 2021, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) approved nearly
$3 billion in funds for 3,542 projects for Hurricane Maria and
earthquake recovery – an unprecedented level of support touching every
sector of the island. This builds on ongoing work to restore over 1,000
school campuses, 300,000 streetlights, and essential water, sewer, and
electrical lines serving 1.4 million Puerto Ricans. Just this month,
FEMA canceled more than $371 million in community disaster loans to
Puerto Rico, so that local leaders can focus on recovery and not on
paying back federal debt. The Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD) obligated ninety percent of promised funds to Puerto
Rico, an increase of $16 billion since the start of the Administration,
and freed up $1.97 billion to strengthen Puerto Rico’s electrical grid
against future disasters. HUD Deputy Secretary Todman’s visit to the
island, along with continued collaboration and technical assistance from
FEMA and the Department of Energy, reinforced the Administration’s
commitment to partnering with the Puerto Rican government, local
leaders, and people to achieve a full, equitable, and resilient
recovery.

Additionally, the Economic Development Administration
(EDA) [announced](https://eda.gov/news/press-releases/2021/09/16/san-juan-pr.htm) a
$16 million dollar grant to construct a disaster preparedness, recovery,
education, and training center, and the Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) launched a free lead remediation training initiative to support
the extensive repair and renovation work happening in Puerto Rico’s
schools, homes, and communities.

**Providing Historic Relief through the American Rescue Plan**

The American Rescue Plan delivered immediate relief for Puerto Rican
families and small businesses hard hit by the COVID-19 pandemic,
building a bridge toward economic recovery. Specifically, it provided
working families with a $1,400 per-person direct payment, extended
unemployment benefits, and enhanced supplemental nutrition assistance
for children and school students. It also provided $4 billion in Fiscal
Recovery Funds to Puerto Rico’s commonwealth and local governments, and
nearly $3 billion in funds to help Puerto Rico’s schools stay open,
address learning loss, and support students. To prevent a wave of
evictions and foreclosures, Puerto Rican families received $50 million
in rent relief – with more funding on the way – and the Department of
the Treasury approved Puerto Rico’s plan to distribute millions in
mortgage assistance for distressed homeowners.

**Tax and Benefit Parity for Puerto Rican Families and Workers**

Additionally, the American Rescue Plan made two important permanent
changes to federal tax benefits in Puerto Rico First, it permanently
extended the Child Tax Credit (CTC) to families of all sizes in Puerto
Rico, from families with three or more children to families with one or
more children living in their household, so that the credit is the same
as on the mainland. Second, it provided substantial funding to expand
Puerto Rico’s version of the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC). This
investment will quadruple the EITC for Puerto Rican workers. Together,
these measures
are [estimated](https://www.cbpp.org/research/federal-tax/american-rescue-plan-act-provides-critical-permanent-tax-relief-to-puerto-rico) to
provide over $1 billion in tax relief per year. They stand to benefit
hundreds of thousands of families – with the families of over 500,000
children eligible for the 2021 expanded CTC. And with many struggling to
make ends meet, the American Rescue Plan provided nearly $1 billion in
emergency food assistance for Puerto Rico, and the island will see a
permanent, annual increase of over $463 million for its food assistance
block grant going forward.  
  
**Establishing a White House Working Group on Puerto Rico**

In July, the White
House [hosted](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/20/readout-of-the-first-meeting-of-the-white-house-working-group-on-puerto-rico/) the
inaugural meeting of the White House Working Group on Puerto Rico, a
cabinet-level task force chaired by Domestic Policy Advisor Susan E.
Rice, National Economic Advisor Brian Deese, and Director of
Intergovernmental Affairs Julie Rodriguez that reports directly to the
President and is focused on providing Puerto Rico with the resources and
technical assistance it needs to recover and prosper. Since the
inaugural meeting, agencies have been consulting with stakeholders and
devising strategies to support the island’s economic development and
recovery efforts, promote workforce and educational opportunities, and
invest in greater transparency and governance efforts.

**Making Additional Medicaid Funds Available**

The Biden-Harris Administration is committed to addressing the chronic
underfunding of Puerto Rico’s Medicaid program and making affordable,
quality health care available to its residents. In September, the
Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) determined that Puerto
Rico will permanently receive nearly $3 billion per year in additional
federal Medicaid funding, indexed to inflation. This additional funding
will allow Puerto Rico to continue to invest in its Medicaid program,
ensuring access to critical health care services for [1.5
million](https://www.medicaid.gov/state-overviews/puerto-rico.html) residents.
The Biden-Harris Administration’s funding determination is yet another
example of the President’s commitment toward parity for the island.

**Repairing Puerto Rico’s Aging Infrastructure**

For decades, infrastructure in Puerto Rico has suffered from a systemic
lack of investment. The historic [Infrastructure Investment and Jobs
Act](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/08/PUERTO-RICO_Infrastructure-Investment-and-Jobs-Act-State-Fact-Sheet.pdf) (IIJA)
will make life better for millions of Puerto Rico residents, create a
new generation of good-paying union jobs, and spur economic growth that
will grow the island’s economy. In Puerto Rico, the legislation will
provide $900 million to rebuild roads and highways; $225 million for
bridge replacement and repairs; more than $470 million to improve public
transportation; $13.6 million to support the expansion of an EV charging
network on the island; a minimum of $100 million to provide broadband
coverage across the island; at least $78 million in 2022 alone to
improve water infrastructure and ensure that clean, safe drinking water
is a right in all communities; and $102 million for airport
infrastructure development on the island. Just this month, the
Administration [announced](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/01/19/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-historic-investment-to-americas-port-and-waterway-infrastructure/) it
will provide $163 million to restore the Cano Martin Pena urban tidal
channel and surrounding areas of the San Juan Bay National Estuary – a
project that will significantly improve the health and welfare of the
surrounding communities in San Juan by reducing exposure to contaminated
waters and sediments, improving water quality, and restoring fish and
mangrove habitat.  
  
**Supporting Recovery in Puerto Rico’s Schools**

To-date, the Department of Education has awarded or released $6.7
billion in education resources, including funds from the American Rescue
Plan. Secretary Cardona visited the island early in his tenure, and the
Department of Education formed the Puerto Rico Education Sustainability
(PRES) team to provide comprehensive support for improving educational
outcomes in Puerto Rico’s students in coordination with stakeholders.
The PRES team is providing technical assistance in fiscal management,
program implementation, and school infrastructure rebuilding to the
Puerto Rico Department of Education (PRDE) and institutions of higher
education across the island. In addition, the Biden-Harris
Administration convened an inter-agency working group that is supporting
school reconstruction in Puerto Rico through joint technical assistance.
The group identifies federal resources that can support ongoing recovery
efforts in the education sector and meets with PRDE and their partners.
 

**Promoting Transparency & Data Accessibility**

Strong data collection and analysis is foundational to Puerto Rico’s
economic development, improving the delivery of local, commonwealth, and
federal government services, and enabling unprecedented federal funds to
have generational and transformational impacts for Puerto Ricans. As
part of this effort, the Department of Commerce’s [Bureau of Economic
Analysis](https://www.bea.gov/data/gdp/gdp-puerto-rico) (BEA) released
its first official estimate of GDP for Puerto Rico. This new estimate
enables the development of a long-term, strategic understanding of the
structure of the Puerto Rico economy, and is comparable to BEA’s
national, state, territorial, regional, and local-area estimates, as
well as internationally. The Biden-Harris Administration is working to
support the government of Puerto Rico to increase federal and
commonwealth transparency, improve federal and local data collection,
analysis, and sharing on the island, and strengthen the capacity of
Puerto Rican officials and institutions to deliver services and improve
performance.

**Investing in a Clean, Resilient, and Affordable Energy Grid**

In 2017, Hurricanes Irma and Maria ravaged the Puerto Rican energy grid
and caused 80% of the transmission and distribution system to collapse,
leaving parts of the island without power for over a year. The
Biden-Harris Administration is committed to facilitating the investment
needed to construct a modern, reliable, and cost-effective power system
in Puerto Rico that is resilient in the face of future storms and
supports the accomplishment of Puerto Rico’s renewable energy goals.

FEMA and HUD are working collaboratively with the government of Puerto
Rico to administer over $12 billion of federal recovery funds earmarked
for rebuilding and improving the energy sector. In keeping with
President Biden’s executive orders on tackling the climate crisis and
Puerto Rico’s Energy Public Policy Act of 2019, these funds are being
used to minimize greenhouse gas emissions and support initiatives in
Puerto Rico that focus on mitigation, adaptation, and resilience. The
Department of Energy and FEMA also launched a comprehensive study to
evaluate pathways to meeting Puerto Rico’s 100% renewable energy targets
in a way that achieves both short-term recovery goals and long-term
energy resilience. The study, titled PR100, will be grounded in a
commitment to environmental and energy justice and informed by extensive
engagement with Puerto Rico stakeholders to reflect the island’s diverse
priorities.

**Supporting Small Businesses and Job Creators**

The Biden-Harris Administration recognizes that small businesses are the
backbone of Puerto Rico’s economy, and has prioritized giving these key
job creators the support they need to grow and prosper. The Small
Business Administration (SBA) delivered a record-setting $5.2 billion in
aid for Puerto Rican entrepreneurs to rebuild, recover, and pivot from
the effects of COVID-19 and backed over $89 million in working capital
loans for small businesses in Puerto Rico, a 68% increase over 2020.
Additionally, SBA launched two new Women’s Business Centers in Puerto
Rico and selected the island as a hub for its new Community Navigators
Program to ensure small businesses have access to federal resources and
assistance to start, scale, and succeed in their communities. The
Biden-Harris Administration is also investing in the jobs and workforce
of the future, awarding Puerto Rico a planning grant to increase
innovation and job opportunities in the bio-medical sector through the
Economic Development Administration’s Build Back Better Regional
Challenge, and continuing to invest in skills training through the
Department of Labor’s Registered Apprenticeships, YouthBuild, and Job
Corps programs.

**Accelerating COVID-19 Vaccinations and Enhancing Reporting**

The Biden-Harris Administration mobilized a whole-of-government effort
to accelerate COVID-19 vaccinations, with over 90% of Puerto Rico’s
population now with at least one shot and 78% fully vaccinated. To date,
FEMA has approved over $78 million in federal funding to support
vaccinations in communities across the island. To make vaccinations
convenient and accessible, the Administration has sent vaccines directly
to over 250 local pharmacies and over 40 Community Health Center sites
in Puerto Rico, and provided federal funding for more than 1,000
National Guard members to support the overall COVID-19
response—including vaccinations, contact tracing, testing, and more.
Additionally, the Administration has worked hand-in-hand with the Puerto
Rico Department of Health and partners to get vaccinations reported.

**\###**
