---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2022-01-19'
modified_time: 2022-01-23 13:40:26-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/01/19/president-biden-announces-nominees-for-ambassadors-and-key-roles/
published_time: 2022-01-19 11:00:00-05:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Nominees for Ambassadors and Key\_Roles"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following leaders to serve as key leaders in his administration: 

-   Elizabeth Bagley, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Federative Republic of Brazil
-   Jane Hartley, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
    Ireland
-   Alexander Laskaris, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Chad
-   Alan Leventhal, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Kingdom of Denmark
-   Kathryn Huff, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Nuclear Energy,
    Department of Energy
-   Deborah Coen, Nominee for Member of the National Council on the
    Humanities
-   William Brodsky, Nominee for Member of the Securities Investor
    Protection Corporation

**<u>Elizabeth Bagley, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Federative Republic of Brazil</u>**

Elizabeth Bagley has worked in diplomacy and the law for over four
decades. Her diplomatic experience includes service as Senior Advisor to
Secretaries of State John Kerry, Hillary Clinton, and Madeleine
Albright. She has also served as Special Representative to the United
Nations General Assembly, Special Representative for Global
Partnerships, and United States Ambassador to Portugal.

Bagley is currently the owner and Board member of SBI., a cellular
communications company in Show Low, AZ. Previously, Bagley served as Of
Counsel to Manatt, Phelps law firm in Washington, D.C., specializing in
international law. She also worked as Adjunct Professor at Georgetown
University Law Center and as Associate Producer for ABC News in Paris,
France and Washington, DC. Earlier in her career, Bagley served in the
State Department as congressional liaison for the Panama Canal Treaties,
Special Assistant for the Camp David Accords and Congressional liaison
to the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (Helsinki
Accords) in Madrid, Spain. Bagley earned a B.A. at Regis College,
Weston, Massachusetts, and a J.D. at Georgetown University Law Center.

She is the recipient of numerous honors, including the Secretary of
State’s Distinguished Honor Award, the Meridian International Public
Diplomacy Award and the Grand Cross of Prince Henry the Navigator,
Portugal’s highest civilian honor.

**<u>Jane Hartley, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland</u>**

Jane Hartley served as Ambassador to the French Republic and the
Principality of Monaco from 2014-2017. In that role, she worked to
strengthen the U.S.-France bilateral relationship, focusing on
counterterrorism cooperation. She arrived in Paris shortly before the
Charlie Hebdo attack and served through the Bataclan and Nice attacks.
Hartley subsequently received the Legion of Honor from the President of
France in recognition of her efforts.

Previously, Hartley was Chief Executive Officer of Observatory Group, an
international economic and political advisory firm. Before founding the
Observatory Group, she was Chief Executive Officer of the G7 Group, a
premier research firm providing macroeconomic and political analysis to
global clients. Hartley currently serves as a member of the Visiting
Committee of the Kennedy School at Harvard University, as well as the
Executive Committee and the Dean’s Council of the Kennedy School. She is
a member of the Board of Trustees of the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace and is a member of the Board of Overseers at
Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center. She is Chairman of the Board of
Trustees of Sesame Workshop (Sesame Street). Hartley is also a member of
the Council on Foreign Relations. Previously, Hartley was a Member of
the Board of Trustees of Heidrick & Struggles and a Presidential
appointee to the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and
Community Service. She was Vice Chairman of the Executive Committee of
the Economics Club of New York and held positions as Vice President at
both Universal (MCA) and Westinghouse Broadcasting.

Hartley also served at the White House in the Carter Administration. She
earned a B.A. at Boston College (Newton College).

**<u>Alexander Laskaris, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Chad</u>**

Alexander Laskaris is a career member of the Senior Foreign Service,
class of Minister-Counselor. He is currently serving as a Senior Advisor
in the Bureau of African Affairs and has expertise on African issues. He
has served as Deputy to the Commander at the United States Africa
Command, as Ambassador to the Republic of Guinea, and as Deputy Chief of
Mission of the U.S. Embassy in Bujumbura, Burundi. Other assignments
include work as the Political Section Chief of the U.S. Embassy in
Angola and Desk Officer for Rwanda and Burundi in the State Department’s
Office of Central African Affairs. Laskaris also has served as a faculty
member at the National War College, as Consul General in Ebril, Iraq,
and as Team Leader of the Mosul Province Reconstruction Team in Iraq. He
also was the Deputy Chief of Mission of the U.S. Embassy in Pristina,
Kosovo.

Laskaris earned a B.A. degree from Georgetown University, and an M.A.
degree from the U.S. Army War College in Washington, DC. His foreign
languages include French, Portuguese, Greek, Kurdish, Albanian and
Spanish. 

**<u>Alan Leventhal, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Kingdom of Denmark</u>**

Alan Leventhal is the Chairman and CEO of Beacon Capital Partners,  one
of the leading owners and managers of office properties in the United
States. It is home to leading innovative and growth companies, and its
projects have been transformational to the urban environment.
Previously, Leventhal was a General Partner, and then President and CEO,
of Beacon Properties Corporation.

Leventhal was the Board Chair of the Damon Runyon Cancer Research
Foundation for a decade and still serves on the Board’s Executive
Committee. He is also on the Executive Committee of the Corporation of
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, is a Life Trustee of
Northwestern University and was a Trustee and Board Chair of Boston
University. Leventhal also serves as the Board Chair of the Leventhal
Map & Education Center at the Boston Public Library and on the Board
Executive Committee of A Better City.

He earned his B.A. from Northwestern University and his M.B.A. from
Dartmouth College. 

**<u>Kathryn Huff, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Nuclear Energy,
Department of Energy</u>**

Dr. Kathryn Huff has served as the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary
for the Office of Nuclear Energy since May 2021. Prior to this role, she
was an Assistant Professor in the Department of Nuclear, Plasma, and
Radiological Engineering at the University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign where she led the Advanced Reactors and Fuel Cycles
Research Group. Huff was also a Blue Waters Assistant Professor with the
National Center for Supercomputing Applications.

Previously, Huff was a Postdoctoral Fellow in both the Nuclear Science
and Security Consortium and the Berkeley Institute for Data Science at
the University of California-Berkeley. She received her PhD in Nuclear
Engineering from the University of Wisconsin-Madison in 2013, and her
undergraduate degree in Physics from the University of Chicago. Huff is
an active member of the American Nuclear Society and is a past Chair of
the Nuclear Nonproliferation and Policy Division, past Chair of the Fuel
Cycle and Waste Management Division, and a recipient of both the Young
Member Excellence and Mary Jane Oestmann Professional Women’s
Achievement awards. Through leadership within Software Carpentry, SciPy,
the Hacker Within, and the Journal of Open-Source Software, she has also
advocated for best practices in open, reproducible scientific computing.

**<u>Deborah Coen, Nominee for Member of the National Council on the
Humanities</u>**

Deborah R. Coen is Professor of History and Chair of the Program in
History of Science & Medicine at Yale University, and a former faculty
member at Barnard College and Columbia University. As a historian of
science, she is committed to diversifying her discipline and
facilitating collaboration between the humanities and natural sciences.
Her research addresses questions such as the relationship between
science and democracy, the history of citizen science, and the politics
of scientific uncertainty. She is particularly interested in the
conditions that enable intellectual exchange across cultural divides,
such as the supranational institutions of the Habsburg Monarchy. She is
the author of *Vienna in the Age of Uncertainty: Science, Liberalism,
and Private Life* (2007), and *The Earthquake Observers: Disaster
Science from Lisbon to Richter* (2013). Her latest book is *Climate in
Motion: Science, Empire, and the Problem of Scale* (2018), the first
history of the science of climate dynamics before the computer age. Her
current research seeks to illuminate the historical roots of key
concepts in present-day climate science and policy, such as “usable”
knowledge and “vulnerable” populations.

Coen earned an A.B. in Physics from Harvard, an M.Phil. in History and
Philosophy of Science from Cambridge, and a Ph.D. in History of Science
from Harvard, where she was also a Junior Fellow of the Society of
Fellows. Her research has been supported by the National Science
Foundation, the American Council of Learned Societies, the Cullman
Center of the New York Public Library, and the Mellon Foundation, and
she was a 2014 Guggenheim Fellow.

**<u>William Brodsky, Nominee for Member of the Securities Investor
Protection Corporation</u>**

William (Bill) Brodsky has been in the financial services industry for
over 50 years. His career roles have included asset classes of stocks,
options, futures, private equity and venture capital. Brodsky has worked
at four major exchanges including the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE),
the American Stock Exchange (AMEX), the Chicago Mercantile Exchange
(CME) where he served as President and CEO from 1985-1997, and the
Chicago Board Options Exchange (Cboe), where he served as CEO from
1997-2013 and Chairman from 2013-2017. In addition, he served on the
boards of the Options Clearing Corporation (OCC) and the Futures
Industry Association (FIA). Internationally, Brodsky was Chairman of the
International Options Market Association (IOMA), and Chairman of the
World Federation of Exchanges, the global body of more than sixty of the
leading exchanges of the world. He also served for over ten years on The
International Capital Markets Advisory Committee of the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York.

Currently, Brodsky is a Trustee of Syracuse University, where he serves
on the Investment and Endowment Committee. He is a life Trustee of
Northwestern Medical Healthcare where he served as Chairman of the Board
and Chairman of its Investment Committee for fourteen years. He is
Chairman of the Board of Navy Pier, Inc., the most visited venue in
Chicago and the Midwest, and is Chairman of Cedar Street Asset
Management, Options Solutions and Redmont Wealth Advisors.

\###
