---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2022-01-19'
modified_time: 2022-01-19 19:10:27-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/01/19/readout-of-listening-session-on-addressing-barriers-to-competition-and-innovation-in-tech/
published_time: 2022-01-19 19:10:26-05:00
title: "Readout of Listening Session on Addressing Barriers to Competition and Innovation\
  \ in\_Tech"
---
 
Today, the White House convened a listening session with entrepreneurs
and small and mid-sized businesses about the importance of an
innovative, dynamic tech sector and fair competition. The meeting
focused on the challenges entrepreneurs, brick-and-mortar retailers, and
other businesses face competing in sectors dominated by a few large
platforms.

Promoting competition—including in the tech sector—is a core part of the
President’s economic agenda, as underscored by the President’s July
Executive Order on Promoting Competition in the American Economy. As
part of that effort, senior White House officials have been engaging
with large and small businesses across the landscape of the technology
sector to better understand opportunities and challenges, as we seek to
promote a more dynamic, productive, and competitive economy.

In today’s conversation, participants explained the challenges their
businesses encounter operating through third-party platforms to reach
large numbers of customers. Among those challenges, several participants
described issues with large platforms both operating a marketplace and
selling products on the marketplace, including concerns that the
dominant platforms rank their own products and services above those of
the independent sellers that rely on them to reach customers. One
company elaborated that this deprives consumers of the ability to find
the products and services that best match their needs.

Participants also described instances in which they believed platforms’
practices had prevented them from bringing innovations to market, such
as forcing a business user to agree not to interconnect the business
user’s software with multiple online platforms. A number of participants
also expressed difficulty paying both fees that platforms charge and
indirect costs through requiring the purchasing of supplemental services
or advertising to maintain the business user’s position in platforms’
rankings. Some also raised concerns about platforms requiring them to
agree not to charge lower prices if they sell the same goods
off-platform through other channels with lower fees, which increases
prices for consumers across the board because the platforms’ high fees
drive prices up.

The White House officials closed the meeting by thanking the businesses
and entrepreneurs for sharing their concerns and encouraged the
participants to stay in touch. They explained that the Administration
will continue to take all responsible actions within its power to
promote competition. They further stated that they look forward to
working with Congress to make bipartisan progress on the issue, and to
engage with companies across the technology sector to promote a more
dynamic, innovative, and competitive economy.

**Attendees at today’s meeting included:**

Deputy Chief of Staff Bruce Reed

National Economic Council Director Brian Deese

Mike Molson Hart, Founder, ViaHart

Gabriela Mekler, Founder, Mumi Design

Paul Sanders, Founder, eLuxury

Gina Schaefer, Chief Executive Officer, A Few Cool Hardware Stores

Patrick Spence, Chief Executive Officer, Sonos

Jeremy Stoppelman, Chief Executive Officer, Yelp

\###
