---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-01-21'
modified_time: 2022-01-21 11:26:55-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/01/21/readout-of-president-bidens-meeting-with-prime-minister-kishida-of-japan/
published_time: 2022-01-21 11:26:54-05:00
title: "Readout of President\_Biden\u2019s Meeting with Prime Minister Kishida of\_\
  Japan"
---
 
President Biden met virtually today with Prime Minister Kishida Fumio of
Japan to highlight the strength of the U.S.-Japan relationship and to
advance our shared vision of a free and open Indo-Pacific region, which
is critical to the lives of the American and Japanese peoples. President
Biden and Prime Minister Kishida agreed that the U.S.-Japan Alliance has
never been stronger or more necessary.

The President commended Prime Minister Kishida’s strong commitment to
the U.S.-Japan Alliance, and his determination to fundamentally
strengthen Japan’s defense capabilities to reinforce deterrence against
common threats. He welcomed the Prime Minister’s intent to revise
Japan’s National Security Strategy and other key guiding documents. In
particular, President Biden welcomed the Prime Minister’s decision to
increase spending on defense, and underscored the importance of
sustaining these vital investments over time. The President applauded
the Prime Minister’s leadership on issues related to nuclear
nonproliferation and disarmament, and they welcomed the U.S.-Japan Joint
Statement on the Treaty on the Nonproliferation of Nuclear Weapons. The
two leaders also affirmed the importance of strengthening cybersecurity,
as a critical enabler of alliance cooperation. President Biden applauded
Japan and Australia’s signing of the Reciprocal Access Agreement that
will enable closer trilateral defense cooperation.

As Indo-Pacific powers, the United States and Japan are united in shared
purpose to sustain and enhance our commitment to the region. The two
leaders resolved to push back against the People’s Republic of China
(PRC)’s attempts to change the status quo in the East China Sea and
South China Sea; underscored the importance of peace and stability
across the Taiwan Strait and the peaceful resolution of cross-Strait
issues; they shared concern about PRC practices in Xinjiang and Hong
Kong. The President resolutely affirmed that Article V of the Mutual
Security Treaty applies to the Senkaku Islands, and affirmed the United
States’ unwavering commitment to the defense of Japan, using its full
range of capabilities. The two leaders condemned the recent ballistic
missile launches by the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK),
which are in violation of United Nations Security Council resolutions.
Toward the complete denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula, both
leaders committed to maintain close coordination on DPRK issues moving
forward, in lockstep with the Republic of Korea (ROK). The President
also expressed support for the immediate resolution of the abductions
issue.

The leaders committed to work closely together to deter Russian
aggression against Ukraine, and Prime Minister Kishida pledged to
continue close coordination with the United States, other Allies and
partners, and the international community on taking strong action in
response to any attack. President Biden and Prime Minister Kishida
affirmed the importance of close cooperation among the United States,
Japan, and the ROK in addressing common challenges, and underscored the
imperative of a strong trilateral relationship between Japan, the United
States, and the ROK, on security and more broadly.

The two leaders remain committed to working closely with allies and
partners in the Indo-Pacific region and beyond. President Biden and
Prime Minister Kishida reaffirmed their support for ASEAN centrality and
resolved to strengthen our cooperation in Southeast Asia. The two
leaders highlighted the importance of the Quad – Australia, Japan,
India, and the United States – as a critical forum for promoting a free
and open Indo-Pacific region, and resolved to ensure the Quad delivers
practical results in areas such as COVID-19 response, climate and clean
energy, and infrastructure. President Biden welcomed Prime Minister
Kishida’s invitation to visit Japan for the next Quad Leaders Meeting in
the first half of 2022. Noting the critical situation in Tonga after the
recent volcanic eruption and tsunami, the two leaders reinforced the
importance of working together – and with other partners of the Pacific
including Australia, France, and New Zealand – to provide any support
necessary to this and future humanitarian disasters in the region.

The two leaders resolved to enhance economic ties between the United
States and Japan. Noting the progress made under the Competitiveness and
Resilience (CoRe) Partnership announced in April 2021, President Biden
and Prime Minister Kishida established a new ministerial-level Economic
Policy Consultative Committee (the Economic “2+2”), to track and drive
economic cooperation and to strengthen the rules-based economic order in
the Indo-Pacific region and the world. The two leaders affirmed the
importance of U.S. economic leadership in the Indo-Pacific, which
President Biden committed to intensify. To that end, Prime Minister
Kishida expressed strong support for President Biden’s proposed
Indo-Pacific Economic Framework, and pledged to work closely with the
United States to build support for the initiative in the region. The
President and Prime Minister Kishida agreed on the importance of
economic policies that are sustainable and inclusive, and benefit the
middle class. The two leaders also expressed their desire for the swift
resolution of trade issues. 

President Biden and Prime Minister Kishida reaffirmed their steadfast
commitment to partner in advancing global efforts to end the COVID-19
pandemic and prevent the next. The two leaders agreed to continue
working closely together to mitigate the spread of COVID-19 and new
variants, including by aligning our efforts in and around U.S.
facilities in Japan. President Biden reaffirmed his intent to host the
next Global COVID-19 Summit in the first quarter of 2022 and relayed the
importance to follow through and increase collective commitments,
including doses and efforts to vaccinate the world, support to save
lives now, and sustainable financing for health security and pandemic
preparedness. The leaders also agreed that people-to-people ties,
including through the Mansfield Fellowship Program, form the bedrock of
our friendship and resolved to strengthen our bonds still further.

\###
