---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-01-20'
modified_time: 2022-01-20 09:59:49-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/01/20/president-biden-announces-key-regional-appointments-for-usda-fema-and-hud/
published_time: 2022-01-20 16:00:00-05:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Regional Appointments for USDA, FEMA, and\_\
  HUD"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden appointed the following
individuals to serve in key regional leadership roles at the United
States Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) at the Department of Homeland Security, and the
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD):

These regional appointees will be critical to the President’s efforts to
rebuild communities most impacted by the pandemic, the economic
recovery, and climate change. They bring deep expertise in their issue
areas as well as critical relationships with federal, state, tribal, and
local leaders. And, consistent with the President’s commitment to
building an administration that looks like America, these regional
appointees represent the diversity of America and the communities they
serve.****

**<u>UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (USDA)</u>**

The USDA’s Farm Service Agency implements agricultural policy,
administers credit and loan programs, and manages conservation,
commodity, disaster, and farm marketing programs in each U.S. State. Its
mission is to equitably serve all farmers, ranchers, and agricultural
partners through the delivery of effective, efficient agricultural
programs for all Americans. State Executive Directors oversee this work,
ensuring the needs of local constituents are met and that USDA resources
are distributed equitably and fairly.

USDA’s Rural Development mission area is committed to helping improve
the economy and quality of life in rural America. State Directors lead
offices that offer grants, loans, and loan guarantees to help create
jobs and support economic development and essential services.

**<u>C. John Sullivan III, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service
Agency, Maryland</u>**

John Sullivan previously served as the Program Manager for the Maryland
Department of the Environment (MDE) overseeing the Animal Feeding
Operations (AFO), Biosolids, Waste Diversion, and Hazardous Waste
Permits divisions. Through the issuance of AFO permits and compliance he
also emphasized the importance of a collective relationship between the
Maryland Departments of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, and
represented MDE on the State Soil Conservation Committee. Prior to this
role, Sullivan served as the Deputy Chief of Staff and Agricultural
Liaison to the Harford County, Maryland County Executive for the
agricultural industry. He developed the first comprehensive agricultural
economic development plan for Harford County, received the National
Association of Counties Achievement Award for the Ag 2000 initiative and
Buy Local Campaign, developed marketing programs to enhance economics of
the agricultural industry, and conducted legislative service related to
agriculture.

In the 1990s Sullivan served as an Agriculture and Natural Resource
Fellow for the U.S. EPA Chesapeake Bay Program in Annapolis, MD and the
National Civilian Community Corps in Washington, D.C. He has served as
the Past President and is a current board member of the Maryland
Agricultural Education Foundation and the Maryland Agricultural Council;
is an active member of the Maryland Farm Bureau; is an alumnus of LEAD
Maryland and Leadership Maryland; and is a lifetime member of the
Maryland Historical Society and the Havre de Grace Decoy Museum.
Sullivan lives in Harford County, Maryland on his family’s
fifth-generation property in Fallston with his wife and three children
who are active in the beef and equine industry, 4-H Livestock, the FFA,
and agricultural high school magnet programs.

**<u>Daniel A. Smiarowski, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service
Agency, Massachusetts</u>**

Daniel Smiarowski has worked with the USDA Farmers Home Administration
and Farm Service Agency since 1986. He started as a Student Trainee upon
graduating from the Stockbridge School of Agriculture where he studied
fruit and vegetable crops. He became an Assistant County Supervisor
after graduating from the University of Massachusetts with a degree in
Agricultural Economics in 1988. Since then, he has served as a Farm Loan
Specialist and District Director in the Massachusetts Farm Service
Agency for a majority of his career. Over the past 35 years, he has
worked with a diverse group of farms in Massachusetts including fruit
and vegetables, cranberries, dairy, greenhouse operations, shellfish,
and tobacco.

Smiarowski grew up on the 175-acre family farm located in Montague and
Sunderland, MA that he currently owns and operates with his wife Penny.
He is the third generation to operate the farm, which was started in
1923. The farm has operated as a dairy and a diversified vegetable farm
over the years. Smiarowski currently produces asparagus, butternut
squash, and pumpkins and leases the remainder of the land to family
members and an organic beginning farmer. He has two children, Alexander
and Alina.

**<u>Steve Kouplen, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
Oklahoma</u>**

Born and raised on the family farm and ranch near Beggs in east central
Oklahoma, Steve Kouplen learned the value of education, graduating from
Oklahoma State University with a B.S. and M.S. in Agricultural
Education. While raising a family and operating a commercial Hereford
cattle ranch and farm, Kouplen served in several county and state
leadership roles, including serving as President of the Okmulgee County
Farm Bureau and Oklahoma Farm Bureau, Chairman of the Oklahoma Beef
Council, and member of the board of directors for the East Central
Electric Cooperative, Beggs School District, and Okmulgee County Fair
Board. He is also a past member of the local Farm Service Agency
Committee and the Okmulgee County Rural Water District \#6. Kouplen was
elected in 2009 to the Oklahoma House of Representatives and quickly
rose through the ranks to Minority Leader.

**<u>John Litz, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
Tennessee</u>**

John Litz is a lifetime farmer in Hamblen County, Tennessee. He was born
and raised on his family farm in Morristown that he and his wife Kathy
now share. Their farming operation includes 3,000 acres of corn,
soybeans, wheat, turf grass, and a vineyard. After graduating from the
University of Tennessee, Knoxville, Litz was an owner/manager in a 2500+
head feed lot operation in charge of animal health and assisted with row
crop management. Additionally, Litz graduated from the University of
Kentucky’s 2-year Leadership Program. Litz has received awards for
Lancaster Sunbelt Farmer of the Year for the State of Tennessee, Hamblen
County Farm Family of the Year, and Hamblen County Agribusiness Person
of the Year. He has been involved in organizations such as UT
Agriculture Regional Advisory Committee, BPOE (Elks Lodge), Hamblen
County Democrat Party, numerous Farm Bureau committees locally and
state-wide, and is a member of All Saints’ Episcopal Church, Morristown.
He served as Vice-Chair of the State Democrat Party and is a member of
the State Democrat Executive Committee. Litz also served four terms in
the State House of Representatives for Hamblen County where he sat on
the Agriculture Committee, State & Local Government Committee, Election
Subcommittee, and was an officer as a freshman on the Calendar and Rules
Committee. He was elected as Assistant Democrat Leader while in office.
Litz looks forward to serving Tennessee as FSA Executive Director, and
he will strive to keep farmers across the state informed about FSA
programs.

**<u>John Roberts, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
Vermont</u>**

John Roberts immigrated from Great Britain, after completing his college
education with a BS degree in Farm Management, to Vermont in 1974. He
managed Shelburne Farms in Shelburne, Vermont for two and a half years
until the spring of 1977. At that time, Roberts and his wife Lisa bought
a 260-acre farm in Cornwall. Starting with 36 cows, they farmed until
2012 and grew the farm to 400 acres and 195 registered Brown Swiss cows,
and raised four children. Following that, Roberts worked for over six
years for the Vermont Agency of Agriculture as a water quality
specialist. Roberts assumed the position of Executive Director of the
Coalition at the beginning of June 2020. Over the years, Roberts has
been active in his community as a Select Board member as well as in
several state and national committee positions focused on agricultural,
conservation, and environmental policy, including the National Beef
Board and the Grazing Lands Conservation Initiative. On the state level,
Roberts served on the Vermont Water Resources Board, the Vermont Housing
Conservation Board, the Board of the Vermont Land Trust, and as Chair of
the state USDA-FSA Committee and has been active in rewarding farmers
for sound environmental practices.

**<u>Jonathan McCracken, USDA State Director, Rural Development,
Ohio</u>**

Jonathan McCracken serves as a Senior Advisor to U.S. Senator Sherrod
Brown (D-OH). For the past 15 years, he has held various legislative
positions related to agriculture, rural development, food, nutrition,
energy, and environmental policy. McCracken has extensive experience
bringing together and working with community leaders, economic
development officials, and government agencies on programs benefitting
Ohio and its rural communities. Prior to working for Senator Brown,
McCracken began his career working for Senator Edward M. Kennedy (D-MA).
A native of Wilmington, Ohio, McCracken is a graduate of Wake Forest
University and earned a J.D. from the George Washington University Law
School. McCracken currently resides with his family in Columbus, Ohio.

**<u>Margaret Hoffmann, USDA State Director, Rural Development,
Oregon</u>**

Margaret Hoffmann has over a decade of experience working on rural
economic development in Oregon. Hoffmann has spent the last five years
working at the Farmers Conservation Alliance to help over 50% of
irrigated agriculture modernize their systems to increase economic
resilience and environmental benefits. As the Strategic Operations
Manager, she helped raise over $750 million in infrastructure funding to
move projects through planning, design, and implementation. Prior to
joining the Farmers Conservation Alliance, Hoffmann served as the Energy
Policy Advisor to Governors Brown and Kitzhaber. In that role, she
coordinated with a broad array of stakeholders to facilitate the state’s
transition to an economically resilient, lower-carbon future. Hoffmann
has a deep understanding of how challenging it can be for people to
navigate the complexities of accessing federal assistance She looks
forward to leveraging Rural Development’s resources to increase
equitable access program capital, address climate change, and
economically recover from the ramifications of COVID.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">**FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
AGENCY (FEMA)**  
</span>Regional Administrators lead FEMA’s 10 Regional offices
and coordinate directly with the FEMA Administrator to support state,
local, tribal, and territorial (SLTT) communities in their geographic
area of operations delivering frontline services across the spectrum of
preparedness, mitigation, response, recovery, and continuity programs. 
The Regional Administrators play a critical role in delivering timely,
efficient, effective, and accessible federal assistance.

**<u>Lori Ehrlich, FEMA Regional Administrator, Region 1</u>**

During Lori Ehrlich’s 14-year tenure as a Massachusetts State
Representative, she served in leadership roles as Chair of the Joint
Committee on Municipalities and Regional Government and the Joint
Committee on Export Development. She has filed and passed numerous bills
into law on topics ranging from clean energy, climate change, and local
journalism, to animal protection and reforming restrictive employment
contracts. Ehrlich was appointed to serve on a U.S. Department of Energy
Commission on Energy Preparedness.

Prior to her elected service, Ehrlich founded two environmental
non-profit organizations that brokered both the closure of a 1950s-era
coal-burning power plant and the remediation of a contaminated drinking
water supply for 80,000 local residents. Ehrlich earned a Master’s
degree in Public Administration from Harvard University’s Kennedy School
of Government. She earned a Bachelor’s of Science degree in Accounting
from Lehigh University and is the only CPA currently serving in the
legislature.

Region 1 serves Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode
Island, and Vermont.

**<u>David Warrington, FEMA Regional Administrator, Region 2</u>**

David Warrington has almost 20 years of experience in the public sector.
Most recently he was the Senior Manager of Strategic Preparedness for
the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, where he was responsible
for developing an all-hazards risk management program to assess complex
threats and lead the evaluation of mitigation strategies. Since 2014, he
has led the advancement of next generation technology for the Agency’s
chemical, biological, and radiological defense efforts. In 2019, he
oversaw the review and comprehensive updates to all the Port Authority’s
emergency operations plans.

Throughout his career Warrington has served in a leadership capacity for
all command positions within the Port Authority’s incident command
structure including responses to Hurricanes Sandy and Irene, U.S.
Airways flight 1549 crash into the Hudson River, and numerous named
winter storms. Additionally, he had a lead role in coordinating Agency
resources to support Super Bowl XLVIII in New Jersey, and the 2015 Papal
visit to New York City, both designated National Special Security
Events. Warrington received his Bachelor of Arts degree from York
College of Pennsylvania with a focus in criminal justice. He currently
resides in Jersey City, New Jersey.

Region 2 serves New Jersey, New York, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin
Islands.

**<u>Nancy Dragani, FEMA Regional Administrator, Region 8</u>**

Nancy Dragani has more than 26 years of experience in the emergency
management field at state and federal levels. She began her career with
the Ohio Emergency Management Agency in 1994; in 2005 she was appointed
the executive director, a role she filled until 2014. Dragani was
appointed as the Federal Emergency Management Agency Region 8 Deputy
Regional Administrator in January 2016. Her responsibilities included
oversight of regional disaster response, recovery, mitigation, and
preparedness activities. Dragani also served on FEMA’s National Advisory
Council and the Memorial Institute for the Prevention of Terrorism
Advisory Board. She held the position of President of the National
Emergency Management Association (NEMA) from 2008-2009 and was the 2014
recipient of NEMA’s Lacy E. Suiter Distinguished Service Award, an
annual award to an individual for outstanding contributions to emergency
management. Dragani has a Master of Arts from the Naval Postgraduate
School’s Center for Homeland Defense and Security and a Bachelor of Arts
degree from Ohio Dominican College where she graduated Summa Cum Laude.

Region 8 serves Colorado, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah, and
Wyoming.

**<u>DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT (HUD)</u>**

Regional Administrators lead HUD’s 10 Regional Offices that directly
serve state and local organizations. Regional Administrators oversee
field offices across each state in their region and ensure the
Department directly serves local communities. Regional Administrators
play a key role in leading assignments of housing assistance funds
within the region and coordinating those assignments with HUD
headquarters.

**<u>Alicka Ampry-Samuel, HUD Regional Administrator, Region 2</u>**

Alicka Ampry-Samuel served as a member of the New York City Council
where she chaired the Public Housing Committee and as Deputy Leader. Her
council district represented the highest concentration of public housing
in North America. Prior to being elected to the City Council,
Ampry-Samuel served on the senior team at the New York City Housing
Authority. She has held a number of public service positions, including
as a Chief of Staff in the New York State Assembly and working at the
United States Embassy in Accra, Ghana as a Democracy and Human Rights
Coordinator. Ampry-Samuel has over 20 years of experience helping
individuals, families, and organizations in the housing and community
development fields.

Region 2 serves New Jersey and New York.

**<u>Matthew Heckles, HUD Regional Administrator, Region 3</u>**

Matthew Heckles has nearly 20 years of experience working to advance the
cause of affordable housing and community development. Heckles served as
the Assistant Secretary of the Maryland Department of Housing and
Community Development and the Director of the Community Development
Administration. In this capacity, he oversaw the operations,
administration, and financing of single-family mortgage, multifamily
development financing, asset management, rental assistance, energy and
weatherization, housing rehabilitation, small business lending, and
local government infrastructure programs. Most recently, his work
focused on COVID-19 relief programs that provided forbearance for small
businesses as well as tenant and homeowner assistance. Prior to his
service in Maryland, he worked in various positions at the Delaware
State Housing Authority for over 12 years.

Region 3 serves Delaware, Maryland, Pennsylvania, Virginia, West
Virginia, and Washington, D.C.

**<u>Jose Alvarez, HUD Regional Administrator, Region 4</u>**

Jose Alvarez was born in Havana, Cuba and came to the United States as a
child. Alvarez is a Licensed Real Estate Broker and a small business
owner who has had the privilege of serving his industry and community by
taking part in numerous home ownership and business growth initiatives.
Among numerous appointments to industry committees and boards, he’s
served on the Florida Association of Realtors® Board of Directors, the
Osceola County Association of Realtors Board of Directors, and in 2009
he was elected to serve as President of the Osceola County Association
of Realtors®. Throughout Alvarez’ 20+ years as a Realtor®, he has
participated in numerous homeownership initiatives.

In 2012, Alvarez was elected to the Kissimmee City Commission where he
championed diversified economic growth, affordable housing and
homelessness initiatives, sustainable environmental policies, and fair
labor practices. In 2016, he was elected to serve as City of Kissimmee
Mayor, becoming the city’s first Hispanic Mayor. Over the years, Alvarez
has served numerous causes, boards, and committees throughout Osceola
County. From multi-million-dollar endeavors to life-changing
initiatives, through his various board memberships and affiliations,
Alvarez has been responsible for advising CEOs and lawmakers,
contributing to strategic plans, approving budgets and business
decisions, evaluating management, and representing his charge to
stakeholders. Alvarez’ true passion is the people he represents. Alvarez
and his wife Darlene have been married for 32 years and have five
beautiful daughters and five grandchildren.

Region 4 serves Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Mississippi, North
Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin
Islands.

**<u>Ulysses “Deke” Clayborn, HUD Regional Administrator, Region 7</u>**

Ulysses Clayborn is currently the managing member of Clayborn &
Associates, LLC, a law firm located in Kansas City, Missouri whose
practice is focused in the real estate development area. The firm
primarily represents developers and lenders engaged in development of
multifamily housing and commercial development projects. Clayborn has
experience with projects financed with funds from multiple sources,
including multifamily revenue bonds, low-income housing tax credits
(“LIHTC”), historic tax credits, and other federal, state, and local
funds. He has also provided legal services to clients utilizing HUD
financing tools, such as FHA-insured loan programs, Rental Assistance
Demonstration (RAD), Choice Neighborhood Initiative and the
Risk-Sharing. Clayborn was counsel on one of the first complete
portfolio conversion RAD transactions in Missouri. Prior to forming
Clayborn & Associates, he served as General Counsel to the Missouri
Housing Development Commission (“MHDC”), the state’s housing finance
agency. There he provided legal services to the MHDC board and staff,
including those required to administer the federal LIHTC, state LIHTC,
HOME Partnerships, Community Development Block Grant, and other housing
programs. These programs provided the financial resources required for
the development of thousands of affordable and mixed-income housing
units throughout the state of Missouri. Clayborn has served as counsel
to the Economic Development Corporation of Kansas City, Missouri,
AltCap, an allocator of New Markets Tax Credits, and other entities
engaged in commercial and economic development. His first legal position
in the real estate area was as a closing attorney for HUD, where he was
trained by attorneys possessing an expertise in FHA/HUD programs.

Region 7 serves Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, and Nebraska.

\###
