---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2022-01-26'
modified_time: 2022-01-26 18:48:27-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/01/26/fact-sheet-executive-order-2022-amendments-to-the-manual-for-courts-martial/
published_time: 2022-01-26 18:48:26-05:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Executive Order, 2022 Amendments to the Manual for\_Courts-Martial"
---
 
Today, President Biden signed an Executive Order to amend the Uniform
Code of Military Justice, which is key to advancing the historic,
bipartisan military justice reform he signed into law last month through
the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA).  
  
This Executive Order strengthens the military justice system’s response
to gender-based violence, and delivers on key recommendations from the
Independent Review Commission on Sexual Assault in the Military (IRC)
that Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin launched in March 2021.  
  
This year’s NDAA also included key components of the I Am Vanessa
Guillén Act, which honors the memory of Army Specialist Vanessa Guillén,
whose experience with severe sexual harassment was followed by her
brutal murder, drawing national attention to the scourge of sexual
violence in the military.  The Guillén family’s leadership and
determination in advocating for change underscored the need for military
justice reform, including how the Uniform Code of Military Justice
(UCMJ) addresses sexual harassment. The Executive Order that the
President signed today establishes sexual harassment as a specific
offense under the UCMJ. It also strengthens the military justice
response in prosecuting cases of domestic violence, and fully implements
changes to the military justice code to criminalize the wrongful
broadcast or distribution of intimate visual images.   
  
As this Executive Order goes into effect today, we reaffirm our
commitment to advancing the military justice reform that the President
signed into law as part of the NDAA, which includes the historic shift
of legal decisions from commanders to independent, specialized
prosecutors in cases of sexual assault, domestic violence, and other
serious crimes.  And we honor the courage and leadership of the many
survivors and advocates who long fought for these critical changes.   
  
President Biden has long been committed to ending domestic violence,
sexual assault, and other forms of gender-based violence, first as a
United States Senator, then as Vice President, and now as President and
Commander-in-Chief.  These efforts have become even more critical during
the COVID-19 pandemic, as risk for gender-based violence has increased
in the United States and around the world.  The important steps we have
taken today build on the ongoing efforts of the Biden-Harris
Administration to address gender-based violence, wherever it occurs,
including by directing $1 billion in supplemental funding through the
American Rescue Plan for domestic violence and sexual assault prevention
and services, andsigning into law the Amendments to the Victims of Crime
Act (VOCA), resulting in an increase of hundreds of millions of dollars
of non-taxpayer funding for lifesaving services to crime victims around
the country. Today’s Executive Order also reinforces the commitments of
the Biden-Harris Administration to supporting survivors by releasing the
first-ever National Strategy on Gender Equity and Equality in the United
States, which identifies gender-based violence prevention and response
as a core strategic priority for President Biden. The strategy also
names military justice reform as an essential component of elevating
gender equality in security processes.  
  
Today marks another turning point for survivors of gender-based violence
in the military.  Moving forward, the Administration will continue to
advance prevention, promote safe and respectful military climates, and
strengthen care and support for survivors. 

\###
