---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-01-27'
modified_time: 2022-01-27 09:00:20-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/01/27/president-biden-announces-key-regional-appointments-for-usda-epa-and-sba/
published_time: 2022-01-27 16:00:00-05:00
title: President Biden Announces Key Regional Appointments for USDA and SBA
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden appointed the following
individuals to serve in key regional leadership roles at the United
States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the Small Business
Administration (SBA):

-   Deborah Tannenbaum, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service
    Agency, Florida
-   Dennis McKinney, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
    Kansas
-   Robert Andrzejczak, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service
    Agency, New Jersey
-   Jon Wyss, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
    Washington
-   Glenn Pauley, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Wyoming
-   Geri Sanchez Aglipay, SBA Regional Administrator, Region 5
-   Vercie Lark, SBA Regional Administrator, Region 7

These regional appointees will be critical to the President’s efforts to
rebuild communities most impacted by the pandemic, the economic
recovery, and climate change. They bring deep expertise in their issue
areas as well as critical relationships with federal, state, tribal, and
local leaders. And, consistent with the President’s commitment to
building an administration that looks like America, these regional
appointees represent the diversity of America and the communities they
serve.****

**<u>UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (USDA)</u>**

The USDA’s Farm Service Agency implements agricultural policy,
administers credit and loan programs, and manages conservation,
commodity, disaster, and farm marketing programs in each U.S. State. Its
mission is to equitably serve all farmers, ranchers, and agricultural
partners through the delivery of effective, efficient agricultural
programs for all Americans. State Executive Directors oversee this work,
ensuring the needs of local constituents are met and that USDA resources
are distributed equitably and fairly.

USDA’s Rural Development mission area is committed to helping improve
the economy and quality of life in rural America. State Directors lead
offices that offer grants, loans, and loan guarantees to help create
jobs and support economic development and essential services.

**<u>Deborah Tannenbaum, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service
Agency, Florida</u>**

Deborah Alford Tannenbaum, a sixth generation native Floridian from Lake
City, most recently served as Deputy Commissioner of Agriculture at the
Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services. In that role,
Tannenbaum oversaw daily operations of more than 1,000 agency employees
across six regulatory divisions: Aquaculture, Cannabis, Plant Industry,
Animal Industry, Fruit and Vegetables, and Agricultural Environmental
Services. She also worked to expand the department’s strategic
partnerships, alliances, and stakeholder relationships within Florida’s
$149 billion agriculture industry, as well as manage the development of
Florida’s hemp program.

Tannenbaum previously served as the founding Executive Director of the
Florida Peanut Federation, a leading agricultural trade association that
promotes, educates, and markets to the public the benefits of
Florida-grown peanuts. In this role, she recruited several hundred
members, oversaw nearly 100 public education events, and managed the
organization’s charitable efforts to support hurricane disaster relief
efforts and fight chronic hunger. Prior, she served as Chief of Staff at
a Washington-based governmental affairs firm, working closely with
several former U.S. House Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee
members, Congressional committee professional staff, and Executive
Branch regulatory agency staff including those who served at USDA.
Tannenbaum also served as a Senior Fellow for the 57<sup>th</sup>
Presidential Inaugural Committee as well as in senior leadership roles
in trade associations, national non-profit organizations, and political
and issue advocacy campaigns over the last two decades.

**<u>Dennis McKinney, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service
Agency, Kansas</u>**

Dennis McKinney is a Kansas farmer and cattle producer whose family’s
farm operates in southern Kiowa and northern Comanche counties.
McKinney’s public service includes serving as a county commissioner, a
state representative, and as a member of the board of the Kiowa County
Memorial Hospital.

McKinney and his wife Jean reside in Greensburg, Kansas and are proud
that both of their daughters’ families are engaged in agriculture and
are raising their six grandchildren in rural Kansas communities.

**<u>Robert Andrzejczak, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service
Agency, New Jersey</u>**

Robert Andrzejczak was born and raised in Cape May, New Jersey. He
joined the United States Army as an Infantryman in 2005 and deployed
twice to Iraq. On his second deployment, he was severely wounded when
his convoy was attacked. His injuries included the amputation of his
left leg. After 2 years of recovering from his injuries at Walter Reed
Army Medical Center in Washington D.C. he returned home to NJ. He was
active in multiple community-based service organizations before being
appointed to serve in the New Jersey General Assembly in 2012. While in
the Assembly, he served as Chairman of the Agriculture and Natural
Resources Committee and worked very closely with the agriculture
community. He would later be appointed to the New Jersey Senate in 2018.
Andrzejczak continues to serve his community through youth organizations
with his wife, Trisha, and their two children, Bobby Jr. and Jana.

**<u>Jon Wyss, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
Washington</u>**

Jon Wyss was born in Thermopolis, Wyoming, and attended Lubbock
Christian University in Lubbock, Texas. While attending college, he
began an 11-year career in the trustee industry when employed by the
United States Bankruptcy Trustee for the Northern District of Texas.
Prior to this appointment to the Farm Service Agency, Wyss worked for
his wife Melanie’s family company, Gebbers Farms, as an analyst and
government affairs director. Wyss also served as the chief deputy
assessor for Spokane County and temporarily served as a Washington State
Senator for the 6<sup>th</sup> legislative district. Additionally, he
has been appointed to serve as an advisor to various legislative
committees at the local, state, and national level for over 18 years.

Wyss also served as the U.S. Apple Association north region director for
10 years, Chairman of the Okanogan Long Term Recovery Group, President
of Okanogan County Farm Bureau, and as a Washington State Farm Bureau
Board Member. He and Melanie have three daughters and one son. Wyss
enjoys volunteering with Boys and Girls Clubs in Brewster, Washington
and has recently opened a Boys and Girls Club on the Colville Federated
Tribes reservation.

**<u>Glenn Pauley, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Wyoming</u>**

Glenn Pauley’s professional focus and passion has always involved rural
areas and issues. Most recently, he was employed by the Wyoming Game and
Fish Department where he focused on collaborating with federal, state,
and local partners in developing and implementing Wyoming’s State
Wildlife Action Plan, legislative coordination, Department strategic
planning, and public outreach.

Pauley previously served as Executive Director for ranchland
conservation organizations in both Alberta, Canada and Wyoming. The
Southern Alberta Land Trust Society was the first local, province-wide
land trust in Alberta and the first rancher-driven conservation
organization in Canada. The Wyoming Stock Growers Agricultural Land
Trust became one of the top 15 local land trusts in terms of acres
conserved under his tenure. Pauley also served as the founding Board
Chairman for the Partnership of Rangeland Trusts (PORT), which was
involved with passing federal legislation to increase conservation
easement tax incentives and improving the effectiveness of USDA Farm
Bill land conservation programs.

Pauley has a B.S. in Wildlife and Fisheries Biology and Management from
the University of Wyoming and Master’s Degree in Environmental Science
from the University of Calgary. He is an avid outdoorsman and enjoys
hunting, fishing, and camping, especially with his wife and two
children. He is also a passionate fan of whatever sports or
extracurricular activities his children are participating in.

  
**<u>SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (SBA)</u>**

The 10 SBA Regional Offices, led by Regional Administrators, oversee the
SBA’s 68 district offices and ensure the goals and objectives of the
Agency are met by each district office and field operations staff. The
district offices are the point of delivery for most SBA programs and
services, providing quality service to the local small business
community. They work with SBA resource partners and intermediaries to
accomplish the SBA mission of assisting America’s small businesses.

**<u>Geri Sanchez Aglipay, SBA Regional Administrator, Region 5</u>**

Geri Sanchez Aglipay is a second-generation American and a daughter of a
veteran. Aglipay has over 20 years of experience in workforce,
entrepreneurship, and economic development and is passionate about
strengthening collaborative innovation across sectors and industries to
create more equitable paths to financial security for small business
owners and the self-employed, especially to create a level playing field
for socially and economically disadvantaged communities. Prior to the
SBA, she served as Director of the Midwest Region and National Manager
of Women’s Entrepreneurship for Small Business Majority, where she
expanded and directed the organization’s strategic education programs,
policy, research, and financial development efforts in the Midwest and
oversaw women’s entrepreneurship nationwide to address disparities. In
addition, Aglipay has served as commissioner of the Cook County
Commission for Social Innovation; co-chair of Racial Wealth Gap
Committee of Financial Inclusion for All Illinois; and on the advisory
council of HHS NIOSH Center of Excellence UIC Center for Healthy Work.
She is a graduate of Bradley University.

Region 5 serves Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, and
Wisconsin.

**<u>Vercie Lark, SBA Regional Administrator, Region 7</u>**

Vercie Lark, currently a small business venture capital and angel
investor, is the author of *Make It Rain*, a self-help personal finance
book, written to help improve the financial futures of Americans living
in low-and-middle income communities across our country.

Lark recently retired from DST Systems of Kansas City, Missouri where he
led a billion-dollar line of business providing solutions to firms in
finance, banking, brokerage, and retirement investment industries. He
has held various executive leadership roles for Fortune 1000 companies
during his 35-year career. Lark serves on several boards, including
Avila University, Wright State University’s Engineering Council, Kansas
City Missouri’s Emerging Technology Council, the Heartland Black Chamber
of Commerce, Greater Kansas City Junior Achievement Foundation, George
Butler Associates, and Stamus Networks. Lark is a mentor to aspiring
small business owners.

Lark holds a Bachelor Degree in Electrical Engineering from Wright State
University. Most importantly Lark is proud to be the husband to Lisa,
his wife of over 30 years, and father to his son and daughter.

Region 7 serves Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, and Nebraska.

\###
