---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-01-13'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/01/13/readout-of-white-house-meeting-on-software-security/
published_time: 2022-01-13 22:51:44-05:00
title: "Readout of White\_House Meeting on Software\_Security"
---
 
Today, the White House convened government and private sector
stakeholders to discuss initiatives to improve the security of open
source software and ways new collaboration could rapidly drive
improvements. Software is ubiquitous across every sector of our economy
and foundational to the products and services Americans use every day.
Most major software packages include open source software – including
software used by the national security community. Open source software
brings unique value, and has unique security challenges, because of its
breadth of use and the number of volunteers responsible for its ongoing
security maintenance. 

Participants had a substantive and constructive discussion on how to
make a difference in the security of open source software, while
effectively engaging with and supporting, the open source community. The
discussion focused on three topics: Preventing security defects and
vulnerabilities in code and open source packages, improving the process
for finding defects and fixing them, and shortening the response time
for distributing and implementing fixes. In the first category,
participants discussed ideas to make it easier for developers to write
secure code by integrating security features into development tools and
securing the infrastructure used to build, warehouse and distribute
code, like using techniques such as code signing and stronger digital
identities. In the second category, participants discussed how to
prioritize the most important open source projects and put in place
sustainable mechanisms to maintain them. In the final category,
participants discussed ways to accelerate and improve the use of
Software Bills of Material, as required in the [President’s Executive
Order](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/05/12/fact-sheet-president-signs-executive-order-charting-new-course-to-improve-the-nations-cybersecurity-and-protect-federal-government-networks/),
to make it easier to know what is in the software we purchase and use.
All participants – private sector and government – will continue
discussions to support these initiatives in the coming weeks, which are
open to all interested public and private stakeholders.  

Meeting participants included Deputy National Security Advisor for Cyber
and Emerging Technology Anne Neuberger, National Cyber Director Chris
Inglis, and officials from the Office of the National Cyber Director,
Office of Science and Technology Policy, the Department of Defense, the
Department of Commerce, the Department of Energy, the Department of
Homeland Security, the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency
(CISA), the National Institute of Standards and Technology, and the
National Science Foundation. Private sector organizations joining were
Akamai, Amazon, Apache Software Foundation, Apple, Cloudflare,
Facebook/Meta, GitHub, Google, IBM, the Linux Foundation, the Open
Source Security Foundation, Microsoft, Oracle, RedHat, VMWare. Meeting
participants reflect some but not all of the largest public and private
users and maintainers of open source software and Departments and
Agencies which will carry this work forward. President Biden has made
software security a national priority. His Executive Order on
Cybersecurity requires that only companies that use secure software
development lifecycle practices and meet specific federal security
guidance will be able to sell to the federal government – for the first
time, leveraging the purchasing power of the Federal government to drive
improvements in the software supply chain, improvements that companies
and governments around the world will benefit from.

\###
