---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-01-21'
modified_time: 2022-01-21 16:10:52-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/01/21/president-biden-announces-2-key-nominees-2/
published_time: 2022-01-21 15:00:00-05:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces 2 Key\_Nominees"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following leaders to serve as key leaders in his administration: 

-   Dara Lindenbaum, Nominee for Commissioner of the Federal Election
    Commission
-   Sharon Lewis, Nominee for Member of the Social Security Advisory
    Board

**<u>Dara Lindenbaum, Nominee for Commissioner of the Federal Election
Commission</u>**

Dara Lindenbaum is a member at Sandler Reiff Lamb Rosenstein &
Birkenstock, P.C. She advises federal, state, and local political
committees and candidates; ballot measure committees; 501(c)(3) and
(c)(4) organizations; and for-profit corporations. She counsels clients
on complying with state and federal campaign finance and election laws,
and represents clients before the Federal Election Commission, federal
and state courts, and state and local election boards. Lindenbaum serves
as outside general counsel for a number of organizations and works with
directors, boards, and staff to structure their programs and navigate
the complex legal and compliance landscape.

Prior to joining Sandler Reiff, Lindenbaum was an associate counsel in
the Voting Rights Project at the Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights
Under Law where she focused on election law and voting rights.
Lindenbaum graduated from the George Washington University Law School
and is a member of the Bars of the District of Columbia, Maryland, and
Georgia.

**<u>Sharon Lewis, Nominee for Member of the Social Security Advisory
Board</u>**

Sharon Lewis has nearly 25 years of experience in disability policy and
programs, seeking to advance opportunities, participation and equity for
people with disabilities. Lewis currently works as a Principal for
Health Management Associates (HMA), supporting clients working in
publicly funded healthcare. Before joining HMA, Lewis served in multiple
leadership roles at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
(HHS) from 2010-2016, including Principal Deputy Administrator of the
Administration for Community Living, Senior Disability Policy Advisor to
the HHS Secretary, and Commissioner of the Administration on
Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities. At HHS, Lewis established
initiatives to improve employment outcomes for people with disabilities,
championed efforts to develop alternatives to guardianship, promoted
Olmstead enforcement and Medicaid policy reform to ensure community
integration for older adults and people with disabilities, and sought to
improve support for family caregivers, among other efforts. Lewis also
served on the U.S. Department of Education agency review team during the
2008 Presidential transition.

From 2007-2010, Lewis served as Senior Disability Policy Advisor to the
U.S. House Committee on Education and Labor, and as a Joseph P. Kennedy
Public Policy Fellow for the U.S. Senate HELP Subcommittee on Children
and Families. Prior to her federal service, Lewis worked at the state
and local level in Oregon leading public policy, legislative strategy
and grassroots organizing for multiple non-profit advocacy organizations
and coalitions focused on people with disabilities.
