---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-01-28'
modified_time: 2022-01-28 08:27:20-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/01/28/joint-statement-by-president-biden-and-president-von-der-leyen-on-u-s-eu-cooperation-on-energy-security/
published_time: 2022-01-28 09:15:00-05:00
title: Joint Statement by President Biden and President von der Leyen on U.S.-EU Cooperation
  on Energy Security
---
 
We are jointly committed to Europe’s energy security and sustainability
and to accelerating the global transition to clean energy. We also share
the objective of ensuring the energy security of Ukraine and the
progressive integration of Ukraine with the EU gas and electricity
markets.

The EU and the United States cooperate closely on energy policy,
decarbonization and security of supply in the U.S.-EU Energy Council.
The EU’s and the United States’ commitments to meet the goals of the
Paris Agreement, through clean energy, in particular renewables, energy
efficiency, and technologies, provide a path to energy security and
reduced dependence on fossil fuels. The current challenges to European
security underscore our commitment to accelerating and carefully
managing the transition from fossil fuels to clean energy. 

Over the last decade, the EU has invested in diversification of supply
through infrastructure and reinforcement of its internal energy
networks, increasing the resilience and flexibility of EU energy
markets. The European Commission will intensify work with Member States
for security of supply, within transparent and competitive gas markets
in a manner compatible with long-term climate goals and reaching
net-zero emissions by 2050.

While that process intensifies during this critical decade, we are
committed to working closely together to overcome today’s challenges of
security of supply and high prices in energy markets.

We commit to intensifying our strategic energy cooperation for security
of supply and will work together to make available reliable, and
affordable energy supplies to citizens and businesses in the EU and its
neighborhood.  

The United States and the EU are working jointly towards continued,
sufficient, and timely supply of natural gas to the EU from diverse
sources across the globe to avoid supply shocks, including those that
could result from a further Russian invasion of Ukraine. The United
States is already the largest supplier of liquefied natural gas (LNG) to
the EU. We are collaborating with governments and market operators on
supply of additional volumes of natural gas to Europe from diverse
sources across the globe. LNG in the short-term can enhance security of
supply while we continue to enable the transition to net zero emissions.
The European Commission will work for improved transparency and
utilization of LNG terminals in the EU.

We intend to work together, in close collaboration with EU Member
States, on LNG supplies for security of supply and contingency planning.
We will also exchange views on the role of storage in security of
supply. 

More broadly, we call on all major energy producer countries to join us
in ensuring world energy markets are stable and well-supplied. This work
has already started, and we will take it forward at the meeting of the
U.S.-EU Energy Council on February 7.

\###
