---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2022-01-14'
modified_time: 2022-01-14 17:55:48-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/01/14/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-boards-and-commissions/
published_time: 2022-01-14 18:15:00-05:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to Boards and\_Commissions"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announces his intent to appoint the
following individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Laurence B. Alexander, Chair, Board for International Food and
    Agricultural Development
-   Pamela K. Anderson, Member, Board for International Food and
    Agricultural Development
-   Marie Boyd, Member, Board for International Food and Agricultural
    Development
-   Rattan Lal, Member, Board for International Food and Agricultural
    Development
-   Lenis Saweda O. Liverpool-Tasie, Member, Board for International
    Food and Agricultural Development
-   Henri G. Moore, Member, Board for International Food and
    Agricultural Development
-   Kathy Spahn, Member, Board for International Food and Agricultural
    Development
-   Starlet “Star” Jones Lugo, Chair & Commissioner, U.S. Commission for
    the Preservation of America’s Heritage Abroad
-   G. Jonathan Greenwald, Commissioner, U.S. Commission for the
    Preservation of America’s Heritage Abroad
-   Nicole Mavis Isaac, Commissioner, U.S. Commission for the
    Preservation of America’s Heritage Abroad
-   Nancy K. Kaufman, Commissioner, U.S. Commission for the Preservation
    of America’s Heritage Abroad
-   Michael T. Marquardt, Commissioner, U.S. Commission for the
    Preservation of America’s Heritage Abroad
-   Maureen Catherine Pikarski, Commissioner, U.S. Commission for the
    Preservation of America’s Heritage Abroad
-   William H. Shaheen, Commissioner, U.S. Commission for the
    Preservation of America’s Heritage Abroad

The Board for International Food and Agricultural Development (BIFAD)
advises USAID on agriculture and higher education issues pertinent to
food insecurity in developing countries. The President appoints members,
who primarily represent the academic community. BIFAD was established by
Title XII of the Foreign Assistance Act. The Board and Title XII
recognize the critical role of U.S. land-grant institutions in
agricultural development, domestically and abroad, and support their
representation in USAID development programs.

**<u>Laurence B. Alexander, Chair, Board for International Food and
Agricultural Development</u>**

Laurence B. Alexander has served for eight years as Chancellor of the
University of Arkansas at Pine Bluff, a public historically black
land-grant research university that offers degrees in more than 40
programs at the bachelor’s, master’s, and Ph.D. levels, including
extension services provided through a variety of programs in its School
of Agriculture, Fisheries, and Human Sciences. Prior to joining UAPB,
Alexander had a distinguished 22-year career as a professor and
administrator at the University of Florida, the state’s land-grant
flagship research institution that is a member of the Association of
American Universities. He joined the UF faculty in 1991 as an assistant
professor and rose through the academic ranks to become a tenured full
professor in the UF College of Journalism and Communications. He was
selected as the 12<sup>th</sup> UF Distinguished Alumni Professor, was
named a UF Research Foundation Professor, and was inducted into the UF
Academy of Distinguished Teaching Scholars.

His current community engagement includes service on the Board of
Trustees of the Arkansas Museum of Fine Arts, the Board of Directors of
Jefferson Regional Medical Center, and the Board of the Economic
Development Alliance for Jefferson County, Arkansas. He also serves as
Vice Chair of the NCAA Division I Presidential Forum and Chair of the
Southwestern Athletic Conference Council of Presidents and Chancellors.
A native of New Orleans, Alexander earned a bachelor’s degree from the
University of New Orleans, a master’s degree in Journalism and
Communications from the University of Florida, a Juris Doctor from
Tulane University, and a Ph.D. in Higher Education from Florida State
University.

**<u>Pamela K. Anderson, Member, Board for International Food and
Agricultural Development</u>**

Dr. Pamela Anderson served as Director General of the International
Potato Center (CIP) in Lima, Peru, one of the research centers within
the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR),
from 2005–2013 and as CIP’s Director of Research from 2002–2005. Dr.
Anderson also served as a senior entomologist and Coordinator of the
Tropical Whitefly IPM Program at the International Center for Tropical
Agriculture (CIAT) in Cali, Colombia from 1996-2002. Prior to joining
the CGIAR system, Dr. Anderson spent two decades working with national
agricultural programs in Latin America, including twelve years with the
Universidad Nacional Agraria in Nicaragua. Returning to the U.S. in
2013, Dr. Anderson served as Director for the Agricultural Development
Program of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation from 2014 –2016, where
she led the team that works to reduce hunger and poverty for farming
families in Sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia.

Dr. Anderson holds a B.A. in Biology from Northwestern University, an
M.Sc. in Entomology from the University of Illinois, and an M.Sc. in
Human Ecology and an Sc.D. in Population Sciences/Vector Entomology from
the Harvard School of Public Health. She has served as an advisor to the
Federation of American Scientists, a research consultant at Harvard
University, a member of the Government of Ireland Hunger Task Force, and
Board member for the CGIAR Consortium and the Alliance for a Green
Revolution in Africa. Dr. Anderson has served as a member of the Board
for International Food and Agricultural Development since 2015.

**<u>Marie Boyd, Member, Board for International Food and Agricultural
Development</u>**

Marie Boyd is an associate professor at the University of South Carolina
School of Law. Her research focuses on the regulation of food, drugs,
medical devices, and cosmetics by the Food and Drug Administration
(FDA). Her current work examines the relationship between FDA regulation
and state tort law, focusing on how these areas of law impact women and
people of color. Her prior work explores topics including the
relationship between law and culture in the context of the regulation of
insects as human food and the regulation of food allergens. Her
scholarship has been published or is forthcoming in the Boston
University Law Review, the Cardozo Law Review, the Yale Journal of Law &
Feminism, and the Yale Law & Policy Review, among other journals. She
teaches Food and Drug Law, Food Law and Policy, Administrative Law, and
Torts. Professor Boyd is a past chair of the Agricultural and Food Law
Section of the American Association of Law Schools and the Editorial
Advisory Board for the Food and Drug Law Journal. She was a member of
the inaugural City of Columbia Food Policy Committee. She has also
served on the boards of South Carolina Humanities, the Palmetto Health
Foundation, and the South Carolina HIV/ AIDS Council.

Before joining the University of South Carolina School of Law, Professor
Boyd practiced law with Covington & Burling LLP in Washington, DC. At
Covington, she advised companies on the federal and state regulation of
drugs, biologics, devices, and foods. She also advised and represented
low-income DC residents through the Neighborhood Legal Services Program.
Professor Boyd earned an A.B. in Chemistry from Harvard University and a
J.D. from Yale Law School. Originally from Salt Lake City, Utah, she
lives in Columbia, South Carolina.

**<u>Rattan Lal, Member, Board for International Food and Agricultural
Development</u>**

Rattan Lal, Ph.D., is a Distinguished University Professor of Soil
Science and Director of the CFAES Rattan Lal Center for Carbon
Management and Sequestration at The Ohio State University. Dr. Lal is
Adjunct Professor of the University of Iceland and of the Indian
Agricultural Research Institute, as well as a Visiting Professor at
Pontifical Catholic University. He is widely recognized as a pioneer in
soil-centric agricultural management to improve food security globally
and develop climate-resilient agriculture through soil carbon management
and sequestration, sustainable management of soils, and soil health.

Dr. Lal served as President of the World Association of the Soil and
Water Conservation (1987-1990), the International Soil Tillage Research
Organization (1988-1991), the Soil Science Society of America
(2005-2007), and the International Union of Soil Sciences (2017-2018).
He is Chair in Soil Science and Goodwill Ambassador for Sustainable
Development Issues of the Inter-American Institute for Cooperation on
Agriculture. Dr. Lal has received several awards for his work, including
the 2020 World Food Prize. 

**<u>Lenis Saweda O. Liverpool-Tasie, Member, Board for International
Food and Agricultural Development</u>**

Dr. Saweda Liverpool-Tasie is a tenured associate professor in the
Department of Agricultural, Food, and Resource Economics at Michigan
State University. She has lived in East Lansing, Michigan for over 10
years. Her research focuses on emergent issues related to smallholder
productivity and welfare within dynamic and transforming food systems in
sub Saharan Africa and alongside poorly functioning markets in the
region. She has extensive experience with program evaluation in Africa
using various quantitative methods. She has designed, implemented, and
analyzed data from field surveys across the continent and has looked at
gendered access to land and other inputs. Dr. Liverpool-Tasie’s research
work covers several countries on the continent including Nigeria,
Tanzania, Ethiopia, Gambia, Niger, Malawi, and Zambia. She continues to
lead efforts on designing and implementing capacity building projects in
Africa. Currently, Dr. Liverpool-Tasie is the principal investigator of
various research projects that strive to support policy processes with
evidence, based on scientific research. She is active in several
multidisciplinary teams focused on issues of food security, food safety,
and value chain transformation in developing countries.

**<u>Henri G. Moore, Member, Board for International Food and
Agricultural Development</u>**

Henri G. Moore is Vice President/Head of Responsible Business at GSK
Consumer Health, which will incorporate in July 2022. Moore is also
establishing the NewCo Foundation, where she will also serve as the
president. Moore is responsible for the design, implementation,
administration, and communication of the new Consumer Health Company’s
mission of delivering better everyday health with humanity to key
stakeholders and communities in which they operate around the globe. Her
role will capitalize on the 30 years of experience in marketing, public
relations, philanthropy, community outreach, sustainability and
sponsorships. Prior to this appointment, Moore served as Vice
President/Head of Global Responsibility and President of the foundation
at Corteva Agriscience. She was responsible for the development and
execution of a Global Responsibility strategy, inclusive of Community
Investment, Sustainability, and Agriculture Development in more than 140
countries.

Moore is active in community service that helps youth and young adults
realize their potential. She serves on the Board of the FFA Foundation,
Rodel Foundation, Delaware Business Roundtable Education Committee, and
Food Bank of Delaware, as well as the Greater Philadelphia Film Office
and the Satell Institute. Moore is also an active member of the Forum of
Executive Women and the Executive Leadership Council. Moore received her
Bachelor of Arts in Business Administration from Wittenberg University
with a major in Marketing and a minor in Economics. She completed
executive leadership programs at the Yale School of Management, Babson
College Executive Development Center, and UCLA Anderson School of
Management. A resident of Philadelphia, Moore and her husband Tony are
parents of two daughters and a son. 

**<u>Kathy Spahn, Member, Board for International Food and Agricultural
Development</u>**

Kathy Spahn is President and CEO of Helen Keller Intl, a global health
organization that partners with communities to overcome longstanding
cycles of poverty. By delivering the essential building blocks of good
health, sound nutrition, and clear vision, Helen Keller helps millions
of people in more than 20 countries create lasting change in their own
lives and reach their true potential. Prior to joining Helen Keller in
2005, Spahn was President and Executive Director of Orbis, an
international non-profit dedicated to the prevention and treatment of
blindness, and was Executive Director of God’s Love We Deliver,
dedicated to combating malnutrition and hunger among people living with
HIV/AIDS.

Spahn currently serves on the Board of Directors of the Access to
Nutrition Initiative and previously served on the boards of InterAction,
the International Agency for the Prevention of Blindness, and the
Bernadotte Foundation for Children’s Eyecare. She also serves on the
International Food Policy Research Institute’s Leadership Council
Compact of 2025 and is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations. She
was a founding board member of the Association of Nutrition Services
Agencies and a founding partner of the former Global Network for
Neglected Tropical Disease Control.

The U.S. Commission for the Preservation of America’s Heritage Abroad
was established in 1985 to ensure that sites important to populations
impacted by Nazism, communism, and the Cold War would be preserved for
future generations. The Commission’s mission is to identify, protect,
and preserve cemeteries, monuments, and historic buildings in Eastern
and Central Europe that are associated with U.S. heritage. The work
recognizes that the population of the United States is mostly comprised
of immigrants and their descendants, and that the United States has an
interest in the preservation of sites in other countries related to the
heritage of these Americans.

**<u>Starlet “Star” Jones Lugo, Chair & Commissioner, U.S. Commission
for the Preservation of America’s Heritage Abroad</u>**

Star Jones is an attorney, former New York city homicide prosecutor,
business executive, best-selling author, and an Emmy award nominated TV
host. After work as a prosecutor and senior assistant district attorney
early in her career, Jones will become the host and new judge of
*Divorce Court* this fall. Jones served as President and Board of
Directors member of Professional Diversity Network, Inc., and of the
International Association of Women. She is also a co-founder and
principal of the Instant Impact Group, LLC, a consultancy firm that
assists individuals and companies build their diversity, equity, and
inclusion programs. Through her consultancy firm, Jones also acts as
Executive Editor for *Marquis Who’s Who*. She was one of the original
co-hosts of ABC’s “The View” for nine years and is a “Broadcasting and
Cable” Hall of Fame inductee. She is President of Girlfriend
Entertainment Productions, Inc., her own programming and production
company.

In 2010, Jones underwent successful open-heart surgery and, for over a
decade, she has been the National Volunteer of the *American Heart
Association.* She is a member of the international editorial board of
the *Women’s Forum for the Economy & Society *and is a U.S.
representative to the *Women In Africa *initiative. She is also a member
of *Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc*. and hosts international virtual
town hall and forum series. She makes her home in Chicago and East
Hampton with her spouse, attorney and Administrative Law Judge Ricardo
Lugo, their son Jake, and their Maltese Mimi.

**<u>G. Jonathan Greenwald, Commissioner, U.S. Commission for the
Preservation of America’s Heritage Abroad</u>**

G. Jonathan (Jon) Greenwald, a Wilkes-Barre, PA native, has spent a half
century in public service, including 30 as a senior U.S. diplomat and 17
as Vice President for the International Crisis Group, a prominent
non-governmental conflict resolution organization. He has taught
diplomacy at Lawrence University, served as the State Department’s
nominee on the panel that adjudicated Holocaust-era claims for Austria,
authored *Berlin Witness: An American Diplomat’s Chronicle of East
Germany’s Revolution*, and directs and funds an initiative to bring
young Israelis and Palestinians to study together at leading university
preparatory schools.

A member of the Council on Foreign Relations, the Washington Institute
of Foreign Affairs, J Street, and Foreign Policy 4 America, Greenwald
serves on the boards of several conflict resolution-related
international groups. He speaks German, Hungarian, and French and lives
with his wife Gabriele and their cats in McLean, VA.

**<u>Nicole Mavis Isaac, Commissioner, U.S. Commission for the
Preservation of America’s Heritage Abroad</u>**

Nicole Isaac leads the International Strategic Response team which
focuses on risk mitigation efforts in At-Risk countries and for all
global elections at Meta. Prior, Isaac was Senior Director of North
America Policy at LinkedIn, where she managed a team that engaged with
local, state, provincial, and federal policymakers across North America.
She founded a social impact accelerator called Code the Streets to
increase resources to inner city communities through technology.

Isaac previously served in the White House as Special Assistant to the
President for Legislative Affairs and as Deputy Director of Legislative
Affairs for then-Vice President Biden. She spent over five years on
Capitol Hill where she worked as Floor Counsel in the U.S. Senate and
Legislative Counsel in the U.S. House of Representatives. Isaac is a
lawyer and previously clerked at the Constitutional Court of South
Africa for the Deputy Chief Justice. She also worked at a law firm in
Paris and with a non-governmental organization in Geneva. She has a
Juris Doctor degree from the University of Pennsylvania Law School and a
Master of Arts degree in International Affairs from Columbia University.
She also completed a Master of Studies (LLM equivalent) in International
Human Rights Law at Oxford University in the United Kingdom. She
received her Bachelor of Arts degree from Brown University. She was born
and raised in the Bronx, New York and is of Jamaican and Costa-Rican
descent.

**<u>Nancy K. Kaufman, Commissioner, U.S. Commission for the
Preservation of America’s Heritage Abroad</u>**

Nancy K. Kaufman has a distinguished career as a public servant,
advocate, and non-profit leader. Kaufman runs a strategic consulting and
coaching practice and previously served as CEO of National Council of
Jewish Women for 8 years. Prior, Kaufman was executive director of the
Jewish Community Relations Council of Boston for twenty years. Kaufman
has also held a variety of positions related to health and human
services delivery in state and local government and in the nonprofit
sector. She worked for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts as Deputy
Director of the Governor’s Social Policy Office and Assistant Secretary
of Health and Human Services as an appointee in the Dukakis
Administration.

Kaufman is a graduate of Brandeis University, Boston College School of
Social Work, and the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University.
She is a recipient of an honorary doctorate in public service from
Northeastern University. Kaufman lives in NYC and serves as board chair
of the NY Jewish Agenda.

**<u>Michael T. Marquardt, Commissioner, U.S. Commission for the
Preservation of America’s Heritage Abroad</u>**

Born in Berlin during the Cold War, Michael Marquardt emigrated to the
United States in 1991, a year and a half after witnessing the fall of
the Berlin Wall, to attend college and graduate school, becoming a U.S.
citizen in 2002. He has led several companies in the technology and
healthcare sectors as CEO and has served on corporate boards in
Indonesia, France, and the United States. As CEO of Global Kompass
Strategies, Inc., Marquardt advises clients on global strategy,
corporate governance, business development, and emerging technology
opportunities.

Following a lifelong commitment to fighting cancer after losing several
loved ones to the disease, Marquardt currently serves as Chair of the
national Board of Directors of the American Cancer Society.

**<u>Maureen Catherine Pikarski, Commissioner, U.S. Commission for the
Preservation of America’s Heritage Abroad</u>**

Maureen Pikarski is a partner in the law firm of Gordon & Pikarski. Her
practice includes real estate tax objections for commercial, industrial,
and residential property owners. Pikarski has extensive experience in
matters involving real estate property tax valuations. Prior to joining
Gordon & Pikarski, she worked in the White House Executive Office, the
Office of the Vice President, and House of Representatives. 

Pikarski received her B.A. from Bryn Mawr College, M.A. from Villanova
University, and her J.D. from Catholic University of America.

**<u>William H. Shaheen, Commissioner, U.S. Commission for the
Preservation of America’s Heritage Abroad</u>**

Bill Shaheen grew up in Dover, New Hampshire, where working hard and
helping your neighbor were standard. He graduated from the University of
New Hampshire and went on to enlist in the Army, gaining the rank of
Captain. He then went on to law school where he graduated 2<sup>nd</sup>
in his law school class. In 1977, President Jimmy Carter tapped him to
be the youngest U.S. Attorney in the country for the State of New
Hampshire. In 1981, he became a District Court Judge appointed by
then-Governor Hugh Gallen. He also founded the law firm of Shaheen,
Cappiello, Stein, and Gordon, now Shaheen & Gordon. In addition, Shaheen
is CEO and Financial Officer of several small businesses in the Seacoast
area. He is well known in the political arena as an activist and for
championing candidates and causes that benefit the “little person.”

Shaheen also happens to be the proud husband of Senator Jeanne Shaheen,
proud father of three successful and beloved daughters, Stefany, Stacey
and Molly, grandfather to his cherished grandchildren, and father-in-law
to his doting sons-in-law. 
