---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2022-01-21'
modified_time: 2022-01-21 14:24:03-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/01/21/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-launches-coalition-of-states-and-local-governments-to-strengthen-building-performance-standards/
published_time: 2022-01-21 15:00:00-05:00
title: "FACT SHEET:  Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Launches Coalition of States\
  \ and Local Governments to Strengthen Building Performance\_Standards"
---
 
*New Federal, State, and Local Action to Support Energy Efficient
Buildings, Create Jobs, and Lower Costs*

  
Today, President Biden announced during his remarks at the U.S.
Conference of Mayors that his Administration is teaming up with states,
cities, labor, and industry to launch the Building Performance Standards
Coalition, a first-of-its-kind partnership between 33 state and local
governments dedicated to delivering cleaner, healthier, and more
affordable buildings. With nearly 20% of the nation’s building footprint
in their jurisdictions, the partnership facilitates new commitments to
design and implement building performance standards at the state and
local level, create good-paying, union jobs, lower energy bills for
consumers, keep residents and workers safe from harmful pollution, and
cut emissions from the building sector. Today’s announcement builds upon
the Department of Energy’s efforts to upgrade one million homes, and
makes progress toward President Biden’s goal to retrofit four million
buildings and two million homes during his first term.

New federal actions today, in tandem with close state and local
coordination, will accelerate progress towards reducing buildings
emissions at all levels of government, including states, territories,
Tribal nations, and local jurisdictions. Federal investments and
technical assistance builds capacity, expertise, and infrastructure to
advance climate action and environmental justice aligned with local or
state-levels needs and opportunities.

When building performance standards are designed in partnership with
frontline communities and key stakeholders, innovative and equitable
solutions can address multiple needs in a community. Energy efficiency
improvements and electrification in multifamily buildings improve indoor
air quality, eliminate drafts, and protect residents from extreme heat–
delivering health benefits and lower health care costs. For businesses,
high-performing buildings are not only good for the world, they are good
for the bottom line – attracting higher occupancy rates and generating
more revenue.  
  
Today’s actions build on the $3.5 billion investment for home
weatherization in President Biden’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law –
which will make 700,000 homes more energy efficient and lower consumers’
electricity bills – and will make $1.8 billion available to state and
local governments through the Department of Energy to expand building
retrofits and policy implementation at the state and local level. And
President Biden will continue to work with Congress to extend even more
benefits to the American people under the Build Back Better Act.  
Today’s actions include:

-   **A New Buildings Performance Standards Coalition: **This innovative
    partnership forms a coalition of state and local governments that
    represent over 22 percent of the American population. Supported by
    labor unions, philanthropy and non-governmental organizations, the
    Coalition has come together to scale programs and policies that
    reduce emissions across the buildings sector in local jurisdictions.
    This first-of-its-kind partnership will unlock energy efficiency and
    electrification across the buildings sector as an engine for job
    creation all while lowering energy bills for consumers.  
     
-   **Mobilizing Federal Assistance: **The Department of Energy and the
    Environmental Protection Agency today announced a series of actions
    to kickstart building performance standards and policy innovation
    across the country. Deploying a range of resources, the agencies
    will help jurisdictions with analysis support, policy design, and
    implementation tools.    
     

**PROPELLING POLICY INNOVATION ACROSS AMERICA’S STATES AND CITIES**

The inaugural Building Performance Standards Coalition, which represents
more than 15 billion square feet of applicable floor space, has come
together to scale programs and policies that reduce emissions across the
America’s buildings sector.

-   **Advancing State and Local Building Performance Standards.** Today,
    33 state and local governments announced their participation in the
    National Building Performance Standards Coalition, founded on a
    commitment to work with stakeholders, especially frontline
    communities, to address health, energy affordability, and emissions
    reductions goals across the buildings sector. This participation
    includes developing policy roadmaps, convening place-based teams to
    co-create policy, identifying and acting on pre-requisites for
    building performance standards and complementary policies, and
    sharing results and experiences to forge a community of practice –
    with the ultimate goal of advancing legislation or regulation in
    each of the represented jurisdictions by Earth Day 2024. Coalition
    members include:
    -   State of Colorado
    -   State of Washington
    -   Ann Arbor, MI
    -   Annapolis, MD
    -   Aspen, CO
    -   Atlanta, GA
    -   Boston, MA
    -   Cambridge, MA
    -   Chicago, IL
    -   Chula Vista, CA
    -   Columbus, OH
    -   Denver, CO
    -   Evanston, IL
    -   Fort Collins, CO
    -   Grand Rapids, MI
    -   Ithaca, NY
    -   Kansas City, MO
    -   Los Angeles, CA
    -   Milwaukee, WI
    -   Montgomery County, MD
    -   New York, NY
    -   Orlando, FL
    -   Philadelphia, PA
    -   Pittsburgh, PA
    -   Portland, OR
    -   Prince George’s County, MD
    -   Reno, NV
    -   Sacramento, CA
    -   Saint Louis, MO
    -   San Francisco, CA
    -   Savannah, GA
    -   Seattle, WA
    -   Washington, DC  
         
-   **Proactively Partnering with the Workforce. **Expanding our
    nation’s skilled workforce will be required to achieve the
    collective retrofit goals of Coalition members and the President.
    Members of the nation’s building trades and unions have stepped up
    to proactively partner with member cities and states to train a
    local workforce to get the job done. They have pledged to work with
    Coalition members as they implement new building performance
    standards and policies, recognizing that these policies stimulate
    economic growth and good-paying union jobs. Efficiency workers earn
    28% above the national median wage, and union workers have higher
    median earnings than non-union members.

In May of 2021 the Administration [announced a set of new
programs](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/05/17/fact-sheet-biden-administration-accelerates-efforts-to-create-jobs-making-american-buildings-more-affordable-cleaner-and-resilient/) to
grow and train the buildings sector workforce and to increase retrofit
uptake through a building performance standard for the federal building
portfolio. Since then the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable
Energy has granted over $25 million to workforce development and job
creation leaders to expand the pipeline of high-skill buildings workers,
and the EPA has published a [white
paper](https://www.energystar.gov/buildings/white_paper_metrics) to
inform the development of building performance standards and
disseminated it across the buildings industry. In addition, the
Administration has charged an interagency team of subject matter experts
to develop the federal building performance standard policy.

**Prioritizing equity expertise and stakeholder engagement.** National
leaders in equity and environmental justice, community engagement, and
building efficiency policy and program design have stepped up to provide
policy and equity strategy assistance to Coalition members. With support
from philanthropic organizations, local governments will ground their
climate work in equity and justice through community-driven processes.
And nonprofit organizations will offer expertise in building
decarbonization, including localized policy approaches and stakeholder
engagement.  
  
**MOBILIZING FEDERAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR BUILDING PERFORMANCE
POLICY AT THE STATE AND LOCAL LEVELS **

Today, the Department of Energy (DOE) and the Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) announced expanded technical assistance opportunities that
can be accessed by Building Performance Standards Coalition members to
design, measure, and manage local buildings performance policies:

-   **Activating Technical Assistance.** DOE’s Building Technology
    Office will support analyses of existing building stocks and will
    work with local governments to set emissions reductions goals with
    the assistance of better data collection tools. Additionally, DOE
    will share best practices for state and local governments that are
    adopting building performance standards, including public and
    private sector financing options, and will also provide analytical
    support to examine how policies targeting emissions reductions in
    existing buildings can pave the way for minimum new construction
    building energy codes.

<!-- -->

-   **Enhancing Support from EPA Climate Protection Partnerships
    Division.** EPA will support policy development and implementation,
    including through analysis and recommendations of metrics and best
    practice toolkits. EPA will provide insight into current building
    energy use data as the foundation for jurisdiction-specific analysis
    and target setting, and will enhance [<u>ENERGY STAR Portfolio
    Manager®</u>](https://www.energystar.gov/buildings/benchmark) to
    provide new policy tracking and reporting capability, and will
    assist jurisdictions in using it. EPA will also provide new tools
    that calculate localized greenhouse gas emissions to inform
    reporting, compliance, and assessment.

These actions follow a year of interagency collaboration to jumpstart
building performance policy at the state and local level. In 2021, the
Administration:

-   **Passed the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law**. The law provides more
    than $1.8 billion to support building sector policies, including
    $500 million for DOE’s State Energy Program, which provides funding
    and technical assistance to state, local, and tribal governments to
    advance state-led energy initiatives; $550 million for DOE’s Energy
    Efficiency Conservation Block Grant program to assist eligible
    governments to develop, promote, implement, and manage energy
    efficiency and conservation policy and projects in their
    jurisdiction; $250 million for grants to capitalize state-level
    revolving loan funds for energy efficiency; and $500 million for
    competitive grants to fund efficiency and renewable improvements in
    public school facilities.  
     
-   **Embedding equity expertise into federal assistance. **The
    Department of Energy’s Pacific Northwest National Lab released
    a [Request for
    Proposals](https://ebs.pnnl.gov/ViewSolicitation.aspx?SolID=1131) for
    expertise in energy justice and in building performance standards to
    advance energy codes. Awards are expected in spring 2022 and will
    provide important federal capacity to support equity as a central
    tenet of building decarbonization policy.

\###
