---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-01-14'
modified_time: 2022-01-14 09:14:32-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/01/14/president-biden-nominates-sarah-bloom-raskin-to-serve-as-vice-chair-for-supervision-of-the-federal-reserve-and-lisa-cook-and-philip-jefferson-to-serve-as-governors/
published_time: 2022-01-14 09:14:31-05:00
title: President Biden Nominates Sarah Bloom Raskin to Serve as Vice Chair for Supervision
  of the Federal Reserve, and Lisa Cook and Philip Jefferson to Serve as Governors
---
 
Today, President Biden announced the nomination of Sarah Bloom Raskin to
serve as Vice Chair for Supervision of the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System and the nomination of Lisa Cook and Philip
Jefferson to serve on the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System.  
  
Our economy has made enormous progress over the past year, with 6.4
million jobs created and unemployment falling to 3.9% –– four years
faster than projected. At the same time, our economy is facing the
challenge of price increases that are squeezing families’ budgets.  
  
The Federal Reserve plays a vital role in our economy. The President is
confident that the Federal Reserve will act to achieve their dual goals
of maximum sustainable employment and price stability and make sure that
price increases do not become entrenched over a long term with the
independence that they need.

Along with Jerome Powell – who the President has nominated for a second
term as Chair of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System –
and Dr. Lael Brainard – who was nominated to serve as Vice Chair of the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System – President Biden has
now nominated a group of five people to serve on the Board of Governors
who have the experience, judgment and talent necessary to lead the
Federal Reserve at this important moment in our economic recovery.  
  
The Senate has confirmed three of these nominees who have previously
served on the Board of Governors – Powell, Brainard, and Raskin.
Jefferson started his career as an economist for the Federal Reserve,
and both he and Cook have consulted frequently with a number of Federal
Reserve Regional Banks. They will bring long overdue diversity to the
leadership of the Federal Reserve, including the first Black woman in
history to serve on the Board and the fourth Black man to serve on the
Board. If all five are confirmed, the Board will be majority women. When
we have leaders in the Federal government that reflect the diversity of
our country, it results in better outcomes for all Americans. That is
especially true in our economy where too many groups historically have
been left behind, or left out altogether.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Statement from President
Biden**  
</span>  
“We are at a moment of historic economic progress alongside unique
economic challenges as we work to drive our recovery forward. This is a
moment that calls for sound, independent leadership from the Board of
Governors at the Federal Reserve. That is why I am proud to nominate
Sarah Bloom Raskin, Lisa Cook, and Philip Jefferson, who will bring a
breadth of knowledge, experience and expertise to the Board of
Governors. Raskin is among the most qualified nominees ever for the
position of Vice Chair for Supervision, while Jefferson and Cook are
talented economists with decades of experience working on a broad range
of economic issues. Together with Chair Powell and Dr. Brainard, who I
renominated last month, this group will bring much needed expertise,
judgement and leadership to the Federal Reserve while at the same time
bringing a diversity of thought and perspective never seen before on the
Board of Governors. They will continue the important work of steering us
on a path to a strong, sustainable recovery, while making sure that
price increases do not become entrenched over the long term. I have full
confidence in the strong leadership of this group of nominees, and that
they have the experience, judgement, and integrity to lead the Federal
Reserve and to help build our economy back better for working
families.”  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Sarah Bloom Raskin for Vice
Chair for Supervision**  
</span>Sarah Bloom Raskin has served both as the Deputy Secretary of the
U.S. Department of the Treasury and as a Governor of the Federal Reserve
Board. At Treasury, she oversaw the Treasury Department and its various
agencies and departments, pursuing innovative solutions to enhance
American’s shared prosperity, the resilience of our country’s critical
financial infrastructure, particularly as it related to climate risk and
cybersecurity, and the defense of consumer safeguards in the financial
marketplace. As a Governor of the Federal Reserve Board, she helped
conduct the nation’s monetary policy and promote financial stability.
She also served as the Commissioner of Financial Regulation for the
State of Maryland, where she and her agency were responsible for
regulating Maryland’s financial institutions, including all
state-chartered depository institutions, banks, credit unions, mortgage
lenders, mortgage servicers, and trust companies, among others. She
currently is the Colin W. Brown Distinguished Professor of the Practice
of Law at the Duke University School of Law as well as the board of
trustees of Amherst College. She received her B.A. in economics from
Amherst College (Phi Beta Kappa; magna cum laude), and her J.D. from
Harvard Law School.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Lisa Cook for Governor**  
</span>Lisa D. Cook is a Professor of Economics and International
Relations at Michigan State University. She was the first Marshall
Scholar from Spelman College and received a second B.A. in Philosophy,
Politics, and Economics from Oxford University. She earned a Ph.D. in
economics from the University of California, Berkeley with fields in
macroeconomics and international economics. She was an adjunct professor
at Harvard University’s Kennedy School of Government, Deputy Director
for Africa Research at the Center for International Development at
Harvard University, and a National Fellow at Stanford University. Among
her current research interests are economic growth and development,
innovation, financial institutions and markets, and economic history.
Dr. Cook is a Research Associate at the National Bureau of Economic
Research and is the author of a number of published articles, book
chapters, and working papers. She is also on the Board of Editors of the
Journal of Economic Literature. She also served at the White House
Council of Economic Advisers under President Obama and also had visiting
appointments at the National Bureau of Economic Research, the University
of Michigan, and the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Chicago,
Minneapolis, and Philadelphia. She serves on the Advisory Boards of the
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago (Academic Advisory Council).  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Philip Jefferson for
Governor**  
</span>Philip N. Jefferson is Vice President for Academic Affairs and
Dean of Faculty and the Paul B. Freeland Professor of Economics at
Davidson College. He serves on the Vassar College Board of Trustees, the
Board of Advisors of the Opportunity and Inclusive Growth Institute at
the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis and is a past president of the
National Economic Association. He is a Faculty Affiliate of the
Institute for Research on Poverty at the University of
Wisconsin-Madison. His research has appeared in several journals and has
been funded by grants from the National Science Foundation. Dr.
Jefferson previously served as chair of the Economics department at
Swarthmore College, where he was the Centennial Professor of Economics.
He was an economist at the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System. He held visiting appointments at the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York, the University of California at Berkeley, and the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System. He served as a director of the
Eastern Economic Association and as a member of the governing council of
the Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research at the
University of Michigan. Philip served on the Swarthmore Borough Council,
Delaware County, Pennsylvania. He holds a BA in economics from Vassar
College and a PhD and a MA in economics from the University of Virginia.

\###
