---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2022-01-07'
modified_time: 2022-01-07 13:25:51-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/01/07/biden-administration-announces-state-by-state-funding-to-address-home-energy-costs/
published_time: 2022-01-07 06:00:00-05:00
title: "Biden Administration Announces State-by-State Funding to Address Home Energy\_\
  Costs"
---
 
*Builds on Utility Companies’ Commitments to Prevent Shut Offs this
Winter*

Today, the Biden-Harris Administration announced state-by-state
breakdown of funding for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program
(LIHEAP). Thanks to the American Rescue Plan, this funding will help
states, localities and tribes address home energy costs this winter. The
Administration announced that a total of fourteen major utility
companies have made commitments to prevent shutting off utilities for
Americans applying for aid and expedite assistance, with seven new
commitments today
[building](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/18/fact-sheet-biden-administration-deploys-american-rescue-plan-funds-to-protect-americans-from-rising-home-heating-costs-calls-on-utility-companies-to-prevent-shut-offs-this-winter/)
on commitments made last November.

**The American Rescue Plan More Than Doubled LIHEAP Funding**: In 2021,
the Biden-Harris Administration and Congressional Democrats delivered $8
billion in LIHEAP funding nationally, **<u>more than doubling typical
annual appropriations</u>**, thanks to an additional $4.5 billion
provided by the American Rescue Plan. These funds represent the largest
appropriation in a single year since the program was established in
1981. These resources are already allowing states across the country to
provide more home energy relief to low income Americans than ever
before.

**The American Rescue Plan Provided Additional Historic Resources for
Utility Relief Including the Emergency Rental Assistance (ERA) Program
and State & Local Fiscal Recovery Fund**: The American Rescue Plan
provided other critical resources that states and localities can use to
address home energy costs. ERA programs, which received an additional
$21.5 billion in funding from the American Rescue Plan, can provide help
with past-due utility bills or ongoing assistance with energy costs to
help distressed renters avoid shut-offs and keep current on expenses.
State & Local Fiscal Recovery Funds can also be deployed to help deliver
energy relief to families.

The Administration has taken action to ensure that these historic
resources are distributed swiftly and equitably this winter:

-   **<u>Encouraged States to Plan Early:</u>** In November, the White
    House [called on states, localities, and tribes to plan early to
    distribute American Rescue Plan
    funds](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/18/fact-sheet-biden-administration-deploys-american-rescue-plan-funds-to-protect-americans-from-rising-home-heating-costs-calls-on-utility-companies-to-prevent-shut-offs-this-winter/)
    to address home energy costs this winter.

<!-- -->

-   **<u>Secured  Commitments from Utilities to Avoid Shut-offs and
    Expedite Aid:</u>** The White House [called on utility
    companies](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/18/fact-sheet-biden-administration-deploys-american-rescue-plan-funds-to-protect-americans-from-rising-home-heating-costs-calls-on-utility-companies-to-prevent-shut-offs-this-winter/)
    to prevent devastating utility shut-offs and help expedite the
    delivery of unprecedented federal aid. Today, the White House is
    announcing that it is welcoming commitments from seven major utility
    companies across the country, including **Atlantic City Electric,
    Baltimore Gas and Electric, ComEd, Delmarva Power, Pacific Gas &
    Electric, PECO** and **Pepco**. These commitments join the initial
    commitments the White House secured in November from seven major
    utility companies including **DTE Energy, Eversource, Green Mountain
    Power, National Grid, NorthWestern Energy, Portland General
    Electric** and **Vermont Gas**, as well as the delivered fuel trade
    association **NEFI**.

<!-- -->

-   **<u>Called for Coordination of LIHEAP and Emergency Rental
    Assistance Relief to Families</u>**: To maximize the impact of home
    heating assistance, the White House called for states, localities,
    and tribes to coordinate across programs including LIHEAP and ERA.
    The Department of Health and Human Services and the Treasury
    Department have issued guidance and co-hosted webinars on LIHEAP and
    ERA best practices that have attracted over 500 administrators –
    collectively representing 47 states, the District of Columbia, and
    72 tribal governments. More than 50 percent of these administrators
    now report they are coordinating across these programs.

**Funding by State/Territory:**

[Alabama](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-Alabama.pdf)  
  
[Alaska](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-Alaska.pdf)

[American Samoa  
](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/American-Samoa.pdf)  
[Arizona](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-Arizona.pdf)  
  
[Arkansas](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-Arkansas.pdf)  
  
[California](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-California.pdf)  
  
[Colorado](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-Colorado.pdf)  
  
[Connecticut](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-Connecticut.pdf)  
  
[Delaware](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-Delaware.pdf)

[District of
Columbia](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-DC.pdf)  
  
[Florida](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-Florida.pdf)  
  
[Georgia](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-Georgia.pdf)

[Guam](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/Guam.pdf)  
  
[Hawaii](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-Hawaii.pdf)  
  
[Idaho](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-Idaho.pdf)  
  
[Illinois](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-Illinois.pdf)  
  
[Indiana](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-Indiana.pdf)  
  
[Iowa](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-Iowa.pdf)  
  
[Kansas](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-Kansas.pdf)  
  
[Kentucky](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-Kentucky.pdf)  
  
[Louisiana](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-Louisiana.pdf)  
  
[Maine](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-Maine.pdf)  
  
[Maryland](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-Maryland.pdf)  
  
[Massachusetts](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-Massachusetts.pdf)  
  
[Michigan](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-Michigan.pdf)  
  
[Minnesota](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-Minnesota.pdf)  
  
[Mississippi](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-Mississippi.pdf)  
  
[Missouri](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-Missouri.pdf)  
  
[Montana](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-Montana.pdf)

[Nebraska](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-Nebraska.pdf)

[Nevada](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-Nevada.pdf)

[New
Hampshire](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-New-Hampshire.pdf)

[New
Jersey](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-New-Jersey.pdf)

[New
Mexico](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-New-Mexico.pdf)

[New
York](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-New-York.pdf)

[North
Carolina](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-North-Carolina.pdf)

[North
Dakota](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-North-Dakota.pdf)

[Northern Mariana
Islands](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/Northern-Mariana-Islands.pdf)

[Ohio](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-Ohio.pdf)

[Oklahoma](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-Oklahoma.pdf)

[Oregon](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-Oregon.pdf)

[Pennsylvania](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-Pennsylvania.pdf)

[Puerto
Rico](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/Puerto-Rico.pdf)

[Rhode
Island](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-Rhode-Island.pdf)

[South
Carolina](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-South-Carolina.pdf)

[South
Dakota](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-South-Dakota.pdf)

[Tennessee](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-Tennessee.pdf)

[Texas](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-Texas.pdf)

[Utah](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-Utah.pdf)

[U.S. Virgin
Islands](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/US-Virgin-Islands.pdf)

[Vermont](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-Vermont.pdf)

[Virginia](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-Virginia.pdf)

[Washington](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-Washington.pdf)

[West
Virginia](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-West-Virginia.pdf)

[Wisconsin](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-Wisconsin.pdf)

[Wyoming](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/LIHEAP-Wyoming.pdf)

\###
