---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-10-01'
modified_time: 2021-10-01 14:13:29-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/10/01/press-briefing-by-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-public-health-officials-59/
published_time: 2021-10-01 14:13:28-04:00
title: "Press Briefing by White\_House COVID-\u206019 Response Team and Public Health\_\
  Officials"
---
 
Via Teleconference 

11:04 A.M. EDT  
  
MR. ZIENTS: Good morning. Thanks for joining us. From the beginning of
his administration, the President has been clear that vaccines are the
path out of the pandemic. And every day since, we’ve been laser-focused
on getting more and more Americans vaccinated.  
  
Driven by the President’s six-point plan, we continue to get more
vaccines into arms and protect more people.  
  
Today, Drs. Walensky, Fauci, and Murthy will give you an update on these
efforts, focusing on three key topics: First, the effectiveness of
vaccines and our work to get more people vaccinated, including through
vaccine requirements. Second, our work to bring Americans additional
protection through booster shots. And, third, the potential on the
horizon for vaccinating younger children.  
  
Let’s start with Dr. Walensky for an update on the state of the pandemic
and the impact of vaccines, and then Dr. Fauci to present on the
effectiveness of vaccines and booster shots.  
  
Dr. Walensky.  
  
DR. WALENSKY: Thank you, Jeff. Good morning. Let’s begin with an
overview of the data. Today, our seven-day average of cases is about
106,400 cases per day, and the seven-day average of hospital admissions
is about 8,300 per day. Both of these are about a 15 percent decrease
from last week.  
  
Seven-day average daily deaths are at 1,476 per day. You’ve heard me say
it before: Vaccines are the most powerful tool we have to prevent
COVID-19 infections, hospitalizations, and death. The power of
vaccination is not just for the individual who gets the shot, it is also
for those around them and their community.  
  
Today I wanted to share new data that demonstrate just how essential
vaccination is in our fight against COVID-19. About 185 million
Americans have rolled up their sleeves and are fully vaccinated against
COVID-19. Unfortunately, that leaves about 70 million eligible Americans
unvaccinated, and these people are not evenly distributed. There are
still places around the country where far too many individuals remain
unvaccinated and many states where vaccination rates are less than 50
percent, leaving themselves and their communities at risk and without
adequate protection against COVID-19.  
  
We’re beginning to see cases and hospitalizations decrease from their
peaks in late August and early September. This slide looks at the
seven-day moving average of cases, hospitalizations, and deaths in three
groups of states. In blue, those states with less than 55 percent of
their eligible population fully vaccinated. In yellow, those states with
between 55 and 65 percent of their population fully vaccinated. And in
green, those states with greater than 65 percent of their population of
eligible fully vaccinated.  
  
In the panel on the left, you can see weekly COVID-19 case rates. In
those states with less than 55 percent of their eligible population
vaccinated, case rates were consistently higher than in states with
higher vaccine coverage. At the peak of the summer Delta surge, the low
vaccine coverage states had a case rate that was over twice the rate
seen in medium and high vaccination coverage states.  
  
In the middle panel, you can see the same trends are seen for weekly
hospital admission rates for COVID-19, with low vaccine coverage states
having higher hospitalization rates and remaining substantially
elevated, even as case total rates begin to decline. And then the panel
on the right, deaths remain substantially higher in states with low
vaccine coverage.  
  
These data make two points abundantly clear. First, COVID-19 vaccines
are highly effective in preventing serious disease, hospitalizations,
and deaths due to COVID-19. Second, high vaccination coverage in your
community translates into fewer cases, less of a burden on your local
healthcare system, lower disease rates in your classrooms, and better
health for those around you, including protecting children less than 12
years old who are not yet eligible for vaccination.  
  
While we have made tremendous progress in our campaign to vaccinate as
many Americans as possible, we still have work to do to make sure that
vaccination coverage is high and even across the country.  
  
This week, CDC released a health alert highlighting the incredibly low
rates of vaccination in pregnant people and those who may become
pregnant, a group of people who are at high risk for severe
complications from COVID-19. Overall, only 31 percent of pregnant people
are fully vaccinated, and only 15 percent of Black pregnant people are
vaccinated.  
  
I want to reinforce that these vaccines are safe and effective,
including during pregnancy. The benefits of vaccination far outweigh any
risk to both mom and to baby. If you have not yet been vaccinated, I
urge you to talk with your healthcare provider and those in your
community about the benefits of vaccination. Vaccination is our best
defense against COVID-19.  
  
We have the scientific tools needed to put an end to this pandemic. We
have the science that proves these vaccines are safe and remain
effective. And I am confident that we can come together and protect
ourselves and our communities from COVID-19.  
  
Thank you. I’ll now turn it over to Dr. Fauci,  
  
DR. FAUCI: Thank you very much, Dr. Walensky. I would like to now
provide three concise messages about how we can accelerate the end of
the epidemic in our country and the pandemic globally with
vaccinations.  
  
First, COVID-19 vaccines are safe, effective, convenient, and free. They
protect you, your loved ones, and your community.  
  
Next slide.  
  
This is just one bit of data, among many, from a variety of local
locations throughout the country. In this case, it’s from Public Health
— Seattle & King County. This is COVID-19 data over the past 30 days —
essentially, Delta data. People who are not fully vaccinated are eight
times more likely to test positive, 41 times more likely to be
hospitalized, and 57 times more likely to die compared to people who are
vaccinated.  
  
Next slide.  
  
Next message: Booster shots provide further protection against
SARS-CoV-2 infection and symptomatic COVID-19 disease for people at
increased risk of severe COVID-19 disease.  
  
Next slide.  
  
This is the slide I showed at a prior press briefing. Twelve days or
more after the booster dose, the rate of confirmed infection was lower
in the booster group than in the non-booster group by a factor of 11.3
and the rate of severe illness lower by a factor of 19.5.  
  
Next slide.  
  
This is active, severe COVID-19 cases by vaccination status in
individuals over 60 years old, in the Israeli study. And the numbers you
see are numbers per 100,000 population as of a couple of days ago: 174.2
in the unvaccinated, 33.7 in those who have two doses of an mRNA, and
3.4 in those who had two doses of the mRNA — in this case Pfizer — plus
a booster.  
  
Next slide.  
  
Third point: Vaccines for children aged 5 to 11, pending FDA
authorization and CDC recommendation, may soon be available to help
protect our children and those around them.  
  
Next slide.  
  
As you know, a few days ago, Pfizer and BioNTech submitted their data to
the FDA from their Phase 2/3 trials of the vaccine in children 5 to 11.
The N was over 2,000. The companies report that the vaccine
“demonstrated a favorable safety profile and elicited robust
neutralizing antibody…using a two-dose regimen of 10 μg doses.”  
  
Again, the FDA will make a regulatory determination, and the CDC with
their ACIP will make a recommendation.  
  
Last slide.  
  
So, therefore, the conclusion from the three concise messages are, as
Dr. Walensky said so cogently: Get vaccinated. Here how you can find it:
Vaccines.gov. Text your ZIP Code; call the telephone number on the
slide.  
  
Back to you, Jeff.  
  
MR. ZIENTS: Thank you, Doctors. As both Dr. Walensky and Dr. Fauci
noted, vaccines are the best tool we have against the virus, and getting
more shots in arms is the path out of this pandemic.  
  
Right now, more than three out of four eligible Americans have at least
their first shot. So that’s significant progress, but there’s more work
to be done.  
  
And that’s why the President is implementing bold vaccination
requirements, including requirements for 17 million healthcare workers
to be fully vaccinated and for all employers with 100 or more employees
to ensure their workforce is fully vaccinated or tested at minimum one
time per week.  
  
All told, the President’s vaccination requirements will apply to about
100 million workers. That’s two thirds of all workers across the
country.  
  
And as the President has said, employers should act now to protect their
workforce and communities. And employers are doing just that by enacting
vaccination requirements.  
  
This week, Procter & Gamble and AT&T, two of the very largest companies
in the country, adopted vaccination requirements.  
  
Delaware announced public and private K-through-12 school teachers and
staff need to be vaccinated or undergo weekly testing.  
  
In Pennsylvania, Allegheny County is now requiring vaccination for its
government employees.  
  
And if you plan to visit Universal Studios in California, or go to a
Grizzlies basketball game in Memphis, you’ll have to be fully vaccinated
or provide proof of a negative test.  
  
Each day this week, as organizations hit their vaccination deadlines, we
got new data showing that vaccination requirements work.  
  
Let’s start on Monday. On Monday, Novant Health System in North Carolina
hit its deadline and announced, that day, 99 percent of its 35,000
employees are vaccinated.  
  
On Tuesday, United Airlines announced that 99 percent of its 60,000
employees were vaccinated and in compliance by its deadline. That’s up
from 59 percent just two months ago.  
  
Then, on Wednesday, Vanderbilt University Medical Center said 95 percent
of its 28,000 employees were fully vaccinated.  
  
And just yesterday, Virginia Tech reported that 95 percent of its
students were vaccinated by the school’s deadline.  
  
The data is clear: When organizations implement vaccine requirements,
vaccine rates — vaccination rates soar to 90 percent or greater.  
  
More and more companies are stepping up to make vaccine requirements the
standard across all sectors. Look at job postings. The number of job
postings that list COVID vaccination as a requirement jumped 20 times in
the past two months, according to LinkedIn data.  
  
Bottom line: Vaccination requirements work. And driven by the
President’s requirements, vaccination rates at businesses, healthcare
systems, universities and colleges, and other institutions across the
country will continue to increase.  
  
As we vaccinate the unvaccinated, we’re also enhancing protection for
vaccinated Americans through booster shots. We estimate that by day’s
end, almost 2 million Americans will have rolled up their sleeves and
gotten a booster shot — nearly 2 million booster shots in the first
week. That’s a very strong start.  
  
And states and pharmacies are reaching out to millions of eligible
individuals with text messages, emails, and calls.  
  
Maryland alone has made more than 250,000 calls to eligible individuals
since last Friday. Pharmacies across the country have scheduled more
than a million individuals to get their booster shot across the next
couple of weeks. And pharmacies are also scheduling over 8,000 on-site
clinics to bring booster and flu shots to the most vulnerable, including
nursing home and assisted-living facility residents and staff.  
  
So, the boosters program is off to a running start. And we’re working
with states, Tribes, and territories; pharmacies; community health
centers; doctors and other providers to get millions of eligible
Americans their booster.  
  
Let me close by reiterating we are laser-focused on getting more shots
in arms, particularly to vaccinate the unvaccinated. That’s our path out
of this pandemic.  
  
So, if you’re unvaccinated, please go get a shot. It’s free, it’s safe,
it’s easy, and it’ll help make all of us safer.  
  
With that, let me turn it over to Dr. Murthy for an update on the
potential for vaccinations for younger children.  
  
Dr. Murthy.  
  
SURGEON GENERAL MURTHY: Well, thanks so much, Jeff. And it’s good to be
with everyone again today.  
  
One of the many reasons that I’m hopeful about the future of our
pandemic response is that vaccines for children under 12 are now on the
horizon.  
  
And I want to start by sharing why I’m personally invested in this
process. My wife and I have two children under 12, and like all parents,
we want them to be healthy and safe. We’ve spent a lot of time during
the pandemic considering how best to protect them. And they recently
started school, and we are so grateful that they have the chance to
learn in person and enjoy social time with their peers. We are
especially grateful to their school for following the CDC guidelines for
schools and for using universal masking, regular testing, and improved
ventilation to reduce the risk to our kids and all children in this
school.  
  
But knowing that our kids are unvaccinated, their safety is still always
on our mind. And more broadly, I know that COVID has been a source of
stress and worry for all those with children in their lives because we
want them to be protected from COVID. A vaccine could make a big
difference for the health of our kids and for the peace of mind of
parents everywhere.  
  
So, let’s talk about our path forward when it comes to vaccinating our
children, from the dosage selection to the clinical trials to the
rigorous review process.  
  
I want to note that the foundation of this entire process is safety. The
safety of our nation’s children is our highest value and our greatest
responsibility. It dictates everything else in the process, and that
starts with the dosage.  
  
The vaccines for children come at different dosages because children are
just tiny adults. They’re growing and developing in countless ways. So,
the dosage is carefully considered and selected for its optimal safety
and immune response in children.  
  
Our guiding principle of safety also warrants conducting separate
clinical trials for children. We want to be sure, beyond a shadow of a
doubt, that the evidence indicates a strong safety profile and strong
immune response in children. That’s why it matters that thousands of
kids are enrolled in each trial and that they are carefully monitored
for at least two full months after they receive their second dose.  
  
When there are sufficient data from those clinical trials, the vaccine
developers submit their data and a formal request to the FDA, which then
conducts a thorough independent evaluation.  
  
If the FDA grants the vaccine an emergency use authorization, or EUA,
then the vaccine can be administered.  
  
But we have one more important layer of review. If the FDA grants the
authorization, the CDC’s Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices
then meets to conduct their own review on specific clinical
recommendations for healthcare providers.  
  
As you can see, this is an involved process. It’s conducted by some of
the most distinguished experts on vaccines. And the data and Advisory
Committee proceedings are public for maximum transparency.  
  
So where are we right now? Well, at the moment, the vaccine furthest
along in this process for children is the Pfizer vaccine. They have more
than 2,000 children enrolled in their clinical trial, and the company
has reported that they have seen promising results.  
  
Now, the FDA has released a statement saying that, once they receive a
formal request for authorization from Pfizer, they are prepared to
complete a thorough independent review as quickly as possible, likely in
a matter of weeks rather than months.  
  
The COVID-19 vaccines are FDA’s top priority, and they know the urgency
with which our children need a vaccine. They will be guided by science
and safety as they evaluate vaccine data for children. That’s what’s
reassuring to me as a parent. And that is why when a vaccine is
available for kids 5 to 11, I will look forward to taking my son to get
vaccinated.  
  
Until then, my family will be taking every step possible to protect our
unvaccinated children from the virus. We will adhere to our school’s
masking policy, because we know universal masking in schools reduces our
children’s risk of getting COVID.  
  
In Arizona’s Maricopa and Pima Counties, schools that started the year
without mask requirements were three and a half times more likely to
have COVID-19 outbreaks in schools with early mask requirements.  
  
Our children will also participate in the regular testing program their
school has set up to catch potential infection early and prevent
outbreaks.  
  
Additionally, every member of our family will wear masks in indoor
public spaces. And when we take our kids to see other people, we will
try to do so in spaces with good ventilation, like outdoor settings.  
  
Finally, even though our youngest kids can’t get vaccinated yet, the
rest of us can. And when we are vaccinated, we act as barriers between
our kids and the virus. So, if you are eligible to get vaccinated,
please do so — if not for your own safety, then for the safety of
unvaccinated children in your community.  
  
And as challenging as this pandemic has been, we must never lose sight
of the fact that we have made progress in combatting COVID-19. We’ve
learned how to slow the spread of the virus. And we have powerful,
powerful tools, including vaccines, that we didn’t have before.  
  
Now we also have the promise of a vaccine for children under 12. We will
continue to press forward with our efforts to protect people from COVID
with vaccines and other tools that science tells us work to save lives
and keep people out of the hospital.  
  
Thanks so much. And I look forward to taking some of your questions.
I’ll turn it back to Jeff.  
  
MR. ZIENTS: Thanks, Dr. Murthy. Let’s open it up for questions.  
  
Kevin?  
  
MODERATOR: Thanks, Jeff. First question, let’s go to Sabrina Siddiqui at
the Wall Street Journal.  
  
Q  Thank you so much, as always, for doing the briefing. I have two
questions. First, can you talk more about what steps you’re taking to
lower the cost of rapid at-home tests and to expand testing capacity
more broadly, given the higher demand at schools and other congregate
settings?  
  
And then, separately, the White House has repeatedly said the CDC is
responsible for the continued use of Title 42, with respect to
immigration. What is the CDC’s criteria for lifting Title 42? Is there a
case count or vaccination threshold? And are you considering lifting it
in the near future?  
  
MR. ZIENTS: Good. Why don’t I take the first question on testing and
then over to Dr. Walensky.  
  
So, testing capacity has increased significantly to — and its available
testing — at many locations: pharmacies, community health centers,
states and local sites. And we’re going to continue to increase the
number of sites, as the President laid out in his six-point plan, by
thousands. And to be clear, these tests come at no cost.  
  
What you brought up was at-home testing, which came to market earlier
this year. These are clearly convenient and have become very popular and
are in very high demand. So, as the President announced a few weeks ago,
we made a significant investment last month to further scale rapid
test.  
  
We are investing $2 billion to produce hundreds of addition- — hundreds
of millions of additional tests. This gives the manufacturers the
capacity — or, sorry, the confidence to increase their capacity. And
we’re actually on track now to double the number of rapid tests in the
market over the next 60 days.  
  
We’ve also worked with top retailers — Walmart, Amazon, and Kroger — who
have all agreed to sell these at-home tests at their costs, which will
make them more affordable.  
  
Overall, we’ll continue to pull every lever we can to further expand the
manufacturing and the production of these tests in order to make them
more widely available and to drive down the cost per test.  
  
And we certainly encourage all Americans to get vaccinated, and when
they need to get tested, to get tested.  
  
Dr. Walensky.  
  
DR. WALENSKY: Yeah, thank you for that question, Sabrina. So, right now,
all but a handful of states in this country remain in the red area —
high levels of transmission, over 100 per 100,000 cases over seven days.
The Title 42 is a public health order decreasing the amount of crowding.
Certainly, it will be one strategy to decrease the amount of
transmission related to COVID-19.  
  
We are reevaluating the Title 42 order. As a public health order, we do
so every 60 days. And we will continue to reevaluate that. And in the
meantime, CDC is providing technical assistance at border areas to
ensure and work towards decreasing public health and COVID transmission
in these areas.  
  
Thank you.  
  
MR. ZIENTS: Next question.  
  
MODERATOR: Zeke Miller, AP.  
  
Q  Thanks for doing this again. I was hoping you might explain a little
bit why you think cases and hospitalizations right now are coming down.
Does it say something about — is there — what does that say about the
rest of the fall and the winter?  
  
And then, more broadly, there’s been a number of surveys that have come
out showing that fully vaccinated people are still significantly
altering their lives, fearing that they may get the virus. Many of the —
for all the doctors, you know, should people who are fully vaccinated
continue to, you know, harbor doubts about the efficacy of the vaccines,
change their lives? Should they cancel — should they continue to
postpone travel and stop — and not dining indoors and things like that,
or should they start getting back to normal?  
  
MR. ZIENTS: Okay, so let’s go to the first question — over to you, Dr.
Walensky. And then, if you have anything to add, Dr. Fauci.  
  
DR. WALENSKY: Yeah, absolutely. I mean, we’ve seen this with numerous —
with all of our surges: is they peak and then they come down. I think
what — we’re watching this very carefully, and we really understand that
the impact of Delta might be a little bit different.  
  
But one of the things I think that’s critically important now is, as
these cases come down, the most important thing that we can do is
continue to practice the mitigation strategies that we know work. Of
course, that’s masking, handwashing, distancing, ventilation, but
critically important, it’s vaccination.  
  
So, I think the future of where we go with this pandemic, with Delta,
and the other potential variants, really lies within our ability to get
this country vaccinated and, in the meantime, to double down on the
prevention strategies that work.  
  
MR. ZIENTS: Dr. Fauci, anything to add there?  
  
DR. FAUCI: Yeah, one point that I think is important to make is: I think
that the people who are unvaccinated, when they see the curve starting
to come down, that is not a reason to remain unvaccinated. Because if
you want to ensure that we get down to a very low level and that we
don’t resurge again, we still got to get a very large proportion of
those 70 million people who are eligible to be vaccinated, who have not
been vaccinated — we’ve got to get them vaccinated.  
  
So, it’s good news that we’re starting to see a turning around of the
curve and coming down. That is not an excuse to walk away from the issue
of needing to get vaccinated.  
  
MR. ZIENTS: Second question, on fully vaccinated people, Dr. Murthy, do
you want to respond there?  
  
SURGEON GENERAL MURTHY: All right, thanks, Jeff. And thanks for the
question.  
  
So, I think a couple of important points to make here. Number one is, if
people are fully vaccinated, it’s really important that they know that
they have a high degree of protection against the worst outcomes of
COVID — you know, against hospitalization, severe disease, and death.  
  
The bottom line is the vaccine saves lives and keeps people out of the
hospital. And that’s actually one of the reasons why many people who are
fully vaccinated feel more comfortable actually going and visiting
relatives and getting back to some of their day-to-day activities that
they enjoyed pre-pandemic.  
  
There are some people though, especially in the face of a Delta variant,
who recognize that even though they may be okay, they want to take extra
precautions to avoid transmitting to people at home who may be
unvaccinated; maybe they’ve got elderly relatives at home who are
immunocompromised, and they’ve got kids who are under 12 who are
vaccine- — who are unvaccinated. And some of them are taking some extra
precautions, which is reasonable.  
  
But in no way, shape, or form should this take away from the fact that
the vaccines are highly effective and they do dramatically reduce your
risk.  
  
One last thing I’ll just mention here is around boosters. You know, we —
given how effective vaccines have been, we want to extend that
protection that people have enjoyed from the vaccines. And so, the
booster program is actually going to help us to do that, particularly
with our higher-risk populations. That’s why the FDA and CDC made their
recommendations last week on boosters for those above 65, with other
illnesses, and who are at higher risk of exposure to the virus.  
  
But make no mistake: Our lives are fundamentally better because of the
vaccines. And the more people who get vaccinated, the quicker we’ll be
able to return back to normal.  
  
MR. ZIENTS: Thank you. Next question, please.  
  
MODERATOR: Let’s go to Arlette at CNN.  
  
Q  Hi there. I wanted to see if you could react to this news from Merck
about their antiviral pill that cuts the risk of death and
hospitalization by COVID in half. I know that this will have to go
through the FDA process, but do you guys have an estimated timeline for
when you hope this will be approved?  
  
And then, I know that you’ve also already reached an agreement for 1.7
million courses of this medicine, but are there plans to buy more? And
are there — how exactly would these be distributed out to the states?  
  
MR. ZIENTS: Dr. Fauci, for the first part of the question.  
  
DR. FAUCI: Yeah, for the first part of the question: The news of the
efficacy of this particular antiviral is obviously very good news. The
company, when they briefed us last night, had mentioned that they will
be submitting their data to the FDA imminently. The data are impressive.
There was a 50 percent diminution. Of importance is that in the placebo
group there were eight deaths, and in the treatment group there were no
deaths. That’s also very important and very good news.  
  
We always hesitate to make any timelines. The FDA will look at the data,
and in their usual, very efficient and effective way, will examine the
data as quickly as they possibly can. And then it will be taken from
there, because once a recommendation is made, then we go through the
same process of getting the recommendation for its usage through the
CDC.  
  
Thank you.  
  
MR. ZIENTS: So, as to the second part of the question, you know, if
indeed it is authorized, as Dr. Fauci just described the process, the
federal government has contracted to purchase 1.7 million doses to make
this therapy available. The government also has an option for some
additional doses.  
  
If approved, I think the right way to think about this is this is a
potential additional tool in our toolbox to protect people from the
worst outcomes of COVID. But I think it’s really important to remember
that vaccination, as we’ve talked about today, remains far and away our
best tool against COVID-19. It can prevent you from getting COVID in the
first place. And we want to prevent infections, not just wait to treat
them once they happen.  
  
Why don’t we take one more question?  
  
MODERATOR: Last question, let’s go to Sasha Pezenik at ABC News.  
  
Q  Hey, guys. Thank you for taking my question. On testing, the
administration has pledged millions towards — billions, frankly —
towards shoring up our testing infrastructure. It’s been a core part of
pulling us out of the pandemic, but we’ve seen them fly off of shelves.
We’re now seeing pharmacies rationing how many tests a person can buy.
We’re seeing delays in scheduling rapid-test appointments. So can you
help us understand what’s going wrong here; why countries like Germany
have been able to flood their market with cheap tests and the U.S. has
not been able to?  
  
MR. ZIENTS: Yeah, so I think it’s important to, again, emphasize that
overall testing capacity across the country remains robust.  
  
You’re right that the at-home rapid test is under a lot of demand. As I
said, the manufacturing is scaling up significantly, doubling across the
next couple of months. And we’re just going to keep at it to encourage
those manufacturers to increase capacity and to drive down the cost of
those tests. So, we will continue to pull every lever we can to increase
the convenience of rapid at-home testing.  
  
Thank you for today. I hope everybody has a good weekend. And I look
forward to next week’s briefing.  
  
11:35 A.M. EDT  
  
  

To view the COVID Press Briefing slides,
visit: <https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/COVID-Press-Briefing_1October2021.pdf>
