---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-10-30'
modified_time: 2021-11-01 16:17:12-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/10/30/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-on-a-u-s-eu-agreement-on-steel-and-aluminum-tariffs/
published_time: 2021-10-30 19:03:52-04:00
title: Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials on a U.S.-EU Agreement
  on Steel and Aluminum Tariffs
---
 
Via Teleconference

(October 30, 2021)

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Taking questions, once again, as a
reminder are \[senior administration official\], \[senior administration
official\], and \[senior administration official\].

  
With that, I will kick it off by going to Justin Sink at Bloomberg.  
  
Q    Hey, guys.  Thanks for doing this.  I was wondering if you could
kind of lay out — is this deal a tariff-rate quota?  If you could
detail, like, what the specific levels of steel that the EU is going to
be able to export annually and talk a little bit about how this compares
with the tariff-rate quotas that the U.S. agreed to with South Korea.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  \[Senior administration official\], do
you want to take that one?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I was thinking \[senior administration
official\] would drop on.  I don’t know if he’s — or, that he would jump
in.  And I don’t know if he is on the — on the line.  If he is, he might
be muted, so you might have to push \*6.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Can you hear me now?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, we got ya.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Okay.  Sorry about that.  Yes, the deal
is — involves tariff-rate quota, both with respect to aluminum and with
respect to steel. 

We’ll have more detailed information on the precise levels of the
tariff-rate quota coming out later.  But we did want to — these are set
at, you know, levels that are consistent with — the historically
sustainable levels that are consistent with recognizing distortions that
have been in place in the market before and taking into account the
interests of downstream users as well.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Okay, thank you.  We’ll now go to
Steven Overly.  
  
Q    Hi there.  Thank you for taking the question.  Can you elaborate on
specific commitments that are being made regarding Chinese steel
overcapacity and carbon-intensive steel?  Is this an agreement to
address those in the future, or are they taking specific action as part
of this agreement today?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks.  This is \[senior
administration official\].  I’ll jump in.  So, what they’ve — what we’ve
agreed to with the EU today is to negotiate an arrangement — which would
actually be a global arrangement; we would invite other economies and
partners to join — to address both global overcapacity as well as carbon
intensity in the sector.  
  
And the reason that it is future-looking was, you know, given our
timeline and the interest in the near term of, you know, moving to a new
phase in our relationship with the EU in this sector and the complexity,
particularly on the climate side with some of these issues, we wanted to
really take our time in those discussions and get it right and have
something that can address these complex issues in the long term.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great, thank you.  We’ll now go to
David Lawder from Reuters.

Q    Hi.  Thanks for taking the question.  I just was wondering what
needs to happen to finalize this deal?  You know, is what you’re
announcing today a final agreement, or is there still some details to be
worked out?  I’m just curious as to why not give us specific levels on
the TRQs.  You know, we have reported about 3.3 million tons nominally
and that it also will extend some previously granted exclusions on
certain products under the Commerce Department exclusion process — that
those will also be sort of added in above that TRQ.

And also, does it require the European Union to take certain actions in
order to prevent Chinese-made steel from being transshipped or minimally
processed in Europe?  This was a component of, sort of, the NAFTA
agreement with Canada and Mexico to — you know, for them, you know, to
ensure that they keep Chinese steel out of the (inaudible) through.  And
is there any anti-surge mechanism that allows sort of re-imposition of
tariffs?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hi, this is \[senior administration
official\] again.  With respect to your last question on anti-surge
mechanism, we had been taking into account the potential for surges
throughout the negotiation of this deal, particularly in formulating the
structure and administration of the tariff-rate quota.  So, we have
ensured, for example, that the time periods for the allocation of the
quota are done in such a way as to minimize the prospect for surges. 

We have also ensured that, with respect to steel, there is a
melt-and-pour requirement.  And by virtue of this melt-and-pour
requirement, we hope to work with the EU to ensure that Chinese steel
doesn’t get transshipped or doesn’t get utilized in European steel
products that come into the United States and therefore — thereby
allowing Chinese steel into the U.S. through the backdoor. 

We have also maintained the exclusions process, both with respect to
steel and aluminum.  In the context of steel, the exclusions that have
been utilized and entered the U.S. market in the past year will be given
an extension for two years.  For — yeah, for two years. 

Sorry, is there another part of your question that I missed?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  David, was there another part of the
question that he missed?

All right.  We’ll keep it moving.  We’ll go to Corey Rangel. 

Q    Thank you.  I just had two quick questions.  You know, we had read
an article that said that, you know, since these tariffs are protecting
U.S. steel, that lifting them could hurt Biden in the Midwest
elections.  I’m wondering if you have thoughts on that.  And also, does
this run counter to climate change reforms since the steel industry
contributes to carbon emissions?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  If somebody is taking this one, they’re
on mute.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  This is \[senior administration
official\].  You know, I would just note that modifications of these
232s actually begun under the (inaudible).  I think this deal is just
the first deal that actually gets something in exchange for U.S. steel
companies and its workers. 

So, I can’t speak to what — the political prognostications of that, but
I do think it’s an important note to underscore.

And second, on the question of steel and climate, you know, I think, you
know, obviously, the steel and aluminum industries are a major source of
greenhouse gas emissions and one of the hardest to decarbonize alongside
several other sources of carbon emissions. 

So, you know, our point is that we expect to have a thriving,
competitive U.S. steel industry complete with unionized plants on the
other side of this energy transition.  And I think that this agreement
will be a very important step to getting there because, right now, our
steel companies are the cleanest in the world, and they don’t get any
credit for that.  And this deal will turn that sort of low-carbon
intensity across all modes of production into a source of comparative
advantage. 

And so, I think that’s exactly the kind of theory of climate progress
that President Biden has in mind when he says, “When I think of climate,
I think of good jobs.”

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  And if I could just chime in on top of
\[senior administration official\]’s statement regarding the
steelworkers. 

I think what’s important to recognize is that we have been working
closely with the unions and the companies throughout the — throughout
these negotiations and taking into account, very clearly, the impact of
any aspects of these outcomes on the industries.  And that’s because,
you know, we’ve been really using the Section 232 report as our North
Star, making sure that we focus on the long-term viability of these
industries as critical to our national security. 

And so, that’s why we’ve included a number of elements such as, you
know, these tough enforcement mechanisms, taking into account how these
import volumes will affect capacity utilization, as well as making sure
that when we look at how these tariff-rate quotas are administered,
they’re administered in a way that they won’t threaten the operations of
our steel and aluminum sectors.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks.  Well, that is going to be all
the time that we have.  Just a reminder: The first part of the call with
the three principals was attributable on the record, and the remaining
Q&A is attributable to “senior administration officials.” 

Thank you all for taking the time and for bearing with us — with our
tech issues.  And thanks to all the Amanda Finneys out there.  And hope
everybody has a good night.  Follow up with the comms folks if you have
any further questions.  Thanks.

8:07 P.M. CEST
