---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-10-21'
modified_time: 2021-10-21 22:29:22-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/10/21/press-briefing-by-principal-deputy-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-2/
published_time: 2021-10-21 22:29:21-04:00
title: "Press Briefing by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine\_Jean-Pierre"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:43 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: All right, good afternoon, everyone. I have a few
things at the top.

Today, the United States reached an important milestone. We have donated
and delivered 200 million COVID-19 vaccine doses to the world. This is
another milestone as the United States leads the world twe- — COVID-19
response — the result of an unprecedented logistical and operational
endeavor.

Donating vaccines is one urgent effort we are taking to tackle this
pandemic globally. And we’ve committed to donate 1.2 billion, along with
lifesaving assistance, to countries in need to enhance their ability to
get shots into arms.

We also reiterate support for an intellectual property waiver and
bolstering manufacturing here at home and abroad.

As we recognize this milestone, it’s clear that the world must do more
in our global COVID-19 response. Other countries must step up, like the
United States, and act with more urgency to stamp out the various — the
virus everywhere.

We also need every WTO member to step up as well and support an
intellectual property waiver, and every company must act ambitiously and
urgently to expand manufacturing now.

So, we’re glad to lead this effort, but this is a global pandemic and it
requires a global response. We will continue to push everyone to do more
in our fight against COVID-19.

Also, today we learned that the initial unemployment claims fell to
another pre-pandemic low — I think there’s — there we go — (a chart is
displayed) — down to 290,000 for the first time in almost 20 months. The
four-week average similarly fell to a new low, down more than 60 percent
from when the Pres- — from when President Biden took office. Again, as
you can see from the chart behind me.

This is a testament to the progress we’ve made on the economy thanks to
President Biden’s success in getting Americans vaccinated and getting
the economic relief to the middle class.

The week before the President took office, jobless claims were at nearly
900,000; now they’re down to 290,000. We’ve created nearly 5 million
jobs in eight months; that’s 600,000 new jobs every month on average —
10 times the rate we inherited.

Growth is up, wages are up, and our unemployment rate is down below 5
percent — 18 months faster than forecasted — forecasters predicted
earlier this year.

We know we will have more work to do, and America is facing the same
challenges on supply chains that most other developed countries are
facing as well. But thanks to the work of this administration, we’re
leading the world in outright recovery, and we’re in a year of
unprecedented growth. And we can build on that progress by passing the
President’s economic agenda for growth, jobs, and rebuilding the middle
class.

And one final thing. On a personal note, I’m wearing purple today, and
so is some of my teammates, in honor of Domestic Violence Awareness
Month, as some of you might know, as well as Spirit Day, which is an
opportunity to stand up against LGBTQ+ bullying and harassment.

Both of these issues have been made worse by COVID-19. Sadly, domestic
violence affects millions of people in the United States. It harms the
physical and emotional health of survivors and their families,
undermines communities, and is a stain on the conscience of our country.

Tragically, 1 in 4 women and 1 in 10 men have experienced sexual
violence, physical violence, or stalking by an intimate partner.

In response, the President’s Rescue Plan provided a total of $1 billion
for service programs: $450 million to support domestic violence and
sexual assault service providers, and his administration allocated an
additional $550 million of COVID mitigating funding for domestic
violence shelters to improve their ability to help survivors during the
pandemic.

As you all know, the President has said this — that his proudest
legislative accomplishment is writing and championing the Violence
Against Women Act, which transformed the nation’s response to domestic
violence and was passed and then reauthorized three times on a
bipartisan basis. Today, he renews his call for the Senate to move
swiftly in a bipartisan manner to reauthorize VAWA and strengthen its
protections for all survivors.

And on Spirit Day, we recognize that LGBTQI+ youth disproportionately
face bullying and harassment. A majority — a majority of LGBTQI+ youth
in middle or high school were bullied last year. Even more, 70 percent
heard homophobic remarks from teachers or school staff, and 75 percent
have experienced discrimination based on their sexual orientation or
gender identity in their lifetime.

This bullying and harassment can have life-threatening consequences, as
we all know. More than half of transgender and nonbinary youth have
seriously considered suicide in the past. This reinforces the need for
the Senate to pass the Equality Act, which will provide long-overdue
federal civil rights protections to LGBTQI+ Americans and their
families.

You know, a younger staffer recently told me that, in high school, he
noticed how many people wore purple on Spirit Day and how much that
meant to him as a — as a young closeted teen.

I could only have — I could only hope that young people who might be
watching or sees clips of this briefing will know that they are
supported and represented in the highest levels of government today.

So today I join people around the world in wearing purple to show
solidarity with victims of domestic violence and with lesbian, gay,
bisexual, transgender, queer, and intersex youth.

Our administration stands with you, we support you, and we love you.

With that, Darlene.

Q Thanks, Karine. Two questions, international focused. The Haitian gang
leader who’s accused of kidnapping the 17 American missionaries — he was
seen on video today saying that he will kill them if he doesn’t get what
he is demanding, which has been $17 million. How seriously does the U.S.
take the threat? And what else can you say in terms of a U.S. government
response to that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, Secretary Blinken, when he was in Ecuador this past
week — actually, on Tuesday — spoke to this. And I’ll just read out a
couple of things that he said that I think is important for all of you:

“We have in the administration been relentlessly focused on this,
including sending a team to Haiti from the State Department; working
very closely with the FBI, which is the lead in these kinds of matters;
in constant communication with the Haitian National Police, the church
that the missionaries belong to, as well as the Haitian government. And
we will do everything that we can to help resolve the situation.”

And on Haiti’s security, which is something that he also touched on in
his — in his comments was:

“We have been working closely with the Haitian National Police to try to
build their capacity, as well as help put in place programs that can
effectively deal with the gangs. But it’s a very challenging and
long-term process. We’re focused on it, but is it absolutely essential
that this security dynamic change if Haiti is going to make real
progress.”

So, we’re doing everything that we can. As I mentioned, the FBI, the
State Department staff is on the ground. I don’t have anything else to
report, as you can imagine. And I think Jen said this a couple of days
ago: For privacy and security reasons, we can’t say more.

Q Okay. Second question. State Department Counselor Derek Chollet told
us — told the AP today that, with regard to the situation in Burma, that
it’s “getting worse…from a humanitarian point of view, from a security
point of view, in terms of the economy and lack of progress on
politics.” So, the question is: Why hasn’t the administration yet
sanctioned American and French oil and gas companies, which — that are
working in Myanmar because they’re the biggest — the single-largest
source of foreign currency revenue for Myanmar?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, we’ve spoken to the atrocities that are happening
in Burma not too long ago. I don’t have any updates. That’s a very good
question, Darlene, but I have to get back and talk to the team, and
hopefully we’ll have something to share. I don’t have anything more on
that.

Q Thank you.

Q Could you give us an update on the budget negotiations? How close are
you to a deal? And are you still insisting there be tax increases on
corporations and higher earners?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, as you can imagine, you know, we are focused on
this every day. This is a priority — continues to be a priority for the
President.

Yesterday, as you know — a couple of days ago, the President spent hours
meeting with congressional members. And everyone basically said the
same, which is there’s progress. And we’re moving forward in a way that
we can really truly help Americans and invest in economic growth for the
middle class. So, that is the focus. And we believe, you know, the
progress will continue these next couple of days.

As far as the taxes, the President has been very, very clear that this
bill — the Build Back Better plan and the Bipartisan Infrastructure
Bill, which are his two economic policies — that’s going to, again, help
the middle class and do that economic growth.

And as we’re talking about physical — physical infrastructure and human
infrastructure, is going to be paid for. We see the cost as zero because
it’s going to be paid for. And the way that we see it happening is
making sure that the wealthiest among us — the top corporations — pay
their fair share. There shouldn’t — there shouldn’t be a reason why
teachers and — teachers and firefighters are playing \[paying\] more in
taxes than billionaires.

So, that’s our focus. That’s our promise. And that’s what we’re going to
continue working towards.

Q And secondly, Karine, the Fed today banned stock purchases by top
officials at the Fed in response to ethics questions. Is this something
that you welcome? Does it impact the President’s thinking on whether to
reappoint Jerome Powell as Fed Chairman?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, Steve, I’ll say this: We deeply respect the
independence of the Federal Reserve and won’t comment on — you know, on
these recent developments. But President Biden believes that all
government agencies and officials, including independent agencies,
should be held to the highest ethical standards, including the avoidance
— the avoidance of any suggestions of conflicts of interest.

Q Thanks, Karine. It’s looking more and more like the Clean Energy
Performance Program might not make it in the final version of the
reconciliation package. That was a really big part of how the President
planned to meet his own admission goals. So what message does that send
other countries ahead of COP26?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, you know, President Biden reestablished U.S.
leadership on day one, and as you’ve heard us say — as you have heard us
say when it comes to acting on climate change every day since, from day
one.

The President will advance his climate agenda using every tool at his
disposal and can make significant progress in curbing emissions, growing
our economy, and good-paying union jobs.

And so he could do that without Congress. There was actually a report
that came out this week from the Rhodium Group. An independent research
firm reinforced the fact that the U.S. has multiple pathways to meet
President Biden’s pledge to reduce emission 50 to 52 percent below the
2005 levels by 2030.

So we’ll continue to work with our colleagues in Congress on Clean
Electricity Performance Program, but this — but this independent
analysis lays out a path to the President’s climate goal without a CEPP
in place. And so, we’ll just continue to do the whole-of-government
approach that we’ve been doing this past 9, 10 months.

Q But if he can’t get his biggest climate priority passed through
Congress, how can he point to the United States being a leader on this
issue?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Because we have had other ways of doing that. We don’t
need — what we’re saying is we don’t need the — we don’t need Congress.
We can do it without Congress, as I just — as I just laid out.

Let me give you some examples of what we’ve already done. So, leading
the shift towards electric — electric vehicles, which you’ve heard us
talk about many times, which is bringing together auto — automakers and
autoworkers; phasing out super pollutants like HFCs to greatly reduce
emissions; make — making across-government investment in clean energy
like offshore wind and solar; making historic commitments to use every
lever at his disposal to advance environmental justice and spur economic
opportunity for disadvantaged communities.

And extreme weather events increase in frequency and ferocity, the U.S.
has taken bold step to strengthen the nation’s resiliency to sev- — to
severe — to severe impacts of a challenging climate.

So we have done a lot here — the President has. He sound — he has signed
multiple executive orders to make sure that we are leading in this
effort.

And remember, we are coming from four years of climate change — four
years before, as — where climate change was not — dealing with climate
change was not a priority. And so, this President has been doing that
since day one of his administration and will continue to do that.

Q Is it still the White House’s goal that there’s a discontinuation of
any fossil fuel subsidies in the President’s budget — in the
reconciliation package?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m not going to negotiate from here. As you can
imagine, things are being worked out as — you know, kind of, as we speak
these last couple of weeks and, certainly, every day. And so, we are
going to continue to work towards delivering for the American public and
making sure that we get to our climate change goals.

Q Me?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yep.

Q Thanks, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead. Sorry. Go ahead, Weijia.

Q I just want to be clear. Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Hi, Weijia.

Q Hi. Great to see you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Good to see you. Go ahead, it’s your turn.

Q So just following up on that report you just mentioned, you said it
does not include CEPP. Does it include a carbon tax?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, like I said, we are — you know, we are, right now,
working towards making sure we deliver for the American public, and
we’re not going to — the President has been really clear his red line is
making sure that that $400,000 —

Q Oh, no, I’m sorry — on climate.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Oh, on climate.

Q Yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Oh, I am so sorry. When it comes — can you say more?

Q You mentioned a report that you were citing that showed —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah, the Rhodium. Yep.

Q — even if there was no CEPP passed by Congress, that we’d still be
able to meet the President’s goals to reduce pollution.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Mm-hmm.

Q My question was whether that plan included a carbon tax or not? And
the reason I ask —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yep. Yep.

Q — is because Senator Schumer released his own plan that showed: If we
don’t have CEPP, that’s one thing, but if you don’t have that and you
don’t have the carbon tax — which Senator Manchin has opposed — there’s
really going to be a significant gap in reaching those goals. So, I’m
wondering, when you say “we have a plan that includes steps that are not
approved by Congress,” what they are to get there.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, the — the report that I just mentioned, I can’t
speak to the specifics of it. All I can tell you is that what it laid
out is saying that we can reach our goals. But I — I would have to look
— we would have to check out about the carbon tax, specifically.

But, look, there are a number of ideas being debated. And the President
asked members to submit their own proposals. So that’s what we’re doing.
We’re negotiating. And the President has put forward his own plan for
addressing climate change that doesn’t involve a corporate carbon fee.
That is — that is what our plan currently has, and then we’ll see what —
what people bring to the table.

Q Okay. And then since you brought up the — the corporate tax rate again
—

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yes.

Q I did have a follow up, also. You said, “That’s our promise,” earlier
when you were asked about whether the President would — is still
committed to raising corporate taxes. Can you just clarify what that
was?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, meaning the promises, like this is going to be
paid for. There is zero cost because it’s going to be paid for. And so,
we are not going to put the burden on the working everyday people.

What we’re trying to do with our ec- — with the President’s economic
policies — the Bipartisan Infrastructure Bill and the Build Back Better
Agenda — is to make sure that we invest in people, that we invest in our
infrastructure. Right? Something that hasn’t been done in this country
for decades. Making sure that we are competitive again across the globe,
which we haven’t seen in some time.

So what our promise is, is that we are not going to raise taxes against
anyone who is making 400- — more than fo- — less than $400,000. That is
our promise and that’s what we’re sticking to.

Q But the corporate tax rate, is that negotiable or not for the
President?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I — like I — we’re — we — there are multiple ways that
people are coming forward and trying to figure out how we’re going to
move forward with this plan, with the Build Back Better Agenda. And
that’s — you know, that’s what we’re working towards. Right?

But I’m saying that our red line, the President’s red line is to make
sure that this is paid for and that we don’t raise taxes on anybody who
is making less than 400,000. That’s — that’s what I’m saying.

Q And just one more on Senator Manchin who, a short time ago, said he
does not believe there will be a framework on the bill done by the end
of the week. He also added that, “This is not going to happen anytime
soon…” because we’re “trying to get a meeting of the minds.”

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yep.

Q Did the President expect a framework to be agreed upon by tomorrow?
And is he concerned that Manchin does not seem to have the same sense of
urgency that he — the President — has been expressing all week?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, we have been working with Manchin — with
Senator Manchin in good faith. We see him as a partner in these
discussions. And, you know, as far as the timeline — look, you saw — you
saw, two days ago, congressional members coming out of the White House
saying how much progress there was and saying that — saying that there
was a sense of urgency, which is what — we all have been pretty much on
the same page.

The thing to remember is Democrats pretty much agree on — on the — on
BIF and Build Back Better. And what I mean by that is they know that
this is going to be something that’s going to deliver for the American
public. And we know that this is going to help the economy with jobs —
good-paying jobs, good-paying union jobs — but also just the
middle-class Americans.

So, we are all on the same page on — with that. And so, we see that
progress is coming along. We think that in the next couple days we’re
going to continue to see progress. We’re not putting a timeline on this.
We’re not going to go into the legislative mechanics of this.

But we’re going to get this done because we have to get this done for
the American public. And that’s our focus.

Q Karine?

Q Thank you.

Q Thanks, Karine. So the year Joe Biden was sworn in as President,
promising a more humane immigration system, is the same year that an
all-time record 1.7 million migrants have been detained at the southern
border. Is that a coincidence?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, thanks for the question, Peter.

First, I’ll say that DHS will formally release its monthly September
operational update sometime soon, so I’m not going to go into — get
ahead of that or go into the numbers. I think that’s what you’re —
you’re mentioning right now.

But secondly, you know, I would add — and you hear us talk about this
all the time — we continue to enforce Title 42 and expel single adults
and families when possible. And we continue to be very, very clear that
no one should attempt to irregularly migrate here or enter the United
States.

So, it’s unsafe. It’s unlawful. It’s a public health risk, which is why
we’re using Title 42 — because it’s not our immigration policy; it’s a
public health authority.

And so, those attempting to come in irregularly, migrate irregularly
will be subjected to border restriction, including Title 42, as I just
mentioned.

Q And you’re telling people not to come. That’s been the line for a
couple months. It’s been very well documented that a lot of these
migrants are just released with a notice to appear or a notice to report
and that something close to 80 percent don’t appear or report. So do
officials around here consider that that could be something that is
attractive to migrants who figure, “If I can just get in, I can stay”?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Again, I’m not going to get into the numbers because I
know that you’re leaning into the numbers in asking me these questions.

But, look, we’ve been very clear, and we’ve been clear for the last 10
months. Again, the CDC has determined that the continued expulsion of
certain individuals under Title 42 is necessary due to the risk of
transmission and spread of COVID-19 in congregate settings, such as CBP
stations, as well as the threat from emerging variants.

So, if it’s not possible, which is what I think you are alluding to
there, there is an exception if we have operational capacity
constraints, including the makeup of the specific family unit and
agreements with the country of origin or last residence.

Another determining factor is detention capacity both within ICE and
CBP. There’s also an extension for acute humanitarian need, such as the
urgent medical situation. There is an exception on the Convention
against Torture. If someone makes a legitimate claim that they would
suffer torture if they — they’ve returned to the country from which they
have come.

As we have stated, those who cannot be expelled are placed into
immigration proceedings. But as — to be clear: We are still expelling
single adults and families when possible using Title 42. That remains
the policy. That has not changed.

Q Okay. And a follow-up about something that you just said. You guys say
that President Biden does not want to raise taxes on anyone making less
than $400,000 a year, but there’s a new Fox poll that finds 83 percent
of registered voters are noticing bills for groceries and everyday items
increasing. So how is that any different than a new tax?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, look — and when you say — can you give me a
little bit more? Like what’s the —

Q Well, the supply chain is all backed up; there are bottlenecks — empty
shelves, prices going up. People are paying more. And so, how is that
any different than a new tax?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So I would say this: You know, we are — we’re dealing
with a historic and evolving pandemic that is impacting our economy.
Right? We have seen it for the past year and a half. That’s what people
have been dealing with.

And it is having an outsized impact on our global supply chain. And the
President understands how much a squeeze it is when families see their
prices rise.

And so, he understands that, and that’s why he’s — we’ve been using
every tool in our toolbelt to make sure that we deal with that in a real
way so that people understand that the President is doing everything
that he can to deal with those issues.

So, there’s a couple of things. So, we got to think about the progress
that we’ve made on how far we’ve come for the mess that we inherited
from the previous President.

We — we’ve already averaged 600,000 jobs, which I mentioned at the top —
at the top — those are jobs per month — compared to just 60,000 before
we came in. That’s almost five million total in eight months. We’ve
increased economic growth projection for 2021, and more than have — and
have new unemployment claims.

So, we are in a different place than where we were before the President
came into office. And so, we’re going to continue building on basically
the American Rescue Plan. This is why we’re trying to pass the
President’s domestic economic policies.

Q And to that point, the Majority Leader — or the Minority Leader in the
House, Kevin McCarthy, wrote a letter to the President. He says, “We
must address the global supply chain and ports crisis before Congress
even considers additional social spending and taxation legislation.” Is
that something that you would consider?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So here’s the thing: Jen responded to — this is the
letter — the letter from McCarthy?

Q Mm-hmm. Yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Is that what we’re talking about?

Q Yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay. Yeah, wonderful letter.

So she responded to this earlier. And let me just add to this a little
bit. It’s — I’ve already kind of talked about this, but there’s a little
bit more that I want to lean into.

So, under the Trump-McCarthy economy, this time last year, fewer
Americans were working — which is what I was just saying — job growth
was flattening, and families were facing down a dark winter with less
economic security than ever before and a pandemic raging out of control.
That was the holiday season under the McCarthy-Trump holiday season. So
that’s something to remember. This was a different time, a year ago.

And so, fast forward a year from there — from then: Nearly 80 percent
adults are vaccinated. We’ve created 5 million jobs. Americans have
money in their pockets, and they’re spending it, resulting in record
volume of good — goods through our ports, and our roads and rails.

Kevin McCarthy and his caucus voted against that bill that made that
happen. They did not do anything to help the American public when we
needed them — when the American public needed it. And I’m talking about
the American Rescue Plan —

Q So — I understand.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — to be clear, which has helped — which has helped turn
on the economy; which has helped, as I said, make sure that people are
getting vaccinated to protect their lives and go back to work.

Q Okay. And so, last one: Are you saying that you — as you compare
holiday season this year to holiday season last year, are you saying
that if Christmas gifts don’t get delivered this year — because the
supply chain is backed up, because of bottlenecks — that people are
going to blame Donald Trump, or are they going to blame Joe Biden?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: That’s not what I’m saying. I’m saying that we’re in a
different place than we were a year ago. And the reason why is because
the President took action. The reason why is Democrats came together and
they passed the American Rescue Plan, put — put checks into pockets,
made sure that — that we were dealing with issues that pushed women out
of the workforce, which is the Child Tax Credit, childcare — all those
things that really benefited everyday people who were being left behind.

Now what we’re doing is we’re making sure that we continue the
investment — right? — the Build Back Better Agenda; BIF –the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Bill, which 19 Republican senators voted for. Those two
pieces of legislation, that is the — that is the President’s plan on how
do we actually build back better and not leave anyone behind and do that
economic growth for the — for the middle class. And so, that’s what
we’re talking about and that’s what we’re continuing to do.

For the supply chain, the President is doing everything that he can. He
is bringing in the private sector. He’s brought in the labor. When we
talk about the meeting that he did last week for the ports — right? — we
talked about Long Beach and the Los Angeles ports. And that’s what we —
that’s one of the things that we can do as a government is do it in good
faith, bring everybody together, and figure out how to fix the
short-term problem that we’re having.

So, that — and we’ve been working on this since the President walked
into — walked into the White House.

Yeah, Peter.

Q Hi, Karine. Nice to see you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Nice to see you.

Q Does the White House — does the White House believe that Senator
Kyrsten Sinema is negotiating in good faith?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yes, we believe that Senator Sinema is negotiating in
good faith.

Let me just say that the President considers Senator Sinema an important
partner in getting his economic agenda passed, and he values her work,
her engagement, and her commitment to working with him to deliver for
the American people.

We have been in touch nonstop, through the course of the last several
days, with her and her team — of course, at the President’s level — but
also through calls, meetings with senior staff, some of my colleagues.

And, yes, to answer your question again: We are definitely — we
definitely do believe that she is working with us in good faith, and we
are working with her in good faith.

Q Was it during those last several days that Senator Sinema told the
President or the White House that she was opposed to the corporate tax
rate? And if not, when did she communicate that to the President or to
the White House?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m not going to go into private conversations.

Q Not with President. How — when did she communicate it to the White
House?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I — we’re not — I’m not going to do that from here, but
what I will say: The President is working to pass game-changing
investments in economic growth that benefits the middle class, as I have
been saying — this economic growth paid for by having the richest
taxpayers and big corporations pay their fair share, and without raising
taxes on any Americans making less than $400,000.

Again, the price tag for this legislation is zero. There is an expansive
menu of options for how to finance the President’s plan. And so, that’s
what we’re going to be discussing and negotiating and trying to figure
out so we can, again, deliver for the American public.

Q And just for clarity — I mean, everyone gets that the price tag isn’t
actually zero. These new programs do cost money, right?

So why not level with American voters and say that there is a cost here
but you’re aiming to do it without raising the deficit?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, we are being honest with the American people. We
are being (inaudible).

Q But it does cost something, we agree, right?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, it is — we are — it is costing — it is going to
bring zero dollars to the — to the deficit. And we’re being very clear
about that, because that’s what we want to make sure that we’re doing,
right?

Because here, once again, we have had people who have been left behind.
After this — after this — the COVID-19 pandemic that we’ve been living
in for a year and a half, we saw even more — more severely how much
people have been left behind — and not just been from the COVID. I mean,
before then, people — middle-class people, working people have been not
part of the economy. And now we want to deal them back in. It’s been a
long time since we did that.

The President talked about that when he was in Scranton, Pennsylvania,
yesterday. He’s going to talk about that, take questions from everyday
people today at the CNN Town Hall, which he’s very much looking forward
to. And he’ll probably be asked that question, and he’ll answer it, as
well, tonight.

Q So, for clarity, there’s a cost, but it’s not to def- — it doesn’t
raise the deficit, these things we do (inaudible)?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: The price tag for this legislation, Peter, is zero
dollars.

Q Okay. Let me ask you, if I can ask one final question. A little bit
earlier — just for clarity as we look ahead to the COP 26 a week and a
half out from now. You said earlier that the President, the White House
doesn’t need Congress. Does — just for — to make sure I get this right —
does the — is it the President’s position that he does not need Congress
for transformative change in combating climate?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, he believes that — what I’m saying is that there
are a number of pathways to meeting our emission goals and targets.
That’s all we’re saying.

Yes, we —

Q Can you do that without Congress?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: We can. That’s what I’m saying. Because we’re there are
many tools that we’re using to get there.

Would — do we want to — to work with Congress? Absolutely. That’s why
the President added that into his economic policy. For — so, for sure,
in his legislation — he put it in there because he wants to get it done.

What we’re saying is our climate vision is integrated throughout
everything that we do in the whole-of-government effort launched on day
one that we did with an executive order.

The President will advance his climate agenda using every tool — again,
every tool at his disposal and make — can make a significant progress in
curbing emissions, growing our economy, and good-paying union jobs. So,
that’s what we’re going to continue to do.

Do we want to work with Congress? Absolutely. But we’re saying that
we’re already doing the work to hit our goal, and that’s why I
referenced the — the report earlier when I was answering Weijia’s
question.

Q Thank you, Karine.

Q Can I follow up real quick on — well, a few things. But first, let me
just say — I’ll add my voice to, I’m sure there have been dozens, who
would humbly request that the President of the United States not only do
a town hall, but show up either in this room or in the East Room to
appear before the full press for a robust round of questions that will,
no doubt, benefit the American public.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: But, Brian, he takes questions all the time.

Q I hear you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: All the time.

Q Just — I’m just adding my request to that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: You know, Martha is here. She tracks that. And he —
he’s —

Q Yes, but some of us have not had a chance to ask him —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I get it. I get it. But this is — this is a large White
House Press Corps. But he does take questions.

Q Yes, it is. Yes, it is.

Q And my follow-up to Peter — I just want to — I know you don’t want to
talk too much about the questions with Sinema, but is it safe to say the
White House was not blindsided by her stance? You didn’t find out about
it publicly, right? There was a discussion. You knew about it ahead of
time.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m not going to go into our con- — private
conversations with anybody. It doesn’t matter if it’s Senator Sinema or
a House member. We’re not going —

Q So, it could’ve been a surprise?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: We’re not — we’re going to do that here. I’m not going
to do that from this podium. I am just saying that we are working in
good faith with her, and she is working in good faith with us.

Q And then, finally, there are several Democratic strategists — Norm
Eisen and a couple of others — who said that yesterday was a “dark day”
for democracy. Does the White House share that view? If not, why not?
And what do you plan to do to move forward?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Which — what —

Q A “dark day” for democracy and what happened up on the Hill yesterday
—

Q Filibuster.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Oh. You’re talking about the Voting Rights. Okay. You
have to give me a little bit more. (Laughs.) There’s so much going on.

Q Yes, there is.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah. You know, the President talked about this today,
and he’s been very clear on this for the past several — several months
as we’ve been dealing with, you know, voting rights and these pieces of
legislation that are creeping up across the — across the country.

And as he said in his joint address to Congress, he believes that, “If
we truly want to restore the soul of America, we need to protect the
sacred right to vote.” And that is something that the President truly
believes.

He was just the MLK monument, celebrating the 10th anniversary. He spoke
— he spoke to this.

So, he believes the right to vote is the cornerstone of our democracy,
and has repeatedly urged Congress to act to protect the right to vote
and access to voting.

He has addressed this issue in front of Congress, as I just mentioned.
He has addressed this issue privately with members of Congress and
senators of both parties. He has addressed this issue with civil rights
leaders at the White House.

And anyone who knows this President has followed his — this President’s
career knows his belief is core to who he is. And he will continue to
work with Congress every day until they are able to pass something.

And one more thing I just want to add: He’s also used — and made sure to
use the power of the federal government to do everything that we can
from the federal government to deal with voting access.

Q But, to be clear, does it he think it was a “dark day” yesterday?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, I — he — it was disappointing what we saw
yesterday. And we’ve got to remember: What happened yesterday is that
Republicans would not allow a debate. They would not allow a debate. Not
that — not that they voted on it; they just wouldn’t allow a debate to
talk about why we should make voting more accessible for Americans.

Now, that is — that is shameful, and that is problematic for our
democracy. As I said, voting is the cornerstone of our democracy, and it
shouldn’t be that way.

Q Thanks.

Q Thanks. Among the new ethics rules that the Federal Reserve announced
today, there’s a prohibition on trading individual stocks. Does the
President believe that lawmakers should be subject to that same
prohibition on trading individual stocks?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t think his position has changed on that. Let me
get back to you to see if we have anything — an update to share on that.

Q And then, when he announced the Build Back Better Agenda earlier this
year, he spoke about it in terms of generational and transformational
change. Is he concerned at all that in those negotiations his initial
vision for the plan is being significantly watered down?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, absolutely not. He thinks that this — when we reach
a deal, which we believe that will happen — the President said this
yesterday himself, he believes a deal will happen — it will be
transformational.

Both the Build Back Better Agenda and the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal
are historical within their own right. And it’s going to make
transformational change. It’s going to be historical. It’s going to
create good union jobs. It has the human infrastructure to make sure
that people are truly getting a break — a tax break — making — dealing
with eldercare, childcare — things that are really crushing Americans in
this country.

And also, let’s not forget the Child Tax Credit, which has cut poverty
by 50 percent. That was in the American Rescue Plan. We’re hoping to
extend that in the Build Back Better Agenda, and that’s what we’re going
to continue to work towards.

Q Are you aware of White House staff that have been offered booster
shots through the White House itself? And have — I mean, I wasn’t sure
if it’s considered a high-risk environment or not.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, as — you know, we follow the CDC guidance. That’s
going to be our focus: making sure that we look — listen to the public
health officials. And whatever the guidance puts out, that’s what we’re
going to follow. I don’t have any more on booster shots for White House
staffers. I’m sure many have them. Everybody falls in a different
category. And so, I can probably check in and find out more, but, yes,
we follow the public health guidance.

Q Thanks, Karine. Back on immigration for a sec. The President’s nominee
to lead Customs and Border Protection said in his Senate confirmation
hearing yesterday that he supported the continued use of Title 42. He
also indicated it was his view that certain sections of the border wall
should be finished. Does the President agree?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, as you know, we have said that — I have to look
at this — the comments. I have not seen them, so I want to make sure I
read it within context.

But we have talked about the border wall here, in general, as a way that
it’s been used in a — to, you know — to close the border. And we feel
that it is a policy that doesn’t work. And it’s not just us; you know,
experts have said that. The border wall is not — is not an effective
policy.

As far as those comments, I can’t comment on that. I actually — I have
not seen it, I have not read them, and I need to read it in context.

Q I have one more question about Title 42. There’s a report this morning
from a group called Human Rights First that says that, through the use
of Title 42 and also prohibiting — basically turning migrants away at
the border, seven thou- — 7,600 kidnappings, assaults, and other attacks
have taken place against migrants and asylum seekers.

Does this administration believe it deserves any of the blame for that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, that’s — I — again, I have not seen that report.
That does sound horrifying. Not something that, you know, we would — you
know, agree with or be proud of, certainly. So I have to read the
report. I have not seen it. And hopefully we can get back to you on that
one as well.

Okay. Justin.

Q Hey. First, I just wanted to go back to that last question that Peter
asked you to make sure that we’re crystal clear on it. When you say, “We
don’t need Congress. We can do it without Congress,” do you mean
meaningful reductions of greenhouse gases? Or do you mean — because what
it sounded like you meant was hit the 50 to 52 percent reduction.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah, it’s hitting our goal — it’s hitting the goal
that we set out.

Q So you think you can hit 50 to 52 percent —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yes, which is —

Q — without Congress at all?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — which is why I — I laid out the report that was put
out this week. An independent research firm reinforced the fact that the
U.S. has multiple pathways to meet President Biden’s pledge to reduce
emissions 50 to 52 percent below the 2005 levels in 2030.

Q Right. But my understanding of that report is that it’s multiple
congressional pathways that would preclude the CEPP program but would
have other congressional legislation as part of it, which is a different
thing than what you seem to be saying, which is that you don’t need
Congress at all to accomplish this goal.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay. What I’m saying — I — speaking specifically to
Build Back Better. That’s what I was saying. Because, to me, that’s what
I was hearing — is that — as we’re working through Build Back Better
Agenda and the Bipartisan Infrastructure Bill.

And so, we’re saying that there are multiple pathways and that we have
taken some — a whole-of-government approach — to get to that — to the
number that I just listed for the emissions.

Q Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — on reducing emissions.

Q So, I think what we’re saying is that there are multiple congressional
pathways to get to that point.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m just saying there are multiple pathways, and some
of them that we have already taken on our end to get to that. We’re
doing executive orders, and we’ll continue to do that. That’s what —
that’s what I’m saying. I’m specifically talking about the Build Back
Better Agenda.

Q Okay. Then just one on scheduling: Could you talk through if the
President has additional congressional meetings planned through the rest
of the week and then if we expect to see him campaign for Governor
McAuliffe by — before he leaves for —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t have anything new to — you know, any new trips
to call out for you or read out for any of you. As you know, he’s going
to go to New Jersey on Monday, which we announced yesterday.

I can say this: We are talking to members in Congress on every level of
the administration. We have my colleagues who are in constant contact
with Democrats on the House and the Senate side, and we’ll continue to
have those conversations.

The President, two days — two days ago, met for hours with members of
both House and Senate in the Democratic Pa- — in the Democratic —
Democrats, I should say. So, we’re going to continue to do that.

Q Thank you. I know that earlier you said that whatever comes out of
this — you know, the negotiations — over the Build Back Better plan —
human infrastructure — that it’s still going to be transformational.

But, I guess, what do you say to those people who are saying that the
White House and Democrats are compromising too much already? Because
there’s talk of taking out of — the Clean Power Plan. There’s talk of,
you know, limiting how long — the Child Tax Credit to a year.

There are people who are saying that too much is being sacrificed. And
so, what is your message to them — to the people who are saying this is
not going to be transformational?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, I would say the bill is not done yet. I would say
the negotiations are still happening. And so, we’re going to continue to
have those conversations. And the President is going to continue to
fight for these — for this — for the Build Back Better agenda.

This is his policy. This is something that he believes that the American
people need and that human infrastructure — finally investing in the
middle class. And so, he’s going to continue to — continue to work —
work for the American public.

And so, that’s not going to stop. I’m going to — I — what I — again, I
would say to you like, “Let’s — let us negotiate.”

And when — when folks came out two days ago, people said there was
progress. People said that we’re getting — we’re getting to a place
where they feel like there’s going to be a deal.

So let the process continue. This is a — this is democracy in action, as
you can imagine. And we’ll have something that — whatever we end up with
will be transformational, will be historic. And — because this is — what
we’re talking about — these two bills — we haven’t seen that type of
investment in generations. We really haven’t.

And now this President has decided to make those investments, and so
we’re going to work with Democrats on the Hill to get that done.

Q And a question on Joe Manchin. There were reports that he was thinking
about becoming an independent. He seemed to confirm or to say that he
had offered — maybe to the White House and to — maybe to the Senate
leadership — that maybe he would become an independent if that is what
the White House or Senate leadership wanted him to do.

Can you talk about that? Does the White House have a position on that?
Do they have a problem with Joe Manchin being in the Democratic Party?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I think Joe Manchin spoke to this pretty clearly,
recently, as humanly possible. He was very clear about — when he was
asked this directly. I really don’t have anything — anything else to say
about that.

Look, the relationship that the President has, that we have with Joe
Manchin is strong. It’s a mutual — the President has a mutual respect,
and they have — they have shared values.

And so, again, we’ve been working in good faith with him. He’s been
working in good faith with us. And he actually spoke — spoke to that, I
believe, yesterday, recently, and was very clear.

Q And so, you want — the White House wants him in the Democratic Party?
You can just say that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I — I — that’s his — for his — that’s his decision to
make. That’s not my decision to make. I’m not going to — you know, we’re
not going to say what — you know, what party somebody belongs to. That’s
for — that’s for them to make. And that’s, you know, for him to answer,
which he did. He answered that very, very clearly.

I cannot say the words that he used from here, but he did very much
answer that question. (Laughter.)

And I’m going to — I’m going to leave because I — leave that there
because my daughter, at some point, is going to see this. And so, she’ll
call me out. So, I can’t use those words.

But look, we — the President has, you know, respect for Senator Manchin.
Again, he sees him as a partner in these — in this — in this process, in
trying to get work done for the American people, trying to pass this
economic — you know, economic bill for the middle class, as I’ve been
saying.

And so, this is critical. This is important. And we need to get it done.

Go ahead, Michael.

Q Thank you. Two questions: one on voting rights and climate. On voting
rights, given the President’s remarks earlier today at the MLK — MLK
Memorial, does the President think that Martin Luther King, Jr., if he
were around today, would find it satisfactory to not break the
filibuster in an effort to save what the President has called “the
cornerstone of democracy”?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Oh my god. That’s such an unfair question. You’re
asking me what Dr. King would think?

Q Mm-hmm.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Oh my gosh.

Q You know, I’d assume — I’m assuming the President must have thought
something about that in preparing for the remarks today, which were
highly symbolic given — given Martin Luther King’s —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Geez, Michael. (Laughs.) You know, I’ll say — I’ll say
this: The President has been absolutely clear that protecting Americans’
constitutional rights and the integrity of our elections from this —
from the systematic assault Republicans have been engaged in across the
country is a must and that hi- — that this historic threat requires
strong voting rights legislation. And that’s what he is working on.
That’s what he talked about today, and he’s talked about it multiple
times.

One of the — one of the times that was very striking, as we know, was
when he went to Philadelphia and really made a strong argument for
protecting the — the corner- — the cornerstone of our democracy.

Look, dozens of White House staff work on this priority every day, and
it’s fundamental to upholding the rule of law.

And not only that, again, he has done — he has done — he’s taken a lot
of actions as President. He’s done a historic executive order, which was
done on the anniversary of Selma, Bloody Sunday. And instead — on that
day, instead of just speaking and saying nice words or commemorating
that day — which was a difficult, sad day — he took action.

And so — so that’s one way he did. He — he doubled the voting rights
staff in the Civil Rights Division at the DOJ. He appointed the Vice
President as — at her request — to lead this administration-wide effort,
using the bully pulpit and convening power of the White House.

So, we’re going to continue to do the work. It’s not — it’s not over.
And we’re going to continue to do everything that we can from here to
make sure that people’s rights are protected.

And also, the John Lewis bill, from what I understand, is going to be
coming to the floor. And so, Senator Schumer is doing everything that he
can with — with his members and senators on the Hill to get that done.

Q Okay. And then on — just on climate. Not to beat a dead horse, but to
follow up on Justin’s question.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q As I understand it, the negotiators on Capitol Hill, as they are
trying to figure out what’s in and what’s out of the Build Back Better —
the social, the human infrastructure piece of this — that they are very
much focused on climate pieces in that legislation — maybe not the
original proposal that the President had made but, you know, sort of
what other pieces that add up to, you know, tens of billions, hundreds
of billions of dollars.

Are you now saying that, in an effort to pare down the bill, you guys
would be happy if Congress does nothing?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, we’re not — I’m not saying we would be —

Q Because it sounded, again, like — as Justin, I think, suggested —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Let me — let me be —

Q — it sounded like you were saying that —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Let me be clear because, clearly, I’m not being clear.
Let me be clear, as a spokesperson: No, we would not be happy if it was
not included.

We’re going to continue to fight for those pieces in the legislation.
That is not — you know, that is not the — you know, that is not — what
we’re saying: It’s not the end of it. There are multiple — we’re saying
where — there are the multiple — multiple other pathways.

But the President — this is the President’s bill. You know, we’re
talking both BIF and both BBB. This is something that he wanted in that
— those pieces of — those pieces of legislation that he wanted in that
agenda. And he’s going to continue to fight for every component of it.

So, we want it in there. People keep asking us or saying to us, “You’re
not going to hit your goals. You’re not going to hit your — your
emissions, your reduction goals.”

And we’re saying that we have done the work already. We’re going to
continue to use an all-of-government approach to do that. And I was just
citing a report that said that we’re can still — we can still hit that
goal.

And that’s — that’s all I’m saying.

Q Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: We’re not going to stop fighting. Absolutely not.

Go ahead.

Q Thanks, Karine. Given some of the reports we’ve seen the last week and
a half, does the President believe that the U.S. has a sufficient amount
of visibility into China’s weapons programs and defense capabilities at
this moment in time?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, you’re talking about the missile that we saw —

Q Hypersonic.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — recently — the hypersonic glide missile.

So, Jen talked about this yesterday when — after the President was
asked. So, we’re not going to comment on the specific report, but,
generally speaking, we have made clear our concerns about the military
capabilities that the PRC continues to pursue.

And so, you know, again, I’m not going to comment on this specific
report. But generally speaking, we have made clear our concerns about
their capabilities and continue to pursue which — which only increases —
the PCR \[PRC\] continues to pursue, which only increases tensions in
the region and beyond.

So, I can’t comment on the report. But, yes, do we have concerns? We do.
And then we’re going to — we’re going to continue to speak out.

Q But generally, do you feel — does the White House feel like it has the
visibility it needs into those programs or capabilities?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I can’t speak to that from here. Like I said, you know,
we’re — we just made clear our concerns about the military capabilities
that the PRC has.

Q And then just one more on Build Back Better: You guys have been very
steadfast about the entire bill will be paid for. Is that a red line?
Like, as you guys look through options right now, through the buffet of
potential revenue-raisers that are on the table, is deficit spending
completely off the table as you look forward?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: And we’ve been very clear about that. The red line for
the President has been: We are not going to raise taxes for Americans
making less than $400,000.

Q Two different things, though.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yep, you’re ta- — go ahead.

Q No, no. I’m not trying to be short. But in terms of as you’re looking
for ways to finance the proposal, deficit financing is off the table; it
has to be paid for in full.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: It has to be paid for. I’m just — because you asked me
what his redline was, I just wanted to make sure I said that. But it has
to be paid for, and we want to make sure that the wealthiest among us —
the billionaires and the big corporations — pay their fair share. That’s
only right.

Again — and I said this earlier — the firefighters and teachers should
not be paying more in taxes than billionaires. And the President has
been very clear about that. And so, that’s — that’s what I was trying to
get to.

Q Thanks, Karine.

Q (Cross-talk.)

Q — the proposed corporate tax rates. What if they don’t happen? What if
they’re not hiked?

Q Thanks — thanks, Karine. Earlier today, President Biden spoke on
voting rights and said, quote, “And I know the moment we’re in. I know
the stakes. This is far from over.” Has the failure of last night’s vote
on voting rights at all changed his thinking on Democrats’ strategy on
this issue, particularly on legislation on the filibuster? Is he
reconsidering the general approach to this and how to get something
passed?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, he’s just going to continue to speak out against
it. He used today as an opportunity to do that. He’s going to continue
to work with Congress.

Like I said, we have White House officials working on this every day
from the Office of Public Engagement to Domestic Policy Council and
others who are making this a priority.

This is a priority for him, and Chuck Schumer is continu- — Senator
Schumer is continuing to work on this — voting rights — the John Lewis
Voting Rights Bill is going to, hopefully, come to the floor soon. And
we’re going to let him take that lead. And we’re going to continue to
make sure that we make it really clear the urgency of getting this done.

Q And then, on communicating on this issue, this also comes on,
recently, the collapse of police reform talks, comprehensive immigration
reform was struck from the reconciliation package. Does this
administration have a message to communities of color, in particular —
who, in many cases, clinched the victory for President Biden; who voted
for him for these issues? Do you all have a message?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, you know, first off, anyone who knows this
President knows he’s not going to give up fighting for voting rights.
You know, as we said, this was a setback. That’s the same for police
reform.

So, he wished the negotiations — bipartisan negotiations had led to a
bill, but we’re not going to give up the fight. And so, we’re going to
continue to work.

You know, we are — you hear us say it all the time — we are the most
diverse Cabinet in history. We have made historic investments in HBCU
and reformed housing policies. Equity was at the forefront of the
American Rescue Plan and at the forefront of the Build Back Better plan.

Our agenda for the Black community is not about one or two bills.
Clearly, those bills are critical and important, and we’re going to
continue to work very hard towards them. But it is weaved throughout
numerous policies, initiatives, executive orders, legislation we work on
every day.

The center of everything — at the center of everything that the
President does is make sure that there’s equity. And so, we’re going to
continue to do that and make sure that, again, we don’t leave anybody
behind.

Q A different angle on police: Police unions across the country right
now — we’re seeing from Seattle to Los Angeles to Chicago — are
protesting vaccine mandates that are being implemented by Democratic
governors in these cases. As a proponent of vaccine mandates, what does
President Biden believe — how does President Biden believe these
situations should be resolved?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, as we know, the vaccine is safe, the vaccine is
highly effective, and the vaccine is the best way out of this pandemic.

So, the President strongly believes that all eligible people should be
vaccinated. And he certainly believes that frontline workers, like
police officers, should get vaccinated.

Vaccines not only protect officers, they protect their families, they
protect the people that they — that they serve, and so — or are
dedicating to protect. So, that is important and critical. And so, we
know that vaccine requirements work. And so, we’re going to continue to
encourage that work.

Q And then finally, on climate policy: You’ve mentioned how, with or
without Congress, you’re able to create progress on this. But, as we’ve
seen with previous administrations, policies can be easily undone should
a change in administration take place or should the policies not prove
durable enough.

So, are you all looking to not have a repeat of what was — of what took
place between the Obama and Trump administrations on environmental
policy? Are you all looking for ways to create more durable policy
regimes than what —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, what we’re working on right now is to be in a
better place than we have been the last four years. And we’re going to
do that when it comes to climate change. We’re going to make sure we do
that domestically and be leaders on the global stage as well, which is
what the President has been doing the last several months, from day one,
when he signed an executive order getting back into the Paris Accord.

So, we’re going to do that work. And we’re not going to — you know,
we’re just going to focus on what is in front of us at the moment.

Go ahead, Karen.

Q Thanks, Karine. The WHO said this week that Europe was the only region
where COVID cases increased last week. And officials yesterday said
that, in the UK, cases were up 16 percent since last week.

How concerned is the White House about this ahead of the President’s
trip to Europe next week? And are there any extra COVID precautions that
you guys will be taking for him, for senior staff on those two stops?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, as you know, Karen, we follow the science, we
follow the public guidance that we receive, and so that’s what we’re
going to do — we’re going to — in order to protect the President and his
staff.

And so that’s, kind of, going to be, you know, whatever the public
health guidance tells us to do and in partnership, clearly, with the
countries that we’re visiting and making sure that we’re following their
protocols as well.

And so that’s going to be — that’s going to be our focus.

Q But no extra concerns that these numbers are increasing in a country
he’s going to?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I have not — again, I have not seen those numbers. I’m
just saying that that’s what we do. We let science lead, and we listen
to the public health experts.

Q Karine, a follow up on — one on inflation and the supply chain. You
mentioned at the top that unemployment is down, wages are up, and that’s
a testament to the progress that President Biden has made on the
economy.

But there’s no mention of inflation in that. And while wages are up
almost 4.5 percent, inflation is up 5 percent. So any bump in pay that
people are seeing in their paycheck is getting wiped out when they’re
going to the store and paying more for everything.

So what do you say to people who are looking at their budget, and
they’re saying, “This doesn’t feel like progress under President Biden;
it feels like a pay cut.”

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, let me first say this — and I said this earlier —
the President, he knows how even a small price increase really can
squeeze too many families — like that is something that he’s aware of.

And so we’re working on a wide variety of economic programs to help —
right? — which is why the Build Back Better plan to work out — to work
on our supply chain issues is incredibly important.

We’re using every tool at our disposal to lower prices for working
people and bring economic relief. Right? If you think about the human
infrastructure, the Build Back Better plan, we’re talking about
prescription drugs; we’re talking about paid leave, sick leave, medical
leave; we’re talking about community college. We’re talking about things
that’s really going to give that economic relief, that middle-class tax
cut for everyday people. So, we’re going to continue to do that work.

The American Rescue Plan actually helped the American public a lot. It
did. It put checks in people’s pockets. I talked about the Child Tax
Credit. I talked about the childcare components in it. There was a lot
there that gave some relief — that gave some relief to Americans here.

And so, the Build Back Better plan is just an extension of that, if you
will. It’s to invest that long-term investment to make sure that people
feel that relief.

Look, we were in a very different place a year ago, not to say that some
people are not still feeling the squeeze — totally understand that. But,
you know, a year ago, we were — people were getting sick, they were
losing their jobs. You know, women were leaving the workforce.

And so, we’ve been able to turn things around, start the economy back up
— again, 600,000 jobs a month; nearly 5 million jobs in the first eight
months. That matters. Now we just have to continue doing the work.

It’s going to take time; we’re not done.

Q And then, just quickly, on the supply chain. You know, there’s a lot
to talk about Christmas presents not arriving on time. But the issue is
more severe and critical than that. I mean, it’s affecting small
businesses. Autobody shops can’t get parts to fix cars, so they can’t
make money.

Ninety percent of school nutrition programs say they’re worried about
continued supply chain issues, according to a School Nutrition
Association survey. Some schools are making last-minute grocery store
trips just to feed their students.

So, if this is an issue that the White House has been working on and
aware of since February, why does it seem like this is a problem that is
getting worse, not better?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I would say this: When it comes to the supply chain,
you know, it’s a — there are complexities there when you think about,
you know, the — when we learn about the global supply chain as well —
right? Those are — so that’s one thing that you kind of have to put it
in the — in the bigger picture.

So — but it is a complex system that requires private sector
collaboration and coordination to improve efficiency and get through the
backlog. And that’s what we’re seeing currently as we’re talking about
the supply chain. These are just some of the players in the game.

There are port directors, terminal operators, ocean carriers, railroad,
truckers, warehouse — warehouses, and retailers, and let’s not forget
consumers who have a record level of demand as we have made a historic
economic recovery.

Because we have — we have — the forecasters — the economic forecasters
did not see — did not think we would be where we are today; we have
surpassed that. So, we have had some historic economic recovery.

Do we have more work to do? Absolutely. That’s why we’re trying to get
this Build Back Better plan. But the Biden administration, as it comes
to the supply chain, continues to serve as an honest broker — I
mentioned this before — making sure that we find areas of collaboration
to ensure we can move goods movement supply chain toward a 24/7 model.

But again, you know, we want — the President understands. He understands
the squeeze that people are feeling — everyday Americans are feeling.
That’s why he’s working every day to make sure that we pass his economic
policies.

Q Thanks, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: All right. Thanks, everybody.

3:45 P.M. EDT
