---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-10-22'
modified_time: 2021-10-22 18:13:23-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/10/22/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-october-22-2021/
published_time: 2021-10-22 18:13:22-04:00
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, October 22,\_2021"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:06 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.  Happy Friday.  Okay.  Just an overview of the
week ahead for all of you: Throughout the week, President Biden will
continue to meet and call members of Congress about his transformative
Build Back Better Agenda and Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal.  
  
On Monday, he will travel to New Jersey, where he will visit a school
and one of the busiest railroad bridges in the country to continue
rallying support for both his Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal and Build
Back Better Agenda.  
  
Back in Washington, President Biden will meet with His All Holiness
Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew and welcome the official delegation of
the Orthodox Christian Church to the United States.  I was about to use
— lose my “Greek-American card” there for a second, but I think I sailed
through.   
  
On Tuesday, the President will campaign with former Governor Terry
McAuliffe in Arlington, Virginia.  
  
On Thursday, the President and First Lady will travel to Rome, Italy.  
  
On Friday, the President will visit Vatican City and have an audience
with His Holiness Pope Francis.  They will discuss working together on
efforts grounded in respect for fundamental human dignity, including
ending the COVID-19 pandemic, tackling the climate crisis, and caring
for the poor.  
  
On Saturday and Sunday, the President will participate in the G20
Leaders’ Summit.  We will have more on individual bilateral engagements
in the run-up to the summit.  
  
And from Rome, the President will travel to Glasgow, United Kingdom,
from November 1st through 2nd, to participate in the World Leader Summit
at the start of the COP26, the 26th Conference of the Parties to the
U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change.  
  
I will note — a programming note for all of you: We will have Jake
Sullivan in here next week — we’re working on finalizing the details —
to preview the trip in advance of the President’s departure.  
  
But, Zeke, why don’t you kick us off.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Oh, sorry, can I note one more thing?  I apologize.  
  
Today, the Vice President visited northeast — the Northeast Bronx YMCA
in New York with HHS — HHS Secretary Xavier Becerra, Governor Kathy
Hochul, and Congressman Jamaal Bowman.  The Vice President will hear
about the YMCA facility’s impact on the community and deliver remarks
about how the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal and the Build Back Better
Agenda will benefit working families.   
  
She’ll also highlight the importance of extending the Child Tax Credit,
which is one of the largest-ever single tax cuts for families with
children.  
   
Okay.  Zeke, go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks.  What’s the status of the negotiations over the President’s
social spending bill?  House Speaker Nancy Pelosi suggested a deal could
be today.  Does the President expect that?  And who is he speaking with
right now?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, he will continue to have calls throughout the course
of the day and the weekend as he has over the last several days.  We
will provide you details on those as we can.  We have a goal, as Speaker
Pelosi conveyed.  We have milestones.  And we’re working on finalizing
an agreement.  That’s the status.  
  
Our focus is on making significant progress on that.  We’ve seen that
happen over the last several days.  We’re encouraged by the shared
commitment to get this done and deliver for the American people.  But I
don’t have any new deadlines or timelines from here, nor have we set
them from here over the last several days or weeks.  
  
Q    As that package that the President proposed initially at roughly
$3.5 trillion has been — now looks to be cutting — being cut roughly in
half, we’ve heard the President say he wants he come back and get things
later — things like community college and some of the other — or
extending the life of some of these programs that have been
shortened.   
  
Progressives have been saying that now is the moment to do — go big;
there might not be another moment.  Why does the President think, given
how difficult things have been up to this point, that he’ll have another
bite at the apple to sort of make these programs more enduring, or to
include even things that couldn’t make it into this package somewhere
down the line?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me say, first, Zeke, that this is — this package
is on track to be — to represent or to direct the most fundamental shift
in supporting hardworking families over wealthy in modern American
history.   
  
So — and the President’s belief, as you heard him say last night, is
that compromise is not a dirty word and that we will get nothing if we
do not have 50 votes.  The alternative is not a larger package.  The
alternative is nothing.  
  
So his objective is to continue to press forward to bring the parties
together to get a historic package done.  And I will note that there’s a
lot of history for this — and he talked about this a little bit last
night — but there’s history in setting — putting in place a framework
that puts in place positive, fundamental change.  
  
Look at Social Security, look at the Affordable Care Act: These are all
historic programs that have then been built on domestically.  
  
And whatever the topline number is — which we’re still, obviously,
working through and negotiating — this is on track to change millions of
middle-class families who have been falling behind.  
  
Let me give you just a couple of examples — and he talked about this
last night — but where the package stands as of now:

-   the largest investment in childcare and early education ch- —
    childhood education in history, with the first national universal
    preschool program ever in history.
-   the largest investment in climate and clean energy in history,
    around six times the size of the climate and clean energy investment
    in the Recovery Act — the second largest climate bill in history.
-   the first national paid leave — paid family and medical leave
    program ever.
-   the largest expansion in healthcare coverage since the Affordable
    Care Act, leading 7 million people to gain new coverage.
-   perpetuating the largest one-year drop in child poverty in history
    by extending the Child Tax Credit.
-   and a new investment in housing that is greater than the entire
    current annual budget of the Department of Housing and Urban
    Development. 

 That is what we were talking about here.  As we — even as we are
talking about a package that’s being negotiated that is smaller than
what he originally proposed.  
  
Q    But why does he think that a future Congress, or sometime later in
this administration, he’ll have more luck going beyond where he’s at
right now in getting more spending for some of those programs at the
levels that he initially wanted and now he’s had to pare back?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, two reasons, Zeke.  One is what I referenced, related
to the Social Security program in history or the Affordable Care Act,
where these are programs that put in place the fundamental mechanisms in
society to deliver on change and relief to people for decades to
come.   
  
And what we’re talking about here is instituting some programs that have
never existed before: universal pre-K; we’re talking about paid family
and medical leave; we’re building on, as an example, the Affordable Care
Act by continuing to expand healthcare coverage, which is another
example of building.   
  
So the President’s belief is these changes are long overdue.  These
changes are changes the American people are — have been asking for, have
been demanding, want to see government act on to make their lives
better, and that this package — these packages will be the basis for
building on in the future, during his administration as well.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  The President was pretty clear last night that
Senator Sinema does not support raising taxes on big corporations or the
corporate tax hike.  The White House says that you guys are looking for
other ways to pay for this package.  What exactly are those proposals? 
And can this package be paid for without a corporate tax increase?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yes, absolutely.  But there are different corporate tax
increases in here.  So let me go through what a couple of the tax pieces
are that are under consideration.   
  
I would note that, as it relates to the President’s comments last night,
he was answering a question.  These town halls are conversations; that’s
what’s so endearing and engaging about them.  But he was retu- —
referring to the challenge of having the votes to move forward on
raising the corporate rate, not the ability to raise revenue through a
range of other tax fairness proposals.  
  
So let me give you a sense of a couple of those.  So, some of the
biggest corporations in America pay literally nothing in income taxes,
as we know — as we’ve talked about in the past.  A lot in here. 
Fifty-five of the biggest companies, they pay lower rates than
wage-earning families.  We can stop that by imposing a 15 percent
minimum tax — a minimum corporate tax — to make sure large corporations
pay their fair share.   
  
We also believe, the President believes, a number of other members of
Congress believe that we need to stop rewarding companies that offshore
profits and American jobs.  We’ll do that by creating a global minimum
tax, something the United States has been the global leader in bringing
together countries around the world.  And that will help to make the
United States more competitive and end the race to the bottom.   
  
We can also close loopholes for high-income Americans, including a
loophole that allows some taxpayers — like hedge fund managers — to
escape a Medicare tax imposed on all high-end income — on all high
income.  That’s another proposal that’s out there still.   
  
And we can crack down on wealthy tax cheats, who are taking advantage of
every honest taxpayer, and invest in enforcement to stop 1 percent from
evading $160 billion in taxes per year, something that Treasury
Secretaries — Republican and Democrats — have expressed support for and
feel this is a strong part of the proposal.  
  
So, I list all of those because those are all ideas out there — all
ideas that would move us forward toward a greater system of tax fairness
and also can help pay for the full package.  
  
Q    One more follow-up on the Child Tax Credit.  Speaker Pelosi told me
yesterday that the President was looking at a one-year extension. 
According to the Census Bureau, 47 percent of families use that money to
buy food.  Will those children be left behind if there’s only a one-year
extension on the Child Tax Credit?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, to be clear, the President proposed a longer
extension.  What the President is though looking to do is to extend the
Child Tax Credit — something that he proposed himself earlier this year
and, again, proposed extending it — because he thinks it does have such
an important and dramatic impact on people across the country.   
  
Many economists have credited it with cutting the childhood poverty rate
in half.  He absolutely thinks it should be a part of what American
families can benefit from.   
  
But it’s smaller because compromise is not a dirty word, and it is
something that we still believe is a positive step forward to extend.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    What drove the shift in the President’s posture this week, in terms
of he laid out a lot of details to rank-and-file members on Tuesday; he
laid out a lot of details to the entire world last night?  Something you
guys haven’t been wanting to talk about over the course the last several
months.  Why now?  Why has he moved in this direction?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  The charm of Anderson Cooper, I guess.   
  
Q    I get that.  (Laughs.)  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m just kidding.   
  
Look, I think, Phil, that we are at this point in the conversation and
in the debate where we are getting into the nitty-gritty details, and
the President is deeply engaged in those discussions.   
  
I think what you saw last night — what the American people saw last
night is that the President has rolled up his sleeves and he is deep in
the details of spreadsheets and numbers and what the potential impact
can be to help the American people.   
  
And he’s — he was candid, and he was candid about where the negotiation
stood and also wanted the American people to understand, as I just
outlined earlier, that progress here is a historic package that will put
in place systems and programs that have never existed in our society
before.  
  
So, I think what you’re seeing is that we’re getting closer, we’re into
the nitty-gritty details, there is agreement about some fundamental
investments in our society, and he loves having conversations with the
American people about what he’s fighting for.  
  
Q    And then two more, just to follow up on last night.  Can you
clarify where discussions are, if they exist at all, in terms of the
National Guard and the supply chain?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Oh, can I clarify where things stand?  
  
Q    Yeah, I just — my understanding is it had been talked about but it
wasn’t something you guys were moving toward.  The President seemed to
say differently last night.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, any President has the ability to use the
National Guard from the federal level.  Requesting the use of the
National Guard at the state level, which is often how it’s done, is
under the purview of governors.  And we’re not actively asking them to
do that, and we’re not actively pursuing the use of the National Guard
on a federal level.  But it is something that any President would have
the capacity to do, the authority to do, but it is not something under
active consideration.  
  
Q    And then, one more.  The President was asked if the U.S. would come
to Taiwan’s defense if attacked by China, and he said, “Yes, we have a
commitment to do that.”  Is there a shift in U.S. policy as it relates
to Taiwan and a defense agreement?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, there has been no shift.  The President was not
announcing any change in our policy nor has he made a decision to change
our policy.  There is no change in our policy.  
  
Our defense relationship with Taiwan is guided by the Taiwan Relations
Act.  Some of the principles of the Taiwan Relations Act that the United
States will continue to abide by, of course, is assisting Taiwan in
maintaining a sufficient self-defense capability.  Another principle is
that the United States would regard any effort to determine the future
of Taiwan by other than peaceful means a threat to the peace and
security of the Western Pacific and of grave concern to the United
States.   
  
I would also note that Secretary Austin also spoke to this earlier
today, and he said — as the Secretary of Defense, of course — “Nobody
wants to see cross-Strait issues come to blows.”  Certainly not
President Biden.  And there’s no reason that it should.  And that is
certainly emblematic of our approach as well.  
  
Go ahead, Jeff.  
  
Q    Just piggybacking on that question about Taiwan, the U.S. policy
one of strategic ambiguity on this.  He seemed pretty unambiguous with
what he said last night.  Was that intentional?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  What I can convey to you is that our policy has not
changed.  He was not intending to convey a change in policy nor has he
made a decision to change our policy.  
  
Q    Okay.  And moving back to the legislation: Is the President
confident or is he hoping for a vote on this before he heads to Europe
next week?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, his preference would certainly be to get something
done in the coming days, and obviously he will work closely with Speaker
Pelosi and Leader Schumer to do exactly that.  
  
But I don’t have any new deadlines or timelines to set for you today.  
  
Q    Beyond citing the Rhodium report, if he arrives in Glasgow without
this in hand, what does he — what is his message to world leaders on
that world stage?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  His message is that he is a President who will bring the
climate crisis back to the top of the priority list for the United
States, and he has already taken steps to do exactly that — not just by
rejoining the Paris Climate Agreement, but by taking steps, working with
the leaders of the auto industry, to move towards electric vehicles and
an electric vehicle future to reduce greenhouse gas emissions here in
the United States, and that he has proposed the largest investment in
addressing the climate crisis in American history.   
  
And that is something we are on track to deliver on, even  
with a smaller package.  
  
Q    And just lastly, does the President or the White House have a
reaction to the Alec Baldwin shooting incident in New Mexico?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Other than to say that it is obviously a tragedy — the loss
of life and, as I understand it, the individual who is in the hospital. 
And so our thoughts and prayers go out to their family members.  
  
But, no, beyond that, we don’t have an additional U.S. reaction.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  A follow on China and Taiwan.  Just to be crystal
clear: When the President says that the U.S. has a commitment to protect
Taiwan, does that commitment include military intervention in the event
of a Chinese attack?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Again, as I said earlier, he wasn’t announcing a change in
policy nor was he — nor have we changed our policy, which I think is the
most important point here.  And we are guided by the Taiwan Relations
Act, and I just outlined what some of those principles are, which is
ensuring that we continue to assist Taiwan in maintaining a sufficient
self-defense capability, and that is something we remain committed to
doing.  
  
Q    So, can you just remind us?  That policy is, “No, there would not
be military intervention,” right?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Our policy is to be guided by the Taiwan Relations Act,
which is — the specifics of that are that we are going to continue
assisting Taiwan in maintaining a sufficient self-defense capability. 
Another principle is that we regard any effort to determine the future
of Taiwan by other than peaceful means as a threat to the peace and
security of the Western Pacific.  
  
But as I noted earlier, our Secretary of Defense conveyed clearly what
our policy and our view is, which is that no one wants to see
cross-Strait issues come to blows; that is what we want to avoid.  And
that’s what the American people should understand is our focus.  That’s
the view of the President, that’s the view of the Secretary of Defense,
and there’s no reason anyone should think otherwise.  
  
Q    And then a follow-up on all those tax options that you might have
if the corporate tax is not raised and if there’s no hike in taxes on
the wealthy.  Will all of those still guarantee that this package will
not be deficit spending?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yes.   
  
Q    Okay.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  And none of that has been concluded.  I think I gave all
those additional components of tax options that are out there that — and
Senator Sinema can obviously speak for herself, as I always convey from
here, but she has been supportive of another — a number of these
options, as have others.  And those are all options that can help ensure
we’re moving toward a more fair tax system but also pay for these
investments.  
  
Q    Thanks.  And just one more on the filibuster.  What are some ways
that the filibuster can be fundamentally altered without ending it
altogether?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Look, I think the President will have more to say about this
in the coming weeks.  But I think what you heard him say last night is
that we’re at an inflection point, and a range of it — on a range of
issues, including — and this is often why it comes up — voting rights.  
  
And he talked about this a little bit yesterday when he was at the 10th
anniversary of the MLK Memorial.  We know the right to vote and the rule
of law are under unrelenting assault from Republican governors,
attorneys general, secretaries of state, state legislators, and
legislators.   
  
And time and time again, when offered the choice three times over the
last several months, when a hand has been extended by Democrats to work
together to protect the fundamental right, Republicans have not only
recoiled, they have blocked the ability to make any semblance of
progress.   
  
So, what the President is referring to is the fact that that is
unacceptable.  The protection of a fundamental — the fundamental right
to vote is something that has been bipartisan in the past.  He spoke
back in March about — about his concerns or how he would view it if the
Republicans continue to be obstructionist around it.  And we’ve seen
that time and time again.  
  
So he will discuss what that looks like, because not getting voting
rights done is not an option.  
  
Q    So, is that frustration — does that frustration explain his
evolution of thinking on the filibuster?  In July, he said eliminating
it would throw Congress into “chaos” and nothing would get done.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would also note that, back in March, he noted that
if there was obstruction, that it was something that we would have to
take a look at.   
  
So, look, I think people — many of you have covered the President for
some time, and you know that his view is that we should pursue ways to
work in a bipartisan manner; that we should pursue paths forward that
can get things done for the American people.  
  
When he helped lead the effort to authorize the voting rights bill back
when he was a senator, that was done in a bipartisan way.  And he is
frustrated, he is disappointed, he is sad that this is not something
that Republicans seem willing to engage on, to work on.   
  
And I think what you saw reflected last night is his view that, in light
of the tax on our democracy, what we’ve seen across the country in
states and by state legislators — that it is time to have a conversation
about what this looks like moving forward.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  The leader of the union representing FedEx, UPS,
and DHL is saying that supply chain problems are going to get worse with
labor shortages right before the holidays, unless the President
postpones the requirement to get vaccinated by December 8th.  So what is
more important to this President: the vaccine mandates or fixing the
supply chain as fast as possible?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I would say that that is not actually what
we’ve seen at companies that have implemented these vaccine requirements
that are not even part of federal law yet.  
  
Q    I understand.  But just looking at —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Let me just — let me just finish.   
  
Q    Okay.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m going to let you talk.  Don’t worry about it.  I’m going
to let you talk.  Okay?  
  
So, American and Southwest CEOs have made clear this will — their
workers will not be — there won’t be a labor shortage.  We’ve seen
United Airlines implement this.   
  
And as we’ve also said: As we work to implement these federal employee
requirements, the first step is not firings; it’s actually education and
counseling.  So, we don’t actually anticipate these disruptions.  What
we’ve seen for companies who have implemented these requirements is an
increase from 20 to 90 percent.   
  
Last thing, and then I’ll let you ask your follow-up, is that the other
piece of this is that COVID is an enormous labor disrupter — not only
because it’s the number one cause of death in some industries, in some
professions, including police forces across the country, but because
people are out sick, people are worried about coming to work.  This is
one of the reasons that a lot of these companies have implemented these
requirements.  
  
Q    Just so that I understand the position then, this union leader says
that the looming December 8th mandate for having fully vaccinated
workforces creates a significant supply chain problem.  You say, “No, it
does not.”  Is that right?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  What I would point, Peter, is the evidence we’ve seen from
companies — large companies, private-sector companies — that have
implemented these requirements across the board.  
  
Q    Okay.  Following up on something else the President said last
night, why did President Biden say he has been to the border?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, Peter, as you may have seen, there’s been reporting
that he did drive through the border when he was on the campaign trail
in 2008.  And he is certainly familiar with the fact — and it stuck with
him — with the fact that in El Paso, the border goes right through the
center of town.  
  
But what the most important thing everyone should know and understand is
that the President has worked on these issues throughout his entire
career and is well versed in every aspect of our immigration system,
including the border.  That includes when he was Vice President.  And he
went to Mexico and Central America 10 times to address border issues and
talk about what we can do to reduce the number of migrants who were
coming to the border.   
  
He worked in a bipartisan manner with senators like Ted Kennedy, Harry
Reid, John McCain, and others to push for comprehensive immigration
reform.   
  
He does not need a visit to the border to know what a mess was left by
the last administration.  That’s his view.  
  
Q    Does that count as a visit?  He said, “I’ve been there before.” 
You’re saying he drove by for a few minutes.  Does that count?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  What do you — what is the root cause — where are people
coming from who are coming to the border, Peter?  
  
Q    The President said that he has been to the border —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m asking you — I’m asking you a question, because I think
people should understand the context.  
  
Q    No, you’re answering —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Where do people —  
  
Q    — a question with a question.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Where do people —  
  
Q    I’m asking you if that counts.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay, I’ll answer it for you: People come from Central
America and Mexico to go to the border.  The President has been to those
countries 10 times to talk about border issues.  
  
There is a focus right now on a photo op.  The President does not
believe a photo op is the same as solutions.  
  
Q    But he said, “I…” —

MS. PSAKI:  That may be a difference he has with Republicans.  
  
Q    But that’s not what he said either.  He said, “I guess I should go
down.”  So, does he think that he needs a photo op?  Is that what he’s
saying?  Is that what you’re saying?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  He doesn’t.  And that’s a fundamental disagreement he has. 
I would say the former President went to the border at least once, maybe
more — you may know the numbers.   
  
Q    But has anything changed —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  How did that immigration policy result, Peter?  That
immigration policy resulted in separating kids from their parents,
building a border wall that’s feckless and that cost billions of dollars
for taxpayers.  The President fundamentally disagrees on how we need to
approach the immigration issue.  
  
Q    Has anything changed at the border between 2008, when he drove by,
and 2021?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Aside from the fact that migrants are still coming to the
border through the course of Democratic and Republican Presidents, and
the — the immi- — the need to reform the immigration system is even
farther long overdue?  No.  But we need to work with Democrats and
Republicans to get that done.  
  
I think we’re going to have to keep chugging along here.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Let me ask you, if I can, about gas prices.  The President was
asked about that; a lot of Americans have been concerned about the cost
to go to the pump these days.   
  
He said, “I don’t see anything that’s going to happen in the meantime
that’s going to significantly reduce gas prices.”  He said, “I don’t
have a near-term answer.”  For Americans who are looking for an answer,
what is the answer?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, what is true — and I think the President as we — as I
said earlier, was quite candid last night, as the American people should
express from him — expect from him and from any president.  And there
are limitations to what any president can do, as it relates to gas
prices.  
  
Here’s what we have been doing: As we’ve said for some time, we are
engaging broadly with OPEC on our concerns at a range of levels.  And
that is something we will continue to do.   
  
As you know, Jake Sullivan, our National Security Advisor, recently met
with leaders in Saudi Arabia and certainly raised this issue.   
  
The President has also been concerned, as the administration has been,
about what we have seen as rises in supply that have not been
accompanied by drops in costs.  That’s one of the reasons he’s asked the
FTC to look into price gouging — something that is no doubt impacting,
or we expect might be impacting, the cost of gas around the country.  
  
So, we are working and using every single lever he can.  But I think
what people heard from him is some candor about what impacts we can
have.  
  
Q    He mused that he could go into the Strategic Petroleum Reserve and
that could bring the cost down.  He said it would still be above $3.00. 
Will he do that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything to preview on that front at this
point.  
  
Q    Let me ask you: Does the White House have any response to the
Supreme Court today saying that it’s not going to block the Texas
abortion ban, although it did grant an expedited review to take place, I
think, by the start of November?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would naturally defer any particular questions about
the Supreme Court decision and litigation to the Department of Justice. 
But what I can reiterate is that the President has been clear in his
position that S.B. 8 is blatantly unconstitutional.  It not only
violates the right to safe and legal abortion established under Roe v.
Wade, but it creates a scheme to allow private citizens to interfere
with that right and to evade judicial review.   
  
That is why he’s directed a whole-of-government response to it and why
he will continue to stand side-by-side with women across the country to
protect their rights.   
  
But, in terms of any litigation steps, I would point you to the
Department of Justice.  
  
Q    But contingencies if the Supreme Court is to uphold that present
ban?  What contingencies — what process takes place behind closed doors
here at the White House to help look out for the women in that state?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Again, as you know, the Gender Policy Council and leaders
there are leading the effort to work and see what levers in government
we can use to continue to protect women’s fundamental rights.  We will
see if there’s an update on that to provide to all of you.  
  
Go ahead, Sabrina.  
  
Q    Afghanistan, please?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’ll come to you next.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
Q    The attack on a military outpost in southern Syria this week did
not result in any American casualties, but the U.S. military considers
it to be a serious but failed attempt to take American lives.  Do you
know who’s responsible?  And what is the administration doing to prevent
another attack or hold the perpetrators accountable?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any updates for you on the — on the
responsibility.  And, of course, what happened is something that is
great concern to us.  I have nothing to preview in terms of what
additional steps will be.  
  
Q    To follow up: Some governments, including U.S. partners in the
region, have moved toward normalizing relations with the Assad regime. 
Has the administration directly urged its counterparts against doing
so?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Nothing has changed about the U.S. position as it relates to
the Assad regime.  In terms of private diplomatic conversations, I’d
point you to the State Department.   
  
Q    Just lastly, because, you know, there was a broader sanc- — review
of sanctions policy by the Treasury Department that was released this
week.  It stated sanctions are most effective on a multilateral
basis.   
  
So if other countries, including U.S. partners, are resuming diplomatic
and commercial ties with Syria, does it not undermine U.S. sanctions? 
And what does the administration plan to do about it?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Under — say that last part one more time?  
  
Q    Does it not undermine U.S. sanctions if other partners are resuming
diplomatic and commercial ties with the Assad regime?  Is there anything
the administration plans to do about that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything to preview for you at this point in
time.  I, again, would point you to the State Department.  
  
Our view of the Assad regime has not changed.  I would note, on the
attack, which you asked me about — let me give you all a little bit more
context on that: U.S. Central Command confirmed last night and put out a
statement — or maybe it was earlier, sorry — that the — the al-Tanf
garrison area was subjected to a deliberate and coordinated attack. 
Initial reports indicate both unmanned aerial systems and rockets were
used in the attack.  All U.S. personnel have been accounted for.  We’re
not aware of any injuries to U.S. personnel at this time.  Of course, we
always reserve the right to respond.  As I noted, we have nothing to
preview on that front.  And we’re still investigating.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Regarding kids and vaccines: A new poll was talking about two
thirds of parents with kids between 5 and 11 — they’re having a “wait
and see” attitude or they’re resisting it altogether.  And so, what is
the White House doing to combat that vaccine hesitancy amongst
parents?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I would note that we have experienced this
before, because if you look back to December, only about 30 percent, or
just over that, of people who are eligible for vaccines said they would
want to take a vaccine.  And now we’re at nearly 80 percent of eligible
adults or people who are eli- — of the eligible age who have now
received their first dose.   
  
We have launched — and we announced the launch last week — or intention
to launch — a major campaign to communicate with parents, to communicate
with families about the safety and the efficacy of these vaccines should
they get approval.  
  
We will also be prepared to have the doses needed to ensure that parents
can get vaccines to their kids.  But what we’re really focusing on is
working with pediatricians.  
  
We know that the pediatricians are one of the most trusted sources of
information for any parent.  I can confirm that myself.  And so, we’re
really encouraging parents to talk to their pediatricians — of course,
to wait for approval before, you know, they proceed — but to have those
conversations.  And that will be what our strategy is guided around.  
  
Q    Thank you.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  Two question.  One is about the Moscow
Conference.  The United States was not able to participate it.  What was
the reason?  
  
Number two, NATO conference.  Any result?  
  
And number three, so many Afghan people, especially women, they are
under torture of the Taliban and they have high expectation from the
United States.  I don’t know — you guys still committed to help Afghan
people, or United States totally forget Afghan people?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Absolutely not, on the last piece.  We remain absolutely
committed to helping the Afghan people.  We remain the largest provider
of humanitarian assistance of any country in the world.  And we’re
committed to ensuring there is the ability for people who want to leave
to depart; ensuring there are flights that can depart to do that or
people can cross over land; and continue to work with relied-on —
reliable international organizations like the World Food Program to
provide that assistance.  
  
In terms of the NATO conference, I know our Secretary of Defense spoke
to that.  I’d point you to his comments in his press conference on the
ground.  
  
And on your first question, I know my colleague at the State Department,
Ned Price, said that the United States supported the talks.  We were
unable to attend for logistical reasons.  We believe the Troika Plus,
which is what this forum — or format is — has been an effective and
constructive forum.   
  
We look forward to engaging that forum going forward.  But we weren’t in
a position to be a part of it this week.  But we will in the future.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  I wanted to clarify — you’ve been — you know, earlier,
at the start of this, you talked about how universal pre-K, family leave
— are those things that will definitely be in the bill?  Because you’re
saying, no matter what happens, it looks like we’ll have at least as
much.  So, I was just wondering — can you clarify, is that — are those
things definitely going to be in there?  Are those red lines for the
President?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m not here to set new red lines.  What we know is that
this is going to be the most historic investment in childcare, in care —
in the care economy ever in history, and that there will be programs put
in place that have not existed in the past.  Hopefully, we will know
more soon what the final package looks like, but I just wanted to
outline some of the key components that there’s continued discussion
about.  
  
Q    And I noticed you didn’t mention Medicare expansion in that.  Is
that intentional?  Like, why not (inaudible)?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  It was not intentional.  I was trying to give a couple of
—  
  
Q    You’re sending a message?  (Laughs.)  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I was trying to give a couple of examples because sometimes
we miss the historic comparison here on what we’re talking about, and
what kind of a dramatic impact this package will have on families across
the country, and what it’s tracking to be.  There are still final pieces
that need to be concluded, and I can’t give you a final factsheet quite
yet, but that’s what I wanted to lay out for all of you.  
  
Q    And another quick question.  Does the White House have any thoughts
on the Supreme Court?  Yes, they’re taking up the Texas — the Texas
abortion law, but they’re not going to rule on the constitutionality of
it.  Does the White House have any thoughts on that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Beyond what I said to Peter, I don’t have anything
additional from here.  I’d point you to the Department of Justice.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  Just to follow up on the Medicare expansion: Do
you have any updates — President Biden addressed some of these
discussions last night — and whether this will be an actual expansion or
vouchers for things, such as dental work? Is there any update in those
discussions?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Not yet.  He talked a little bit — for those of you who
didn’t watch the town hall last night from 8:00 to 9:30 — he talked a
little bit about how he wants to — his objective of working to bring
down the cost.    
  
So, I think you’re referring — just to translate for everybody, to bring
them up — he talked a little bit about the possibility of vouchers for
dental; it’s something that’s in discussion, but there’s no new
information I can provide to all of you.  
  
He also talked about the hearing aids and bringing down the cost of
hearing aids.  And bringing that cost down and addressing it for seniors
is a huge priority to him.   
  
He also mentioned last night how, when you look at seniors and what
they’re struggling with, including dementia, that hearing and the
ability to hear is an important priority.  It’s still in discussion. 
Clearly a priority to a number of key leaders in the Senate, but there’s
not a final conclusion before I came out here today.  
  
Q    Along those lines, Nancy Pelosi, who I believe had breakfast here
this morning —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  She did.  She was here.  I’m not sure what they ate, but
they met — so, yes.  
  
Q    Okay.  She indicated that a climate deal was close and suggested it
could be done.  Has the White House and congressional Democrats
identified any substitute for the Clean Energy Performance Program that
looks to be removed at Joe Manchin’s request?  And if so, what is it?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President talked a little bit last night about the
fact that — and I would say it’s still on track to be because there are
so many climate components in these two packages that the President has
proposed, including climate tax credit — tax credits and tax cuts, which
are — have been a part of his proposal, has broad support in the
Senate.   
  
There are also key components — since you gave me the opportunity — that
had been in the infrastructure plan that often we don’t talk enough
about, including moving toward electric vehicles, 500,000 charging
stations across the country, which would be a huge impact — have a big
impact in moving toward an industry that would reduce greenhouse gas
emissions; replacing lead pipes and water — I think many of you may have
seen today that the state of Michigan issued a state of emergency
because of lead in pipes.  This is an area and a place that has a
climate impact; it has a humane impact.   
  
These are all components that are under discussion — and obviously the
infrastructure pieces have passed — but continue to be a part of what
the President has proposed.  But addressing the climate, making this the
largest climate bill in history — we continue to be on track toward
that.  
  
Q    Just lastly: The President, last night, said he would entertain the
notion of doing away with the filibuster to pass voting rights, and then
he added, “And maybe more.”  What’s the “maybe more”?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Stay tuned.  It’s a — it’s to have a discussion.  I expect
you’ll hear more from the President about it in the coming weeks.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Matt took my climate question.  But on —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  That’s okay.  You can ask in a different way.  
  
Q    No, I won’t do that.  (Laughter.)  I’ve got others.   
  
On immigration, though, the President said yesterday that the
administration’s stance is that it is opposed to MPP — the Remain in
Mexico policy.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    But there’s a court order, and you’re implementing that court order
right now.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    But even with that, that court order addressed a previous memo the
administration issued to terminate MPP.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    It’s been months since this court order and there’s still no new
memo out.  Why is that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  And Secretary Mayorkas has indicated he plans to issue a new
memo and that we do oppose the MPP program, as the President said last
night.  I would point you to the Department of Homeland Security on an
update on the status.  
  
Q    But given that he is saying the administration is opposed, and he’s
criticized this in the past, it seems like there’s not a sense of
urgency to get this memo out since it’s been months at this point.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I wouldn’t agree with that.  I think we’ve been clear about
our opposition to this.  But again, there was a court order, so what
we’re working to do is move toward the release of a new memorandum —
something that would come from the Department of Homeland Security and —
while also abiding in good faith by a court order and following the
law.  
  
Q    I have a follow-up on Afghanistan too.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    Just if — given that the embassy is currently closed right now — in
Kabul, as well — if you’re an Afghan and you still are hoping to find
relief and come to the U.S., is there any way to actually get parole or
refugee status without going to a third country?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we have a presence in Doha — one that engages with
counterpart — with officials on the ground.  We’ve also had recent
meetings with leaders of the Taliban, as you all know, and has been
reported publicly.  And our State Department is leading this effort. 
So, yes, absolutely there is.   
  
We have worked to help individuals who have stood by our side and fought
by our side over the course of the last two months since we left — we
ended our military presence there.  
  
We’ve put out — I know the State Department put out numbers on U.S.
citizens and legal permanent residents who have departed from Kabul.  We
wouldn’t be able to do that unless we had the diplomatic presence in
Doha and we’re able to engage with and work with authorities on the
ground.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Last night, also the President said that paid leave
was down to four weeks.  When he said that, did he mean that it would be
a permanent program in that it wouldn’t be sunsetted at any time over
the next decade?  And did he mean that it would be four weeks and scale
up, or just four weeks flat?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think he was conveying that he had proposed 12 weeks; it
was closer to four.  The specifics of the details and where that sits
right now, I don’t have an update for you on.  
  
Q    Okay.  So, closer to four; not necessarily four.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Again, Francesca, he was just speaking to where things stood
last night.  There’s obviously been ongoing discussions this morning,
but clearly making sure paid leave is a — is law, is a reality for
working parents across the country is a priority.  That’s why he
proposed it.  But in terms of the exact status, I don’t have an update
for you on that in this moment.  
  
Q    And on free community college, he said, “I promise you, I guarantee
you we’re going to get free community college in the next several
years…across the board.”  So, what makes him so certain that he’ll be
able to get community college — free community college in the next
several years if it’s not going to be included right now?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  He’s in the first nine months of his presidency, and he
knows and understands, as he said last night, that making community
college accessible, that ensuring we have a more educated workforce out
in the country is in the interest of the private sector, in the interest
of U.S. competitiveness, and certainly in the interest of the American
people.  There’s still discussions about how to make community college
more accessible, more affordable.  These pieces are still being
negotiated.   
  
I think what you heard from him or what the American people heard from
him last night is not just his marital obligation, but is his commitment
to getting this done because he thinks it’s in the interests of the
United States and our workforce here.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  Thank you.  I’d like to ask first about press
access and then about coronavirus origins.   
  
We, as a press corps, are fairly unanimous in our opposition to the
mysterious prescreening process that’s been going on for presidential
events in the East Room, and so I’m hoping that you can demystify for us
how White House staff are selecting which journalists get into these
events.  Is it first come, first served, or something else?  Also, how
long will this prescreening remain in place?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we have — we are still in the middle of a pandemic, as
you know.  People are wearing masks in this room as a reflection of
that.  We have certain requirements here, as well, among staff.  And I
think we don’t have this size of numbers that we would all like to have
in the East Room, and we hope that we make changes to that soon.  
  
Q    Yes.  But how are the decisions made about who —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Is that not important that we’re going to expand access and
make sure more people can get into the East Wing?  
  
Q    Well, that’s welcome news to everyone here.  But how are the
decisions made about who gets to go in?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  There’s a limited number that we have based on how many —
how many people are attending as guests.   
  
Q    Is it first come, first served then?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any more information on that.  
  
Go ahead, Karen.  
  
Q    My second question —   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think we’re going to move on.  
  
Go ahead, Karen.  I think we’re going to move on.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Has the President spoken to Senators Manchin or
Sinema today, since the town hall last night?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any updates on his calls specifically, but we
have been in regular touch with them, even through the course of the
morning, from senior staff.  
  
Q    And you had said, in answer to Phil’s question, that, you know, the
President last night was focusing on the nitty-gritty details and that
he was candid about where the negotiations stood.  He was also much more
candid in pointing out the roadblocks that Senators Manchin and Sinema
have put up to some of the things he would like to do, and what they’re
opposed to.  Did he do that to try and move them through public
pressure, or was it to lay the groundwork for what will be a
scaled-back, final deal on this?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  He was simply candidly answering questions.  He also
referred to Senator Sinema as someone who’s “smart as the devil,” which
he has used many times in the past to describe the Vice President, to
describe Rahm Emanuel.  It’s a point of endearment from him.   
  
He describes Senator Manchin as “a friend.”  He believes and continues
to believe that he is negotiating and working with both senators in good
faith and that we all are working towards shared objectives.   
  
So, he was simply answering questions that were asked by the audience
and the moderator.  
  
Q    Can I follow up?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead, George.   
  
Q    Yeah, this follows a little bit on the — on that.  This week has
been an interesting mix of inside game with his —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — behind-the-scenes talks and outside game with Scranton and
Baltimore.   
  
My question is whether the time has passed where speeches can be
expected to be effective in moving any votes. I mean, do you think any
member watched the town hall meeting and said, “Oh, that’s going to
change my vote”?  (Laughter.)  
  
MS. PSAKI:  You know, I’m not sure that his audience was — were people
who are currently residing in this area — in this area code — in the ZIP
Code.  Right?   
  
His audience was the American people who have questions about what this
means for them for childcare and how it will help them, for people who
really want to send their kids to pre-k but can’t afford it, for people
who are worried about paid leave and hoping that’s a reality for them
when they’re at the point of having children or needing to care for
loved ones.   
  
And so, this was really — the audience was really the public and the
American people.  And the vast majority of questions came from
individuals in the audience last night.  
  
Q    But isn’t it fair to say that the important thing right now is the
— him working his relationships and the inside game to get the votes?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  That — that is — has been important from the beginning.  And
the President has obviously played a key role here in bringing different
viewpoints together toward a shared path forward.  That’s the role that
he play — has played as President, the role he promised to play when he
ran for President — again, running on the fact that compromise is not a
dirty word.  And he believes he can bring people together from differing
viewpoints.  
  
He also believes — and a lot of members will tell you or others this too
— that part of his role is talking to the American public about the
benefits of these packages and explaining to them beyond sometimes the
noise — an important conversation about the mechanisms of who’s for it
and against it and the size and the numbers — about how this is going to
help them.  So last night was an opportunity to do that.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  My first question is on the President’s climate
agenda.  So, yesterday, Karine seemed to suggest that should CEPP fail
to be included in the reconciliation bill, executive action is an
option.  Do I have that correctly — do I understand that correctly,
first of all?   
  
And then second, should his climate agenda fail in Congress — whether
it’s CEPP or other components — can we expect executive action, some
sort of executive order before the President’s trip to Europe so that he
may have a stronger message on the global stage on climate?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, Pa- — I think it’s important to note that some of the
progress the President has made to date — some has been executive
action, like rejoining the Paris Agreement, but some has been simply by
working with leaders — leaders in the auto industry to bring them
together, to agree upon shared investments in the electric vehicles
industry.   
  
So, there’s a lot of ways that the President will continue to work, use
the levers of his power to make sure we are reaching his bold and
ambitious goals.  
  
And we’ve talked a little bit in here about the Rhodium study from the
other day, which showed that there are a lot of different paths forward
to reach those goals — some of them legislative, some of them through
actions he can take as President, some of them through working with the
private sector and other — other leaders who share his commitment to
getting — to addressing the climate crisis.  
  
Q    But it seems like you’re not opposing that option.   
  
My second question —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, you — I didn’t — I actually don’t think that’s the
case.  
  
Q    Okay.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  So, I’d —  
  
Q    All right.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Just to be clear — what was your question?  Just to be clear
for the record here.  
  
Q    “Could there be an executive action before the President leaves for
Europe next week” is my —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think what I was giving for you is a contextual answer on
how we’re going to achieve our climate objectives, which is, of course,
what he’s going to go to Paris — well, Paris, we’re not going there. 
(Laughter.)  But what — I’m always, like, a little — I wish.  He — what
he’s going to talk about when he’s in Glasgow.  
  
And I think what leaders will understand is that there are a lot of
paths to get there.  This is a President who is committed to addressing
the climate crisis.  He’s taken executive action.  He’s also brought
leaders together.   
  
And as you heard him say last night, he’s confident that we can get this
passed and get the biggest climate bill passed through Congress in the —
in the near term.  
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    I have second question —  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.   
  
Q    — Jen — sorry — on — and I’m going to try this again.  I know
you’ve answered the question on Taiwan like 10 times already.  But as
you said yourself, “Words matter.”   
  
So my question is: Did the President simply misspoke last night?  Or was
he actually sending a signal that there may be some sort of informal
shift, that the U.S. commitment towards Taiwan may be more firm?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  His policy has not changed —  
  
Q    I know you said that —   
  
MS. PSAKI:  But that’s, I think, important for people to know and
understand.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Jen, a quick question — a follow-up from yesterday. Your colleague,
Karine, said: Last year, under Trump, during the holidays, “families
were facing down a dark winter with less economic security than ever
before.”   
  
But this year, families are facing the highest gas prices in 70 ye- — 7
years, 30 percent higher costs to heat their homes, inflation that is
almost five times higher than it was in December.  Groceries are more
expensive.  
  
So, I’m wondering what Americans are facing this Thanksgiving and
Christmas under President Biden when looking at economic security?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say we have cut in half the unemployment rate,
created 5 million jobs, ensured that 180 million Americans have vacci- —
have been vaccinated since last year.   
  
So, yes, are there still — as the economy is turning back on, are there
still fundamental issues we’re working through?  Absolutely.  That’s why
the President is pushing to get his agenda done.   
  
But I think there’s no question that, a year ago, when we were locked in
our homes; when 1 — only 1 percent of people were vaccinated; when 10
percent of people in this country were unemployed, that was an
incredibly dark time and dark period in our country.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks so much, Jen.  I want to ask you about public opinion polls,
which I’m sure you recognize.  The President’s public opinion polls have
declined sharply over the last few months.  And I want to get a sense
from you, in speaking to your White House colleagues, why you think that
is?   
  
I know you’ve mentioned COVID before, but is it also because of the
chaotic withdrawal from Afghanistan?  Is it the stalled agenda for
President Biden?  What do you suppose is the reason that we’ve seen this
slide in the President’s approval ratings?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, a lot of people in this room work for organizations
that have done polls, and there’s a lot of underlying data in them.  And
sometimes it differs.  
  
So, I would just go back to what our view is — is that we’re still going
through a hard time in this country, and people are tired of fighting a
pandemic.  They’re tired of the impact on their lives.  Some of them are
sick and tired of people who won’t get vaccinated, who they feel are
impacting their ability to live life in a normal way.  Some people are
still fearful for loved ones.  And we all thought that it would be over
at this point in time.  Obviously, the Delta variant and other factors
have led to — this to be extended.   
  
So, there’s no question that the fatigue with COVID is impacting people
around the country.  The President understands that; he’s empathetic to
that.  And he knows that the best thing he can do is help get COVID
under control, continue to work to address some fundamental issues in
our economy, put people back to work, and that’s what he’s focused on
every day.  
  
Q    And then how do you turn things around, Jen?  What’s the way?   Is
it just getting victories?  Is it in passing the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Bill?  What’s the way that you think President Biden can
turn around these sliding approval ratings?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  He can keep his head focused on doing the job — doing the
job as President, leading the American people, make — putting in place
fundamental changes that will make people’s lives better.  
  
Go ahead, Shelby.  
  
Q    Thanks.  The DHS Secretary said — I think it’s just about a month
ago now — that the investigation into the horseback Border Patrol agents
would be completed in days, not weeks.  Has the White House received any
update on this investigation?  Was there any conclusion on whether the
Border Patrol agents were whipping migrants?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  It’s really under the Homeland Security Department.  I can
check with them and see what the status is.  I know what he said at the
time, and I will see if there’s any particular update on that.  
  
Q   So is the White House in active communication with the DHS on this? 
Like, do we know why this has been stalled?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yes, but they’re overseeing the investigation, so we’ll — I
would point to them on any update on the status.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.  Okay, one more.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Seeing what we — what we’re witnessing happen in
Haiti right now with the threat of — the 17 missionaries threated to be
killed, is there any conversation within the administration to stop
deportations that are happening or using the administration’s power to
grant humanitarian parole?  What’s being done?  Or even adding U.S.
military presence on the ground?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  So, what I think it’s important to note here is, obviously,
we are working around the clock to bring these people home.  They’re
U.S. citizens.  And there has been targeting over the course of the last
few years of U.S. citizens in Haiti — and other countries, too.  It’s
not the only country, but since we’re talking about Haiti and — for
kidnapping for ransom.  
  
That is one of the reasons that the State Department issued the warning
they did in August about the risk of kidnapping for ransom.  
  
So, this is a little bit of a different category of individuals in the
country and what they’re being targeted for.  That’s why we issued that
warning.   
  
At the same time, we are continuing to provide humanitarian assistance,
to work with officials on the ground, to work through our embassy to
certainly address the underlying conditions as people in the country
attempt to move forward or try to recover from a combination of the
earthquake and the assassination of the leader.   
  
Thanks so much.  
  
Q    But not so much with deportations?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Again, I think it’s important to note that these individuals
were citiz- — U.S. citizens —  
  
Q    Right.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  — who were targeted.  It’s — so we’re working to bring them
home.   
  
Obviously, the Department of Homeland Security and State does evaluate
any conditions before they send people back to any country, as they’ve
done here, and there has been no change.  
  
Thank you, everyone.   
  
2:56 P.M. EDT
