---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-10-13'
modified_time: 2021-10-13 14:29:40-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/10/13/press-briefing-by-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-public-health-officials-61/
published_time: 2021-10-13 14:45:00-04:00
title: "Press Briefing by White\_House COVID-\u206019 Response Team and Public Health\_\
  Officials"
---
 
Via Teleconference 

11:13 A.M. EDT  
  
MR. ZIENTS: Good morning, and thanks for joining us. I’ll turn to Drs.
Walensky, Fauci, and Murthy in a moment.  
  
First, I want to provide an update on our efforts to protect more
Americans by getting more shots in arms, starting with vaccinating the
unvaccinated.  
  
We’ve made tremendous progress across the past nine months. As of today,
77 percent of eligible Americans — those 12 and older — have gotten at
least their first shot.  
  
And thanks to the President’s leadership on vaccination requirements, we
continue to make important progress.  
  
More than 3,500 organizations — from healthcare systems, to educational
institutions, to state and local governments, to private businesses —
have already stepped up to adopt vaccination requirements.  
  
These vaccination requirements have increased vaccination rates by
20-plus percentage points, with organizations routinely seeing their
share of fully vaccinated workers rise above 90 percent.  
  
On Monday, Washington state announced that more than 90 percent of state
employees are now fully vaccinated. That’s up from around 49 percent
just five weeks ago, with more people getting vaccinated each day ahead
of the state’s October 18th deadline.  
  
And importantly, since late July, when the President first announced
vaccination requirements and called on organizations to follow his lead,
the number of eligible Americans who are unvaccinated has decreased by
about one third — from 97 million down to 66 million individuals.  
  
Every day, there is stronger evidence that vaccination requirements are
working. They’re driving up vaccination rates.  
  
Higher vaccination rates make workplaces, schools, and communities
safer; accelerate our path out of the pandemic; and strengthen our
economy.  
  
According to economists at Goldman Sachs, vaccination requirements could
help return up to 5 million workers into the labor force as people feel
safer going back to the workplace and face fewer disruptions, including
to childcare.  
  
Higher vaccination rates will also increase consumer demand and spending
as people feel more comfortable traveling, dining out at restaurants,
and shopping at local small businesses.  
  
It’s straightforward: People want to work, shop, and visit where they
feel safe. And that’s why vaccination requirements are supported by a
majority of the American people and are becoming the standard across all
sectors.  
  
In fact, just yesterday, Boeing — one of the nation’s largest employers
— announced that it will require its 130,000-person U.S. workforce to be
fully vaccinated by December 8th.  
  
And we will see more and more organizations adopt vaccination
requirements in the coming weeks.  
  
Next, a brief update on our boosters program.  
  
By the end of today, we estimate that over 7 million Americans will have
gotten their booster shot, including about 3 million just in the last
week. And importantly, in less than three weeks, more than one in three
eligible seniors have already gotten their third shot.  
  
So, our program is off to a very strong start and continues to
accelerate.  
  
As we await the FDA and the CDC’s decisions on potential Moderna and J&J
boosters in the coming days, we’re working with our partners to prepare.
We have the vaccine supply, and we will be ready to hit the ground
running as soon as any additional boosters are authorized.  
  
I’ll close with this: We are on the right track in our fight against the
virus. Two out of three eligible individuals — 188 million Americans —
are now fully vaccinated, with more Americans getting vaccinated each
day.  The most vulnerable among us are getting extra protection from a
booster.  
  
We have the tools, the resources, and the know-how to accelerate our
path out of this pandemic, and we are not letting up. We’re
laser-focused on getting more shots in arms. And we’ll keep using every
available tool to protect people and keep following the science to stay
ahead of the virus.  
  
But as the President has said from day one, we need everyone to do their
part. So, if you’re unvaccinated or eligible for a booster, please go
get a shot. It’s free. It’s safe. It’s convenient. And it will protect
you, your loved ones, and your community.  
  
With that, over to you, Dr. Walensky.  
  
DR. WALENSKY: Thank you, Jeff. Good morning everyone. Let’s begin with
an overview of the data.  
  
We ended last week with a seven-day daily average of cases of about
92,600 cases per day, which represents a decrease of about 12 percent
over the previous week.  
  
Last week, our seven-day average of hospital admissions was about 7,080
per day — also a decrease of about 11 percent from the previous week.  
  
And seven-day average daily deaths last week was about 1,400 per day — a
decrease of about 5 percent from the previous week.  
  
We’re halfway through October and two months into the schoolyear. At the
start of the year, we made it clear that our goal was to have children
in school for in-person learning. We know this is best for their
education, as well as their social and emotional wellbeing.  
  
To keep kids in school, it’s important that we have the measures in
place to protect children from COVID-19. For those who are eligible,
this means vaccination. For those who are not yet eligible for vaccines,
it means putting in place layered prevention strategies, including masks
for all students, teachers, and staff; improved ventilation; increased
access to testing; and community-wide vaccination efforts to protect our
children.  
  
CDC is working closely with school districts across the country to
continue to demonstrate the importance of implementing layered
prevention strategies in schools. Our ongoing work with state, local,
and territorial health departments assist with their K-through-12 school
testing plans, providing resources, guidance, and technical assistance
to effectively carry out these strategies.  
  
Additionally, CDC offers schools the options to be matched with a peer
school to facilitate discussions about challenges and implementation of
prevention strategies, such as screening protocols, that these schools
might be facing and creative solutions that will better equip teachers
and administrators to meet those challenges.  
  
Recently, we published two important studies in the MMWR. The first
study looked at COVID-19-related school closures across the country and
found that through the end of September, 96 percent of schools remained
open for full in-person learning; 1,800 schools had closures
attributable to COVID-19 outbreaks, and these closures affected nearly 1
million students.  
  
At the start of the year, we made it clear that we wanted children in
school for in-person learning. And today, more than 95 percent are open
full time.  
  
The second study was done in collaboration with Maricopa and Pima
Counties in Arizona. Schools in these counties resumed in-person
learning in late July. Nearly 1,000 schools were included in the final
analysis. And in the first month and a half of learning, there were 113
COVID-19 outbreaks in schools that had no mask requirement and only 16
COVID-19 outbreaks in schools with early mask requirements.  
  
In this Arizona study, schools without a mask requirement were three and
a half times likelier to have a COVID-19 outbreak than schools that
require masks. Masks in schools work to protect our children, to keep
them and their school community safe, and to keep them in school for
in-person learning.  
  
It’s important that we not only protect children when they’re in school
but also that we protect them at home and in the community so they can
prevent COVID-19 from entering schools in the first place.  
  
Last week, CDC led a study that was published in JAMA Pediatrics that
looked at the risk of COVID-19 in children during periods of high
transmission in the community. Households with at least one child in New
York City and multiple counties in Utah were included in the analysis.
In the study, children had similar infection rates compared with adults,
confirming that risk in community translates to risk inside the
household and risk to people of all ages. Children were more likely to
be asymptomatic than adults.  
  
A second study published in JAMA Internal Medicine showed what happens
when children are surrounded by people in their household who are
vaccinated. In this study, nearly 2 million people from over 800,000
families were included. Each family had between two and five family
members. And the study demonstrated that as the number of family members
vaccinated against COVID-19 increased, the risk to the unvaccinated
family members decreased. Families with three or more family members
vaccinated provided greater than 90 percent protection for those who
were unvaccinated.  
  
For those children who are not yet eligible for vaccination, the best
protection we can provide them is to make sure that everyone around them
in the household is vaccinated and that they are wearing a mask when
they’re at school and during their indoor extracurricular activities.  
  
I strongly encourage those who have not yet been vaccinated against
COVID-19 to consider the benefits of receiving a COVID-19 vaccine and to
get vaccinated and to get their eligible teenagers vaccinated — not just
for themselves, but also for their children and families.  
  
Thank you. I’ll now turn things over to Dr. Fauci.  
  
DR. FAUCI: Thank you very much, Dr. Walensky.  
  
Very often, my colleagues on the medical team and I get asked, “Where
are we in this outbreak? Where are we going? And where might we be as we
go into the coming winter?” I thought it would be useful to very briefly
put this into perspective of outbreaks in general.  
  
If I can have the first slide.  
  
When one thinks in terms of pandemics, there are multiple areas that one
can go through. The first is the pandemic phase of the outbreak. Much of
the world — and in some respects, including ourselves — are still in the
pandemic phase.  
  
As I’ll mention in a moment, there is a point where you get a decline in
the acceleration and a turnaround of cases where, as I’ll mention very
shortly, that’s where we are.  
  
But then there’s the issue of control. What do we mean by “control”?
Mainly, there’s a low level of infection that doesn’t disrupt society in
any meaningful way. For example, there are countries in Africa that used
to be beset with an extraordinary amount of malaria, and now malaria is
not absent, but it is very well controlled.  
  
And then there’s elimination. We’ve eliminated, for example, polio from
the United States. And except for an occasional breakthrough in
unvaccinated groups, we’ve done the same with measles. Some countries in
Africa that used to have malaria have eliminated it.  
  
And there’s been only one disease that’s a human disease that’s been
eradicated, and that is smallpox.  
  
So, let’s look at where we are right now with COVID-19.  
  
Next slide.  
  
As I mentioned, much of the world and until very recently — and still we
are in some aspects in the pandemic phase of the outbreak. However, most
recently, as shown on the chart by Dr. Walensky — next slide — we are
seeing now a decline in acceleration and the turnaround of cases.  
  
Where do we ultimately want to be? As I mentioned, it is going to be
very difficult — at least in the foreseeable future and maybe ever — to
truly eliminate this highly transmissible virus. And again, as I
mentioned, we’ve only eradicated one.  
  
So, what are we looking for?  
  
Next slide.  
  
We’re looking for a level of control of the virus that would allow us to
be able to essentially approach the kind of normal that we are all
craving for and that we all talk about.  
  
Next slide.  
  
So, let’s go to the — to the schematic that Dr. Walensky showed us. And
take a look at where we’ve been and where we hope to be. If you look at
the far left of the slide, we had that surge in the early spring of
2020. And then when we got into the early summer, we had another surge.
But, note, we never got to the point — we always went to a peak, the
acceleration diminished, and we turned the corner and we came back down,
but we never got to control.  
  
Look at the late fall in red. We had a major peak. It came down, but,
again, we never got it under what we would call “adequate control.”  
  
And then we have the most recent on the far-hand right, and that’s where
we are right now. We had an acceleration. We had a peak. And as Dr.
Walensky just mentioned, all three of the parameters — cases,
hospitalizations, and deaths — are going down. But we have got to do
better than that.  
  
Where do we need to be to get control?  
  
Next slide.  
  
We need to get that curve to go much further down than it is because
we’re dealing with a situation where you have a highly transmissible
virus and where the dynamics of the virus are at 80- to 90,000 cases a
day. That’s not where you want to be.  
  
So, how can we get to that level of control?  
  
Next slide.  
  
Obviously, you know what the answer is: It’s vaccination. But as shown
here, we still have — as we emphasize over and over again — about 66
million people who are eligible to be vaccinated who remain
unvaccinated. And the age groups are shown on the bar graph:
Horizontally are the ages; vertically is the percent vaccinated.  
  
Note that, particularly among the younger groups, we have a long way to
go. We can get to control. Without a doubt, it is within our power and
within our capability.  
  
Next slide.  
  
And my final message is going to be: We know that these vaccines work
because, when you look at the real-world efficacy, including that in the
United States — that if you compare fully vaccinated people with
unvaccinated, they have a five times lesser likelihood of getting
infected, a ten to eleven to twelve times less likelihood of being
hospitalized, and a more than ten times less likelihood of dying.  
  
And the final message of all of us is always the same on the last slide:
Protect yourself and those around you. Vaccination is the answer to
getting us to control.  
  
Back to you, Dr. Murthy.  
  
SURGEON GENERAL MURTHY: Well, thank you, Dr. Fauci. And it’s good to be
with everyone again this morning.  
  
Today I want to share an update about two of the upcoming vaccine
decisions we’re looking ahead to in the next month. Number one,
decisions about boosters. And number two, decisions about the Pfizer
vaccine for kids age 5 to 11.  
  
Let’s start by stepping back and talking about the role that advisory
committees often play for two of our most important public health
agencies: the FDA and the CDC.  
  
Now the first committee to meet is the FDA’s Vaccines and Related
Biological Products Advisory Committee, or VRBPAC.  
  
VRBPAC holds a public meeting where scientific experts weigh in on the
data and discuss key scientific questions. Following the VRBPAC meeting,
the FDA synthesizes the committee’s proceedings and then makes an
official decision that can be implemented by our healthcare system.  
  
A similar process is then conducted by the CDC. The CDC’s Advisory
Committee on Immunization Practices — or A-C-I-P, or ACIP — holds a
public meeting where scientific experts weigh in on the data and on key
questions.  
  
Then, following the ACIP meeting, the CDC takes their input into account
and makes a clinical recommendation for healthcare providers.  
  
To summarize: VRBPAC offers their advice, then the FDA makes a decision;
ACIP offers their advice, and the CDC makes a decision. The advisory
committees are a valuable part of the process, and they provide helpful
guidance to the FDA and CDC as the agencies themselves make their
ultimate decisions.  
  
Now, this process is not new; it’s been around long before COVID-19.
During the pandemic, this same process has been implemented for major
decisions — from the initial vaccine authorization for Pfizer, Moderna,
and J&J; to the authorization of our vaccine for children 12 to 16; and
most recently, the Pfizer booster shot recommendations.  
  
But it’s worth reviewing this process because in the next month, it will
unfold again for two very important decisions: first, the decision about
whether to authorize booster shots for Moderna and J&J recipients, and
then the decision about whether to authorize vaccines for children under
12.  
  
Regarding boosters for Moderna and J&J recipients, VRBPAC will begin
meeting tomorrow, followed by ACIP next Wednesday. So, we anticipate
hearing decisions from both the FDA and CDC very soon afterward.  
  
Then, regarding pediatric vaccines, VRBPAC will meet beginning on
October 26th, followed by ACIP on November 2nd. So we could hear
decisions from both agencies — the FDA and CDC — by early November, and
we will be ready to implement their recommendations as soon as we hear
them.  
  
Finally, I just want to highlight that all of these layers of review —
the thousands of pages of data, the expert committees, and the fact that
this is open to the public — they should all bolster our confidence that
we have a rigorous, independent, and transparent review process for
vaccines in our country.  
  
That confidence is why I will be ready to recommend to my eligible
family members and friends that they get their Moderna and J&J booster
shot if it’s authorized. It’s why I will be ready to take my
five-year-old son to get his first vaccine dose as soon as we hear the
final word from the FDA and CDC.  
  
And as always, we will keep everyone updated about the final
recommendations so that we can all use them to make informed decisions
about our health and the health of our loved ones.  
  
Thanks for your time today. I’ll turn it back to Jeff for questions.  
  
MR. ZIENTS: Well, thank you, Doctors. Let’s open it up for a few
questions.  
  
Kevin.  
  
OPERATOR: Thanks, Jeff. A reminder to keep your question to one
question. First, we will go to Dave Schaper at NPR.  
  
Q  Hi. Thank you for taking the question. I have a question about
airline pilots.  
  
Commercial airline pilots are held to pretty high physical fitness
standards. They undergo medical evaluation every six months to maintain
their medical certificate to fly. And pilots at American and Southwest
Airlines, in particular, are arguing that some pilots may be reluctant
to get vaccinated because of concerns about potential for career-ending
side effects.  
  
They note that, you know, the FAA’s Federal Air Surgeon has ordered
pilots not to fly for 48 hours after each shot because of the immediate
side effects. They’re concerned there could be long-term side effects
that could cause them to then lose their medical certification and thus
lose their jobs and their livelihood.  
  
So, is this a valid concern? What are the potential long-term side
effects, if any, if a pilot is vaccinated?  
  
MR. ZIENTS: Let me turn to Dr. Fauci about the safety and effectiveness
of the vaccines.  
  
Dr. Fauci.  
  
DR. FAUCI: Thank you, Jeff. Well, right now, on the basis of literally
hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of millions of vaccinations that
we’ve had, the safety of these vaccines have been clearly established.  
  
When you look at immediate reactogenicity, that’s what the airlines are
talking about — about not having a person fly for, I believe, 24 to 48
hours after because we do know that it is not uncommon to get a sore arm
or to maybe get a low-grade fever or some aches that almost invariably
diminish and dissipate over a period of a couple of days.  
  
The long-term effects that the people are apparently concerned about
really have with — I’m sure there is a very very, very, very, very rare
exception, but the long-term effects are really essentially nonexistent
in the sense of anything that has been a red flag on the part of the
follow-up of these individuals.  
  
So, although one, I guess, can theoretically say, “I’m concerned about a
long-term effect,” the fact of the safety and the follow-up over now —
over a considerable period of time — almost a year in so many
individuals — we have just not seen that.  
  
So, we don’t really see any true basis in that concern.  
  
SURGEON GENERAL MURTHY: And, Jeff, if I could just add also, exactly —
totally agree with what Dr. Fauci said. I would also note that serious
side effects with the vaccines are very rare. We have a lot of data to
show that.  
  
But consider the alternative: If pilots get COVID-19, the consequences
to their health can be significant. The more we’ve learned about COVID,
we’ve learned that it not only impacts the lungs, but it can impact the
nervous system, the cardiovascular system. It can impact the kidneys. It
can impact many systems in our body. This is a serious infection. So,
the best way to protect yourself against long-term health consequences
is actually to get vaccinated.  
  
DR. FAUCI: Yeah. And, Jeff, one other thing also to emphasize, when
pilots worry about impact on their career: We know that anywhere from 10
to 30 percent of people who get COVID, even when they recover from the
organ system issues of COVID, they can get what’s called “long COVID.”  
  
And we have examples of people — they may not necessarily be pilots,
maybe there are some — who actually have gotten COVID and have had an
unexplained but real impacting on their ability to function normally.  
  
So, just to underscore what Dr. Murthy said, getting COVID is far, far
worse than getting vaccinated for absolutely certain.  
  
MR. ZIENTS: Wonderful. Next question, please.  
  
MODERATOR: Cheyenne Haslett at ABC News.  
  
Q  Thank you. I was wondering if, Dr. Walensky, you could walk us
through your considerations around test-to-stay policies in schools, and
if and when the CDC will be issuing guidance on this.  
  
DR. WALENSKY: Yeah, thank you for that question, Cheyenne. So, we are
working with states to evaluate a test-to-stay policy as a promising
potential new strategy for schools. And we anticipate that there will be
guidance forthcoming.  
  
MR. ZIENTS: Dr. Walensky, do you want to just expand for a few sentences
for those who don’t know the actual policy?  
  
DR. WALENSKY: Oh, sorry. Yes, absolutely. So, a test-to-stay policy
would be a policy where rather than students quarantining after
potential exposure that they could potentially instead come back to
school but test so that we would know, as they’re returning to school on
a frequent testing basis, that they were safe coming back to school.  
  
MR. ZIENTS: Good. Next question, please.  
  
MODERATOR: Go to Jeff Mason at Reuters.  
  
Q  Hi, thanks very much. Following up on what you were saying, Dr.
Fauci, can you give us a sense of what risks you are expecting this
country and the world to face over the winter, in terms of other
variants?  
  
And sort of along the same lines, for Dr. Walensky, the figures that you
cited show kind of positive news with the cases and hospitalizations and
deaths coming down. Is it too early to say we’re turning the corner? And
what kind of implications will that have for masking and other
policies?  
  
MR. ZIENTS: Dr. Fauci?

DR. FAUCI: Yeah, let me answer the first part of that question. We know
now, and we’ve had experience over several weeks to months, that the
Delta variant is entirely dominant as the isolate in this country. It’s
more than 99 percent of the isolates are Delta.

There are other variants that are around — certainly not in any manner
or form more than a fraction of a percent in this country. So, we don’t
expect there to be any emergence of a variant that’s going to outstrip
the capability of Delta.  
  
However, as we’ve always said — and I’ll repeat it again for clarity — a
virus will not mutate or form a variant unless you give it the
opportunity to replicate. So, as long as you get back to what I
mentioned in my presentation — control of the dynamics of virus in the
community, which is best done by getting the overwhelming proportion of
the population vaccinated — then we can prevent the emergence of new,
troublesome variants.  
  
Over to you, Rochelle.  
  
DR. WALENSKY: Great. Thanks. And certainly, it’s absolutely encouraging
that our cases are coming down. I want to highlight what Dr. Fauci said
in his presentation. And that is, despite the recent decrease in cases,
most communities across the country are still experiencing substantial
to high levels of community transmission and we’re certainly not at a
place where our cases are in a control area, as Dr. Fauci noted.  
  
So, we absolutely need to stay focused on continuing to get COVID under
control around the country, especially as we head into the fall and
winter season — respiratory virus season. And that includes sticking
with our prevention measures that we know work. That includes masking.
And, of course, that includes getting vaccinated, getting your family
vaccinated, getting your booster if you’re eligible.  
  
MR. ZIENTS: Yeah, Jeff, I would just emphasize what Dr. Fauci and Dr.
Walensky both said, which is we should focus on what we do know. And
what we do know is that getting people vaccinated is the best way to
accelerate the path out of the pandemic. And we talked about the
progress: Three out of four eligible Americans have gotten at least
their first shot, but there’s clearly more work to be done. And we know
that getting more people vaccinated is how it we’ll accelerate the path
out of the pandemic to bring down cases, hospitalizations, and deaths.  
  
Next question.  
  
MODERATOR: A couple more questions. Let’s go to Brenda Goodman at
WebMD.  
  
MR. ZIENTS: Brenda?  
  
Q  Hi. Sorry. Can you hear me now?  
  
MR. ZIENTS: Now we can. Yes, thank you.  
  
MODERATOR: Yep.  
  
Q  Sorry about that.  
  
Jeff, you have said before that pending appropriate regulatory approvals
and recommendations for CDC, that when it comes to the vaccines for
children that could be coming out, that you expect that the rollout at
pediatricians’ offices and other community sites. I was hoping that you
might be able — do you have any guidance for parents about what to
expect? Where will those — how will kids get vaccinated? Where will they
get vaccinated?  
  
MR. ZIENTS: That’s a good question, and we actually just spent time with
governors and their teams across the last couple of days, and we’ll
continue to work very closely with the state teams, with our community
health centers, and with pharmacies.  
  
The — as you know, the FDA, as Dr. Murthy said, has scheduled — has
scheduled meetings for late this month and early next month, so we’ve
been in frequent conversations, as I mentioned, with all the providers
to get them prepared — the same way we got folks prepared for a
successful launch of the Pfizer booster campaign.  
  
We’ve asked governors to take steps to enroll providers, such as
pediatricians. We’ll rely heavily on pediatricians and family doctors in
the vaccination programs so they can bring — they can begin providing
vaccinations right away.  
  
We’ve asked states to plan outreach and education campaigns focused on
parents and families in the communities. And we’ve communicated and will
continue to communicate that equity, as it has been with all of our
efforts, needs to be front and center. That means ensuring that we have
sites in areas of high social vulnerability and also in rural areas.  
  
If it’s authorized by the FDA and CDC, we will be ready. And we have the
supply. I want to emphasize it’s a different supply; the dose for kids
is a different dose than adults, so we’ll be getting different supply to
providers. We’ll bring that vaccine, as we’ve talked about, to
pediatricians’ offices, also directly to schools, where appropriate, and
to community sites. And we’ll work with trusted messengers, as we have
throughout — particularly those trusted messengers who can answer
questions for parents and kids.  
  
So we’ll make it convenient and easy for parents and kids to get
vaccinated. We have the supply, and we will be ready.  
  
Kevin.  
  
MODERATOR: Last question. Let’s go to Meg Tirrell at CNBC.  
  
Q  Well, thank you. I was just hoping to follow up on what Dr. Fauci was
saying about “control.” Dr. Fauci, what is that threshold that would
actually mean that COVID is under control? I think in the past you’ve —
you’ve said maybe 10,000 cases per day, which might be 100 deaths per
day, which would make it similar to the flu. But does that mean we’re
just kind of perpetually living with COVID like a bad flu season? What
does “control” actually look like? What’s that threshold?  
  
DR. FAUCI: Well, I can’t give you, Meg, the precise number. I mean, I
have said in the past — and I think it’s a reasonable assumption — I’ve
said “less than 10,000.” I would hope it would be considerably less than
10,000.  
  
Regarding it being like the flu, people have spoken in those terms. I
don’t know if we could definitively say that. The one thing that we do
know is that we have a vaccine for COVID-19 that’s far, far better than
the vaccines that we have for influenza. So, that might be the wild card
in there to make it not like the flu and get much, much lower than we
get with a flu season. That’s what I would hope would happen.  
  
But again, as I’ve said over and over again, the way we will get to that
form of control, whatever that number is, is by getting vaccinated
because we have a very good, highly effective, and safe vaccine.  
  
MR. ZIENTS: Thank you, everybody. We look forward to the next
briefing.  
  
11:45 A.M. EDT

To view the COVID Press Briefing slides,
visit: <https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/COVID-Press-Briefing_13October2021.pdf>
