---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-10-25'
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/10/25/press-gaggle-by-principal-deputy-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-en-route-newark-nj/
published_time: 2021-10-25 12:27:29-04:00
title: "Press Gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre En Route\
  \ Newark,\_NJ"
---
 
10:15 A.M. EDT  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hey, everybody.  All right, I’ll try and be nice and
loud for folks. 

Good morning.  Thanks for joining us bright and early.  For the
President’s trip to New Jersey, as you all know, the President will
visit two classrooms at East End Elementary School, a Title I school,
and provides preschool for roughly 70 four-year-olds.  The school is
part of the North Plainfield School District, which provides access to
free preschool for all of its four-year-olds.

President Biden’s Build Back Better Agenda would enable the district to
expand its program and — to three-year-olds and make high-quality
childcare accessible and affordable for middle-class families.

The President will also deliver remarks at the New Jersey Transit
Meadowlands Maintenance Complex in Kearny, which is near the Portal
North Bridge, the busiest rail bridge in the Western Hemisphere.  The
bridge is being replaced as part of a group of projects known as the
Gateway Program that will improve transit and Amtrak Northeast Corridor
service in the Tri-State Region.

The President’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal makes the largest federal
investment in public transit ever and the largest investment in
passenger rail since the creation of Amtrak 50 years ago.  It includes
$30 billion for the Northeast Corridor, $6 billion in grants to Amtrak
for routine maintenance and upgrades, and $24 billion in partnership
grants for major construction, projects like the — major construction
projects like Hudson Tunnel and River Bridge, or Baltimore and Potomac
Tunnel.

On the ground in New Jersey, the President will see Governor Phil Murphy
and First Lady Tammy Murphy, Representative Tom Malinowski, Frank
<s>Malone</s> \[Pallone\], Donald Payne, Bill Pascrell, Josh Gottheimer,
and Mikie Sherill; Kearny Mayor Alberto Santos; and State Assembly
Member Craig Coughlin.

We have a short flight, so that will be all.  And I will take questions
now.  Go ahead.

Q    Has the President —

Q    Karine, the President basically said — sorry.

Q    Okay.  Thank you.  Has the President been briefed on the coup in
Sudan?  And what is his reaction to the events there today?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, the United States is deeply alarmed at reports —
at reports of a military takeover at the transitional government.  We
reject the actions by the military and call for the immediate release of
the Prime Minister and others who have been placed under house arrest.

The actions today are in stark opposition to the will of the Sudanese
people and their aspirations for peace, liberty, and justice. 

The United States continue to strongly support the Sudanese people’s
demand for a democratic transition in Sudan and will continue to elevate
— evaluate — pardon me — how best to help the Sudanese people achieve
this goal.

Q    Second question.  We — the AP is reporting that Senator Manchin is
open or agreeable to the wealth tax; that’s the tax on billionaires and
certain corporations.  Is that the President’s understanding following
the meeting he had with Senator Manchin in Wilmington yesterday?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, let me first say this: that like the President —
like the President — you just heard from the President.  The meeting was
constructive.  He felt progress was made in moving closer toward an
agreed framework. 

The legislative team and senior members of the House staff have also
been working closely with Hill team throughout the course of the day,
and that’s what we’re going to be continuing to see in the last several
days and weeks.  And that will be continuous.

Look, I — you know, I can’t confirm or anything like that from here, or
negotiate from here, as we’ve always said.  As you know, we can still
raise revenue through a range of other tax fairness proposals — the one
that you just mentioned, you know, which is — and then some other
examples which I know Jen went through and I could just name a few right
now.

Some of the biggest corporations in America — in America pay literally
nothing in income taxes, less than wage-earning families.  We can stop
that by imposing a 15 percent minimum tax to make sure large
corporations pay their fair share; creating a global minimum tax that
will make the United States more competitive, so we need to stop
rewarding companies that offshore profits and American jobs. 

We can close loopholes for high-income Americans, including a loophole
that allows some taxpayers, like hedge fund managers, to escape a
Medicare tax, and impose on all high-end income.  And we can crack down
on wealthy tax cheats who are taking advantage of every honest taxpayer
and invest in enforcement to stop the 1 percent from evading the $160
billion in taxes per year.  
  
So, we have many options, as we’ve talked about.  And so that is just
one.  And, you know, once we get closer — as you know, there’s an
urgency to get this done.  We’re working every day.  There’s progress,
as the Speaker said yesterday and as the President said today.  So,
we’re going to keep going.  We’re going to (inaudible).  
  
Q    Karine, was there — just a quick follow-up.  Was there any
agreement on a topline number?  Or did Senator Manchin agree to more
spending?  I mean, any details — any details that you can share with us
from that meeting?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’ll say this: You know, like I said, it was
progress in the meeting, and the focus is to make sure that there is —
continues to be economic growth, do actual investment in economic growth
for the middle class.  That is what there is all agreement on.   
  
There is agreement that we need to move forward in doing more — right? —
to address the climate crisis, make healthcare more accessible and
affordable, and give more working families breathing room who are
dealing with crushing costs of healthcare, eldercare, and early
childhood education.  
  
We are at the point of negotiating, as Jen likes to say, the “nitty
gritty” of the details — that’s important — but we have a strong base of
agreement.  So, we’re continuing to negotiate.  We’re almost there. 
We’re making progress.  And that’s what we’re headed towards — making
sure we’re getting (inaudible).  
  
Q    And the President said that he expects to — he hopes he will get a
deal this week.  But if that doesn’t happen, I mean, how concerned is
the White House that he’s leaving with one of his key legislative
initiatives unresolved?  He’s leaving the country.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  To your point, he said he wants to make significant
progress.  He wants to see a deal.  So, we’re on track on doing exactly
that.   
  
But just like any President, even when he’s traveling overseas, he will
be engaged closely with his team at the White House and with members to
continue moving his economic agenda forward.  And so that’s the focus. 
We believe we’re going to get it done, and we’re making progress every
day.  
  
Q    Can I follow up on that?  The fact that the President is expected
to be scaling back the climate provisions as a way to get Senator
Manchin on board with an eventual deal, does that undermine the
President’s message at all when he goes to Glasgow for the climate
conference?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, the President — look, President Biden
reestablished U.S. leadership on day one — right? — and that has been
acting on climate every day since.  
  
So, the President will advance his climate agenda using every tool at
his disposal and can make significant progress in curbing emissions,
growing our economy, and good-paying union jobs.  
  
So, as he’s doing that without Congress — the things that I can just
list out for you: leading the shift towards EVs; bringing together
automakers and autoworkers; phasing out super-pollutants, like HFCs to
greatly reduce emissions; making across-government investment in clean
energy, like offshore wind and solar.   
  
So, he’s going to continue doing the work.  But climate, as you could
imagine, is a key — is really important in this Build Back Better
Agenda, and we’re working towards that, and we’re making progress.  
  
Q    And does the destination of New Jersey today reflect any concerns
about the gubernatorial race?  The polling suggests it’s closer than was
once thought.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’ll say this: The President is in New Jersey
today to support the Build Back Better Agenda and the Bipartisan
Infrastructure, both which are critical in New Jersey.  
  
And just like any other state across the country, these — the Build Back
Better Agenda and the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal are critical. 
Again, they’re going to build the economy for the middle-class
Americans, do that physical investment infrastructure, investment in
human infrastructure — focus on human infrastructure.  
  
That is the point of that, yes.  As you know, the President did endorse
Governor Murphy.  But as I said, he’s in New Jersey today to continue
highlighting the importance of his two domestic economic policies.  
  
Q    Karine, has President Biden been briefed on the threat that
President Erdoğan made?  Do you have more on that?  And does he plan to
raise any kind of concerns with President Erdoğan, and will he do a
bilat with him?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have more from here.  I would refer you to the
Department of State on that one.  I just don’t have anything for you
here.  
  
Q    You don’t know if he’s been briefed?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have — I can — I certainly can check, but I
don’t have anything to share at this moment.  
  
Q    Do you have any indication as to whether Turkey will expel the U.S.
ambassador?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I really don’t have anything else to share.  I refer
you to the Department of State.  
  
Q    Can I circle back to your comments about revenue portions of these
discussions?  Does it now seem clear that attacks on unrealized capital
gains for high-wealth people is going to be in this?  Is that something
the President supports?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Could you say that one more time?  
  
Q    Yeah.  So it’s a tax on unrealized capital gains.  In other words,
if you bought like a stock, for instance, and it soared and you haven’t
actually sold it, you haven’t exercised the capital gain, it looks like
there’ll be a tax on that for high earners.  Is that accurate?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t —  
  
Q    And is that something the President supports?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t have anything to confirm right now. As I —
we’ve listed out a couple of opportunities, ways to do the revenue to
make sure that this is indeed paid for, which is the promise that we’ve
made: zero — zero dollars to the debt.  
  
So as we get closer, as we — you know, as we have a deal, we’ll have
more to share on that.  
  
Q  Is the meeting with the Patriarch still on for this evening? Because
he was hospitalized a day or so ago.  
  
(Air Force One lands.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Oh, my gosh. Hold on. All right.  
  
Yeah, so the meeting with the Patriarch this evening is still on.  
  
Q  Is there any chance he would delay his departure for Europe if talks
were continuing? Or will he depart as planned, regardless of talks?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: He’s going to — he’s headed — he’s going to be headed
to Europe this week. Like I said — and like I said in a question that
someone asked me, you know, even if, you know, it doesn’t happen before
he leaves, the President can do the work that he needs to do abroad,
like many presidents before him have done.  
  
Q  Does the White House have any response to the Microsoft officials who
say that there’s a widespread — an ongoing hack led by Russia’s
intelligence agency?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: You guys won’t let me leave today.  
  
Q  That’s (inaudible).  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: (Laughs.) Okay, so for that question, Molly, I refer
you to the Mic- — Microsoft on the details, but I’ll say the following:
According to Microsoft, the activities described were unsophisticated
password spray and phishing attempts for the purpose of surveillance
that cybersecurity exa– — experts say are attempted every day by Russia
and other foreign governments and have been for years. You can prevent
these attempts if the cloud service providers implement baseline
cybersecurity practices, including multifactor authentication.  
  
So, broadly speaking, the federal government is aggressively using our
authorities to protect the nation from cyber threats, including helping
the private sector defend itself through increased intelligence sharing,
innovative partnership to deploy cybersecurity technologies, bilateral
and multilateral diplomacy, and measures we do not speak about publicly
for national security reasons.  
  
Q  Thanks, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: All right, thank you guys.  
  
10:26 A.M. EDT
