---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-10-04'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/10/04/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-october-4-2021/
published_time: 2021-10-04 18:09:41-04:00
title: Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen Psaki, October 4, 2021
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:38 P.M. EDT

MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.  Okay.  Happy Monday.  Two items for all of
you at the top.

We’re seeing strong movement and early action toward vaccine
requirements across industries and, importantly, in the airlines
industry.

United Airlines was notably first to institute a requirement and, within
53 days, were able to get to over 99 percent of its staff vaccinated.

Over the weekend, we saw JetBlue, Alaska, and American Airlines step up
and move forward with their own requirements.

These actions are notable, as they represent a significant share of our
country’s air travel.  We know these requirements work.  And by acting
now, these airlines will ensure smooth implementation and grea- — create
workplaces that are safer from COVID-19. 

Also, I wanted to note a USDA — Department of Agriculture — announcement
today.  Secretary Vilsack spoke about our efforts to address competition
just a few weeks ago in the briefing room, and talked about how the
pandemic revealed vulnerabilities in our food system, including
consolidation in processing capacity that created supply bottlenecks and
led to a drop in effective plant and slaughter capacity, leading to —
the shorthand of that — an increase in prices as people go to the
grocery store and try to buy meat and other products to feed their
families.

We also know farmers and ranchers are losing money when they sell their
livestock to the processing plant and consumers are paying more.  It’s
the meat processors in the middle that are making up the difference.

We need more competition — something he noted then — and we can do that
by helping small- and mid-sized farmers and small- and mid-sized
processors, because the more processing capacity we have, the more
competition there is for farmers, the better price we’ll get — the
better price they will get, and consumers will get fairer prices too.

That’s why, today, the Department of Agriculture is announcing the new
Food Supply Chain Loan Guarantee Program, using $100 million in American
Rescue Plan funds to leverage hundreds of millions more in loan
guarantees to expand capacity for meat and poultry processing and
address bottlenecks in the food supply chain more broadly.

This is a meaningful step forward, and today’s announcement adds a new
commitment to the $500 million previously announced to support meat and
poultry processing capacity under the Build Back Better initiative.

Aamer, welcome back, I guess.  I haven’t seen you in a while.  I don’t
know; you have a rotation.  Go ahead.  (Laughter.)

Q    Thank you for the welcome.  Senator Manchin has said that he wants
to see a Hyde Amendment included in the reconciliation bill. 
Congresswoman Jayapal and others are opposed to that.  Where does the
President stand on inclusion of the Hyde Amendment in the reconciliation
bill?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’m not going to negotiate the package from here, but,
as you know, the President opposes the Hyde Amendment.  That has not
changed.

Q    Okay.  On the Pandora Papers, I was wondering if — it’s a lot to
absorb, but the main, underlining issue seems to be that sheltering of
assets of the world’s rich, powerful, and sometimes notorious actors
that are getting promising levels of protection and secrecy that now
rival or surpass what was seen overseas, now in the United States.

What, if anything, does this administration want to do about addressing
this matter?  Should states be allowed to continue to set, sort of,
these financial regulations that make some states — including Delaware
and some other states — particularly attractive for these trusts?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, broadly speaking, the President is committed to
bringing additional transparency to the United States — the U.S. and
international financial systems.  And you can see that in policies he’s
proposed and supported over the course of his presidency and even prior
to that. 

In June, he issued a memorandum establishing fighting corruption as a
core national security — a core national security interest.  And through
work responsive to this memorandum, the government — we have elevated
efforts to curb illicit and opaque financial transactions at home and
abroad, including by reducing offshore financial secrecy, robustly
implementing federal law requiring U.S. companies to report their
beneficial owner to the Department of Treasury, and, as necessary,
identifying the need for new reforms.

He’s also pledged to work with partners and allies to address issues
such as the abuse of shell companies and money laundering through real
estate transactions — something that we’ve certainly seen and was a part
of this reporting.

And I’d also note that, last year, Congress came together in a
bipartisan fashion to direct the Treasury Department to develop a
beneficial ownership database that will meaningfully increase
transparency and accountability. 

I would also — last thing I would say, and then you may have follow-ups,
is: You know, if you look at the President’s proposals in the Build Back
Better agenda, he has been clear he wants to make the tax system more
fair, wants to crack down on people who are not paying their fair share
— whether they are businesses or whether they are individuals.  That has
been central to his policies, his proposals, and central to what he’s
fighting for in Congress right now. 

Q    If I could (inaudible) just one other thing outside of Pandora:
OPEC said today that it’ll add only 400,000 barrels per day to
production in November.  Is current price level an obstacle for
recovery?  And should OPEC be pumping more?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the United States is not a member of OPEC, as you
know.  While we — we do communicate with our international partners who
are members of OPEC and convey, as we did a few months ago, our urging
to find a compromise solution to allow post-production increases to move
forward, as they did several months ago. 

I would note, as it relates to gas prices here: Gas — one, what we’re
seeing in some parts of the country is that gasoline price is naturally
ticking up, in part in the wake of Hurricane Ida because the hurricane
hit a region that is a key center of the nation’s oil production and in
refining infrastructure.  And we’ve been working around the clock with
the state and local governments for the last month to, of course,
restore electricity and also help facilities get back online for
production to ensure that did not have an impact on oil prices and
gasoline here.

And the Department of Energy also authorized several million barrels of
Strategic Petroleum Reserve exchanges through that period of time.

We also announced a couple of recent steps.

So the point is here: While we’re not a member of OPEC, we’re also
taking a number of steps — and have been — to plan for, protect against
rising prices here within the purview of what we have.

And the Department of Transportation extended an amended — an emergency
declaration offering temporary flexibility to how many hours a truck
driver can drive.  They applied nationally to goods that support
COVID-19 response as well as gasoline and other types of fuel building
materials, et cetera, in an effort to ensure this was not having an
impact. 

And the last thing I would note is that, back in August, NEC Director
Brian Deese also sent a letter to the FTC Director, Lina Khan, asking
the FTC to use all of its available tools to monitor the gasoline market
and take action as needed.  She responded to that and said she would
look into it.

So, we’re going to continue to use every tool at our disposal, even as
we’re not a member of OPEC, to ensure we can keep gas prices down for
the American public.

Go ahead. 

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Was there any concrete movement or progress in the
negotiations with Senators Manchin and Sinema this weekend?  And if so,
can you tell us a little bit more about it?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I can tell you that the President is going to have a
virtual meeting with a number of progressive House members later this
afternoon in order to have a discussion about the path forward, which
includes the recognition that this package is going to be smaller than
originally proposed.  And what he wants to hear from them is what their
priorities are, what their bottom lines are so he can play a
constructive role in moving things forward. 

I would expect that, later this week, he’ll have probably another
virtual meeting with members who might consider themselves more
moderate, or however you want to define them.  They’re all out of
session this week as you know, so, hence, that’s why the meetings are
virtual.

We have been in touch or we’ve stayed in touch with staff and a range of
members over the course of the weekend as we work to continue to make
progress, but I don’t have any additional updates from Senator Manchin
or Senator Sinema at this point.

Q    And how long do you plan to give those negotiations with Manchin
and Sinema?  Is there a deadline?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say that our objective is getting this done
and delivering for the American people, and we’re going to continue
pressing forward until we get it done. 

So, yes, it requires Senator Sinema and Senator Manchin moving forward
and supporting a path forward.  It also requires agreements on what a
package would look like.  So, the President is going to continue to work
with a range of members from across the Democratic Caucus.

Q    And then, just on one other topic.  I’m assuming you saw what the
Facebook whistleblower had to say last night.  Do these revelations
change the way the White House thinks about regulating Facebook and
other social media giants?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, as we saw — the revelations that came out in that
interview — in our view, this is just the latest in a series of
revelations about social media platforms that make clear that
self-regulation is not working.  That’s long been the President’s view
and been the view of this administration.  They validate the significant
concern that the President and lawmakers on both sides of the aisle have
expressed about how social media giants operate and the power they’ve
amassed.

Reports in recent weeks — and I think, obviously, the whistleblower was
— came forward last night in the report, but — about efforts to attract
young users and negative effects on teenagers’ mental health are
certainly troubling.  They’re hardly isolated incidents.

And so, our effort is going to be: Continue to support fundamental
reforms, efforts to address these issues.  Obviously, that would be up
to the purview of Congress, but certainly we view these as continuing in
a series of revelations about the power of these platforms. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Senator Sanders said pretty clearly this weekend,
quote, “We’ve got the President of the United States on our side.”  Is
that how President Biden views it, that he’s on the side of the
progressives in this fight right now?

MS. PSAKI:  He’s on the side of the American people, and he is going to
continue to press forward with both the infrastructure package and the
reconciliation package.  And that’s what the discussions with members of
Congress is foc- –are focused on.

Q    Does he see Senators Sinema and Manchin as the roadblocks, as the
obstacles right now? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, as he stated earlier today, he knows that — and you
all know — that the majority of members are — support moving forward
with a bold and ambitious agenda that is going to fundamentally make us
more competitive in the world; help compete with China; rebuild our
roads, rails, and bridges; give the American people more breathing
room.  And we know that, fundamentally, we need two more votes in the
Senate.

Q    And circling back to one thing he did say on the debt ceiling —
that he can’t guarantee that the U.S. won’t reach this debt ceiling:
Given the dire economic consequences that have been laid out if indeed
the U.S. defaults, can you elaborate on what he was saying in terms of
what the American people should be preparing for as the worst-case
scenario?  Does he see this as potentially inevitable where we are
today? 

MS. PSAKI:  No.  He also said in the same set of remarks that he — or in
comments — that he couldn’t imagine it going to that point, because
Congress has raised the debt limit 80 times; they’ve done it in a
bipartisan fashion. 

And it is imperative that we move forward, given the impact this could
have on the American people, whether it is people’s bank accounts, their
Social Security accounts, their economic security — there is a great
deal — retirement savings, salaries for service members.  There’s a
great deal that is at risk for Americans who are going to be waiting at
home, watching how this might impact them.

Now, the moment we’re in, as the President talked about earlier today,
is: Despite the fact that under the last administration, nearly $8
trillion in bills was compiled — I think I have a little chart here just
to give you a little visual — almost $8 trillion during the Trump
administration, $676 billion during the Biden administration. 

So what Senator McConnell is refusing to do is to pay the debts of what
were rung up under his leadership when he was in the Senate — still
continues to be, of course — and when Trump was President.  The debt
limit is about paying for bills we have already spent.  It is not about
— it is not about initiatives that we’re talking about and debating now.

And this tells you exactly where that — those costs came from.

Go ahead.

Q    The President said this morning that he intended to speak with
Senator McConnell.  Have they had that conversation yet?  And will it be
face-to-face or over the phone?  Or —

MS. PSAKI:  I think what the President was conveying is that he’s, of
course, open to speaking to Senator McConnell.  That’s the role — or
should be the role of any President: to work to address what could be an
economic catastrophe for the American public.

They have not talked yet.  I don’t know when it will be scheduled.

But what is clear is this is not a negotiation.  We know what needs to
happen here.  What is happening in the Senate right now is Senate
Democrats have proposed that they would — they would do all the votes to
raise the debt limit.  We are — we are — they are happy to be the adults
in the room.  They’re not even asking Republicans to vote for it at this
point.  We know they’re unwilling to be the adults in the room.  They
are un- — they are blocking the effort for — by Democrats to raise the
debt limit themselves.

So, it’s pretty clear what needs to happen.  That is the fastest, the
simplest, the cleanest, the least risky way to get this done.  And
certainly, that’s what the President would convey if and when they
speak.

Q    Obviously, the President has known Senator McConnell for a long
time.  He said they’ve “been down this road” before — I think this
morning.  He also knows that he’s not someone who generally changes his
mind or bows to pressure like this.  So, if Republicans do not give on
this, what is the President’s recommendation to Senator Schumer, as the
clock is quickly ticking toward that deadline?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, when we’re — when we keep ticking, we’ll keep having a
discussion about that.  Obviously, the Democrats have expressed a
willingness, an openness, and a desire to get this done, unlike the
Republicans in the Senate, despite the fact that $2 trillion of that $8
trillion was for tax cuts for the wealthiest, which were unpaid for. 
And the rest of it, they supported — most of them supported across the
board. 

The President, as you heard him say, wasn’t ruling out options this
morning as it relates to legislative paths forward.  But what is very
clear here is that the cleanest, easiest, fastest way to get this done
is by the Republicans allowing Democrats to move forward with a vote. 
They can do that tomorrow, and we can reduce the uncertainty for the
American people.

Q    So he’s not ruling out reconciliation, just to be clear?  The
President is not —

MS. PSAKI:  He is not ruling out.  But let’s be clear about what — that
process.  That is a long procedural process, potentially —

Q    Right.  And the clock is ticking.  That’s why I was asking. 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, right.  But this is an important point because it’s a
long procedural process.  It allows for the Republicans to do unlimited
— unlimited amendments that could be about any topic that may or may not
have anything to do with the debt ceiling.  Why are we going to play
around with the security and the economic security of the American
people, and the security and the full faith and credit of the United
States?  That’s the President’s point he was making this morning. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  First, does the President agree with Dr. Fauci
that it’s “too soon to tell” if people are going to be able to gather
for Christmas?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President relies on CDC guidelines, and they have
not changed their guidelines about who can gather together — those who
are vaccinated.  But we leave it to them if they need to change their
guidelines based on where the pandemic sits. 

Q    Thank you.  Following up on something that you just said: You said
that the President is going to have a virtual meeting with House
progressives to talk about how this Build Back Better package is now
going to be smaller than $3.5 trillion.  But you have been saying that
it costs zero.  So, are you now admitting that the plan does not cost
zero?  Or is it less than zero?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, let’s — let’s not dumb this down for the American
public here.  What we’re talking about is how much the topline
investments are, which are all paid for, so therefore, it costs zero. 
No matter what the cost or size of the topline investments are, we have
ways to pay for it. 

So, the point is — that’s important to the American public, all of your
viewers too — is that this is not going to cost the American public a
dollar.  This is going to — we are going to pay for this by asking
corporations, the highest incomes — so, people under $400,000, I should
say — corporations, highest income to cover the cost of these necessary
investments.

Q    So just to not dumb it down then, does the plan cost nothing, or is
the plan free?

MS. PSAKI:  The plan costs nothing for the American people who make less
than $400,000.  If you think that —

Q    Not free?

MS. PSAKI:  — that companies that paid zero in taxes last year — 50 of
the top companies — should continue to pay zero in taxes, we’re happy to
have that debate.

Q    And then just one more, Jen.  Thank you.  A group of activists
followed Senator Kyrsten Sinema into a ladies’ room screaming about the
Build Back Better plan yesterday.  The President said today, “I don’t
think they’re appropriate tactics, but it happens to everybody” and
“it’s part of the process.”  He is an expert on the process.  Has he
ever been chased into a restroom by activists?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me be clear here, because I think the context of
what happened here is very important.  And Senator Sinema put out a
statement this morning.  So, as she said, and I would reiterate from
here, the protection of the freedom to protest, to speak out, and to
criticize is fundamental to our democracy.  The President believes
that.  Maybe he shorthanded it, but he wanted to make that clear this
morning. 

What happened this weekend was that her classroom, her students, and the
safe and intellectually stimulating environment she’s worked to create
during the years of teaching at ASU was breached.  That’s inappropriate
and unacceptable. 

And I think the context of what happened here is important, despite the
fact that, of course, we stand for and the President stands for the
fundamental right of people to protest, to object, to criticize, as they
often do outside of the gates of the White House.

Q    So does the White House condemn these protesters who chased her
into the restroom?

MS. PSAKI:  I just said it was inappropriate and unacceptable.  I think
that pretty much —

Q    Well, will you ask them not to do that again?

MS. PSAKI:  I think that’s pretty clear that they shouldn’t — they
shouldn’t breach the classroom and make the students feel like their
privacy, their intellectually stimulating classroom, and their time as
students in college is being broached upon.

Go ahead.

Q    Jen, I have a follow-up to Peter’s question. 

Q    China — China —

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead. 

Q    Can I have a follow-up? 

Q    — again sent airplanes —

MS. PSAKI:  I’ll come to you next, Emerald. 

Q    China again sent warplanes flying over Taiwan.  What is the White
House’s interpretation of what China is doing?  And what can be done to
kind of ratchet down those tensions?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we remain concerned by the People’s Republic of
China’s provocative military activity near Taiwan, which is
destabilizing risk miscalculations and undermines regional peace and
stability. 

We urge Beijing to cease its military, diplomatic, and economic pressure
and coercion against Taiwan.  And we have an abiding interest in peace
and stability across the Taiwan Strait.  That’s why we’ll continue to
assist Taiwan in maintaining a sufficient self-defense capability. 

We maintain our commitments, as outlined in the Three Communiqués,
Taiwan Relations Act, and the Six Assurances. 

Our commitment to Taiwan is rock solid and contributes to the
maintenance of peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait and within
the region. 

We have been clear privately and publicly about our concern about the
PRC’s pressure and coisci- — coercion toward Taiwan, and we will
continue to watch the situation very closely.

Q    Is the White House monitoring the oil spill in California?  And are
you guys engaged on that?  And kind of, what are you taking away from
it, moving forward? 

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  We are certainly monitoring the oil spill, and we’re
very engaged in it.  We’re working collaboratively with state and local
partners to address efforts to find the leak, contain the spill, and
assess impact and address potential causes.  The response is currently a
24/7 operation, and response efforts are scheduled to continue until
federal and state officials determine that the response to the crude oil
spill is complete. 

All available actions are being taken to ensure the safety of the public
and response personnel, to control the source and recover spilled
materials, to maximize the protection of environmentally sensitive areas
and minimize impact to maritime commerce.

So, early on Sunday, a unified command was established between Amplify
Energy, the operator of the Coast Guard, California Department of Fish
and Wildlife, as well as the cities of Long Beach, Newport Beach,
Huntington Beach, and the Orange County Sheriff’s Department.

We have — the federal government has, so far, conduct- — 14 boats have
been conducting oil recovery operations since Sunday afternoon; 4
aircraft were dispatched for overflight assessments; shoreside response
was conducted by 105 government agency personnel; and approximately
3,150 gallons of oil have been recovered from the water; and 5,360 feet
of boom has been deployed.

So, we are very engaged in the effort that is 24/7 at this point in
time.

Q    Next question.  White House economic advisers predicted there would
be short-term inflation, but now we’re seeing more reports that this is,
you know, becoming more long term, maybe well into next year.  Did the
White House misjudge the situation?  And what is the White House doing
to maybe manage these new expectations?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the Federal Reserve and the OECD continue to project
that inflation will come down in the next year.  And we look to those
projections; obviously, it’s under the purview, specifically, of the
Federal Reserve.

I would say, over the long term, what we’re working to do is get our
Build Back agenda — Build Back Better agenda passed — something that
outside economists, Nobel laureates have said would address inflation
over the long term, reduce costs.  And that is — that’s one of the
reasons it’s a huge priority for the President.

Emerald, I promised I’d go to you next.  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  I appreciate it.  First, following up on Jeff’s
question regarding China and Taiwan: China has grown increasingly
aggressive under this administration, and then now we’re set to start
trade talks back with them.  There was concern when President Biden took
office about his son’s business dealings with China.  He was supposed to
divest himself of his stake in a Chinese private equity firm in December
with ties to the Chinese central bank.  As of April, he had not yet done
that.  And at some point, you were going to get back to us on that.  Do
you have an update on that?  Has he dissolved that interest now?

MS. PSAKI:  I’d point you to his representatives on that.  He doesn’t
work in the administration.  I would say though, Emerald, that — and I
think you’re referring today to the announcement — this speech by
Ambassador Tai about phase one.  And what I think it’s important to note
here is that this approach definitely differs from the approach of the
prior administration, in our view. 

Their approach hurts select sectors of the American economy and wasn’t
targeted to address strategic problems we have.  These initial steps
will help — we’re taking — are going to realign our trade policies
towards — from the PRC toward our priorities.  And that’s the objective
of this President.  It’s just the first stage in this process. 
Obviously, the Ambassador gave an extensive speech today.

Q    But as we enter into this, though, the President has said during
the campaign that none of his family will have any business relationship
with anyone that relates to a foreign corporation or a foreign country. 
Wouldn’t it be assuring to the American people, as we head into this, if
they just let the American people know if Hunter has divulged himself of
that to make sure there’s no (inaudible)?

MS. PSAKI:  Again, I conveyed to you — and then I think I’m going to
have to move on — that you should talk to —

Q    No, there’s — I have one more on Peter —

MS. PSAKI:  — that you should talk to his representatives.  And —

Q    Okay, I will.

MS. PSAKI:  There’s no reason to yell.  I’m certainly not yelling.  You
should talk to his representatives.  That remains his policy.  He’s been
working to wind that down.  Beyond that, I would talk to his
representatives.

Q    I just have one more follow-up on what Peter asked regarding Dr.
Fauci.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    Dr. Fauci has indicated that in the time of COVID, people should be
willing to give up personal choice or personal civil liberties for the
greater good.  We’re also seeing very disturbing images out of
Australia. 

So, first off, I want to know, does the President agree with that
statement by Dr. Fauci?  And then, secondly, does President Biden
support what the Australian government is doing in their country?  And
would he consider similar measures in the United States if case count
goes up — continues to go up over the winter?

MS. PSAKI:  The President has been pursuing our own policies here in the
United States, which has led to nearly 80 percent of the American public
getting at least one shot and bringing the cases of COVID down
dramatically over the past several months.  So, we’ll continue to abide
by and conduct our own policies.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  The President acknowledged that the topline spending
number in the reconciliation bill is going to have to be less than he
envisioned.  Has he started thinking, considering what, for him, would
be a priority to keep in the bill versus not?  And is he talking about
that or sharing that view in these conversations that you’re talking
about with moderates and liberal lawmakers on the Hill?  Is he sharing
what he thinks ought to stay versus what can maybe go?

MS. PSAKI:  It’s a conversation.  But the President’s red lines continue
to be that he will not raise taxes for anyone making less than $400,000
a year and that he wants to give the middle class in this country some
breathing room.

But what he wants to do is have a conversation, hear from everybody on
what their toplines are and what their priorities are.  These were his
initial proposals, right?  So, really, this is a conversation to move
the ball forward, and that’s part of the conversation he’ll have with
progressive members and other members later this week.

Q    And can you talk a little bit about tomorrow’s trip to Michigan and
why he decided to do that —

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    — and what he hopes to accomplish there?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  So, tomorrow, he will be traveling to Michigan, as
you all know.  It’s a state that would benefit greatly from both the
bipartisan infrastructure package and the Build Back Better agenda.

Just to give you a couple of examples: Michiganders — I confirmed that
is actually what people from Michigan call themselves, with Chris over
here — spend an extra 67 percent of their time commuting because of the
need for updating infrastructure.  I mean, this is something that
impacts people across the state every single day.

Almost 10 percent of people in Michigan don’t have broadband access. 
That is really something that will help level the playing field for
people, whether they’re in urban or rural communities.  Forty-four
percent of people in Michigan live in childcare deserts. 

These are all issues that are addressed by both of these packages. 
There’s more details, and we’re happy to provide more to you as we lead
into tomorrow.  But this is a state that could benefit greatly from the
President’s bold and ambitious agenda.  He wants to go out there and
talk about the components and the pieces of these bills that will make
people’s lives better, even as we’re having very important conversations
about the legislative logistics here.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you so much, Jen.  Thank you.  For international visitors —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — the administration is looking at the CDC to guide which vaccines
will be accepted.  Right now, the CDC says it considers “fully
vaccinated” those who got Pfizer, Moderna, and Johnson & Johnson, of
course, but it also says that guidance can be applied to vaccines that
have been listed by the World Health Organization.  Will there be any
change to this guidance?  And — for example, the Russian vaccine, who is
not in the WHO, will it be accepted?

MS. PSAKI:  I would point to the CDC.  As you know, we’re going to have
an update on our international travel guidelines as we get closer to
November.  Early November remains the timeline that we’re focused on,
but I will leave it to our health experts to outline more specifics.

Q    A follow-up on that.

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.

Q    Sorry.  Thank you.  After — so, after a couple of weeks ago, the
last update on those guidelines, Canadians can fly, for instance, from
Vancouver to Seattle but can’t drive across the border for a
nonessential trip.  Now, that’s had a big impact on border communities
all across the country, especially like Point Roberts, Washington, just
— which can only be accessed by land through Canada.

Governor Inslee, Senator Murray, Congressman DelBene have asked the
administration to either change that policy or at least explain it, and
haven’t heard anything.  Can you tell us anything about the reason for
that difference?

MS. PSAKI:  Again, it’s determined by our public health officials.  And
our objective, of course, is to return to overland travel, just like
we’re working toward returning to international travel.  But we leave it
to them to make that determination.

Go ahead.

  
Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything more on this. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks.  I wanted to go back to — you and the President earlier
said that reconciliation was a risky way to get the debt ceiling
through.

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    And I know that you’ve said that there’s potentially votes that
could happen.  But the parliamentarian has said that it’s not going to
impact your other reconciliation bill in any way.  And Democrats control
the Senate, so therefore you have the majority to knock down any
amendment that Republicans would offer. 

So, while I totally take the point that it would be cleaner if there was
just a vote on the bill, I’m wondering if you could identify what the
risk is, and particularly in the context of — I think what Republicans
say is you guys don’t want to go down this path because rather than a,
sort of, pause that would be a set time limit, reconciliation would
force you to put a actual dollar amount on what the debt ceiling
increase would be.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the reason why — obviously, as you know, but others
may not, it would be a separate reconciliation bill, not from — not the
same as the reconciliation package we’ve been debating and talking about
— which, by the way, we’ve been working on it for months now, as you
know.  The reconciliation process would mean essentially starting from
scratch. 

And the point is: Why wouldn’t it be the preference for everybody
involved — Democrats, Republicans, the American public?  We have a bill
that we could vote up or down to raise the debt limit.  It’s a much
easier, cleaner, simpler, less risky process.

And, yes, Democrats are in control of the Senate, but Republicans can
still bring up a range of amendments, as they have in many other cases,
about a range of issues.  Extending the process — they can be
unlimited.  That’s how the process and rule work.

So, to us, that doesn’t make sense as the preference.  We’re not ruling
out options, but the clear, clean, fastest, least risky option is very
crystal clear to us here.

Q    Okay.  I wanted to ask about the energy crisis that’s going on
abroad, and we kind of touched on it earlier.  You spoke about efforts
to sort of shore up the energy in the United States, but there’s a
couple of crunch points. 

One is: As other nations, including China, are struggling with energy,
it leads to those inflation issues because we have — much of our supply
chain is abroad and factories aren’t functioning there.  In Europe, some
of our closest allies are seeing lines for fuel are on the — you know,
stacking up. 

So, I’m wondering what we’re doing to sort of deal with this crisis
internationally and if there — you mentioned that there have been
conversation with OPEC a couple months ago.  But in the past week — I
know last week you said you’d kind of circle back on what message we had
conveyed.  Have we asked them to accelerate beyond what, a few months
ago — the sort of gradual increase in production that we had asked for? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, when — so I think one of the questions I was asked
last week is about Jake Sullivan, our National Security Advisor, who was
meeting with Saudi Arabia and the UAE last week. 

So, in those meetings, while the Saudi Arabia meeting was focused on
Yemen and that was the primary purpose, he and his team did reiterate
the importance — the imperative of creating conditions to support global
economic recovery.  And included in that is, of course, the price of oil
around the world.

We are in regular touch with OPEC, so I didn’t mean to convey that we
were only in touch months ago.  We are in regular touch with members of
O- — OPEC members, I should say, since we are not a member — and that
has been ongoing.

Go ahead.

Q    At the risk of asking another esoteric question about the debt
ceiling —

MS. PSAKI:  It’s okay.

Q    — you have said in this room that you believe that — the White
House believes that Congress enacting a law is the only way to raise or
lift the debt ceiling.  But can you maybe put a little bit more meat on
the bones as to why the White House has determined that, for example,
ideas like minting a trillion-dollar coin or invoking the Fourteenth
Amendment would not solve the problem?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think, as was reported, we obviously look at a range
of options, and none of those options were viable, either because they
wouldn’t be accepted by the Federal Reserve, by the guidance of our
Treasury Secretary, or just by legal restrictions.

So, we know that the only path forward here is through Congress acting. 
There’s a simple process that could be done in the next few days, before
we hit Friday, to reduce uncertainty, to make sure the American people
don’t have to worry about their bank accounts, their retirement
savings.  And all Republicans need to do is get out of the way, let
Democrats be the adults in the room, and take a vote.

Q    Another question.  Last night, on “60 Minutes,” there was an
exploration into this Kafkaesque situation that members of the military
have been in.  After 10 years of paying their student loans under the
Public Service Loan Forgiveness program, 9 out of 10 of them have had
their forgiveness rejected when they’ve applied. 

An advocate who was in the piece said that the President has the power,
under a 2003 law, to solve this problem for those members of the
military.  Will he use that law?  And is there anything else this
administration can do to help these people?

MS. PSAKI:  So, what you’re referring to, just for others, is the Public
Service Loan Forgiveness program, which is an important but largely
unmet — hence, the reporting last night — promise to professionals who
serve their communities and do hard work that is essential to our
country’s success.  And fixing this program has been a priority for this
administration from the first day. 

That’s why, in the coming weeks, the Department of Education plans to
announce a major overhaul of the program that, through a series of
executive actions, will restore the promise of the program to teachers,
service members, nurses, firefighters, and others serving their
communities and our country.  It will include an opportunity for public
service and many not-for-profit professionals to get any prior payments
made on the federal loans for their studies counted toward PSLF,
regardless of the loan program in which the payments were made.

So, there’s going to be upcoming rulemaking — the Department of
Education will have more — but this is something we want to reform and
address and make better for the people who should benefit from it.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  With the President saying that he cannot guarantee that
the debt ceiling will not be reached, is the White House taking
preparations in the event of that happening? You’ve outlined that it
would be catastrophic.  So is the White House making plans in
preparation for the worst? 

MS. PSAKI:  He also said right after he made that statement — the next
sentence was, I can’t imagine that that would happen, which I think is
important context for people to understand. 

It requires Congress acting.  That is the one path forward. That is why
we are talking about it, why he gave remarks today, why we are
continuing to press forward to get this done.

Q    Yes, but — so is the White House or the administration preparing
for the worst, in case that does not happen?

MS. PSAKI:  There isn’t another option; it has to pass legislatively. 
That’s what has to happen. 

Q    Okay.  And also, can you comment at all on — there’s an outage of
Facebook and Instagram today and other apps.  Is the White House aware,
looking into that — what may be going on?

MS. PSAKI:  We are aware, we’re monitoring, but I don’t have any other
updates.  I’d really point you to the companies for that. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Did the President ever consider asking Democrats to
use reconciliation earlier this year to lift the debt limit and avoid
potentially cratering markets and affecting the American people?  If
this is such an economic risk, why give McConnell any say at all?

MS. PSAKI:  Why let McConnell off the hook or Republicans off the hook? 
I mean, this is their debt that they chalked up themselves.  This is a
period of time where we could easily solve this in the next two days and
easily do that through allowing Democrats to be the adult in the room,
despite the fact that Republicans spent like drunken sailors over the
last four years before President Biden took office. 

So, it’s easy to get it done.  We did not need to start a long
procedural process.  That’s exactly what that would be.  We’re not
ruling out options because, as we said — I said in response to an
earlier question, we have to get this done.  We have to get this done to
ensure that people don’t worry about their retirement savings, don’t
worry about cos- — their college savings for their kids.  But it’s easy
to get it done, and we don’t think Republicans should be left off the —
let off the hook.

Go ahead.

Q    You said that the President has not yet talked to McConnell since
McConnell sent that letter.  When was the last time the two spoke on the
debt limit? 

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any readout of any recent call from them.

Q    And have you asked business groups to use their influence with
McConnell and other Republicans to try and get them on board?

MS. PSAKI:  Business groups have been pretty vocal in recent days and
weeks, but we leave it to them on how they want to reach out and engage
with members.

Q    And a quick question on tomorrow.  Do you — are you intentionally
going to a congressional district that Trump won?

MS. PSAKI:  We’re going to a state and a part of the state that could
benefit from all of these packages because they’re hugely popular
whether you’re a Democrat, a Republican, an independent. People don’t
think of their roads as partisan for good reason, nor do they think of
their childcare as partisan.  So that’s why the President wants to go
make the case in Michigan.

Go ahead, Karen.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Senator Sinema said in a statement over the weekend
that good-faith negotiations require trust and that canceling the
infrastructure vote further erodes that trust.  Some progressive
Democrats have said they haven’t felt that Sinema and Manchin have been
forthcoming about where they are in negotiations — in numbers and red
lines.  When you say that the President wants to play a constructive
role in moving this forward, does that also include him rebuilding trust
within the Democratic Party?  And how would you do that?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, look, I think the way the President sees this is that
we’re in the midst of a legislative process, and this is how the process
works.  Less about trust or not trust.  I know that word is thrown out
there a lot and has been over the last week.

You know, the President put out his bold proposals.  Members of
Congress, a co-equal branch of government, argue for their priorities,
some with strong emotion — good for them because they’re passionate
about what these issues are, how these packages could fundamentally
change things for people across the country. 

And you’re seeing now that this is a recognition of the important moment
that this is.  But, in his view, this is how the process plays out. 
There’s going to be vo- — there’s going to be arguments.  There’s going
to be disagreements.  That’s not dysfunction; that’s democracy.  And
we’ve seen it work this way — bumps in the road.  Look at the Affordable
Care Act.  Look at Dodd-Frank.  Look at even the American Rescue Plan. 
These were not smooth legislative processes; they rarely are.  And we’re
still in the middle of it.

Q    You said “Why Michigan?” — or you answered “Why Michigan?”

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    But why now to go out on the road and do an event like this?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, look, I think the President felt that, and we all
felt, that the last week or two — what was important was for him to be
available, to have meetings, to bring people down to have these
conversations.  He’s obviously still doing that, but now it’s also
important to remind people, as they — as the sausage-making has been
kind of the dominant storyline for the last few weeks, what this is all
about, why he’s fighting so hard for it, why there’s important debates
and discussions about what are in these two important packages.

And so that’s what he’s going to do in Michigan tomorrow, and I expect
he’ll do more of it in the weeks ahead.

Go ahead.

Q    I have two questions on the oil spill.  Is the White House
considering a national emergency declaration for the spill there?

MS. PSAKI:  That would really be something typically that is requested
by the governor and granted by FEMA, so I don’t have any updates on
that.  We’re, of course, continuing to closely monitor.  We’re in close
touch with the governor and his team, but I would point you to FEMA on
that if there’s an update.

Q    And the administration’s effort to stop auctioning offshore
drilling leases is currently subject to litigation.  You know, the judge
blocked the stoppage of that.  How does this spill kind of underscore
that effort that the administration wants to no longer lease new
offshore drilling?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think one of the reasons that — one, there are also
existing oil leases, I should just clarify — not that it was your
question —

Q    Right this is — this is existing oil leases.  Yeah.

MS. PSAKI:  — that are still ongoing.  That has not changed.  And
obviously you referenced the ongoing litigation.

Look, I think the President has identified addressing the climate crisis
is a core priority for him and this administration.  And certainly,
taking every step possible to do that remains a priority.  I wouldn’t
say that this changes that.  That has been the case before this and will
be the case even as we work to ensure recovery is complete.

Go ahead, Andrew.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  Last week, Chairman Thompson of the January 6th
Select Committee said that this committee would be making referrals for
criminal contempt in the event that Trump administration witnesses fail
to honor the subpoenas that have been served on them. 

In past administrations, those sorts of referrals have not been acted on
by the Justice Department.  And I know the President has said that the
DOJ will act independently of the White House.  But broadly speaking,
will the Biden administration break with recent precedent and actually
follow the law in this case?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, these witnesses have not failed to appear at this
point in time, so we’re not quite there in the process.  And obviously,
we would point to the Department of Justice. 

I think there have been cases — I know this wasn’t your question, but
since you asked about January 6th, broadly — where we have — did not
exert executive privilege.  For example, in the matter of certain former
DOJ officials who had been called to testify before Congress. 

I cite that both to illustrate how we have approached this issue so far
and the broader spirit in which we’ll continue.  But obviously, issues
that are of the purview of the Department of Justice will remain there. 
And we’re not quite at the point where anyone has failed to appear.

Q    Let me rephrase that slightly then: Past administrations have not
followed the law and acted on these sorts of referrals.  Whether or not
one will happen in the future — but —

MS. PSAKI:  But I’m just — I understand your question.  I’m just — of
course we’re going to follow the law.  But I’m not going to get into
hypotheticals that aren’t, right now, relevant to current — this current
state of play.  I would also point you to the Department of Justice, as
you noted in the beginning.  But I also wanted to note where we have
broken with some recent past precedent and how we’ve approached, just to
give you an example. 

Go ahead.  Go to you, Eugene.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Any update on the Department of Education’s look at
whether or not the President could write off student loans?  Ron Klain
told us that they were looking at that and that it would take a few
weeks, or that he was hoping that it would take a few weeks.  Just
wondering what — if there’s a holdup and what the holdup is.

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any other update.  I would say that, obviously,
lowering the cost of college or relieving student debt is a priority to
this President and this Vice President.  If Congress wants to send us a
bill that would, you know, relieve $10,000 in student debt, the
President would be happy to sign that.

Obviously, there hasn’t been action on that to date.  And I would also
note that part of his proposal has been lowering the cost of college,
giving more people access to college who wouldn’t have otherwise had it,
which shows his commitment to the issue.

Q    And Harold Koh, a senior advisor to — the only political appointee
on the State Department’s legal team, resigned and wrote a memo.  And I
want to get this right, so I’m going to read from what he said: “I
believe this administration’s current implementation of the Title 42
authority continues to violate our legal obligation not to expel or
return individuals who fear persecution, death, or torture, especially
migrants fleeing from Haiti.”  He also said, “Lawful, more humane
alternatives plainly exist.”  So I want to get your reaction to that
memo. 

And also, why is the only political appointee of the State Department’s
legal team wrong?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I haven’t seen his memo, at this point.  I’m not sure
when —

Q    I’ll send it to you.

MS. PSAKI:  — came out.  That’s fine.  Please do. 

I would say that we don’t see Title 42 as an immigration policy; it is a
public health authority because we’re still in the middle of a pandemic,
and it is determined by the CDC. 

It is also true that there are several exceptions for Title 42,
including those who are fleeing persecution, who express a concern of
fear.  It goes through a process.  Those who have health issues — those
are individuals who go through our immigration proceedings and process. 

So, it remains in place because we’re in the middle of a pandemic.  But
I think the short-handing of that isn’t an accurate depiction of what
our policy actually is, even as it relates to exemptions.

Q    Jen, a question on climate change. 

MS. PSAKI:  Sure. 

Q    So, during his West Coast trip, the President called for bold
action on climate change in response to wildfires and other extreme
weather events.  But the climate provisions are also a major sticking
point in the reconciliation process between Senator Manchin and the
progressive faction.  What is the President telling fellow Democrats
about climate policy during those talks?  And is this an area where he’s
willing to make concessions?

MS. PSAKI:  It remains a priority to him, otherwise he wouldn’t have
proposed it.  And there’s also very broad support within Congress for
climate provisions that are in both the reconciliation package, as well
as the infrastructure package.  That includes historic investments in
electric vehicles, electric vehicle charging stations, the replacing of
lead pipes to make sure kids have access to clean drinking water. 

And as you know, in the reconciliation package, it helps create a
climate corps, helps make sure there’s a standard, has key pieces that
will be pivotal investments to addressing the climate crisis. 

I’m not going to negotiate from here, but obviously the President would
have proposed that — would not have proposed them if he did not think
they were priority to him. 

Go ahead, in the middle.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  I have a question on Ethiopia since the President
mentioned Ethiopia once again in his remark.  But, one, something about
Senator Joe Manchin.  Do you know if he wants to be President?  Does he
really like to be President?  Does he want to play the role of
President?  Does he like the President?  Doesn’t he like the President?

I guess I don’t really expect you to answer because I know it’s
difficult to go from winning a Senate seat in West Virginia to maybe
beating Donald Trump by 7 million votes.  But what does it say about
democracy that you can win an election by 7 million vote and one person
can actually doom your entire agenda?

MS. PSAKI:  We don’t see it that way.  We’re in the middle of a
process.  This is democracy; it’s not dysfunction.  So we’re going to
keep at it. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  If I could go back to that question on inflation.  You
said the spending package will help inflation over the long term; the
New York Federal Reserve president says he sees elevated inflation for
at least another year.  So what is the timeline you’re looking at for
the long term, especially since this reconciliation package could go
into effect over the course of 10 years?  You know, how long should
Americans be expected to wait for those prices to come down?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the Federal Reserve and the OECD and others have also
said inflation is expected to come down.  They continue to say it’s
transitory.  I would say that it is a 10-year package, but what’s
important about the package is that several economists — Nobel laureates
and others — have conveyed it would help address inflation over the long
term, which is something that I think is in the interest of the American
people, the public, and future governments, of course.

Go ahead,

Q    In the last 24 hours, North Korea’s press agency says they’ve
reopened the hotline with South Korea.  Just wondering if the
administration has been in touch with Seoul in that time, and what
concerns you may have about the, I guess, supposed — I don’t know if
it’s a real hypersonic missile — but the alleged hypersonic missile.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we support, first — to your first part of your
question, I think — we, of course, support and continue to support
inter-Korean dialogue and engagement and cooperation.  And we’ll
continue to work with our ROK partners to that end.

As it relates to our engagement, you know, we of cour- — well, let me —
on the missile launches — let me add that so I don’t miss that.  We, of
course, condemn any illicit missile launches, which are destabilizing to
the region and to the international community.  We’re consulting closely
with our allies, both in capitals and in New York at the U.N., as we
assess the recent events and as we determine next steps.

As it relates to our own engagement, which I think you were also asking
about, with North Korea — you know, our goal, of course, remains
complete denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula.  We remain prepared
to meet with DPRK without preconditions. 

In our messages, we have made specific proposals for discussion with the
DPRK.  We hope DPRK will respond positively to our outreach.  But at
this point, we have not had a response.

Q    And then just following up on Taiwan: In the last few hours, it’s
been reported that China sent 52 aircraft into Taiwanese airspace.  So,
these strong statements from the State Department and from you don’t
appear to be listened to in Beijing.  So, what now?  What next?

MS. PSAKI:  We —

Q    How (inaudible)?

MS. PSAKI:  We are also in touch privately, conveying clear messages
through diplomatic channels.  And that’s probably the appropriate place
for those. 

Q    Has the President spoken?

MS. PSAKI:  No, the President has not.  But we have — obviously have a —
have high-level officials who are in touch with a range of officials
there. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  On Pandora Papers: So, will the Pandora Papers
revelations affect the dialogue between the White House and its
strategic partners?  For instance, a month ago, President Biden was
discussing corruption issues with President Zelenskyy of Ukraine, and
now Mr. Zelenskyy is reportedly involved in this offshore scandal.  So
does this fact, let’s say, undermine trust between Washington and Kyiv?

MS. PSAKI:  I would say that, as I — as I stated a little bit earlier,
but let me reiterate: I mean, the President’s commitment is to bringing
additional transparency to both the U.S. and international financial
systems. 

It’s something that he has pressed for in his domestic agenda but also
something that, in international forums, he has focused on elevating as
important to level the playing field; reduce corruption; ensure that,
you know, we are doing that as a coordinated international body. 

So, I wouldn’t say it changes.  It — maybe it makes it even more
important to be on the international agenda. 

Go ahead, in the middle. 

Q    Thanks, Jen.

MS. PSAKI:  Okay, last one.  Go ahead, in the middle.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Given — in relation to Taiwan, I’m wondering, can you
say which U.S. officials have been raising concerns with China privately
about China’s military activity near Taiwan?

MS. PSAKI:  I would point to the State Department and Department of
Defense who can give you any more detail there is to offer.

Q    And then, also, is there an update on a potential meeting between
President Biden and President Xi (inaudible)?

(Audio clip of Ms. Psaki is heard.)

MS. PSAKI:  No, I would say that we — I just heard my voice, which was a
little bit of — (laughter) — an out-of-body experience. 

But I would say part of — and obviously there was a significant speech
that Ambassador Tai gave today.  And part of our objective and our
engagement as it relates to — or, as it relates to our China strategy,
is to maintain high-level dialogue.

So, I don’t have anything to preview for you at this point in terms of a
meeting or next conversation, but certainly maintaining high-level
dialogue at that level is a priority to this administration. 

Thank you.  We’ll do this again tomorrow.

3:29 P.M. EDT
