---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-10-15'
modified_time: 2021-10-17 09:37:28-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/10/15/press-gaggle-by-principal-deputy-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-en-route-hartford-ct/
published_time: 2021-10-15 14:40:24-04:00
title: "Press Gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre En Route\
  \ Hartford,\_CT"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Hartford, Connecticut

12:05 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Happy Friday.  Connecticut on Friday is what we love. 
All right.  A short trip, so short gaggle.  Apologies for that, but
let’s get going.

Good morning, everyone.  Thanks for joining us on our trip to
Connecticut.  Jen did a fairly comprehensive review of our trip
yesterday, and you all received, I believe, a backgrounder — a
background memo on childcare policy last night.  But as a quick review,
I just want to run through it really quickly. 

The President will visit a childcare center in Hartford, Connecticut,
and deliver remarks highlighting the need for childcare and preschool
investments, provide a lifetime of benefits for children, help parents
work, and support equitable economic growth.

Only about half of three- and four-year-olds in the United States are
enrolled in early childhood education compared to more than 90 percent
of children in other advanced countries.  A typical four-person
household in Connecticut would need to spend more than 26 percent of
their income for —

Sorry, my mask is coming off.  Sorry guys.  Hold for a second.  We’ll
see how that goes.

— for childcare for two young children each year.

Here we go.  I think we got it.  All right.  Sorry about that.

The President’s Build Back Better Agenda expands access to high-quality
childcare and preschool by ensuring parents earning up to 150 percent of
the state’s median income pay no more than 7 percent of their income on
childcare.  Most American families will save more than half of their
spending on childcare and will be able to access high — higher quality
care, where workers are better compensated. 

The President will also deliver remarks at the dedication of the Dodd
Center for Human Rights at the University of Connecticut. 

Throughout the day, the President will see Governor Ned Lamont;
Lieutenant Governor Susan Bysiewicz — apologies for messing up that
name; Senators Richard Blumenthal and Chris Murphy; and every member of
the congressional delegation — Representatives John Larson, Joe
Courtney, Rosa DeLauro, Jim Himes, and Jahana Hayes.  Of course, he will
also meet with former Senator Chris Dodd at the University of
Connecticut.

Today, the fourth monthly advanced tax — child tax payment is being
distributed to tens of millions of families covering roughly 61 million
children. 

Last — this monthly tax relief is helping working families manage the
cost of raising kids while trying to pursue careers.  This is a pro-work
relief — tax relief; 97 percent of families receive the Child Tax Credit
are working.

When Canada created a similar child benefit, it helped more moms go back
to work, and when they expanded it, jobs went up.  It helps with
everyday costs. 

A recent national survey from researchers at the Social Policy Institute
found that a quarter of — a quarter of middle-class families plan to use
Child Tax Credit payments for childcare expenses, and 42 percent plan to
use at least some of the — some of the credit to start or grow a college
fund for their child.

It’s helping kids who need it most.  Researchers at the Columbia Center
on Poverty and Social Policy found that the initial payments were
associated with a 25 percent decline in food insufficiently —
insufficiency — I’m having a problem talking today, guys — sorry — among
low-income families with kids.  And in Connecticut, it’s projected to
cut child poverty by 40 percent.

Absent action from Congress, these monthly payments will stop coming
after December, and families across America will face tighter budgets
and tough choices to make ends meet.

So, later today, as we all know, President Biden will once again call
for extension of the advanced Child Tax Credit through Build Back
Better. 

Last thing for all of you: As you all know, last night, President Biden
signed legislation raising the debt limit.  This legislation was
advanced by bipartisan majority in the Senate, and it demonstrated that
we can address the debt limit in the same way, moving forward, just like
we did three times in the previous administration and almost 80 times in
the last 60 years.

We can have political disagreements and debate; that is what democracy
is all about.  But we cannot let political brinksmanship jeopardize our
entire economy, and we can’t allow the routine process of paying our
bills to turn into a political football that risks costing us millions
of jobs, seniors’ Social Security and Medicare benefits, and military
service members’ pay.

All right, Zeke.  Get us going.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  First, could you address Russian government
reports that the Russian military escorted the USS Chafee out of its
territorial waters in the Sea of Japan today?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you for the question.  I don’t have anything
update — update on that for you.  I’m happy to look into that and get
back to you.  I don’t — this is the first time I’m hearing about it, so
I would have to get back to you on that one.

Q    And then, coming up ahead of the trip later this month — the
President is going to be meeting with the Pope.  Will the American press
have the opportunity to see the President and the Pope together, face to
face?  It’s obviously something of huge importance to people around the
world, so can you make that commitment today?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I cannot make that commitment today.  I just don’t
have the details to share.  I understand the importance.  You’re
correct; it is an important meeting.  This is a meeting that the
President clearly looks forward to.  I just don’t have the details to
commit to anything to you at this time. 

But as you can imagine, we want to make sure that this — that you guys
get to see a lot of what the President is doing on this trip.  But I
just don’t have enough information to commit.

Q    Karine, has the President been in touch with President Clinton? 
And do you have any updates on how he’s doing?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you can imagine, the President sends his best
wishes to President Clinton.  President Biden will be speaking to the
President later today.  So they have not connected yet, but we’re hoping
to connect them later today.

Q    And can you give us an update on what the President plans to do
next week with regard to his two bills, with the Congress coming back
into session?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  As you know, this is the President’s agenda — the
Build Back Better Agenda, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Plan is part of
his economic policy that is very — a priority to him, incredibly
important. 

He will continue to have meetings and have conversations, as will
high-level White House officials will continue to do, as we’ve been
doing the past several months to make sure that we move forward with
both bills.

I don’t have anything specific to share, but, as you can imagine, we
will continue to push for this really critical, important economic
policy for the middle-class Americans.

Q    The President, we understand, is going to stay in Washington this
weekend and not go to Delaware.  Will he be hosting any lawmakers at the
White House over the weekend as he tries to push forward on these
packages?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to share for you about this
weekend for his engagement with Congress.

I’m sure you guys heard that he will be attending, tomorrow — just in
case, I’ll share that with folks if they haven’t.  He’ll be speaking
tomorrow at the 40th Annual National Peace Officers’ Memorial Service,
which recognizes the 491 members of law enforcement who lost their lives
in the line of duty in 2019. 

So, as you can imagine, it is, in particular, poignant that this
memorial is being held at the U.S. Capitol, where, nine months ago, we
saw the incredible bravery of members of U.S. Capitol Police and the
Metropolitan Police Department and other law enforcement agency who
helped protect the Constitution in what the President called “the
citadel of our democracy” and “one of the darkest days” in our modern
history.

So that’s what he’ll be doing tomorrow.  So that’s why he’ll be in D.C. 
I don’t have anything more to share outside of that.

Q    The President has a lot of demands on his time, obviously.  There’s
a lot of things going on, including legislation and various other
issues.  Can you just explain the thinking of why the President thought
it was important enough to travel to Connecticut for this event for
Senator Dodd?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, there’s a couple of things — I laid out what
he’s going to be doing today.  He’ll be — he’ll be visiting a childcare
center, where he’ll be talking about a critical component of his Build
Back Better Plan.  And we have to remember this is a part of the
component that talks about childcare, eldercare.

We lost many people, you know, out of the workforce this past year and a
half because of — because of the pandemic.  So this is something — and
even before the pandemic, childcare is incredibly, you know, tough and
difficult to — and expensive for many, many parents.  And also, we — the
quality of making sure that the quality of childcare — make sure that we
pay the folks who are working there working wages.  So that — all of
those things are important.  So, he’s going to do that.

And the Dodd Center is focused on human rights.  I think that’s
incredibly important as well, especially as America takes our seat back,
you know, as one of the leaders in the globe — around the globe. 

So, all — both very critical, important events that he’s doing in
Connecticut.  And he’ll — you’ll hear from him.  He’ll be giving two
speeches that you’ll hear exactly why he’s there and the importance of
his visits.

Q    Karine, is this trip then — on that note, is this trip indicative
of any sort of concern in the White House that the childcare investment
could be slimmed down, or one of the two branches of the investment —
wage increase or expanded access — could be cut down, given the
negotiations on the Hill?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, we have been very clear that these are part of
negotiations and things are going to be — you know, things are being
negotiated and things are going to be moving around. 

But look, legislative takes time; we know this.  We’re making some
progress as we look at the Build Back Better, in particular, piece of
legislation — you know, a bill that will help our economy, help people,
help businesses.  We understand there are differences of opinion within
our party on how to best accomplish that. 

But the President has been very clear: We expect both bills to pass —
that, like I said, this is a priority for him.  The President has been
involved in complex — you hear us say this all the time — congressional
negotiations for many years, as Vice President, as Senator himself.  And
so he knows how to get deals done.  And this is — this is not new to
him. 

But, you know, as I mentioned, this is a critical time, and we’re going
to continue to get things done.  We are optimistic and we are hopeful. 
This is just part of the democratic process.

Q    Would he sign a bill — or would he sign a reconciliation bill that
only included one part of the childcare investment?  (Inaudible.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re going through the negotiation process right
now.  I’m not going to, clearly, negotiate from here.  But I just want
to make sure that, you know, passing this historic tax cut for
middle-class families means 50 million Americans would get their taxes
cut; 4 million small businesses.

This is — when you look at both bills, they’re both incredibly popular. 
This is something that the American public wants and wants us to deliver
on. 

And I just also want to add — this is something that the Democrats on
both the House and the Senate agree on.  Now we’re just trying to
negotiate and make it happen. 

And so, we’re going to make sure both bills go through.  That is what
the President wants to do and focus on.

Q    Just one more.  Labor shortages are also a factor into the supply
chain issues that the U.S. is currently experiencing.  Given the record
job growth that’s currently happening, why does the White House think
that Americans aren’t returning to work?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, you know, as you know, the — you know, our
economy still faces challenges, but the President is focused every day
on addressing — you know, on addressing the challenges ahead.  We are
dealing with a once-in-a-generation, as you know, pandemic.  And
vaccination requirements will allow our economy to thrive — and we’re
seeing that more and more people get vaccinated — and get millions of
people back into the workforce.

You know, the bipartisan infrastructure, as you were just asking me
about, and the Build Back Better human infrastructure bill will create
millions of new jobs and allow parents to pursue their careers, grow our
economy, and compete with countries like China. 

So, all of these things are incredibly important.  So, we’ve made real
progress, but there’s still more to do.  We’re already averaging about
600,000 jobs per month compared to just 60,000 before we came in.

And so, you know, like I said, we’re still facing challenges.  We’re
dealing with a once-in-a-generation pandemic.  And we’re going to just
continue to, you know, continue to use all the tools in our tool belts
to get sure that our economy continues to grow.

Q    Karine, is the President satisfied with the progress that’s been
made to address the root causes of migration in Central and South
America?  And what more can the administration do to resolve that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Be a little bit more specific.

Q    Just, is there any progress that the administration has made as far
as addressing the root causes of migration, since the — since the Vice
President took over — took that over?  And what more can be done at this
point?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I would say there has been some progress made. 
We have heard from the Vice President, from trips that she’s had,
bilateral engagements that she’s done with those — with the countries in
the Northern Triangle.  She has announced humanitarian aid that’s been
given to those different countries to help them deal with the root
causes.  So, this is a continuing — continuous engagement.

Look, this is not a light switch.  Right?  This is something that’s
going to take time, and we’re going to continue to work on them with our
— with the countries in the region.  And so, the Vice President has done
a tremendous job in doing that and make — doing that.  So, we’ll
continue to do the work.

Q    If Mexico doesn’t agree to the terms of the Remain in Mexico
policy, what do you all do from there?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me just — let me just step back so that folks
— you’re talking about the Remain in Mexico?

Okay, it’s hard to — it’s hard to hear you from back there. 

Q    You can come up a little.  I feel like we’re —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s hard because I’m trying to hold on so I don’t
fall.  (Laughs.) 

So, late yesterday, DHS filed a court-ordered report outlining steps
that it has taken pursuant to the court order to reinstate MPP.  They
and DOJ can speak more to that process more specifically. 

But as we’ve previously said, as a result of the injunction, we have to
— we have to comply in good faith and take steps to reinstate this
court-ordered MPP.  And we will be doing just that.

DHS has appealed that injunction and announced that it intends to issue
a second memorandum terminating MPP that intends to address the concerns
raised by the courts.  The Biden administration will follow the law and
abide by the court’s order to restart the court-ordered MPP. 

And the DHS and DOJ can speak, again, more specifics on this process,
but that’s where we are currently with that.

Q    Just one more quick one.  Jen has been saying all week, in regard
to privilege, that the importance of the select committee’s findings and
investigation justify, in part, the case-by-case waiving of privilege on
documents sought by the January 6th committee.

Just from the White House’s perspective, could you outline a little bit
what the White House sees as at stake in that select committee’s
investigation?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, the President has been pretty clear on this —
you know, that he believes January 6th was an attack at the heart of our
democracy.  And that is something that you have heard Jen say, you have
heard him say directly and specifically as we talk about January 6th.

And so that’s why President Biden has consistently supported a full
investigation to assure something like this can never happen again and
why the administration has been working closely with the select
committee to facilitate that. 

But anything outside of that, any specific questions on that, I would —
I would direct you to the DOJ — Department of Justice.

But, clearly, this is something that’s important to the President, as —
in making sure that we get to the bottom of this.  And this is something
that he has said specifically as well. 

Q    Do you have a week ahead?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have a week ahead for you.  Well, we’re hoping
to have that to share by Sunday.

But as I said earlier — I can’t remember who asked me the question — but
the President is going to continue to be working on moving his two
important domestic policies forward: the Build Back Better Agenda, the
Bipartisan Infrastructure — (laughs) –we’re about to land, folks —
Infrastructure bill, which is, as I said, critical to the middle class
and making sure we deliver for the American public. 

Okay — as we land.  All right.  Hold on, everybody.

Q    Thanks, Karine.

12:22 P.M. EDT
