---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-10-06'
modified_time: 2021-10-06 19:38:07-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/10/06/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-october-6-2021/
published_time: 2021-10-06 19:38:05-04:00
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, October 6,\_2021"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

4:13 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. PSAKI: Hi, everyone. Okay —  
  
Q  Or maybe not.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Oh, what did you think was going to happen? (Laughter.) I’m
sorry to disappoint. Okay, sorry to disappoint. You never know who’s
behind the door.  
  
Okay. Okay, tomorrow — just one item for all of you at the top:
Tomorrow, the President will travel to Elk Grove Village, Illinois — a
trip he had planned to do last week — to meet with public and private
sector leaders who have implemented vaccination requirements. The
President will visit with a company local to the Chicago area that is
imposing its own vaccine requirement ahead of the OSHA rule.  
  
The President’s message will be clear: Vaccination requirements work.
Vaccination requirements get more people vaccinated, helping to end the
pandemic and strengthen the economy.  
  
That’s why he’s leading and implementing on — implementing vaccination
requirements for 100 million workers, two thirds of all workers in the
United States, and that’s why we’re seeing growing momentum for
vaccination requirements across the sectors and across the country.  
  
Alex, go ahead.  
  
Q  Thanks, Jen. I was hoping to get you to weigh in on three different
debt limit scenarios since there’s so many —  
  
MS. PSAKI: Great.  
  
Q  — developing. So, off the top, Senator Mitch McConnell has proposed
for Republicans to either support a short-term hike in the debt limit
through December or to support a expedited reconciliation process where
Democrats would vote to hike it long term. What’s the White House
response to that? Is there support for either of those from the
President?  
  
And then, I was hoping to get clarification on something the President
said yesterday. He seemed to suggest that he would support a carveout in
the filibuster, if all else fails, to hike the debt limit. Is that where
he stands? Would he be open to that?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, right now — and perhaps this the awkwardness of 4:15,
while people are still meeting on the Hill — right now, Democratic
members are meeting on the Hill to discuss options on the path forward.
I think Republican members may also be meeting or discussing among
themselves.  
  
My understanding, at the point I walked out here, is that there’s been
no formal offer made. A press release is not a formal offer.  
  
And regardless, even the scant details that have been reported present
more complicated, more difficult options than the one that is quite
obvious, in the President’s view, and is in front of the faces of every
member up on the Hill. We could get this done today. We don’t need to
kick the can. We don’t need to go through a cumbersome process that
every day brings additional risks.  
  
So, they’re discussing up there. We’ll, obviously, be in close touch
with them, as we will continue to be, and we’ll see where we — where we
are at the end of today.  
  
Q  And then one foreign policy question. Does the White House have a
position yet on the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act which passed
unanimously in the Senate?  
  
And just broadly in that same context, how do you respond to the
criticism from Senator Rubio and some Republicans that the
administration is sort of letting Beijing have some advantage on human
rights abuses to try to win over their cooperation on climate issues?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, we would absolutely dispute that notion. Unlike the
former President, this President has spoken out against human rights
abuses, has raised his concerns about human rights abuses directly with
President Xi, and we have done that at every level from our national
security team.  
  
In terms of the legislation, obviously we have spoken out about our
concerns of human rights abuses in Xinjiang. And I would also note that
the President also led an effort to have coordination on the
international stage to address this issue, unlike his predecessors.  
But I’d have to talk to our legislative team about specific views on the
— in the piece of legislation. I know I spoke to it briefly last week,
but I’ll — I’ll come back to you with that.  
  
Go ahead, Steve.  
  
Q  Jake Sullivan reached a deal with the Chinese today for President
Biden and President Xi to have a virtual summit before the end of the
year. Do you see this happening around the G20 Summit? And what’s the
advantage of them seeing each other face-to-face?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, as I understand it, what came out of the discussions
was an agreement to continue dialogue at a very high level.  
  
So, what we’ve said, of course — and we continue to believe — is that
leader-level engagement is an important part of our effort to
responsibly manage the competition with China, especially given the
coalescing of power in Chinese leadership.  
  
We’re still working through what that would look like, when, and, of
course, the final details. So we don’t quite have them yet.  
  
Q  Secondly, the President indicated last night that he had spoken to
President Xi about Taiwan. Was this in their more recent phone call? And
what exactly did he tell him?  
  
MS. PSAKI: So just — you didn’t ask this, but some others have asked us
— he did not have a new call that you’re not aware of.  
  
Q  Okay. Okay.  
  
MS. PSAKI: So, just for full clarity on that. He has spoken with him
twice, as you know.  
  
And certainly, reiterating our position as it relates to — you know,
which is guided by the Taiwan Relations Act and our view that we need to
uphold that commitment — our commitment under the act — that is what the
President reiterated to President Xi last time he talked, and it is
something that is raised nearly every time he speaks at a leader level
and at other levels as well.  
  
Q  And last thing — and sorry to prolong — the Energy Secretary,
Granholm, in a conference today did not rule out a ban on crude oil
exports to keep U.S. energy prices down. Is that something that’s
seriously being looked at?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I would defer to the Energy Secretary, but I don’t have
anything new to report on that from internally in the White House.  
  
Q  Thank you.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Go ahead.  
  
Q  Hey, Jen. So, I understand that you’re obviously waiting for more
details of this proposal from the Senate Minority Leader, but, you know,
would the President accept a short-term deal to raise the debt ceiling
while you try and find a broader path out of this crisis?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, as I said a few minutes ago, we don’t need to kick the
can. We don’t need to go through a cumbersome process that every day
brings additional risks. And you heard many of the business leaders
convey that, even as we look to risk tomorrow, the next day, as American
— the American people are looking at the retirement accounts, worrying
about their Social Security savings, members of the military worrying
about their payments. We don’t need to incur that risk uncertainty.  
  
And I think it’s important to also remember we’re at this point because
Republicans in Congress treated the savings accounts and retirement
savings of the American people, Social Security checks of retirees, and
veterans benefits like a game of Monopoly, putting the stability and
security of the American people at risk.  
  
We’re at this point because Republicans in Congress blocked efforts by
Democrats to raise the debt limit and protect the full faith and credit
of the United States, despite having voted for it three times during the
Trump administration.  
  
So, obviously, as has been reported, and the vote has been delayed,
there’s still an opportunity for Republicans to join us in being adults
in the room and ensure that people have confidence in the economic
security and their own retirement savings.  
  
Q  The Minority Leader’s proposal, though, seems to go at one of the key
arguments that the President was making yesterday about why he’s opposed
to using budget reconciliation, which is that it would take time, it’s
cumbersome, it could lead to, you know, unexpected scenarios.  
  
So, is the Minority Leader taking off the arguments against
reconciliation by offering this one-month extension? And if not, then
what are your remaining objections? Is it simply that you don’t want
Democrats to take a vote that will put a specific dollar amount on
raising the debt ceiling?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Democrats are very willing to be the adults in the room and
take a vote to raise the debt limit. They’re not even asking Republicans
to do that anymore, since they’ve clearly shown their refusal to do
exactly that.  
  
The point I’m making is that there is a very clear — the least risky
option here that can ensure that there is confidence from the American
people about their own checking accounts or about their own retirement
savings, that’s something Republicans still have the opportunity to
participate in and be a part of.  
  
Q  And just on Afghanistan, if I could. The ISIS-K suicide bomber had —
you know, who was — who carried out the attack that resulted in the
deaths of 13 U.S. service members and dozens more Afghans had been
released from the Parwan prison at Bagram Air Base just days before that
attack took place, when the Taliban took control of that base.  
  
Should the Biden administration have done more to secure Bagram or
transfer ISIS-K prisoners outside of that? And do you now accept that
this attack would not have happened had the United States retained
control of Bagram?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, I can’t speak to the specific case. I’d let it — leave
it to the intelligence community to speak to that. So I’d point you to
them.  
  
I’d remind you that, as it relates to Bagram, there was a decision made
to close Bagram because it wasn’t strategically in the interest of the
United States and our national security to keep it open with 5,000
troops there protecting Bagram at a distance that was far away from the
capital and far away from where people from the embassy would be
evacuated. So, that was the broad-based decision.  
  
I understand you’re asking me a different question than that, but I just
wanted to reiterate.  
  
Q  But would he have made the same decision had he known that it would
result —  
  
MS. PSAKI: Again, I can’t speak —  
  
Q  — in the deaths of 13 service members?  
  
MS. PSAKI: — to this particular report. I’d point you to the
intelligence community.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  Thanks, Jen. You know, Congress has passed countless short-term
government funding measures. They have funded the government for 48
hours before. Wouldn’t a short-term debt ceiling hike be preferable to
default?  
  
MS. PSAKI: The preference would be just getting this done today so we
can move on to more business for the American people. And that option is
still on the table.  
  
Q  But you — you know, the White House brought in all of these banking
CEOs today to talk about how catastrophic it would be if the U.S. were
to default. Why not send the markets that assurance, if you have the
opportunity, that, at least for the next eight weeks, the debt ceiling
is going to be secure?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, if we’re looking at the best options, why kick the can
down the road a couple of more weeks? Why create an additional layer of
uncertainty? Why not just get it done now? That’s what we’re continuing
to press for, and that’s our first choice.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  Thanks, Jen. A week ago, the National School Boards Association wrote
to the President to say that their teachers feel like some parents
protesting recently “could be the equivalent to a form of domestic
terrorism.” And then, the Attorney General put the FBI on the case.  
  
So, does the administration agree that parents upset about their kids’
curriculums could be considered domestic terrorists?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, let me unravel this a little bit, because the National
School Board Association is not a part of the U.S. government. I’d point
you to them.  
  
What the Department of Justice said in a letter from the Attorney
General is that, quote, “Threats against public servants are not only
illegal, they run counter to our nation’s core values.” That is true.
These were threats against public servants, threats against members of
the school board. Regardless of the reasoning, threats and violence
against public servants is illegal. That’s what he was conveying from
the Department of Justice.  
  
Q  But the Department of Justice does now have the FBI on this.
Something that the School Boards Association is asking for is for the
administration to consider using the PATRIOT Act to investigate some of
these school board protestors. So, would the administration be okay with
the FBI using the PATRIOT Act to surveil these parents, if that is what
they decide?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I don’t speak on behalf of the National School Board
Association; I speak on behalf of this government. The Attorney General
has put out a letter. They will take actions they take, and I would
point you to them for more information.  
  
Q  And something that you said on Monday after some protestors were
hounding Kyrsten Sinema into a restroom — you said, “The President
stands for the fundamental right of people to protest, to object,
\[and\] to criticize.” So does the President support the fundamental
rights of these parents to protest at school board meetings?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Of course. But he doesn’t stand for the fundamental right — I
assume you don’t either — for people to take violent action against
members — public servants. And that’s what the threats are about. And
so, no, he doesn’t stand for that; no one should.  
  
Q  Just one more. John Kerry says that after France was cut out of the
nuclear submarine deal, and they were upset enough about being left in
the dark that they pulled their ambassador, he went to the President
and, quote, “The President, literally, had not been aware of what had
transpired.” So what else are you guys not telling the President?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Of course, he was aware of the French being upset — let me
finish —  
  
Q  No, Kerry —  
  
MS. PSAKI: Let me —  
  
Q  — said he “literally…” —  
  
MS. PSAKI: Let me — let me finish.  
  
Q  — “had not been aware.”  
  
MS. PSAKI: I know John Kerry quite well. He, of course, was aware — the
President — of the French being displeased about the deal with the
Australians. John Kerry also speaks regularly to the French, as a part
of his role as the Climate Envoy. He’s someone who also served as
Secretary of State. He’s someone I — alone — traveled to France with him
25 times.  
  
He, of course, conveyed to the President what his read is — was of what
they were specifically unhappy about and how to help address it.  
  
Q  A follow-up on France, Jen?  
  
Q  You said — you’ve said this President’s first love is foreign policy.
So, why doesn’t he know about these things in real time?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Of course, he knew about the French being displeased about
—  
  
Q  John Kerry said —  
  
MS. PSAKI: Let me finish.  
  
Q  — he “literally had not be aware.”  
  
MS. PSAKI: Peter, I would encourage you to ask John Kerry specifically
about the context of his comments. The President and John — and the
former Secretary are also good friends. He relies on his counsel, and —
as he does with many members of his national security team. But that
certainly is not what he was intending to convey.  
  
Q  Follow-up on France?  
  
Q  Jen, if I could —  
  
MS. PSAKI: Go ahead.  
  
Q  — let me ask you quickly: Yesterday, the President said that he would
be speaking with Mitch McConnell, as it related to the debt limit. Has
that conversation happened? And what did he — what did he tell him?  
  
MS. PSAKI: They have not spoken. I think what the President has
repeatedly conveyed is that he’s certainly open to, as he — as he has
shown throughout the course of his presidency, having conversations with
Democrats and Republicans when he feels it would be constructive.  
  
Q  He said they will be — he said they will be speaking. So you were
saying he was saying they will at some point, but there was no —  
  
MS. PSAKI: At some — at some point, if it’s constructive in moving
things forward.  
  
Q  Okay. Does the President trust Mitch McConnell to be an honest broker
in this process?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I don’t think this is about trust. This is about — he has
known him a long time, but this is about whether you’re going to be a
leader and take steps that are not based on — on political calculations
and more based on what’s in the interest of the United States and the
full faith and of the United States.  
  
Q  The President discussed that there was a possibility of a filibuster
— a carveout — as it related to the debt ceiling. If that were the case,
would the President be open to a filibuster carveout for voting rights?
Where does that line get drawn for the President?  
  
MS. PSAKI: The President was just simply conveying that there are a
range of options that leaders on the Hill are discussing. I think you
all have reported that, or your colleagues on the Hill have. Nothing
more than that. We’ll be in touch with them, and we’ll see what the next
best options look like.  
  
But what is very clear is that there is an easy, risk-free option here
that Republicans could allow Democrats to vote to raise the debt
ceiling. We could be done with this today.  
  
Q  Can I just follow up very quickly? Why wouldn’t the President, given
that relationship he has with Mitch McConnell, just call Mitch McConnell
and have this conversation with him? Why do this through public
events?  
  
MS. PSAKI: What’s the conversation about?  
  
Q  I don’t know. They have the relationship. He’s the one who said he
could bring the two sides together. So, wouldn’t there be some value in
having that conversation with one another?  
  
MS. PSAKI: We know what the — we know what the risk-free option is here.
We know what the clear path forward is here. And I think the President
has made no secret about his belief on that.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  Has the President had time to absorb the criticism of the Fed
Chairman? And then, specifically, what does the White House believe
should happen — Fed policy about investments made by top officials
there?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, we obviously leave the independence of the Fed to an
independent Fed — Federal Reserve. And I’m not going to speak to that
from here.  
  
The President is confident in the Chairman of the Federal Reserve, and,
beyond that, I don’t have any personnel announcements for you.  
  
Q  Given that confidence, and also given what you just said, I mean, how
close is he to making a decision on that?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I don’t have anything to preview for you at this point.  
  
Q  Yesterday, the President said he would sign a reconciliation bill
that included the Hyde Amendment. You told us earlier this week that he
remains opposed to that. So, is he backtracking on a campaign promise,
something that’s — a lot of his supporters believe strongly in?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, the President’s position hasn’t changed. The context of
his comments were that there is still a negotiation happening. There’s a
range of views. His view remains what is reflected in his budget, which
is that getting rid of — which he released in May — which shows that
getting rid of the Hyde Amendment was a priority. That remains his
position. This is a package that’s still being negotiated, and he said
that much — as much last night as well.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  Just confirming what you told Peter: The President, when he signaled
yesterday that it’s possible that the Senate could change its rules,
that — we should not read that as him expressing support for that
notion?  
  
MS. PSAKI: The President was certain simply reporting out what you
already have reported out, which is that there are a range of options
being discussed on Capitol Hill.  
  
Q  I want to ask you separately: The ambassador-designate to India was
seen, reportedly, at an event in Los Angeles last week at an art gallery
event that featured the artwork of the President’s son, Hunter.  
  
The ethicists who have pointed to this arrangement have expressed
concern that the President’s son selling art could potentially put the
President in a situation where those who seek jobs either in this
administration or favors from this administration could put this White
House in an awkward position.  
  
Should — first of all, what is the White House’s response to the fact
that an ambassador nominee was at this event? And secondly, should we
expect to see more people who seek jobs in this administration attending
events like this in the future?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, to be clear, we’ve spoken to the arrangement that is
run by the gallerist and Hunter Biden’s representatives that the White
House provided suggestions for. I’d refer you to the gallerist for
questions about the event and — as well as the representatives of Mr.
Garcetti, in terms of his attendance.  
  
Q  But, Jen, just to follow up: This is exactly what ethicists said they
were worried about.  
  
MS. PSAKI: What is, specifically?  
  
Q  The fact that the President’s son —  
  
MS. PSAKI: That he reportedly attended an event?  
  
Q  Well, that the President’s son would be selling artwork and then
meeting, potentially, with people who would seek to buy it. If you have
attendees at that event who might be seeking either jobs in this
administration or favors from this administration, isn’t it an awkward
situation to put the President in?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Again, the gallerist has spoken to — we’ve spoken to the
specifics of what the gallerist has agreed to and what recommendations
were made. I’ve done that several times. I don’t have additional details
for it from here. I’d point you to them.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  So — but does this White House not have any concerns about the photos
that have emerged showing Hunter Biden at that gallery alongside
prospective buyers?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I’d point you to the gallerist on specifics of the
restrictions that were put in place.  
  
Q  Great. But what about the position of this White House? This is a
President who ran on being transparent and you’ve got — are there no
concerns?  
  
MS. PSAKI: And we were very transparent about what recommendations were
made to the gallerist, and I would again point you to them or the many
times I’ve spoken about that from here.  
  
Q  And just to clarify, has the President’s position on doing away with
the filibuster changed?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Nothing has — no, it has not changed.  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  Thanks, Jen. The administration reportedly will invest $1 billion
into making rapid-testing COVID kits available. But there are concerns
that the tests will be too expensive. I think a lot of Americans are
wondering: Is there a universe where these available tests will be free
or affordable, or at least less expensive than $25 a pop?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Yeah, so, there’s no question, to your point, that there has
been a huge increase and an interest in testing, and getting tests, and
making them, and people going out and being able to get them easily.  
  
We announced a $2 billion investment in September. So, right now, we’re
on track to <s>double</s> \[triple\] the number of rapid, at-home tests
on the market by early November. And we’re also now on track to triple
the number of rapid, at-home tests on the market by — and thanks to the
approval of ACON — sorry — this Monday, which accelerates the pace.
We’re now on track to triple the number. Triple the number, not double.
I apologize.  
  
So, right now, with these investments, we’ll be at 200 million tests per
month starting in December, with tens of millions more coming on the
market in the coming weeks.  
  
And we’re also working to ensure that these tests, in addition to making
them more available — so you could go to CVS or Walmart, or wherever, to
get them — we’ve been working hard to make sure they are accessible and
available in pharmacies, in community centers, in schools. So, we’re
also working to do that simultaneously and separate from that.  
  
We recognize there’s a need. We recognized we needed to do more. And we
are pleased by the fact that we are now on track to not only triple by
November but also quadruple by December.  
  
Q  There was a school shooting in Texas today. The school safety group
Everytown says that this year has been the most dangerous back-to-school
period for students since they began tracking the data in 2013. That’s
some 30 instances of gunfire on schoolgrounds since August 1st, and
today’s shooting means that number is out of date.  
  
Is the administration discussing ways that schools can keep children
safe from school violence — from gun violence?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Absolutely. I mean, one, I would say the President has been
an advocate for doing more for gun safety measures through the course of
his career. Not only did he fight to get the Brady Bill passed, he
fought for the Assault Weapons Ban. It remains a cause of his public
life in office.  
  
We, of course, are frustrated by the inability to get commonsense gun
reforms through Congress. We should be able to get universal background
checks approved. They’re supported by the vast majority of the public,
as are assault weapons bans.  
  
But in addition to that, we also have taken a number of steps, both by
working through the Department of Justice to increase our strike force
teams that are going out to specific communities and cities to help
address violence. A lot of that is driven by gun violence. That’s
something that we’ve been implementing from there. And, of course, our
Department of Education is engaged in this effort as well.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  Thanks, Jen. Yesterday’s hearing by a Facebook whistleblower
underscored several major issues with the company, including, as many
senators pointed out, issues with Section 230.  
  
On the campaign trail, Biden said that Section 230 should, quote,
“immediately be revoked” and that it should be revoked because, quote,
Facebook “is not just an Internet company. It is propagating falsehoods
they know to be false.” Does the White House stand by that assessment
for Section 230, given the revelations now?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, the President has long said, as you referenced, that
tech platforms must be held accountable for the harms that they cause.
And he has been a strong supporter of fundamental reforms to achieve
that goal. This includes Section 230 reforms. It also includes privacy
and antitrust reforms as well as more transparency. That should also be
on the table.  
  
And he looks forward to working with Congress on these bipartisan
issues.  
  
He’s also called, I would note — because there were a number — a range
of issues that were raised during the whistleblower’s testimony
yesterday — on the FTC to adopt rules to address unfair data collection
and surveillance practice — practices in his Executive Order on
Promoting Competition in the American Economy.  
  
So, yes, more needs to be done, reform should happen. We also need to do
more on privacy and antitrust. And certainly, watching testimony
yesterday raised a lot of those issues again for people.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  Thanks, Jen. Does the President have any intention of speaking with
Senators Manchin or Sinema at all this week?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I can’t predict for you day by day. I — we have been in touch
with Senator Manchin and Sinema at a senior-staff level, and certainly,
I wouldn’t rule it out.  
  
Q  I wanted to ask a follow-up question on an earlier question about the
Hyde Amendment. The President has not been shy about his opposition, in
recent years, to the Hyde Amendment. As you mentioned, you know, he made
that clear in his budget blueprint; he made that clear as a candidate,
when he was running for President.  
  
So, can you explain why it is he’s saying that he would sign this bill
either way — you know, with or without this language in it?  
  
MS. PSAKI: He’s reflecting that it’s a negotiation. It’s ongoing. We
don’t know what the final product will look like.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  Jen, can I ask a little bit about energy prices? There — you know,
gas prices in the U.S. are fairly high. We’re seeing exceptionally high
prices of certain energy products in —  
  
MS. PSAKI: Yeah.  
  
Q  — Europe right now. Is the U.S. domestically considering a release
from the SPR to bring down oil prices at this time?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I’m not going to make any prediction of that from here. I
would note that we have seen, as you said, some ticks-up in parts of the
country, also in re- — as a follow-up to Hurricane Ida, because the
hurricane hit a region that is a key center of the nation’s oil
production and refining infrastructure.  
  
So that’s something we’ve been working to focus on. And we took actions
in the days and weeks following to help address that, including, at the
time, authorizing several million barrels of the Strategic Petroleum
Reserve exchanges.  
  
We’ve also taken steps into — including engaging with members of OPEC.
We’ve also taken steps to reach out to the FTC to ensure they’re using
every available tool to monitor the U.S. gasoline market and address any
illegal conduct. But I’m not going to make any other predictions at this
point in time. We’re continuously monitoring. We’ll look to take
additional steps as needed.  
  
Q  Are you or would you consider restricting LNG exports to, I guess,
head off the type of shortages and price spikes that we’re seeing in
Europe — in parts of Europe?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I’m just not going to make any additional policy predictions
at this point in time.  
  
Q  Can I, like, broadly say: Overall, these are fundamentally price
crunches on, you know, nonrenewable sources of fuel. And we’re heading
into COP summit here.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Yeah.  
  
Q  Do you worry that this could impact the pledges that countries are
willing to make? Will other governments get weak-kneed about going green
at a time when they’re facing brewing, sort of, political crises at home
over, really, skyrocketing prices of non-renewable fuel sources?  
  
MS. PSAKI: We certainly hope not. I mean, I think what COP26 is about is
to continue the conversation on the international stage, at the leader
level — that has been going on below the leader level continuously,
basically — about our need to work together to address the climate
crisis — one of the greatest national security crises the President
sees. A number of other world leaders agree on that front.  
  
Certainly, we all want to keep gasoline prices low, but the threat of
the crisis — the climate crisis — certainly can’t wait any longer.  
  
Q  Thank you.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Go ahead. Oh, go ahead. Go ahead.  
  
Q  Yeah, thanks very much. On the — you sound pretty lukewarm about the
McConnell idea. If the Democratic Caucus were to get behind it, is it a
given that the President will get on board? Or —  
  
MS. PSAKI: We’ll see where things are. This is an ever-moving news
cycle.  
  
Q  Because, you know, as we speak, there seems to be some positive vibes
there regarding this, whereas you’re giving, you know, quite the
opposite.  
  
MS. PSAKI: I would say, actually, in my read of it, there’s a diversity
of views in the Democratic Caucus, as is to be expected. And they’re
meeting now. We’ll be in close touch with them, so I just don’t want to
get ahead of that process.  
  
Q  Thank you.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Go ahead.  
  
Q  I know we’re still a few weeks away from the G20, but I wanted to see
if the President would be open to meeting with Putin again at the G20.
And does he feel like his last meeting with Putin was effective? Does
the President feel like he’s seen any change in Russia or Putin’s
behavior since then?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, I don’t have any predictions for you on the bilateral
meetings. That’s something that we’re still working through at this
point in time, every day.  
  
And in terms of the — how constructive his meeting was with President
Putin, as he said at the time, we didn’t expect it to be a light switch
where, all of a sudden, everything would be hunky-dory in the
relationship. It’s not. We have remaining concerns, but it was an
opportunity to express them at a high level, see what work could be done
over the course of the long term to address it.  
  
So I don’t know that we’re going to do a month-by-month assessment. It’s
something that we have continued conversations fro- — with members of
the national security team about many of the issues were raised. Those
are ongoing. We’re continuing to strive to make progress.  
  
Q  Can I follow up on that?  
  
Q  And do you have any update on Afghanistan and how many Americans are
still there? And is the — do you — does the President feel the Taliban
is cooperating still with efforts to get those remaining Americans
out?  
  
MS. PSAKI: We remain — through appropriate channels of course — in touch
with Taliban officials. In terms of the specific numbers, I’d point you
to the State Department. And they have the most updated number on that,
given they oversee that process.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  Jen, there’s been some reporting that Senate Democrats are planning
to accept the short-term debt limit increase. So, given that we now have
some reporting on that, can you just give us some guidance on what the
White House thinks about that idea?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Not yet. I have to — I have to dig further into that
reporting — not to question it — and talk to the team here about where
things stand. And as far as when I came out here, they were still
meeting, but we’ll venture to get back to you as soon as we have
something more concrete to convey.  
  
Q  Thanks, Jen. When the President was talking today about Republicans
and the debt ceiling, he said, “If they don’t want to do the job, just
get out of the way. We’ll take the heat. We’ll do it.” When he says,
“We’ll take the heat,” what did he mean by that? What political risk is
he acknowledging there for Democrats?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, I think one of the reasons we’re at this point is
because Republicans in Congress would rather bet on a misleading and
inaccurate campaign season talking point. We’re not betting that that’s
going to work, but his point — the President’s point is: Regardless,
we’re willing — Democrats are willing to vote alone, without any
Republican votes, to raise the debt ceiling. You just need to allow us
to proceed with that vote.  
  
Q  And on the testing question that had come up, on rapid tests, this $1
billion investment will quadruple the tests by December, in addition to
everything else from the past couple of weeks. But why has it taken so
long to get this rapid testing to this point where it will be — by
December, when Europe is flooded with rapid tests? Is it the
authorization process and the timeline on that, or is it on the
production side, or both?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, one of the things we’ve been working on is to increase
production, as you know, and also increase — I would say that the demand
for these tests here has increased a lot in the last several weeks, so
we’re also working to meet that and ensure that we are meeting the
moment here in the United States.  
  
In terms of the specific mechanics, I would encourage you to ask the
COVID team that question.  
  
Q  Is that missing the moment though by — you know, the demand has gone
up in recent weeks because kids have gone back to school. Should this
have been ready for back-to-school so that you could go to a CVS or any
of the pharmacies or government sites and get these tests?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I mean, again, we just announced, last month, an enormous
investment: We’re quadrupling availability by December, tripling by
November. I think that is speaking to how seriously we take this and how
we’re working to ensure there are accessible, cost-effective tests out
there and available to the public.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  What plans does the White House have to address the risk of oil
spills from existing platforms, existing leases that are still
operating?  
  
MS. PSAKI: You mean like the one that happened in California?  
  
Q  Correct.  
  
MS. PSAKI: I would really point you to the Department of Energy for
specifics there.  
  
Q  But, you know, the White House policies on stopping future leases
possibly —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q  — things like that. But, you know, this is an ongoing threat, you
know, that happens as, you know, offshore drilling continues. Is there
an interest in investing in the infrastructure of the pipeline to
enhance their safety, shutting them down? You know, what are your
thoughts on that?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, again, I think there — as we’ve seen, and there’s been
an ongoing investigation about what exactly was the root cause here, so
I don’t want to, kind of, speak to that as that’s been ongoing. But,
beyond that, I would point you to the Department of Energy.  
  
Q  And two very quick things on the spill: Does the White House have a
working theory on what caused the spill? And secondly, do you have an
update on federal resources that have been dispatched to respond to the
spill?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Sure. I think I do have an update on federal resources. Let
me see.  
  
On the leak, just so I don’t forget to answer this part, it’s still
under investigation. As you may know, the oil has stopped leaking; the
pipeline has been removed from service.  
  
In terms of our government efforts, 4,788 gallons of oil have been
recovered and 11,360 feet of containment boom have been deployed. As of
yesterday, six miles of shoreline have been cleaned, 328 response
personnel with additional assets are on — have — on the way have been
deployed.  
  
As we said earlier this week, the Department of Transportation’s
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration investigators are
on the ground in the Unified/Incident Command Center. And on Monday, we
also issued a corrective order — action order to the operator mandating
immediate corrective action, including performing a root cause failure
analysis, integrity assessment, and remedial work plan.  
  
Beyond that, Unified Command, of course, who are on the ground would
have any additional steps we’re taking and that are up to date.  
  
Go ahead, April.  
  
Q  Jen, we see there are crisis moments — everything is in crisis mode
here — but there are other issues that are percolating as well that some
feel are at crisis levels — Black agenda issues. The Vice President just
had the heads of Divine Nine in a meeting — frank, good, direct
discussion, we were told — about issues, particularly voting rights.  
  
What is the President expecting when it comes to dealing with the Black
agenda, particularly with those that have this small window, like voting
rights and also the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act? What is he
expected to do? What is he planning on committing to make sure these
things happen?  
  
MS. PSAKI: He wants to get both done. He wants to sign them into law. As
you know, and you’ve told me in the past, the Black agenda is bigger
than voting rights and bigger than the George Floyd Police and Justice
Act.  
  
Both are hugely important. The President has committed to getting them
both done. He wants to sign them into law. We need Congress to move
forward on both to get that done.  
  
Q  They are — the Black agenda is huge. It’s vast. But in this moment,
there’s a small window of time before elections happen, and the concern
is is that this President is not doing enough; he has not armed the Vice
President or helped her to be able to fight the fight for these
things.  
  
MS. PSAKI: I would say the Vice President is more than capable of
fighting the fight and the lead on this particular issue and any
issue.  
  
Q  So how is he —  
  
MS. PSAKI: She’s the Vice President of the United States. Pretty
powerful.  
  
Q  Right, but if the President — the argument is, if the President is
not supporting her with the tools that she needs —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Which tools is she —  
  
Q  — i.e. the filibuster —  
  
MS. PSAKI: — is she — is he not providing to her?  
  
Q  — i.e. the filibuster for voting rights, and that is in her
portfolio.  
  
You have one of her friends — and a Democrat, a strategist — Bakari
Sellers, who says her portfolio is trash because he’s not supporting her
in the way that she needs to be supported for this to pass. So, what do
you say? Can he, will he, shall he push for the filibuster for voting
rights, even as he’s doing it — thinking about it for the debt
ceiling?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, that’s not exactly what I conveyed earlier, but I will
say that the President has conveyed many times that getting voting
rights done, signing it into law is top of his agenda.  
  
The Vice President, one of the most powerful people in the world, is
leading this effort. He is her — she is his partner. She’s the first in
the room, the last in the room, and he’s going to continue to work by
her side to get it done.  
  
But beyond that and the legislative process and how that will work, I
don’t have any update on that front.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  Sticking on voting rights, with S.4 being introduced in the Senate:
The President has, over and over, talked about the pathways that voting
rights legislation could take, same thing that he — apparently,
yesterday, you said he was alluding to when he said “real possibility” —
right? — talking about what could possibly happen on the Hill.  
  
He’s never talked about voting rights with any kind of real possibility
of a filibuster carveout, and there’s a real frustration — some people
have got arrested just yesterday — among activists on the voting rights
issues.  
  
So, other than, “We’re frustrated; we stand with you,” what do you have
to say to activists who are saying this White House, the President isn’t
doing enough on voting rights specifically?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I think that was just the question I just answered, no?  
  
Q  But we’re trying to get an answer from you. I mean, it’s a legitimate
question. And we’re trying to —  
  
MS. PSAKI: I’m not saying — I’m not saying it’s not. I’m not saying it’s
not. I would say that the President is also frustrated that voting
rights has not been done. He’s also frustrated that Republicans are so
afraid of making reforms that would make it easier for people to vote
that they have blocked this effort.  
  
And he is frustrated that, despite everything that’s happened around the
country, there isn’t more of a movement to get this done — I don’t mean
by activists; certainly, there’s a movement there — in Congress.  
  
What he was certainly — what he was speaking to yesterday was the fact
that there is live conversations right now about a range of options on
the debt limit. He was not speaking to anything beyond that. And that’s
what is happening on the — on Capitol Hill in this particular moment.
That’s it.  
  
And so, I would convey to activists that he is absolutely committed. He
wants to get this done. He wants to sign it into law. The Vice President
just had meetings today on it. She is in the lead on this effort, as one
of the most powerful people in this country, maybe even in the world,
leading this effort.  
  
Q  But, I mean, he’s the President. So, when I talk to activists, you
know, they say, “You’re the President. If you’re frustrated, do
something.” Right? So, I guess that is the — that is what we’re
constantly hearing —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Congress is a separate body.  
  
Q  Sure, but there’s things that he could —

MS. PSAKI: It’s a —  
  
Q  There are things that he —  
  
MS. PSAKI: It’s a — it’s a separate body. You need 50 votes to change
the filibuster. You also need the majority of votes to pass legislation
into law.  
  
He has made clear that he wants voting rights to be passed into law. He
will continue to advocate publicly, privately, and continue to be a
partner to the Vice President. He absolutely feels this is essential and
we need to get it done.  
  
Go ahead, Patsy.  
  
Q  Thank you, Jen. I want to follow up on Taiwan. Administration
officials — including yourself, I believe, on Monday, and Secretary
Blinken today — essentially have issued warnings to China urging China
to stop its military activities in Taiwan. However, China has ignored
that. In fact, it has dialed up sending even more military jets. So,
what does that say about the credibility of U.S. deterrence on this
issue?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I think the Secretary of State spoke to this earlier. I don’t
think I have anything more to add to what he said.  
  
Q  Can I — can I just follow up?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Go ahead.  
  
Q  How concerned are you that these recent activities might actually
escalate and then draw the U.S. into some sort of great power war with
China? And so, what are you doing to maintain tensions beyond, kind of,
ad hoc meetings like the Zurich meeting that Jake Sullivan is —  
  
MS. PSAKI: I wouldn’t call a meeting with our National Security Advisor
and his counterpart an “ad hoc” meeting.  
  
Obviously, we raise our concerns through a range of channels. The State
Department also put out a public statement — a proactive statement on
this, which is not something they do frequently, and the Secretary of
State spoke to it today.  
  
Q  Do you have regular, you know, meetings to make sure that things like
this don’t escalate into something bigger?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Of course, we do, as you well know.  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  I have another debt ceiling question —  
  
MS. PSAKI: Sure.  
  
Q  — but zooming much farther out.  
  
Earlier today, Jamie Dimon suggested getting rid of the debt ceiling
altogether so that this scenario would not happen again.  
  
Secretary Yellen seemed to lend her support to that idea of getting rid
of the debt ceiling altogether in the past. Has she spoken with the
President about that idea? And does he have a position on, sort of, the
larger question of whether or not it should or should not be
abolished?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Right now, our focus is on raising the debt ceiling in the
limited amount of time we have left to do that and do it without
impacting the retirement savings accounts, the Social Security, and the
economic security of millions of Americans. There’s plenty of time to
have a conversation after that.  
  
Q  And then a quick follow-up. You were asked about the — the Uyghur
anti-slave labor bill.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Yeah. You asked me about it last week, too — or the week
before. I don’t remember.  
  
Q  That’s right.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Yeah.  
  
Q  You’ve noted several times that the President has put out
statements.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Yeah.  
  
Q  There is sanctions as well. Does this administration — does the
President feel that there is anyone in his administration that is
opposed to this kind of bipartisan legislation?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I think it’s all about taking a look at the legislation and
figuring out if it’s something we’d support moving forward — every
component of it — and I’ll check and see if we have a statement of
administration policy on it.  
  
Q  But you don’t know of anyone in the administration who currently
opposes this?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Again, we’re not talking about whether or not we think the
treatment of the Uyghurs is outrageous. It is. We’ve all said that.
We’re talking about a piece of legislation that has several components,
and so I just want to make sure I go through the proper process with
that.  
  
Q  On food shortages —  
  
MS. PSAKI: Go ahead.  
  
Q  Hi. I was just wanting to talk to you about food shortages real
quick. I’m not sure if you were looking here. But I just wanted to say
that, on food shortages, we’re seeing in schools the supply chain is
kinked and affecting school lunches to the degree that kids are having
bread — or meat with no bread to make sandwiches, for example. And
grocery stores, ahead of the holidays, are limiting the amount of food
that you can actually purchase.  
  
So, in regard to the debt ceiling talks, if the Senate votes “no” ahead
of Thanksgiving, ahead of Christmas, and the coming holiday season — if
they say “no,” what will that mean in the big picture for this nation
and food shortages and other product delinquencies?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, look, I would say — I just want to dis- — to make sure
we’re sending a clear message here about what the impacts of different
things are. I know that’s why you asked the question.  
  
You’d have to get me more information about how broadly the school issue
you’re referencing is. I have not heard that from the Department of
Education. It doesn’t mean that it is not the case in certain schools,
but if you have more information on that —  
  
Q  I do. (Inaudible) get it to you.  
  
MS. PSAKI: — come share that with me.  
  
I would say that we know that unless Congress acts to raise the debt
limit, what we’re talking about here is people’s retirement savings,
their Social Security benefits, their economic security being at risk.
That could mean all sorts of things, to your point about people’s
economic security, especially people who are at or below the poverty
line or above the poverty line. And we’re seeing the impact on markets
across the country.  
  
We don’t want that to be the case, of course. That’s why we’re working
to prevent this from happening.  
  
I would say, in terms of the cost of meat and the cost of goods, we
think — there’s a range of issues here. You referenced the supply chain.
Another issue is the fact that there’s not enough competition among big
meat producers. It’s something Secretary Vilsack spoke to when he was
here just a few weeks ago and something our Department of Agriculture
and the Department of Justice also are working to take steps to
address.  
  
Q  Thank you for that, but just a real quick —  
  
MS. PSAKI: Go ahead.  
  
Q  — one — one more on the shots. We do have an approval for FlowFlex —
I believe is the name of the rapid results test — and we were expecting
today to have — hear more information about that. But I’ve written about
this, and the New York Times is saying that one of the problems even in
going to places like CVS to get a test is, in some places, you don’t
even — you can’t even buy a rapid results test. And being that school is
in session and that we are going to be having more events, for example
—  
  
MS. PSAKI: So, Mona, that’s exactly why we just announced a $2 billion
investment that’s going to quadruple the number of tests that are
available at schools, community centers, and also to purchase at home.  
  
Q  But that’s future focused. I’m talking about —  
  
MS. PSAKI: It’s starting to happen now.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  Thank you, Jen. Just to follow up on John Kerry’s comments.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Yeah.  
  
Q  You mentioned that he was, of course, aware of the displeasure after
the deal was announced. Was he not aware of something before the deal
was announced? Was he not aware that the French weren’t read in? Was he
not aware of the French deal on conventional submarines?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Look, I think, right now, what our focus is on is moving
forward. As you know and as President Macron spoke to, they’re going to
be meeting next month. We’re working to finalize the details of that.  
  
As you saw, our National Security Advisor and members of our national
security team have met with their counterparts or high-level officials
in recent weeks.  
  
So, at this point, what our focus is on is how we work with the French
moving forward.  
  
Q  Thank you, Jen.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Thanks, everyone.  
  
4:56 P.M. EDT
