---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-10-05'
modified_time: 2021-10-05 15:11:34-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/10/05/press-gaggle-by-principal-deputy-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-en-route-lansing-mi/
published_time: 2021-10-05 15:30:00-04:00
title: "Press Gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre En Route\
  \ Lansing,\_MI"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Lansing, Michigan

12:49 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I have a couple of things for you at the top.  First
of all, as we all know, we’re traveling to Howell, Michigan, where the
President will continue to rally public support for his Bipartisan
Infrastructure Bill and Build Back Better agenda, which will make our
country more competitive and grow our economy by investing in working
families, fully paid by making sure that the biggest corporations and
wealthiest Americans pay their fair share.   
  
In particular, this trip will show how the bipartisan infrastructure
will provide good-paying, high-skill union jobs across the country.   
  
While in Howell, the President will visit the International Union of
Operating Engineers Local 324 training facility.  He will then deliver
remarks, making the case for the Bipartisan Infrastructure Bill and his
Build Back Better agenda.  Operating Engineers Local 324 has been in
existence for over 100 years and currently has over 14,000 members.   
  
Examples of programs on site include learning how to operate heavy
GPS-enhanced equipment; running complex temperature systems of
commercial buildings; and installing water, sewer, and utility
infrastructure.  
  
The bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act will make a
generational investment in Michigan’s infrastructure and resilience,
including on roads — in roads and bridges, public transportation,
electric vehicles, high-speed Internet, clean water, and resilience.
 For example, 14 percent of Michigan households do not have an Internet
subscription. Michigan will receive a minimum allocation of $100 million
to help provide broadband coverage across the state.  
  
From 2010 to 2020, Michigan experienced 19 extreme weather events.  The
bill includes a $50 billion national investment in resilience to
strengthen our infrastructure for the impacts of climate change.   
  
The Build Back Better agenda will make life better for millions of
working families in Michigan and bold investment in childcare, universal
pre-K, tax cuts for families with children and childless workers, higher
education, housing, and child nutrition.   
  
For instance, the average Michigan two-parent household spends $10,400
to care for just one young child every year.  The Build Back Better plan
cuts childcare costs by more than half of most low- and middle-income
Michiganders and improves quality of childcare.  
  
In terms of higher education, the average cost of a two-year degree in
Michigan is $4,000 per year.  The plan provides at least two years of
free community college to all students and expands the maximum Pell
Grant by nearly $1,500, supporting the 174,000 students in Michigan who
rely on Pell for their education.  
  
Both of these packages will help level the playing field for people all
over the state of Michigan in both urban and rural communities.   
  
Another item for all of you is a — there’s a new report from the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services — HHS. It shows that COVID-19
vaccination may have helped prevent hundreds of thousands of new
COVID-19 infections and tens of thousands of deaths among seniors.  The
study found that vaccinations were linked to a reduction of
approximately 265,000 COVID-19 infections, 107,000 hospitalizations, and
39,000 deaths among Medicare beneficiaries between January and May
2021.  
  
Today’s report reflects both the devastating effect COVID-19 has had on
our vulnerable seniors and also demonstrates that efforts to prioritize
and vaccinate this group directly correlate to saving lives.  
  
The last item I have for you is that the President had another meeting
with House members.  And we’ll have more of a readout later today, but I
can share with you the list of names of folks that he met with.  As you
can imagine, this — this is going to be — this meeting was on both
packages.  He’s — it was a very strong engagement, and he’s going to
continue to have these engagements with congressional members as the
upcoming days come up ahead — come ahead.  
  
So the members he met with include: Colin Allred, Congressman from
Texas; Cindy Axne, Congresswoman from Iowa; Sharice Davids —
Congresswoman Sharice Davids from Kansas; Lizzie Fletcher, Congresswoman
from Texas; Congressman Vicente Gonzalez; Congresswoman Lucy McBath from
Georgia; Tom O’Halleran, Congressman from Arizona; Katie Porter,
Congresswoman from California; Abigail Spanberger, Congresswoman from
Virginia; Lauren Underwood, Congresswoman from Illinois; and
Congresswoman Susan Wild of PA.  
  
So, those are the folks that he met with today.  And it was — like I
said, it was a constructive meeting and — on both of his pieces of
economic policy that we’ve been talking about: Build Back Better agenda
and the bipartisan infrastructure.  
  
You want to kick us off?  
  
Q    Thanks so much.  We heard from the President yesterday speak about
the need to lift the debt ceiling, forcefully calling on Republicans to
do so.  
  
Both President Biden and Senator Minority Leader McConnell have, in the
past, praised their relationship, said they could work together to get
things done.  Has President Biden picked up the phone and called Senate
Minority Leader McConnell?  And does — or does he plan to?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, thanks for the question, Jonathan.  So, the
President is always open to having conversation, as you know.  I don’t
have any scheduled updates to provide at this time.  No — no — clearly,
no call to read out.  
  
But as you know, there’s been contact with Senator McConnell from the
highest levels of the administration, including a recent call with
Secretary Yellen.  And in those conversation, we’ve made clear how
catastrophic the consequences would be if Republicans continue to vote
to default and block Democrats from solving this ourselves.  
  
Senator McConnell acknowledges there’s nothing to negotiate here. 
Republicans have refused to do the responsible thing and voted instead
to default.  And when Democrats opted to go at it alone to get it — to
get this done, McConnell blocked that as well.   
  
So, as the President made clear — very clear yesterday, we’re no longer
asking Republicans to do the right thing, we’re just asking them to get
out of the way.  
  
Q    A follow-up on this: Senator Manchin said yesterday that he doesn’t
support your strategy and said you should use reconciliation.  And
Secretary Yellen, this morning, in an interview also declined to rule
out using reconciliation.  If Republicans again block Schumer’s vote in
the upcoming vote, is it time to switch to reconciliation now?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  As you can imagine, like, the conversations that we’re
having are critical and important, and — and so we’re going to continue
to have those.   
  
As it comes to reconciliation: Look, as the President said yesterday,
reconciliation is a complicated, cumbersome process that is ripe for
more obstruction by Republicans and could lead to hundreds of unrelated
votes bogging down the legislative process as he raced towards default
and devastating economic consequences.   
  
It’s a risky route to take, but we don’t need to take that route or that
risk, and we shouldn’t be playing games with a cataclysmic potential
outcome.  We have a bill in the Senate right now that can quickly and
simply address the debt limit and put this behind us.  
  
If Republicans simply stop blocking Democrats, we can have an up or down
vote tonight and put this all behind us.  
  
Senator McConnell has made clear, again, that his caucus isn’t going to
do the right thing by joining us in voting to address the debt limit, so
we’re asking him again — as we have done the last couple of days — is to
please get out the way, as the President has done.  
  
In fact, a member of Senate GOP leadership — this is Senator Roy Blunt —
said that around 90 percent of the Republican Senate caucus would be
fine with Democrats just doing this on our own, with an up and down
vote.  So why — the question is: Why is Senator McConnell holding us
from doing just that?  And why isn’t he listening to his caucus or the
American people?  
  
Q    Biden, yesterday, said he was planning to call Senator McConnell,
and today you said he’s open to talking to them.  That seems a different
message than what the President said yesterday.  Has there been a change
of opinion from that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I just don’t have a call to read out at this
time.  But as you can — could imagine, we’re going to — we’re continue —
continuing to tell — to tell Mitch McConnell — we’re talking to him on
all levels, on high levels from the administration.  And what we’re
saying is very clear: Get out the way so we don’t end up in this
catastrophic situation and we do the work of the American people.  
  
Look, the Republican filibuster of the debt ceiling is dangerous and is
reckless.  They are playing chicken with the full faith and credit of
the United States.  And so, as the President said yesterday, it is
important to take a step back to remind people what this is actually
about.  Addressing the debt limit has nothing to do with the future
spending.  It’s about paying bills that have been run by Congress and
presidents from both parties in the past.  And 97 percent of the debt
predates the Biden administration.  That is just the fact.   
  
And this is a simple question for Senate Republicans: Are they willing
to send America into economic catastrophe as we come out of a pandemic,
deprive seniors of their Social Security and veterans of their benefits
they earned, rather than stop filibustering a simple up or down vote all
over politics?  Is that their message to the American people?  Every
Republican senator should be asked that simple question without hiding
behind excuses.  
  
Q    Is the President reaching out to Republicans in addition to Leader
McConnell?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, we are trying to do everything that we can to
make sure that we deliver for the American people.  
  
Look, Democrats on the Hill and here at the White House are doing
everything in our power to do the right thing, the responsible thing,
and that’s pass the debt ceiling.  
  
Mitch McConnell, again, has blocked us at every turn.  The President has
been clear he believes Congress should pass the debt ceiling in a
bipartisan vote, as has happened every time before — 3 times during the
Trump administration; 80 times before.  This isn’t a political game.  As
I’ve mentioned, this will have devastating impacts, as I just listed
out.  Real people will be hurt.   
  
It’s time for Mitch McConnell to end these games.  The President
believes Mitch McConnell and Republicans should stop filibustering the
debt ceiling, full stop.  
  
Q    On getting the — on getting the price tag of the package down, Jen
has indicated in the past that President Biden might be open to means
testing, particularly of community college.  But does he have any red
lines when it comes to means testing?  For example, would he be open to
that for free pre-K or childcare?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, many programs in the Build Back Better plan have
income limits, as you know, for eligibility, such as the Child Tax
Credit and childcare.  We are open to targeting other programs as well,
and so that’s where we’re kind of at with that right now.  
  
Q    Can you give specifics as to which programs you might?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  As you can imagine, I’m not going to negotiate from
here, but we are open.  
  
Q    Does the White House have any comment on this New York Times story
that came out just a little bit ago that said that a “troubling number”
of the CIA’s informants have been compromised or killed?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t — I don’t have anything for you on that.  I
would refer you to the CIA for any comments.  But I don’t have anything
to share on that.  I haven’t seen — I haven’t seen that report.  
  
Q    Did the White House — did the White House invite Representative
Slotkin to the moderates’ call earlier today?  And are they con- — and
is the Whi- — is the President concerned about her seat, and is that why
he’s visiting?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, you’re talking about why we’re going to —
Representative Slotkin?  
  
Q    Yeah.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I mean, look, I just laid out in the begin- — in
my topper what the Build Back Better agenda, what the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Bill is going to do for the people of Michigan.  It is
going — it has – it has a lot of benefits that’s going to help people
who are in the middle, who are the middle class — you know, the
blue-collar folks who have — who have been left behind — and also do an
investment into our country, into roads and bridges that are critical
and important.  
  
And so, Michigan is going to — Michigan is a state that he wanted to
highlight.  He’s been all across the country, as you all know.  Some of
you have been on this trip with us talking about his Build Back agenda,
talking about the Bipartisan Infrastructure Bill.  And so, we’re going
to Michigan to do just that — to continue to have that conversation.  
  
And we have to remember as well, like, a lot of pieces of these — a lot
of pieces of the — of his agenda is popular amongst the — amongst the
American people, not just Democrats, but Republicans and independents
and all.  
  
This is — these are two pieces of legislation that the American people
want to see happen.  They want to be able to get that middle-class tax
cut, which we passed in the American Rescue Plan — that Child Tax
Credit.  And so that has been critical.  Cutting poverty by 50 percent. 
Want to be able to have lower costs in Medicare, lower prescription —
pay lower — pay lower in their prescription drugs, which is really
astronomic- — astronomically high.   
  
And so we have to continue — continue making sure that we’re connecting
with the American people, having that conversation, and letting them
know what’s at stake and that we’re fighting for them every day.  
  
Q    Is the Congresswoman meeting him on the ground — Congresswoman
Slotkin?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes, she’ll be — yes, Representative Slotkin will be
on the ground with us.  She’ll be greeting us here at the airport when
we land, and she’ll be also at the facility.  
  
Q    And then why go to a place that, you know, basically voted for
Donald Trump?  I think, like, 60 percent in that country versus 30-some
percent for Biden?  Is it important to get his message to Trump
voters?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, no — Nicole, I appreciate the question, but the
President has said this himself: He is the President for everyone — for
people who voted for him and for people who didn’t.  
  
And so, again, I just listed out — you know, example: 14 percent of
Michigan households do not have Internet subscription.  Michigan will
receive a minimum allocation of $100 million to help provide broadband
cover- — coverage across the state.   
  
You know, I’ve listed out the things that the Build Back agenda will
make life better for millions of working families in Michigan with bold
investment in childcare, as I just mentioned; universal pre-K; tax cuts
for families with children and childless workers; higher education;
housing; and child nutrition.  
  
I mean, this is — his agenda, his economic policy agenda, first of all,
is about not leaving anyone behind, but is going to help people in towns
in Michigan, but also across the country.   
  
Again, he’s been doing this for the past several months — having these
conversation, wanting to take it directly to the American people.  
  
Q    Jake Sullivan is expected to meet with Chinese officials.  Can you
tell us what message he’s bringing there?  And Taiwan a topic of
discussion?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yep.  This just happened.  So, as we announced,
National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan will be meeting with his
counterpart from the <s>PCR</s> \[PRC\] tomorrow, in Switzerland.  They
will follow up on the President’s call with President Xi on September
9th, as we have — there’s a readout of that, as you all know.  
  
As we’ve said, we will continue to seek to responsibly manage the
competition between the U.S. and the PRC, and that’s what this meeting
is about.   
  
We’ll have more to say about this tomorrow.  
  
Q    On a similar topic, Ambassador Tai is going to be with her Chinese
counterpart to discuss China’s failure to live up to the phase one trade
agreement signed in the last administration.  What is the message
there?   
  
But also, to this point, it seems like any interaction between these two
countries below the leader level has led nowhere.  Can you speak to
whether the President will try to speak to President Xi again or set up
a meeting?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any meetings to confirm with the
President and President Xi.  You’re right — you know, Ambassador Tai, we
said yesterday, is going to engage with her counterpart on the approach,
moving forward on the phase one agreement, and that will be the main
channel through which we discuss that.  
  
Q    Given the departure of Dr. Francis Collins, how quickly does the
administration want to have his replacement in office?  And do you have
any update on the search for an FDA administrator?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, that decision is expected to be made before Dr.
Collins steps down, as far as the nominee for his position.  
  
I’m not going to be making any — clearly, any announcements on a nominee
from this gaggle here today.  And in the meantime, the American people
can rest assured that there is a strong leadership across NIH and the
department management — managing the COVID-19 pandemic and more.   
  
And so, as far as the FDA, the role of the FDA commissioner is
critically important, as you all know, especially during the COVID-19
pandemic.  We have strong acting leadership in place that is playing an
important role in our COVID-19 response and beyond, and look forward to
sharing a nominee with the required expertise and leadership for this
job.  So, hopefully, we’ll have something soon to share.  
  
Q    When was the last time the President spoke to Senators Manchin or
Sinema?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  As you know, we’re in constant — he’s in constant
communication with congressional members.  I don’t have anything to read
out or to lay out on the upcoming conversations with the two of them. 
But as you can imagine, they’re talking to White House officials on a
regular day — on a regular basis.  
  
Q    Karine, how is the administration preparing for the 60,000 Haitian
migrants who are traveling to the U.S. from Central America right now? 
And former special — former Haiti Special Envoy Daniel Foote is expected
to testify later this week in front of the House Foreign Affairs
Committee.  Has the White House been in touch with him?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything on that, on the — your second
question at the moment.  But what I can say is, you know, we continue —
we’re going to continue to enforce Title 42 at the border.  As we know —
as we’ve said before, it’s a public health authority, not an immigration
policy, for — families and single adults are expelled under the CDC
directive when possible.  
  
The determination of who can be expelled or not is determined by a
number of factors, including the makeup of the specific family unit and
agreements with the country of origin or last residence.  Another
determining factor is the detention capacity, both within ICE and
CBP.   
  
As we have stated, those who cannot be expelled are placed into removal
proceedings and issued an NTA; or when capacity issues and processing
backlogs arise, they may be processed via an alterna- — an alternate
means, which requires them to report to an ICE office to commence the
next phase in their immigration proceedings.  
  
Individuals released from CBP custody are enrolled in ICE alternatives
to detention programs to assist in ensuring they report to the next
steps in their immigration process.   
  
So, these are the factors that are in place across the border.  As you
can imagine, we’re working with our — the leaders in the region on this
— on this issue of migrants coming to the border.  But we do have a
system in place that we’re going to continue to follow.   
  
And we continue to have the push factors and telling folks, “This is not
the time to come.”  And we’re going to continue to do what we’ve been
doing the past several months.  
  
Q    Karine, Senator Warren, on the Senate floor, had some strong words
that Fed Chair Powell failed as a leader of the Fed by not safeguarding
the Fed’s integrity in preventing the trading activities that Fed
officials engaged in during the crisis.  Does the President retain
confidence in Powell in light of these comments from Senator Warren?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I know that this is something that Jen talked
about last week.  Yes, he does have conf- — he does have confidence in
Powell at this time.  
  
Q    Karine, is there like a date or a deadline set when you guys will
have to basically give up on McConnell and tell Senate Dems they need to
pursue reconciliation to sort of ensure that we don’t go off this, you
know, debt cliff?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, we’re going to continue to make our position
very clear about the debt ceiling and making sure that, you know,
Senator McConnell should know this as well.   
  
As we know, Jen put up this chart yesterday and — about the chart —
right? — the chart that she put up, which is: On Mitch McConnell’s
watch, the previous administration racked up nearly $8 trillion in new
debt, including $2 trillion from a tax giveaway for the rich.  But
Republicans and Democrats still came together to address the debt limit
three times because responsible people pay their bills.  
  
And so, this has been done in the past.  And so, this is critical and
important.  And so, we’re going to continue to ask for bipartisanship
and make sure that it’s known: If Mitch McConnell is not going to
participate, he needs to get out the way.  
  
Q    But do we know if there’s sort of a date that’s like the point of
no return?  And then, you know —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I don’t have — I don’t have a date for you at
this time.  We’re just going to continue to be very, very clear.  Like
the President said yesterday, you know, we have to take a step back and
look at how this has been done 80 times; that it’s been a bipartisan
fashion — done in a bipartisan fashion three times during the Trump
administration.  And we can’t play political football right now.  We
can’t play politics.  We have to get this done for the American people,
and that is the most important thing.   
  
Again, if — if there — if Mitch McConnell is not going to work with us,
he needs to get out of the way and stop filibustering.  
  
Q    Last night, senior White House aides, including Brian Deese and
Louisa Terrell, were on the Hill to meet with Schumer and Pelosi.  Was
this — can you give us a little bit more about that meeting?  Was this
about the next steps on the debt ceiling?  Or what was this about?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I actually — Jenny, I don’t have anything to read out
on that.  I’m happy to go — to look into that.  But as you can imagine,
we try to keep those conversations private, but I don’t have anything
for you on that one.  
  
Q    Could I do one final — final one?  Senator Manchin also called the
Hyde Amendment a “red line,” and I’m curious how are you going to square
that with the President’s own stance  
on Hyde.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  I’m not going to negotiate from here.  Jen was
asked this question as well yesterday, and she —  
  
Q    But that was before Manchin called it a “red line.”  So —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I hear you.  I hear you.  I don’t think — his
position on that has not changed in the last 24 hours.  But we’re not
going to negotiate from here.  We’re going to just keep moving.   
  
As I’ve said, you know, the Democrats pretty much agree — you know, a
majority of Democrats agree that the Build Back agenda and the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Bill is going to help middle-class families
and really give them some space to breathe.  
  
And one of the things that we have said over and over again is that it’s
going to be paid for; we’re not going to raise taxes on anyone making
less than $400,000.  And that’s the key here.  And we’re going to make
sure — and we’re going to do that by making sure that the wealthiest
among us and the largest corporations pay their fair share.   
  
Thanks, everybody.  
  
Q    Can you let us know whenever he talks to McConnell?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.  I’m happy to do that.  
  
1:13 P.M. EDT
