---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-10-28'
modified_time: 2021-10-29 12:45:51-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/10/28/press-gaggle-by-principal-deputy-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-en-route-rome-italy/
published_time: 2021-10-28 18:18:40-04:00
title: "Press Gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National\
  \ Security Advisor Jake Sullivan En Route Rome,\_Italy"
---
 
2:36 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hey, everyone.  Welcome to our travel to our trip to
Europe — the President’s first trip to <s>Europe</s> \[Italy\] as
President of the United States.  We’re really excited about the stops
we’re about to make.  
  
We have the National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan to read us in a
little bit about what’s going to happen the next couple days.

Go ahead, Jake.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Great, thanks.  So I’ll start just by walking through
what to expect tomorrow and over the course of the weekend and then a
couple of toplines on COP26, and then I’m happy to take your questions,
although you probably have more questions for Karine about other things.

Q    You don’t want to talk about that?

MR. SULLIVAN:  About Build Back Better?

Q    Yeah.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Other than the fact that making these investments in
American strength will be very important to our national security going
forward, I’ll leave it to the experts.

So — so, tomorrow, we’ll start with a meeting with the Pope.  The
President will have some private time with him, and then there’ll be an
expanded delegation meeting as well to discuss a range of issues of
mutual interest, from climate to an equitable global economic recovery.

He’ll also meet with the Cardinal Secretary at the Vatican.  He will
meet with the President of Italy and the Prime Minister of Italy. 
Obviously, we’re not just coming for the G20, we are coming to
underscore the importance of the U.S.-Italy alliance and U.S.-Italy
partnership as well.  And so he’ll spend time with the two senior
leaders in the Italian government. 

And then he will meet with the French President, President Macron.  And
they’re going to literally cover the waterfront, in terms of issues
facing the U.S.-France alliance but, frankly, facing two likeminded
democracies — from counterterrorism in the Middle East; to great power
competition; to economic, trade, and technology issues.  

Then, on Saturday, he will participate in the first session of the G20,
which is an economics and health session.  And he will also have the
opportunity to meet with the E3 — the leaders of Germany, France, and
the UK — on Iran to touch base on where things stand right now with
respect to trying to resume negotiations for a return to the JCPOA and
the European and American shared concerns about the state of play with
Iran’s nuclear program.  So, that’s Saturday.

Then Sunday, in addition to two sessions of the G20 — one on climate and
one on sustainable development — President Biden will also host a supply
chain meeting.  And we will get you the participant list.  But it’s a
group of likeminded states from multiple continents to talk about how we
can coordinate better to deal with both the short-term supply chain
disruptions and challenges and long-term supply chain resilience.

And then we will head off to Glasgow on Monday for COP26.  Obviously,
he’ll give his major statement on behalf of the United States at the
conference on Monday.  He will also host a meeting on Build Back Better
World, B3W, with both the G7 and with recipient countries from multiple
continents to talk about where we’re taking this infrastructure
initiative — high-standards, climate-friendly, transparent, ambitious
infrastructure initiative — in the years ahead.

He will also have other bilateral meetings while we’re in Glasgow, but
we’re still sort of finalizing the details on those, so I’ll come back
with more information about the “who” and the “when” as we go.

I guess just kind of two or three other things to put on the table
before opening for questions.  The first is: Really, in the runup to
this G20, it’s been the U.S. and Europe together driving the bus on the
significant global issues, whether it’s the Global Methane Pledge and
the ambitious climate commitments heading into COP26, or it’s the work
together to get the global minimum tax done to be cemented and ratified
and agreed at the G20, or it’s the joint work on COVID-19.

And I think you’ll see the U.S. and Europe front and center at this G20
as we deal with the fact that neither the leaders of Russia nor China
will be present in the room in Rome.  And so that dynamic will be
interesting to watch unfold.

And then, finally, we are trying to work through some remaining
climate-related deliverables at the G20, language in the communiqué, as
well as ensuring that we’re not just dealing with the current pandemic. 
But one of the things the G20 is focused on is how we prepare the global
community better for future pandemics to prevent, detect, and respond to
them going forward.

And that’s — that’s all I’ve got to say for now, and happy to take your
questions.

Q    Can you kick off — can you kick off with a little more detail about
the Iran meeting?  What do you expect to come out of that meeting with
the E3?  And can you also confirm, Jake, now whether or not the
President will be meeting with the President of Turkey in Glasgow?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I anticipate he will meet with the President of Turkey in
Glasgow.  I don’t have confirmation, but I think that’s the present
expectation.

With respect to the E3+1 — there’s always got to be some new
configuration — it’s an opportunity to closely coordinate with our key
European partners, at the leader level, on a joint negotiating position
as we work towards a resumption of negotiations. 

It’s also an opportunity to level-set on our understanding of Iran’s
progress on the nuclear program since they left the JCPOA.  And
obviously, we all have deep concerns about the forward progress of that
program since the lid was lifted and they began to operate outside of
the constraints of the JCPOA.

So, those will be the two main elements of the meeting, fundamentally
centering around a shared strategy and solidarity and unity in our
approach, which of course will be a study in contrast with the previous
administration since Iran was one of the areas of most profound
divergence between the previous administration and the Europeans.

Here you’ll see Chancellor Merkel, President Macron, Prime Minister
Johnson, and President Biden all singing from the same song sheet on
this issue.

Q    Do you have any specifics you expect on COVID?  And specifically,
will there be any discussion of the intellectual property waiver for
poor nations to make the vaccines?  Is that something that you’re going
to be looking at?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I think — two things to say on COVID.  The first is that
the main thrust of the effort on COVID-19 is not actually traveling
through the G20; it’s traveling out of the summit the President hosted
just a few weeks ago where more than 100 countries and more than 100
nongovernmental organizations came together to set ambitious targets. 

And the next turn of the crank on that will be a ministerial that
Secretary Blinken hosts in the coming weeks.  And that’s about getting
more commitments in terms of vaccine sharing, treatments, the — what’s
required to actually get shots in arms, and all the other elements of
emergency response.   
  
What the G20 will be focused on is the future.  How do we prevent a
future pandemic?  How do we ensure that the world is coordinated in a
way that it wasn’t sufficiently coordinated when COVID-19 hit last
year?   
  
And then in respect to trips, because that is a issue centered at the
WTO and we have the ministerial coming up in a few weeks, certainly it
will be a topic of conversation in Rome, but it will not be decisional
in Rome, because that will be decisional among trade ministers at the
gathering of trade ministers as part of the Ministerial Conference of
the WTO in Geneva in a few weeks’ time.  
  
Q    Just to follow up on pandemic preparedness, Jake: Secretary Yellen
released a letter to her colleagues together with Indonesian Finance
Minister Sri Mulyani.  Is that what you’re talking about in terms of the
new financing mechanism, as well as coordination mechanism, for future
pandemics?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So, we’re looking for not the ultimate final product of a
financing mechanism or the ultimate final product of a taskforce or a
board that would operate as kind of a global coordinating body going
forward, but rather clear direction from leaders that we want to develop
both of these ideas, make them real, and have them become part of the
architecture going forward.  
  
So, the hope is to have in the communiqué a statement of intent that we
will work towards these two outcomes.  
  
Q    When you talk about climate deliverables, are you referring to
things that the G20 will announce or actions that the administration
plans to announce?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So, I’m talking about what we want to secure, in the
context of the G20, as agreements across all the leaders of the G20 to
provide wind in the sails going into COP26.  And, you know, for example,
the G7 announced a commitment to end overseas financing of coal.  And
our goal is to achieve a G20 agreement on that, which would be quite
significant.  And so we will see whether that is possible or not.  
  
Q    Hasn’t the most important part already happened with China saying
they won’t do that anymore?  Hasn’t that already — that’s been a —  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  It’s certainly helpful.  But at the end of the day, it’s,
of course, one thing to say it in a speech; it’s another thing to put
your country’s name to a communiqué, and that’s what we want to see
happen in Rome.  
  
Q    On the Pope meeting, does the President plan to talk about the U.S.
Conference of Bishops and abortion?  Do you expect that to come up?  
  
And on climate, the Build Back Better plan has the single-largest
investment in climate in history by Congress, but it’s clearly a
compromise, it’s pared back.  Do you — what’s your message to developing
nations who see that he can’t even get that passed by the time he headed
to Europe this morning?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I think the President of the United States being able to
stand up in the world stage and say he is working towards a massive,
multi-hundred-billion-dollar investment in climate and clean energy is
just a profound signal to the world of America’s seriousness on this
issue.  I think it will be welcomed by the developing and developed
world alike.  
  
In addition, President Biden stood up at the U.N. General Assembly and
said we’re going to double our international financing for climate
commitments so that the U.S. is pulling its weight and then some when it
comes to that 100 billion-dollar-a-year Paris commitment.   
  
So, I think the question of American contribution to maintaining the
goal of 1.5 degrees, to galvanizing global action on this issue — we are
crossing and surpassing every bar that I think could reasonably have
been set.  And we’re excited to show up at COP26 because America is back
in a leadership position on climate in a way that will be broadly
welcomed.  
  
And you —  
  
Q    But just to be specific on that — just to be specific on that,
Jake, how much in the framework that the President announced will be
slated for climate financing to help developing nations?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I’m sorry.  Say that again.  
  
Q    How much in the framework that the President announced this morning
would be slated for climate financing for developing nations?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So, his commitment on climate finance is distinct from
the domestic investments laid out in the framework.  That commitment is
an ongoing budgetary commitment, and it relates to the contribution the
United States will make through its annual budget process year by
year.   
  
Coming back to your earlier question, I said at the podium yesterday
that I’m referring to my colleagues who work on that set of issues in
terms of anything to do with reproductive health.  So, I don’t have
anything for you on it.  
  
Q    Can I ask, to follow on climate, what kind of announcements in
terms of administrative action, separate from legislation, we can
expect?  I know methane had been floating out there.  Are there other
executive actions that you’ll be announcing?  
  
And then, on the Turkey meeting, President Erdoğan has obviously pushed
for — to buy U.S. fighter jets.  There’s been questions about doing so
because of interoperability and Russia.  Can you kind of detail your
approach to handling that request when it comes?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So, as you know, Turkey no longer participates in the
F-35 program.  And with respect to the F-16 program, there is a process
that has been in place for many years for how countries proceed to make
requests to purchase fighter jets and related equipment.  Turkey is in
that process, and that process will continue.  And I don’t have anything
more to add to that on that topic.  
  
And the answer to your question is: Yes, the United States will have
additional announcements, both in terms of what we will do on the
international climate front and what we will be doing with other
countries, including really building on the Global Methane Pledge.  We
think we can substantially add the number of participants in that
pledge, which is a 30 percent reduction in methane by 2030.  
  
But in terms of the rest of those, we will do a separate briefing — I’m
not sure when; I’ll defer to the experts on that — where we walk through
the key elements.   
  
Secretary Kerry will be joining us in Rome, so I also think, given the
immense amount of work he’s put into this, he deserves the right to come
to you guys and walk through what the — what the outcomes we expect in
terms of what we’re putting on the table.  
  
Q    Jake, real quick, with regard to France: How has the U.S.
relationship evolved?  And should we expect any new partnerships?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  We feel very good about the intensive engagement that
we’ve had with France over the course of the past few weeks.  Secretary
Blinken has been in Paris.  I’ve been in Paris.  The President has had
two very constructive, positive phone conversations with the French
President.   
  
We’re eager to have the conversation tomorrow because the agenda really
is overflowing.  There are so many issues on which we and France come
from common values, common perspectives, common interests, and need to
be aligned in terms of our policy approaches.  So, I expect tomorrow to
be a constructive and deeply substantive meeting.   
  
I do expect there will be a statement coming out of the meeting.  I
think it will be a forward-looking statement that details areas of
cooperation between the U.S. and France in counterterrorism, on the
Indo-Pacific, on issues related to how we deepen our own dialogues in
energy and technology and other areas.  
  
So, there will be a number of substantive elements to that statement
that you will see when it comes out after the meeting tomorrow.  
  
Q    Jake, can you comment on the limitations on press access at the
Vatican meeting and how this lines up with U.S. values on media?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, I would defer to my press colleagues in terms of
the ins and outs of that.  But I would just say, broadly, as a matter of
principle, the United States will always advocate for access for the
free press — and especially for our good friends in the American press
who travel with us on these long flights over — to be able to capture
and chronicle the President’s engagements.   
  
We’re actively engaged in that, and we’ll see what tomorrow brings.  
  
Q    Can you give us some deliverables on debt restructuring as well as
global supply chain?  What can we expect?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So, on supply chain, I think what you can expect is the
President will make announcements about what the United States itself
will do, particularly in respect to stockpiles, to improving the Ameri-
— the United States’ capacity to have modern and effective and capable
and flexible stockpiles.  
  
And then there will — we are working towards agreement with the other
participants on a set of principles and parameters around how we
collectively manage and create resilient supply chains going forward.   
  
I don’t want to get ahead of what comes out of it, so I will just say,
broadly, that we are expecting some solid outcomes from the supply chain
meeting — some of them from us directly and some agreed with others.  
  
And then I’ll come back to you, as we get closer to the B3W meeting,
with more specifics.   
  
Q    (Inaudible) meeting likeminded countries at the G20.  But
obviously, the G20 has a lot of countries that are not likeminded with
the United States.  Is the G20 becoming more divided?  Is it harder to
find common ground now than it was before?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So, you know, it’s interesting.  If you look back over
the course of the past few years, I think it would be hard to find as
genuinely significant and substantive an outcome of the G20 as the G20
agreement on global minimum tax.  That’s a big piece of business.  And
everyone from China, to Saudi Arabia, to Indonesia, to Mexico, to
Argentina, to the United States, to Europe has agreed to that.   
  
I think we will have really substantive climate deliverables, which has
traditionally been a point of division within the G20, that shows our
capacity to work on a huge issue.   
  
And I do expect we will have some positive announcements around the
global health architecture going forward.   
  
So, on the global economy, on climate, and on global health — genuine
common cause among all countries, but that doesn’t mean we see eye to
eye with all G20 participants on everything.  And so, there are
circumstances where it makes sense for us to work together with
likeminded states as well.   
  
I would say, specifically this year, you have the unusual circumstance
where, for reasons related to COVID-19 in particular, you don’t have the
leaders of China or Russia present at the G20.  That’s a factor: they’re
absent.  And so, it’s not a matter of pulling countries together and
excluding Xi Jinping or Putin; they’re not coming.   
  
So, we will continue to drive forward with our partners to continue to
make progress against these big challenges.   
  
Q    (Inaudible) future pandemics, but obviously the world is not doing
enough now to meet its own goals for inoculating people against
COVID-19.  Can the G20 step up its current efforts to get vaccines out
there?   
  
And what more is the United States prepared to do to do that? 
Obviously, you’re donating more vaccines than anybody else already, but
the goals are not being met right now.   
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Look, I’ll give you an example just from the past few
days, which didn’t get the attention it deserved.  The U.S. brokered an
agreement between the African Union and Moderna that included not only
increasing the number of doses the African Union would get, accelerating
their delivery, but actually, the U.S. agreed to replace deliveries to
the United States with deliveries to the African Union to take our doses
later.   
  
That’s just the next step in a drumbeat of commitments the U.S. has
made, and we’re actually delivering on those commitments.  We’ve donated
more doses than all the rest of the world combined already, and we’re on
track to end up delivering more than a billion in total.   
  
And the President has shown that we can actually rally the world, get
concrete commitments, and see action.   
  
His view, though, is that we have to think much more broadly than the
G20, which is why he held this summit that involved not just the major
economies, but the developing world as well.  And Tony Blinken will
follow up with the foreign ministerial on that.   
  
So I would just say the main vector on the immediate COVID response is
happening in a track that includes the G20 countries but is running
parallel to the G20 process.  
  
Q    Do you have a better sense of — do you have a better sense of if
MBS is coming, if the President might see him?   
  
And I know you said, when you briefed a couple days ago, that the
President was going to look to, kind of, address the energy crisis
that’s going on right now.  Can you flesh out what form that’ll take,
what deliverables he’s looking for on energy, specifically?  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So, he will have the opportunity informally to consult
with the key energy consumers.  And we are engaging, at multiple levels,
with the largest consuming countries in the world to include China as
well as India, Japan, Korea, the Europeans, and others.  And he will
have those conversations at the G20.  We will see what comes as a result
of those conversations.   
  
But our view is that the global recovery should not be imperiled by a
mismatch between supply and demand.  And action needs to be taken, and
we’ll work with consumers on that.   
  
On the producer side, my understanding right now is that the Crown
Prince is not attending the G20.  But we will see what happens actually
in Rome.   
  
Q    Can we ask just one on — a follow-up on that, if I can.  Can you
recon- — or how do you reconcile the White House’s position of pushing
OPEC and Saudi, in particular, to produce more while also seeking a
climate change agreement where people reduce their emissions and reduce
their reliance on fossil fuels?  Do you see any sort of broad
contradiction there?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I really don’t.  And I think the fundamental proposition
that President Biden came to office with was: We need to execute a clean
energy transition.  And the word “transition” is really important.   
  
This is not a light switch.  We’re not flipping off all use of fossil
fuels in our economy overnight.  We still have need for those fossil
fuels during the transition period to make sure that our economy is
working, jobs are being created, working families have their homes
heated at night, and so forth.   
  
And so there’s no contradiction between, in the short term, ensuring
there’s not supply disruption and, over the course of this decisive
decade of the 2020s, dramatically accelerating the adoption of
renewables, the electrification of the automobile sector, the
decarbonization of the power sector, and so much else.  
  
So, I think there’s a certain “gotcha” quality to this idea that we have
to at once pay attention to energy supply today and work towards a net
zero future — that somehow those are in conflict.   
  
Inherent in the notion of a transition is that we will need to make use
of fossil fuels for some years to come, and inherent in that reality is
that the President’s responsibility is to ensure that there is
sufficient supply to keep our economy going.   
  
Q    Jake, can I ask you about something that the past summit in — the
East Asia Summit, the President announced a new — that the U.S. is
exploring about a new economic framework in the Indo-Pacific.  Can you
explain a little bit more about that?  I mean, obviously, one question
that comes to mind is: Is the President warming up to the idea of
rejoining to CPTPP?  Or is this something entirely new?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  He’s referring to something other than CPTPP.  And I
would just say, stay tuned.  
  
Q    Does the U.S. believe that Iran is ready to return to talks?  And
do they have any preconditions that they’ve laid out?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  It’s not entirely clear to me yet whether the Iranians
are prepared to return to talks.  We have heard positive signals that
they are, but I think we have to wait and see when and whether they
actually show up at the negotiating table.  And we’re prepared to
negotiate in good faith for a return to mutual compliance with the
JCPOA.  We hope they are as well.   
  
Q    Any thoughts on their new negotiator?  Any thoughts on their new
nuclear negotiator?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I’ve never met him.  
  
Q    Do you think that they’re trying to stall?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I’m sorry?   
  
Q    Do you think that they’re trying to stall for time?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I’m not going to characterize.  All I’m going to say is
we think the clock is ticking and it’s time for all of us to get back to
the table and get this thing done.  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  All right.  We good?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think we’re good.   
  
Q    Can you do one more on Taiwan?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So —  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I don’t know, we’re (inaudible).  (Laughter.)  No, I’m
just kidding.  No, no, but seriously —  
  
Q    Can you —  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  — when I get the hook —  
  
Q    Can you confirm — because the Taiwanese President confirmed for the
first time of U.S. military presence, for training purposes, in the
country.  Can you confirm that and whether Taiwan consulted with the
U.S. before announcing that?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So I’m not going to get into questions related to
characterizing President Tsai’s remarks today.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Thanks, guys.  Thank you so much.  Thanks,
Jake.  
  
Q    Thank you.    
  
Q    Hi, Karine.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hi.  My turn.  Okay.  I’ll try and find a good spot
here.  I don’t have a — I don’t have a topper or anything.  So —  
  
Q    We can jump right in.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, good Lord.  Okay.  Let’s do it.  
  
Q    It seems like President Biden made an announcement about a
framework that isn’t actually a deal.  Is — did he get any sort of
assurances from the progressives that they were behind this?  And if
not, why did he make this announcement today?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, the President has — as you all know, the
President has spent the last couple of weeks hearing from multiple sides
— right? — having folks come up — progressives, moderates come to the
White House, listening to all sides.  And today, he put together a Build
Back Better framework.  And he’s confident that it will pass and it’s
going to deliver — it’s going to deliver for the American — American
working family.   
  
And the thing about this — the thing about this — this bill — this
framework: It is historical.  It is trans- — it is transformational.  It
is something that has pieces of elements — of policies that we’ve — that
we have — we — that has — that has never happened before.  Right?  And
so, this is incredibly important.  And so, this is why the President put
that together.   
  
And so, you know, as he’s always said, we’re going to deliver on
transformational change for the middle class so that they can get
ahead.  You know, this is the most fundamental shift in supporting
hardworking families over the wealth — over the wealthy in modern
history.  And so, these are all things that could — that is incredibly
helpful.   
  
Let me just list out a couple of things:  

-   the largest investment in childcare and early childhood education in
    history with the first national universal preschool program.  That’s
    progressive.
-   the largest investment in climate and clean energy in history —
    around six times the size of climate and clean energy investment in
    the Recovery Act, and the second-largest climate in history.
-   the largest expansion in healthcare coverage since the Affordable
    Care Act, leading 7 million people to gain new coverage.
-   perpetuating the largest one-year drop in childcare poverty in
    history through the extension of CTC, which we know has cut child
    poverty by half — the CTC was in the American Rescue Plan, which was
    also a historic piece of legislation, and what we’re doing is
    continuing that investment.
-   a new investment in housing that is — that is greater than the
    entire current annual budget of the Department of Housing and Urban
    Development.

And the last, final thing I’ll say: This is going to be paid for.  What
he put forward in a framework will be paid for and it will not raise the
taxes of a household or an individual making less than $400,000.   
  
So this came from listening — listening to all sides — again,
progressive, moderates.  And he put this together with the understanding
that this is something that should pass.  
  
Q    Karine, the White House said this morning that you expected that
this would have the support of Democrats.  At that point and now, have
you had assurances from Senators Manchin and Sinema or from progressives
in the House?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I’m not going to speak to, as you can imagine, any
of the lawmakers, but we’re confident that this historic framework will
earn the support of every Democratic senator because, again, he spent
the last couple of weeks listening and talking to senators, to House
members, and hearing them out.  And this is what this framework is
coming from.   
  
Look, we have spent countless of hours over the last many weeks working
with lawmakers — not just the President, but also his staff in the White
House.  And so — and we have consulted a broad swath of House and Senate
Democrats, as I just mentioned.  
  
And so, you know, there are still details, of course, to be ironed out,
and the framework will guide the drafting of the legislation language. 
And we — we see progress.  We see today as making progress and moving
forward to getting this done for the American public.   
  
Q    Karine, did the President want a vote on the infrastructure bill
today?  And did he ask House Democrats for that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Could you say that one more time?  You’re — it’s hard
to hear you.  
  
Q    Did the President want a vote on the infrastructure bill today? 
And did he ask House Democrats for that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you — you know, as you know, the mechanism on
how legislation move forward, we leave that to the Speaker — Speaker
Pelosi and Leader Schumer.  That is — that is for them to decide.   
  
The President has been very clear he wants to see both pieces of
legislation get passed so he can sign them and really make some
transformational change for the American public — working public.  
  
Q    (Inaudible) he wanted a bill, he wanted a deliverable as he headed
to Europe so he could show Xi and Putin and autocrats that democracy
works.  And he’s talked about that frequently — I mean, in terms of
democracy versus autocracy.  What message does it send to countries like
that, leaders like that if he can’t deliver and close the deal before he
departed?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You know, I disagree with the characterization of your
question.  And this is a question that actually the national — our
National Security Advisor, Jake Sullivan, has spoken on the last — the
couple of days ago.   
  
And look, you know, we believe that he’s coming — the President is
coming into the G20 and COP26 with a — with — you know, with strength. 
He’s been a leader since we stepped — he stepped into the White House
from day one.  And he’s going to continue.  
  
Jake talked about the summit that he brought together with world leaders
and more than 100 countries that come together and have that
conversation about climate change and what we can do, the Paris Climate
Accord that we — he — we signed back on right — on the first day.  
  
So we’re — he is doing the chain — the work on the global stage.  And if
anything — and this — Jake just said this to all of you: If anything,
this framework will show that the — that the President is going to put
together — is working together with Congress to put this — put forth a
transformational, historical piece of legislation.  
  
Within that legislation, if you look at climate change, an investment
that is — that we’ve never had before in the country — in this country:
more than $500 billion.  
  
Q    Why isn’t paid leave a bigger priority for the White House,
especially during a pandemic that’s disproportionately impacted women?
   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Catherine, I would say, it is a big priority.  I
wouldn’t — I wouldn’t characterize that that way either.  It’s not that
it’s a — it’s not a bigger priority.  It’s a — very much a priority. 
That’s why the President included it in his Build Back Better Agenda.   
  
Right now, the President wants to move forward with a bill that’s going
to — that’s going to get passed, that’s going to get all of the — you
know, all of the members that he needs to make this — you know, to push
this forward — this historic piece of legislation.  
  
And so, he’s going to continue on working on paid leave.  That is — it
doesn’t —  
  
Q    What does that mean exactly: “continue to work on it”?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That means — that means he’s going to continue to work
with Congress.  He’s going to continue to work with Speaker Pelosi. 
He’s going to continue to work with members of Congress who, clearly,
very much care about this on both the House and the Senate side.  It
doesn’t end — it doesn’t end here.   
  
Like I said, he — it was important to him and he included it in the
original Build Back Better Agenda, and we’re just going to continue to
work on it.  
  
Go ahead, Josh.  
  
Q    Thanks.  On the phaseouts, Child Tax Credit is gone in a year;
universal pre-K, six years; childcare, six years.  Critics say that
you’re hiding the real costs.  Supporters worry that these benefits to
families in need will go away.  What is the thinking on the phaseouts? 
Are they hiding the costs?  And what are the risks if they don’t get
renewed?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ll say this, Josh — and we have had this — we’ve
gotten this question, similarly, in the past couple of days.   
  
Look, again, what we’re seeing is historical.  What we’re seeing in this
Build Back Better framework we have not seen before.  It is going to
change the lives of working families and — especially after what we saw
— you’re mentioning, you know, Child Tax Credit; you’re talking about
childcare — what we saw in this past year with the pandemic and how much
it really hurt working families.  
  
Look, we’re talking about investment in childcare, in families, in
caregiving.  These things are so critical, giving people — giving
American families, the middle-class — a little bit of time to breathe,
some room to breathe.  
  
So, this is the beginning.  This is — this is going to be incredibly
transformational, as we keep saying.  It is going to make a change in
people’s lives.  And so, we’re going to just continue working on those
very key critical issues.  
  
But we can’t — we cannot look at this and not say,  
“This is something that has not been done and never been done.”  And we
should be proud of that.”  
  
Q    (Inaudible) cost could be greater than advertised if these are
renewed?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Say that again.  
  
Q    No worries that the cost could be greater than advertised if these
programs are renewed and extended?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s not — that’s not what we’re working towards. 
Right?  We’re making sure that these — these investments are going to be
paid for, right?  We’re going to be raising — it’s going to — making
sure that the wealthy pay their fair share, which is a big part of
this.  And, you know, that’s going to make sure that we raise the
revenue to make sure that this is paid for.  
  
And so, the way that we look, actually, at the bipartisan Build Back
Better Framework is that it’s going to actually generate close to $2
trillion, which is — also means that that’s the savings that it’s going
to generate.   
  
So, that’s how we’re looking at this.  We’re going to make sure that we
add zero dollars to the deficit.  That’s the commitment that we’re
making.  And also making sure that we do not raise taxes on any one
household making less than $400,000 or an individual making $400,000. 
That has not changed.  That is our commitment.  
  
Q    Karine, I think cynics looked at this morning and said the
President didn’t want to go to Europe without, you know, facing these
headlines about not being able to get a deal, so he announced a sort of
“half-baked, almost there, but still missing really key components”
framework without any assurance that it would actually kind of satisfy
all parts of the party.  So, I’m wondering why that’s wrong.   
  
And, you know, the President and the Speaker both spoke in pretty stark
terms about what this next week meant for him and his presidency and the
future of the Democratic Party if there’s no infrastructure vote by the
end of the month.  But doesn’t that sort of leave the President kind of
crippled heading into Scotland and having kind of been embarrassed by
his party by not being able to get this across the finish line?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We see today as a path forward.  We see this as
progress.  Speaker Pelosi just held her press conference.  She said
there’s a path forward.  They’re moving forward with this.  And she’s
very confident that they’re on a path.  Right?  And I think her being
the Speaker of the House — I think that sends a big message and that
says a lot.  And so, they’re moving forward on this.  
  
And let me just add: You know, this is — again, this is
transformational.  This is historical.  He’s spent the last couple of
weeks listening to all sides and put together a framework that he
believes is going to get the votes of Democrats in the Senate and
Democrats in the House.  And so that is incredibly important.  
  
I mean, this is going to create jobs.  This is going to build our
economy and help the nation build back better.  And so, we see this as —
a vote for the Build Back Better Framework is actually a vote to build
the economy that works for everyone.  I mean, that’s what this — this
framework is going to do.  And we’ve actually heard a lot of praise for
this President’s framework today from organizations just across the
across the board.  
  
So, this is something that he took his time working with his staff,
listening, again, to a broad swath of, you know, congressional members
on both — in both chambers to put this together.  
  
Q    But to that point, the — you could argue that the louder statement
from the Speaker would be to actually have scheduled a vote on
infrastructure, which she did not.  And so I’m wondering what the game
plan is if we run out of surface transportation money at the end of the
month.  How do you guys expect to proceed on that, especially since
whatever the President unveiled today did not seem to be compelling
enough to get progressive House Democrats on board to take that vote?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I wouldn’t say it’s not compelling enough.  I
wouldn’t say that.  I mean, listen, the Speaker just had her press
conference.  She talked about the path forward.  She said there’s a —
there’s a — there’s a text of the bill that’s being worked through. 
This is the Build Back Better framework that’s out there that people can
take a look at.   
  
You know, I — clearly, I leave all the mechanics of the — of Congress to
her and Leader Schumer.  But there is a path.  And one of the reasons
the President put this framework together is because he wanted to have a
bill that he believed — from talking to, again, you know, Democrats in
the House and the Senate — that he thought would be — would go through —
right? — by listening and hearing feedback.  So that’s incredibly
important to understand.   
  
And, again, this is going to be — this is historical.  This is going to
change the lives of working families and that deserve — that deserve a
little bit of a breathing room.  
  
Q    Can you clarify a little bit about the President’s plans for press
conferences and remarks?  Can you outline?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’ll have more to share.  I don’t have anything to
share right now.  But you’ll be — you guys will hear from the
President.  I just don’t have anything to share right now.  
  
Q    Is he planning to take communion with the Pope, do you know?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s something that’s very personal, as you can
imagine.  His faith is something that’s very personal to him.  I don’t
have anything to share at this time about that.  
  
Q    Is there a plan B on prescription drugs?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You know, we’re going to continue — again, we’re going
to continue working on that.  Clearly, prescription drugs is something
that the President has talked about personally when he talked about his
— what he and his family had to deal with when their — their mom — when
their mother reached, you know, an age where they had to take care of
her.  And he talked about that incredibly personally.  So, we’re going
to continue to fight for it and so, kind of, move forward with that.   
  
But that is clearly something that is really, really important to the
President.  He does not believe people should be paying — working people
should be paying so much — you know, twice as much, sometimes — than
they’re bringing home for prescription drugs.  
  
Q    Get we get any details on what the President has been doing during
the flight?  Has he been calling members?  Has he been in touch with
Pelosi or leaders?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He has been — as you know, the First Lady is on the
flight as well.  So, he and the First Lady have been, you know — how
have — how long have we been flying?  Like two, three hours?  I don’t
even know.   
  
I don’t have any specifics on — on his — what he’s been doing the last
couple of days.  But as you can imagine — I know people ask, “Is he
going to continue to be engaged?”  As we know, the phones work in
Europe, so he’s going to continue to certainly be engaged with
congressional members.  And he has, you know, his — my colleagues, his
White House team back in D.C. who are going to continue to do the work
and talking to congressional members on the Hill.   
  
Q    Can I ask — so, Secretary Blinken has just ordered a review of the
Afghanistan withdrawal.  Is the timing of that pertinent to him leaving
— you know, for the President to leave towards G20, where he undoubtedly
will receive a lot of questions on the issue of the withdrawal?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, I wouldn’t connect the two.  I haven’t — I —
this is — I’m just now hearing about this.  I wouldn’t connect the two. 
I don’t have much more to share about that.   
  
Yeah.  
  
Q    On the campaign trail, he was pretty clear that he supported 12
weeks of federally supported paid leave for — family leave, parental
leave.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I can’t hear you, man.  I’m so sorry.  
  
Q    I’ll shout louder.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You’re so far away.  (Inaudible.)  
  
Q    On the campaign trail, President Biden was very clear he supported
12 weeks of leave.  It was a promise he made.  He clearly was pushing
for it but it fell short.  What is the White House’s message to millions
of Americans, working mothers, and other caregivers who were counting on
that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, you know, the President believes strongly that we
need national and comprehensive paid leave and medical leave in this
country, as you just stated, Ben, that he campaigned on.  You know, and
that’s why he proposed it and has continued to fight for it.  And he
will continue to fight for it in future legislation, and we’ll keep
working with the House and Senate to find a path forward.   
  
You know, ultimately, the President believes this is the framework that
will pass the House and the Senate to get — and he wants to get — to get
to his desk, clearly.  And that’s why he put that framework together.   
  
But I just want to add this, so you guys all know: This bill will be the
largest investment in childcare and early education in history,
benefiting more than 20 million children per year; the largest effort to
combat climate change, as I’ve mentioned, in history; and the most
transformat- – transformative middle-class revitalization bill in
generations, cutting taxes for 50 million families while reducing some
of the largest — largest expenses that families face.   
  
So there is a lot in this piece of legislation that’s going to hurt —
that’s going to help everyday families, working families kind of grow
that — the economy for middle-class families, which is critical and
important.   
  
And yes, paid leave, medical leave is something that was critical and
important to him.  He campaigned on it.  And he’s going to — he’s going
to continue to work on that.   
  
Thanks.  Thanks, everybody. 

3:19 P.M. EDT
