---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-10-27'
modified_time: 2021-10-28 08:23:13-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/10/27/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki/
published_time: 2021-10-27 18:02:52-04:00
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:26 P.M. EDT

MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.  Okay.  I have two items for all of you at the
top.  
  
In Baltimore today, Secretary Becerra announced the Biden
administration’s new federal Overdose Prevention Strategy, building on
previous actions the administration has taken to address addiction and
the overdose epidemic.   
  
The overdose epidemic has evolved and our strategy to combat it is
evolving as well.  That’s why the new strategy prioritizes prevention,
harm reduction, evidence-based treatment, and support during
recovery.   
  
The holistic focus on harm reduction and recovery support, in
particular, are new and innovative approaches.  That includes actions
like increasing access to medication treatment for people with opioid
use disorder; strengthening the recovery — the recovery support services
workforce by funding community-based training programs for peer support
specialists working in behavioral health; and expanding access to harm
reduction services.  
  
With drug overdose deaths increasing by more than 30 percent last year,
the severity and worsening nature of this epidemic requires an
all-hands-on-deck approach, and this strategy from HHS builds upon the
Biden-Harris administration’s year — year one drug policy priorities and
is a key part of addressing that rising challenge.  
  
I also wanted to note another development or item of progress, I should
say, on addressing the supply chain bottlenecks.  This week, Union
Pacific — one of the two railroads servicing the ports of Los Angeles
and Long Beach –announced that it’ll be offering a cash incentive
through the end of the year for containers that move during the
weekend.  
  
This is another sign that the President’s call for the private sector to
step up and help get the transportation supply chain to move towards a
24/7 pace is working.  It builds on the announcements by the ports about
24/7 service that would move toward around-the-clock operations and
leading great retailers’ announcements that they made, like Walmart and
shipping companies like UPS, who have committed to and announced plans
to begin moving more containers at night and during the weekend.  
  
We’ve seen some signs of improvement throughout the supply chain — not
just at ports, but also railroads, which are reporting reduced
congestion and higher capacity at key hubs.   
  
As I said yesterday — and I think we were going to have a chart, but
we’ll provide it to all of you afterwards — this is in the context of
record-breaking movement of containers through our biggest ports.  And
this is significant increases from last year.  LA and Long Beach, for
example, have already moved more containers this year than in any
previous year.  And as you all know, we’re still in the month of
October.  This reflects strong demand as our economy roars back and
Americans have money in their pockets to spend again.  
  
Operating at 24/7 pace will not only increase the number of containers
moving out of the ports but will also make the system more efficient,
reduce emissions in the surrounding communities.  And combined with the
announcement on Tuesday that the ports will begin charging ocean
carriers for keeping containers on the docks for too long, this
announcement, in our assessment, will speed up the movement of goods
from ship to store shelf, which means faster delivery times for American
families and lower costs for goods.  
  
Aamer, go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  First, any updates on where things stand on
negotiations?  Does the President plan on going to the Hill today?  And
if you can just give us a general update on where things stand.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, last night, as you all know, the President met
with Senator Sinema and Senator Manchin in the Oval Office and continued
to make progress on finalizing details as we work toward an
agreement.   
  
This morning, we had a number of senior staff up on Capitol Hill; many
of them may still be there now.  Steve Ricchetti, Louisa Terrell, Brian
Deese, and others of the key negotiators — Susan Rice as well, I believe
— were up there having conversations with members to move the ball
forward.  
  
The President remains open to going up to the Hill.  We haven’t made a
decision to do that, and we are making decisions hour by hour on what
would be most constructive to move things forward.  
  
Q    Many of the President’s progressive allies have come around — or
seem to be coming around to the idea that you can’t let the perfect get
in the way of the good.  That said, just outside the White House, some
young environmentalists are holding a hunger strike because they believe
that the bill has been — or where things stand, that the bill could be
weakened to an unacceptable degree.   
  
What’s the President — to those young people and others that feel that
this has been watered down too much and that perhaps the President
should have been more publicly engaging in debate with Senator Manchin
and Senator Sinema?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  The reconciliation package they’re protesting or the
infrastructure bill or all of it?  
  
Q    The reconciliation.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, what I would say first: The President admires the
activism, the energy, the — of young people who are out there advocating
for what they believe in and the changes that that he agrees should be
made to how society functions, to long-overdue investments in our
climate.  
  
I think what we would say is: One, we are on track now to move forward
once we get it in agreement, which we are — we are confident we are
going to move ahead to, to have the biggest investment in addressing the
climate crisis in history by the United States.  It’s not just the
biggest; it’s five times bigger than the second- — what would be the
second-largest, which would be the Recovery Act.  This is — would be a
historic investment and something that would make an enormous — have
enormous impact on addressing these issues.  
  
And I would note that — and I don’t know all of the things that are of
concern to them, but since you asked me about the framing — and I don’t
know if climate is one of them, but I assume —  
  
Q    (Inaudible.)  
  
MS. PSAKI:  — I assume it might be, so let me start there — is that what
we’re talking about here is creating targeted manufacturing credits that
will help grow domestic supply chains for solar offshore and — offshore
and onshore wind, expanding access to rooftop solar and home
electrification, expanding grants and loans to rural co-ops to boost
clean energy and energy efficiency, expanding grants and loans in the
agricultural sector.   
  
And we are talking about a historic effort to make critical investments
in environmental justice — something that is long overdue, that is
central — that is important to the President, important to our climate
and our clean energy team.  
I’d also note that there’s been some reporting about this as well.  And
I don’t know if they were talking about childcare; I don’t know if young
people are.  I’m happy to hear that.  But maybe they were — but what
we’re talking about in terms of this package is also closing in on a
deal that would make pre-K for three- and four-year-olds universal and
free.  This has never been done before — ever.  
  
Right now, just to give you some context, the average cost of preschool
in the United States costs $8,600.  Only 2 million three- and
four-year-olds are in publicly funded preschool across the country.  
This legislation is on track to enable states to expand access to free
universal preschool for 6 million three- and four-year-old children per
year and increase the quality of preschool for more children already —
many children already enrolled in publicly funded preschool.  
  
And the last piece I’d note is that we know the Affordable Care Act was
a — also its own piece of historic legislation.  This would massively
build on that: expand access, lower costs for healthcare, which is of
utmost concern to many activists and certainly a big priority for the
President.  
  
So I would say we’re excited about this package.  The President is
excited about this package because it will — it will do so much in a
historic nature to address longstanding problems that are overdue.  
Q    And if I can just quickly: Any reaction to Iran’s chief negotiator
saying Tehran is ready to get back to the negotiation tables in
Vienna?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I know they’ve made similar comments over the last
several days — or week, I should say.  Our commitment remains pursuing a
diplomatic path forward.  I would leave it to the negotiators to
determine when the next round of discussions will be.  
  
Our framing continues to be compliance for compliance.  And we’ll leave
it up to the Europeans and our negotiators to determine when the next
step would be.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  The President is leaving for Europe tomorrow. 
Negotiations are still underway over some of the thorniest issues —
everything from the topline number to Medicare drug price negotiation,
even the revenue options for how to pay for this.  So is getting a deal
by tomorrow still realistic?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yes.  We’ll see.  
  
Q    Anything else to add?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I would say that we’re — there is also another way to frame
what you posed to me — and I know why you framed it the way you did — is
that there is also broad agreement in Congress among Democrats who we
need to support a unified path forward; that we need to address the care
economy and take steps to lower the cost of childcare, of eldercare, of
early childhood education and make it more accessible; that we need to
do more to make healthcare more accessible and affordable and cut costs;
that we need to do more to address the climate crisis.  There is
agreement on that.  
  
What we’re talking about here is the nitty-gritty details, as I like to
say.  That’s always what the focus is on at this point in the
negotiations.  But it’s only 1:30.  We’ve got some time.  
  
Q    For days now, we’ve been hearing, “We’re very close to an
agreement” — from you guys, from folks on the Hill.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    And yet so many of these issues are still outstanding.  And so, I
just kind of wonder how it’s possible that that could happen within 24
hours.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Have you covered a piece of legislation getting passed
before?   
  
Q    Sure.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think you have.  Right?  So, as you know, when it gets to
the final stages of it, there is a discussion about how you can achieve
the goals you all share an objective to achieve.  That is what we’re
doing now.  
  
So, when you say there’s — we would disagree with your framing, as would
anybody on the Hill, I think, who’s a part of these negotiations. 
Because what we’re really talking about here is agreeing on a range of
revenue raisers as payfors that will make the tax system more fair. 
You’ve already seen developments and progress on that front over the
last 24 hours.   
What we’re talking about is which components of cutting costs and making
healthcare more affordable and accessible there is enough agreement on
to get this across the finish line.  
  
So those are the final details that need to be worked through, and
that’s what our team is on the Hill working on.  
  
  
  
  
Q    And let me ask you about something that the President reportedly
told members of Congress last week.  According to Congressman Ro Khanna,
he said that the President told progressive lawmakers that “the prestige
of the United States is on the line,” that he “needs this” — meaning a
deal — to go represent the United States overseas.  Does he still
believe that the prestige of the U.S. is on the line if you can’t get to
a deal?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, he said since that time that it’s certainly his
preference.  Of course, he would love to head on his trip with a deal. 
But I think our National Security Advisor yesterday also addressed this
question several times and made clear that what world leaders are
looking at — and through his conversations with his counterparts —
they’re looking at the President’s commitment to making a historic
investment in addressing the climate crisis, to addressing some of the
overdue infrastructure issues that we have in the United States that
have made us less competitive, to making the global minimum tax a part
of our law here.   
  
They’re seeing we’re making progress.  They’re sophisticated.  They’re
seeing we’re on the verge of getting to a deal and that that’s not —
they don’t look at it through the prism of whether there is a vote in
one body of the legislative body before he gets on an airplane.   
  
Q    And if I could ask you one last one on Facebook, which is: CNN
reported today on leaks from Facebook which show that the company is
struggling to stay on top of misinformation about the coronavirus and
coronavirus vaccines.  Is the administration in touch with Facebook
about vaccine misinformation on the platform?  And how concerned is the
President about this latest report?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’m not going to read out private meetings or
conversations we’re having in this space.   
  
What I will say is that we’ve seen the reporting, of course, and what —
and it is unfortunately not surprising for us to hear that Facebook knew
of these problems, has known of the issue possibly as early as the
beginning of this pandemic.  That is what the reporting tells us; that
does not surprise us.   
  
A reminder that, in July, our Surgeon General came to this briefing room
to label misinformation a “public health issue” and, importantly,
conveyed that social media outlets are a prime channel for the
trafficking of bad information, given their enormous role in our
society.  And since then, we’ve continued to see platforms regularly
amplify anti-vaccine content over accurate information.  That’s the
basic problem.  And that’s what we continue to see happen.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Jen, speaking of payfors —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Can we talk about the billionaires’ tax?  Is the White House
confident that a billionaires’ tax would withstand legal challenges? 
Which, I guess, is another way of asking, is it legal?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  (Laughs.)  We’re not going to support anything we don’t
think is legal.  But I will tell you the President supports the
billionaire tax.  He looks forward to working with Congress and Chairman
Wyden to make sure the highest-income Americans pay their fair share.   
  
I would also note that there are a number of different components of
payfors or components that could — will make the tax system more fair,
as we like to say, including imposing a 15 percent minimum tax to make
sure large corporations pay their fair share.  We saw some aligning
around that, I should say, yesterday.   
  
Also, creating a global minimum tax, something I just referenced, that
will make the United States more competitive and end the race to the
bottom around the world, something the United States is leading the
global effort to have agreement on.   
  
On closing loopholes for high-income Americans, including a loophole
that allows some taxpayers, like hedge fund managers, to escape a
Medicare tax imposed on all high income.  
  
And, of course, cracking down on wealthy tax cheats who are taking
advantage of every honest taxpayer and invest in enforcement to stop the
1 percent from evading $160 billion in taxes.   
  
So, we — that is an idea that’s been out there.  That is part of the
discussion.  We support that.  
  
There’s also another — a range of options that are also under discussion
and there’s broad agreement around.  
  
Q    Any response to Elon Musk’s criticism of this, saying that once the
government runs out of money, they come after other people’s?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think our response to anyone who has oppo- — opposite —
opposes is that we believe that the highest-income Americans can afford
to pay a little bit more in order to make historic investments in our
workforce, in our economy, and our competitiveness, and that has a net
benefit on people across the country.   
  
Q    And just briefly on one other topic.  Turkish media is reporting
the President Biden will meet with President Erdoğan in Glasgow.  Can
you confirm that and any other bilaterals that the President plans to
make?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Certainly understand the interest, and I expect we’ll have
more on the bilats in the next day or two.  But I don’t have anything to
confirm quite yet.  
  
Q    When the Pope meets —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    On the —  
  
Q    — with the President, Jen, does the White House —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’ll come around to you.  Owen, there’s no reason to scream
over other people.   
  
Q    Okay.  Just —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’ll come to you.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
Q    On the billionaires’ tax, Senator Manchin has expressed concerns
that it’s too targeted.  What is the White House’s thoughts on if this
should be broadened out more?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Look, there’s a discussion right now about key components of
how to make the tax system more fair.  The billionaire tax — which, I
know we’ve shorthanded — is different from the original proposal we
talked — that was proposed a year or so ago when many of you were
covering the campaign trail.  There have also already been some changes
made.  So that’s part of the discussion.  I’ll leave that in the
negotiations.  
  
Q    Is the White House confident that people like Elon Musk would
comply with these new rules?  I mean, a lot of it would rely on them
reporting their own income, their private assets.  Is this something
that they would really do?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we certainly expect member — American citizens to
abide by the tax code.  And obviously, we’ve taken steps — we will take
steps that have been proposed to crack down on anyone who’s trying to
cheat what they owe to the federal government.   
  
Q    And just to follow up on the supply chains you brought up —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — at the beginning: What’s your message to Americans who are still
so worried about getting their Christmas gifts on time, Halloween?  Is
this going to be happening at a fast-enough pace?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think our message is that, one, what’s happening
right now — and I wish I had the chart, but we’ll give it to all of you
afterwards — is that so many people across the country are purchasing
more goods online.  Maybe some of it is from habits that developed
during the pandemic when people weren’t leaving their homes.  Some of it
is because we’ve seen an economic recovery that has been underway for
the last nine months, where 5 million more people are working, the
unemployment rate has been cut in half.  And that is leading to a
massive increase in volume.  That’s what’s happening at ports.   
  
But what we would tell people is: We are addressing and attacking the
supply chain issues — even with the increased volume, which is the root
cause here — at every front, which means overseas, making sure people
get COVID vaccines; which means making sure ports are fully operational;
working with railroads; working with truckers and labor unions to make
sure we have more people driving trucks, more people moving — moving
goods.  So, I think what people should know is this is a top priority. 
We’ve already seen progress.  And we’re going to continue to stay at
it.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Yeah.  Two questions for you, as we live through another day of
Groundhog Day.  On the bill and what might be in it: In addition to this
group that’s outside the White House here, there’s another group camped
outside the Vice President’s Residence regarding immigration and the
push for citizenship for undocumented immigrants.  The President once
again, last night, got interrupted by some immigration advocates when he
was over in Virginia.  What is the status of immigration in this
legislation?  And is the President comfortable signing something that
doesn’t account for some element of immigration policy?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think, Ed, as you know, the President and the Vice
President strongly supported including immigration components in the
original package.  They strongly supported and have efforts by members
of the Senate to put forward and come up with alternative ideas that
might be able to make its way through the parliamentarian.  And that
work may continue; you should talk to members on the Hill about that. 
We strongly support that as well.   
  
But what we’re looking at here is a historic package that will make
changes to our childcare system, lower the cost of eldercare, have a
historic investment in the climate, expand access to healthcare.  That
is what we are excited about in this package.   
  
We know it’s not going to have everything we want.  It’s not final yet.
 And you know the President is very committed to getting immigration
done.   
  
Q    If the House can’t pass the infrastructure bill — the hard
infrastructure bill — “BIF,” I guess — is that what we call it?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  Bring back BIF.   
  
Q    — by Sunday, is the administration making contingencies for the
expiration of surface transportation funding?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Certainly we’re in close touch with — with Speaker Pelosi
and other members on the Hill about the expiration of surface
transportation.  And so, that is on our minds as well.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  Seeing some reports — not sure if it’s accurate;
I’m hoping you can clarify — that the billionaires’ tax and IRS
enforcement might be out of the negotiation at this point.  Can you say
whether that is true?   
  
And then also, how can the administration say that this is paid for if
that change happens?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say, on the billionaires’ tax — which is one
of the ideas that’s been put forward and has been a part of the
discussion — I don’t have an update, on this moment, on the status.  But
it’s possible changes could be made as they have been to all components
of the — many of the revenue raisers and tax fairness components.   
  
I would say this will absolutely be paid for because there are a range
of options out there that would more than pay for what we’re talking
about.  That includes the corporate minimum tax, imposing a 15 percent
minimum tax.  It includes the global minimum tax.  It includes closing
loopholes for high-income Americans.  And it also includes investing in
enforcement.   
  
So, I think there’s been some reporting — just for clarification — on
reporting mechanisms, which is not the same as the IRS enforcement
component, which is going after tax cheats who are evading paying taxes,
which many outside experts have estimated is — amounts to about $160
billion in taxes a year.   
  
So there’s been some reporting about the reporting components and the
caps on those; that’s been an ongoing discussion.  But there is no
disagreement about the need to go after tax cheats.  
  
Q    So is having it paid for then a requirement for the President or
the White House in order to get this thing passed, that they want
(inaudible)?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  The President has been pretty clear that he believes that
making the tax system more fair, that ensuring we are taking the
opportunity to do that is a part of this package and what he expects to
sign into law.  
  
Q    Jen —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    And just —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Oh, go ahead.  
  
Q    And real quick, just in terms of the timeline for this.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Is there any feeling that there was time wasted between the end of
last month and the end of this month, given the President is traveling
and it truncated that timeline?  And there’s some question about how
long you can extend the surface transportation bill, if they end up
having to go that route.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, Jacqui, as you know, from your time covering the Hill,
nothing is more clarifying then some version of a timeline.  Now, it
does not mean we will not continue our work if every component is not
done.  We will.  We are going to get this done.  
  
But it is clarifying.  It focuses members on decisions that need to be
made.  That’s what we’re seeing happen right now.  And that often
happens as you get closer to the timeline, regardless of how much space
you have in between.  
  
People — legislators can be crammers, I guess, if you remember
college.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  There’s also some reporting that a compromise is
coming together around paid leave.  It would not include benefits for
sick leave but would include benefits for new parents.  Is that
consistent with your understanding of the latest version of what the
paid leave benefits would look like?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have a moment-by-moment update, Kristen.  What I can
tell you, though, is that paid leave is personal to the President.  He
proposed it in the very first iteration of the Build Back Better Agenda
last year.  He’s been fighting for it ever since.  
  
As you know, there’s been an ongoing discussion about what it would look
like.  His preference would be for it to be 12 weeks and expansive, as
was in the original proposal.  Obviously, there’s not enough votes for
that in Congress.  That’s a reality of legislating.   
  
So, right now, we’re fighting to keep it included, but I don’t have a
specific update on what it looks like in this moment.  
  
Q    And to follow up on my colleague, Peter, who sat here yesterday and
asked you a similar question —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — but I don’t know that we got a direct answer.  Would he support a
final piece of legislation that did not include paid leave in full —
benefits for sick leave and new parents?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think, Kristen, what is important for people to understand
here and know is: From the beginning, we have said the President was
open to compromise.  He has said that.  He knew, and he knows from
legislating for 36 years, you’re never going to get every single thing
you want in a package.  We know that.  
  
Q    So, is that a yes?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  What — I think, Kristen, this is kind of not — an
unconstructive, I would say, line of questioning in the sense that what
we’re talking about here is getting a package that would make a historic
investment in childcare, in eldercare — we’re fighting to have paid
leave included in that; address the climate crisis — five times larger
than anything that’s ever been done before in history; and expands
access to healthcare.  
  
There will be things that may not be in the package he wants to see. 
But what any president and any legislator looks at is the totality of
the overarching impact.  And this has — is on track to be enormous,
impactful, historic.  
  
Q    But — and I’m just trying to be clear, though: He’s not drawing a
red line around this issue (inaudible).  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m not drawing new red lines today.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Jen —  
  
Q    Very quick, though —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.   
  
Q    Just very quickly: He is scheduled to leave tomorrow morning.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Could that timeline get pushed back if negotiators are still
working and potentially close to reaching a deal tomorrow?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  There’s some flexibility in the morning, but I would not
suggest that he’s going to delay his trip.  He doesn’t have the space to
delay it much.  
  
Q    Jen, (inaudible) —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead, Owen.  I said you could go.  Sorry.   
  
Q    And then —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.  And then I’ll go to Alex next.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Thank you.  As you know, millions of Catholics will be
watching when the President and Pope Francis meet.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    The White House has said they will discuss working together on
“efforts grounded in respect for fundamental human dignity.”  Question
one: Will that include the human dignity of the unborn?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, Owen, as you know — although, you ask me most often,
if not every time, about abortion — but I will say there is a great deal
of agreement —  
  
Q    Is there a problem with this?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Let me finish my answer.  There’s a great —  
  
Q    Is there a problem with my questions?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  There is not.  You can ask anything you want.  
  
Q    Okay.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  But I wanted to note, since you follow this closely, is that
there is a great deal of agreement and overlap with the President and
Pope Francis on a range of issues: poverty, combating the climate
crisis, ending the COVID-19 pandemic.  These are all hugely important,
impactful issues that will be the centerpiece of what their discussion
is when they meet.  
  
The President has met with him.  This will be their fourth meeting.  We
expect a warm and constructive dialogue.  You are familiar with where
the President stands.  He’s somebody who stands up for and believes that
a woman’s right to choose is important.  
  
Q    Understood.  But the Pope has said —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  The Pope has spoken differently.    
  
Q    And the Pope has said that —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I have just outlined for you what the focus of the meeting
will be.   
  
Q    Okay.  Let me — the Pope has said —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think we’re going to have to move on.  
  
Alex.  Go ahead, Alex.   
  
Q    — “Abortion is murder.”  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Owen, I answered your question.  
  
Alex, go ahead.   
  
Q    You give other people a chance to follow up, and I get
(inaudible).  I get nothing?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Owen, I answered your question.  Go ahead, Alex.  
  
Q    The Pope has said “abortion is murder” and “it’s like hiring a
hitman.”  Does the President agree or disagree with that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  You know that the President believes in a woman’s right to
choose.  You’re very familiar with this issue.  
  
Q    That’s not answering — that’s not answering the question.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We’ve spoken about it many times.  
  
Alex, go ahead.  
  
Q    I’d like to follow up on the IRS bank provision.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    Senator Manchin said that he spoke to the President about that, and
the President agreed with him.  Is that accurate?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think what we’re talking about here is not about IRS
enforcement and going after tax cheats.  We’re talking about reporting
mechanisms.  That is something Senator Manchin has talked about.  I’m
not going to outline more specifics about where the negotiations sit
right now, but I just wanted to be clear about what the differences are,
because sometimes it’s shorthanded, not with malintent.   
  
Yeah.  
  
Q    The President, on the CNN forum, said that he — in talking about
gas prices — said that he could raise the issue with the Saudis.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Is that something he plans to do on his trip?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think as Jake said yesterday — and there’s not a
development since then, Alex, but we’re happy to keep you updated
because I think we’re still assessing who’s coming from many different
countries to these meetings.  You know, the President will look for an
opportunity to certain rai- –certainly raise concerns about supply and
OPEC needing to release more supply.  But in terms of if and when that
will happen, we’re just not there yet.  
  
Q    And then, finally, is the White House going to take any regulatory
actions on methane emissions before this trip? That’s — there’s been
talk about that.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything to preview at this point in time. 
Obviously, addressing methane emissions is something our climate team
has talked about in the past.  There will be more to talk about,
discuss, but nothing to preview at this point in time.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Hi.  Just a —  
  
Q    Jen —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’ll — go ahead.  I’ll come to you next.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Just to follow up on supply and rising prices and inflation: A
couple of weeks ago, you pointed to data indicating that the rate of
inflation was decreasing month to month over the last couple quarters
and that you — the forecasts expect that to continue in 2023.  Does the
White House believe that we’ve reached peak inflation, or does it expect
prices to continue to rise over the holidays?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the inflation and prediction of inflation is under the
purview of the Federal Reserve.  And so what I often point to is their
predictions and their projections, which they update, as you know, on a
regular basis.  
  
What they have projected is that inflation will come down next year. 
That remains the projection.  The OECD has also projected — made similar
projections about inflation and when it will come back down.  
  
I’ve also said we also anticipated that there could be increases as the
economy was turning back on.  That is something that the Federal Reserve
and other outside economists have also predicted and projected.   
  
If you’re talking about different costs for different components of
society, there are different issues that are happening, whether it is
the price of food — we’ve talked a little bit in the past, or I have
here, about the fact that there is meat conglomerates who — there’s a
lack of competition.  We are addressing that issue.  Obviously, the
price of gas is a separate issue.   
  
So, we can talk about any component you are interested in.  But in terms
of the projection of inflation and data, that’s under the purview of the
Federal Reserve and that’s what I would point to.  
  
Q    And just one question about climate change.  So, the President, of
course, is preparing for this climate summit next week.  What role does
the White House believe the U.S. military has in reducing things like
emissions, the munitions disposals, et cetera?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, certainly, I know military leaders, members of the
Defense Department, in the past, have spoken to the threat of the
climate crisis, the impact it could have on countries, on national
security, and on countries around the world because of drought, because
of famine, and risks that poses.  
  
The President wants to take on the climate crisis across government and
ensure that we are approaching it not just in terms of what we’re
passing into law, but what we’re doing with our federal fleet, et
cetera.  
  
Any additional announcements, I’d point you to the Department of
Defense.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Is the idea of raising the corporate rate, is that entirely off the
table in this Build Back Better plan?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  It’s — all of these tax components are under discussion.  I
have nothing to rule out at this point while there is live
discussions.  
  
Q    Just one more question.  General Mark Milley, earlier today,
compared China’s hypersonic weapons test to a Sputnik moment.  He said
during an interview on Bloomberg TV, “What we saw was a very significant
event of a test of a hypersonic weapon system, and it was very
concerning…I don’t know if it was quite a Sputnik moment, but I think
it’s very close to that…It has all of our attention.”   
  
Does the White House agree with that assessment?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’ve seen, of course, General Milley’s comments.  I
think what he was conveying was the concern we all have about China’s
military modernization efforts.  They continue to pursue capabilities
that increase tensions in the region, and we continue to have concerns
about that.  And I think that was reflected in his comments.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  I wanted to ask: Is there any more you can share on
President Biden’s perspective on progressives’ concerns that a framework
for the social safety net and climate plan is not enough to move forward
with an infrastructure vote?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President — first, I would reiterate that the
President is absolutely committed to getting both pieces of legislation
done.  He’s conveyed that publicly; he’s conveyed that privately.  
  
As you all know, yesterday, he had a very good meeting with chairs and
members of the Congressional Black Caucus; Congressional Hispanic
Caucus; Congressional Asian Pacific Caucus — -American Caucus;
Congressional Equality Caucus; and Congressional Women’s Caucus.  And
they all came out and they went to the stakeout agreeing that this
historic deal we’re nearing would represent enormous and long-sought
triumphs for the constituencies they represent.  
  
So, I would say we would reiterate and he would reiterate, as he has
done privately, his commitment to getting both pieces of legislation
done; that we’re on track for a historic package.  And certainly, what
he’s been working on is getting agreement on moving both pieces of
legislation forward.   
  
But I would also note that if you look at the infrastructure package,
there are components of that that a lot of members are going to have to
look inside their hearts and question what they’re for or against.  
  
I mean, this package is for — would extend high-speed Internet to every
American.  Are you against that?  Would ensure that children don’t —
aren’t drinking poisoned water.  Are you against that?  Would make the
biggest investments in electric vehicle infrastructure ever while
bulking up transit and climate resilience.  
  
These are key components of change, of progress that many progressives
have expressed support and excitement about.  And we shouldn’t lose
sight about that either, even as we’re driving forward on getting both
pieces of legislation done.  
  
Q    Is there a point that you would want to — that President Biden may
push to move the infrastructure bill first?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We’re going to leave the mechanisms and the order of events
up to leaders in the House and Senate.  But we want to get both pieces
done.   
  
I just wanted to note that sometimes what’s lost here in these debates
is all of the components of the infrastructure bill that are
progressive; that have historic impacts; that I think, you know, many
have expressed excitement and support for for good reason.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  President Biden, over the past week or so, has
listed a number of ways in which he’s attempting to compromise —
dropping free community college from the plan, reducing paid family
leave to a shorter timeframe than he would like.  He spent an awful lot
of time with Senator Manchin.  From the White House perspective, in what
ways has Manchin compromised?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We’ll let Senator Manchin speak for himself.  But what I
would note here is it’s not the President giving up or taking anything. 
The President is trying to unify a path forward between a range of
members in Congress — Senators and House members — and what they are for
or against, or what they can support or what they’re against.  That’s
part of the role he’s playing in this negotiating process.   
  
So, we’ll point you to Senator Manchin on what he feels he’s given up or
what he’s for.  He can speak for himself.  
  
Q    Secondly, the President is heading to Glasgow, and he’s hoping to
signal the climate commitments.  That’s where, I think, his “American
prestige is on the line” comments are coming from.  Absent a complete
deal on any framework, is there any effort from the White House to
achieve just the climate portion so that he can go to Glasgow with a
framework within a framework?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I would just go back to what Jake Sullivan said yesterday,
which is that global leaders are quite sophisticated.  They are watching
and following and understand the fact that the President has proposed
the most historic investment in addressing the climate crisis in U.S.
history — five times larger than what was in the Recovery Act.   
  
And that is an example of the President and the United States leading on
this issue, as we should.  As one of the world’s largest emitters, we
have a lot of work that we need to continue to do.   
  
So, what they know and what he will convey to them, regardless of the
status, is that we’re talking here about fundamentally changing a range
of sectors in the U.S. economy.   
  
We’re talking about make — incentivizing rooftop solar and home
electrification; solar offshore and onshore wind with manufacturing
credits; industrial-sector decarbonization; rural co-ops.   
  
We’re talking about fundamentally changing and incentivizing how
industries and parts of U.S. society focus on climate and move toward a
clean energy envir- — clean energy society.  That’s what we’re doing
here.  And we’re on the verge of getting that done.   
  
So, I’m just going to reiterate that world leaders are not looking at is
there a vote in the Senate or the House before the President gets on the
plane.  They’re looking at what we’re trying to accomplish, our
commitment to doing that, the fact that we’re making progress on that,
and the President’s role in getting that done.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    So, on the — at the heart of the debate here is a question that
different groups of people answer differently as to how big this
spending package ultimately is in context, you know, in terms of
history.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.   
  
Q    You — the little transcript here tells me you said the word
“historic” 13 times —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Oh.  
  
Q    — since we started.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Counting.  
  
Q    It was actually, like, nine, but then you said it multiple times
—  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Should I tell you what’s “historic”?  (Inaudible) your
question.   (Laughter.)  
  
Q    So, here’s my — here’s my question: What does — where does the
White House — the President talked a lot on the campaign trail about
FDR, about the Great Society, Lyndon Johnson.  Like, where does — if
this — if some version of this, you know, in the range of what everybody
is now sort of talking about, passes, where does the White House put
this in history, since you used that term so many times?   
  
What is — is this on par with the New Deal?  Is this on par with what —
you know, does this go — does this go beyond what Lyndon Johnson tried
to do?  You talked just now about just the sort of fundamental altering
of society as it relates to climate change.  How much should the people
who are now debating this feel like they are doing in the context of
history?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I don’t know that we have a new label to put on it. 
Maybe in the future, people will look back and say, “How does this
compare to Build Back Better?”  We’ll see.   
  
But I — what I’m talking about, with history here — and I’ll be short
here, I promise — is creating infrastructures that could be built upon,
similar to what happened with the Affordable Care Act.  That’s what
we’re doing — trying to do with universal pre-K.   
  
That is something that, for decades to come, could be built upon and
become better.  And, as it relates to the climate crisis, maybe —
hopefully — we’ll look back — (knocks on podium) — and this will be the
moment where the United States, the President, Congress, takes a
historic action that can — that can change our trajectory here.  That’s
what we hope to do with this package.   
  
And, of course, building on making healthcare more affordable and
accessible is something that is a continuation of the historic work that
happened when the President was Vice President, but vitally important as
well.   
  
So, I don’t have a historic reference.  I’ll leave that to outside
historians to do, as much as I’ve used that term.   
  
But the components we’re talking about here is — and what — it’s
important — and why I keep using that phrase is because — is because
it’s important for activists, for Democrats, and for the American people
to know what we’re trying to achieve here and what kind of impact it
could have on their lives.  
  
Q    And just one follow-up on that then.  You know, I assume the
President is making that argument — that sort of range of arguments that
you made — to the people who are — whose expectations for even more have
been dashed.   
  
How much is the White House planning — and have you already started
planning — for an extensive sales job afterwards, were this to sort of
pass at some point tomorrow, next week, whenever?   
  
You know, the White House that you served in — the last White House that
you served in — promised to make a similar kind of pitch after the
Affordable Care Act passed, and, by and large, it didn’t happen.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.   
  
Q    And it certainly wasn’t very effective for a very long time.  You
know, what lessons do you guys — did you guys learn from that?  And is
there some, you know, plan to — to sort of, you know, reset expectations
after months of compromise and hearing about things that are not as big
as he wanted?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think you can certainly expect not just the
President, the Vice President, but also members of our Cabinet, who have
been fanning out across the United States for months now, to continue to
do that.   
  
And I would say one of the lessons learned is certainly that — and
having lived through several iterations of the selling of the Affordable
Care Act — you know, what we learned, I think, by the end of that
process is that you need to explain the components of the package and
how it’s impacting people’s lives.   
  
And that sounds patently obvious now, but, in the time, we were selling
it as “bending the cost curve.”  I still am not sure what that means. 
(Laughter.)  But, by the end, we were talking about ensuring that kids
who are under 25 could get covered with health insurance; that if you
had a pre-existing condition, you didn’t need to worry about it.   
  
Now, I will say, this is instinctual to President Joe Biden.  He is
somebody — and this is why he’s given the number of speeches he’s given
over the last few weeks, why he’s gone to Scranton and Michigan and
Connecticut to talk about different components of these packages to
bring it to life for people, right?   
  
If you care about the climate, this is going to have a have a huge
impact on addressing the issue that is close to your heart.   
  
If you are a parent struggling to make ends meet, we’re going to give
you some more breathing room.  We’re going to make childcare more
affordable.  We’re going to make universal preschool a reality. 
Right?  
  
The things that are going to impact people’s lives is how we will
continue to talk about this.  And it is very clear that once you have a
final package — (knocks on podium) — and you have what those components
look like, it does make it a little bit easier to do that.  No question
about it.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  My colleague is reporting that a few dozen House
progressives would only vote for BIF if there’s a framework deal and
legislative tax that’s introduced, and having verbal agreements from the
President and Senators Sinema and Manchin wouldn’t be enough.  So, just
to follow up, would the President press progressives for an
infrastructure vote before October 31st even if there is no framework
deal in place?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I certainly understand your line of questioning.  But,
again, we’re working with leaders — Speaker Pelosi, Leader Schumer.  I
don’t have anything to predict for you in terms of the timeline or order
of events here.  
  
Q    Is there any concern that you would lose Republican support that
you have for BIF if Congress waits to, you know, align passage of the
two as the progressives would like?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think Speaker Pelosi has quite a bit of experience calling
a vote when she knows there’s the votes to be had, and that’s what we’re
working toward.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Jen, one on overdose prevention —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Oh, go ahead.  
  
Q    The American Trucking Association is urging the administration to
push back an OSHA requirement for larger companies for the vaccine until
after the holidays.  They’re warning that some drivers would rather quit
than get the shot.  Given the supply chain concerns, is there something
the administration might consider?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think it’s important for people to understand that
the first step here is not firing or quitting; the first step is
counseling, and sometimes there are alternative options as well.   
  
So, there isn’t an expectation or anticipation by anyone who’s been
through implementation of this, many in the transportation sector, that
that would be the impact.   
  
Beyond that, I don’t have anything to predict or preview for you into in
terms of a change of timeline.  
  
Go ahead, George.  
  
Q    You talked about the issues the President will talk about with the
Pope.  Can you talk a little more personally about the President’s
approach?  Does he have any sense of the history of being only the
second Catholic President meeting the Pope, or have we reached the point
where that’s just another routine meeting?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think the President’s faith is — as you all know, is
quite personal to him.  His faith has been a source of strength through
various tragedies that he has lived through in his life.  Many of you
who have served on pool duty know that he attends church every weekend,
and certainly I expect he will continue to do that.   
  
So, the fact that this is his — will be his fourth meeting — he has a
very personal relationship with Pope Francis.  We certainly expect it to
be — to be a warm meeting.   
  
And I would say yes, George, it absolutely has personal significance to
him, in addition to being an opportunity to discuss the range of issues
— poverty, combating the climate crisis, ending the COVID-19 pandemic —
where there is alignment and the ability to have deep, substantive
discussions.  
  
Go ahead, Yamiche.  
  
Q    Hi.  Thanks so much, Jen.  The President, as you said, supports the
billionaire tax, from my understanding.  Senator Manchin has expressed
criticism of it.  He said, quote, “I don’t like the connotation that
we’re targeting different people.”  President Biden has been pretty open
about the fact that he thinks wealthier people in this country should
pay more.  I wonder what the President makes of Senator Manchin
criticizing the billionaire tax.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think, Yamiche, the President certainly knows there’s some
agreements and some disagreements about which components of a range of
tax fairness proposals are the best options.  That’s why there are so
many out there that he has proposed, that others have proposed, that
what we’re doing now is working through what will be in the final
package.   
  
As I said a little bit earlier, he supports the billionaire tax.  It has
changed from the version that was proposed, you know, a year or two ago
that received, understandably, a lot of attention.   
  
We’re working with Congress and Chairman Wyden to make sure the
highest-income Americans pay their fair share, something that he thinks
is not only — would make the tax system more fair, but also would be a
way to help pay for these — this historic bill — I did that for Mike
Shear — to get it across the finish line.   
  
So, I don’t have any direct response or — from him or anyone to Senator
Manchin and his position on what he agrees and disagrees on.  What we’re
trying to do here is align in agreement on making the tax system more
fair while pushing forward a historic package.  
  
Q    I’m wondering if you could square what sounds like confidence that
a bill could still be struck by tomorrow with the real issue that — how
to pay for it, along with what’s in it, is still seemingly a big problem
here, a thing that has not been resolved.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, if we had a deal, as you know, we would be telling you
about it.  But I think what members of Congress have conveyed to all of
you and leaders in Congress, as well as the White House and the
President, is that we are very close.  That’s because we are very
close.   
  
And it does require working through specific details and components that
need to be finalized before we have a final agreement.  But that’s how
everybody feels who’s a part of these discussions, and that’s why I
think you hear everybody conveying a similar tone about the progress.  
  
Q    Can I ask you: How confident is the President that thousands of
Department of Transportation workers won’t be furloughed, that public
works won’t be — some public work won’t be shut down?  I wonder what his
message is to those workers who are worried about Sunday coming and
possibly having to be furloughed.  Is he confident that that won’t
happen?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, certainly, again, we’re working with leadership — with
Speaker Pelosi, Leader Schumer — to work on an extension of the surface
transportation bill.  Obviously, they’re going to be in charge of
determining when those votes will be and what it looks like.  But we
want to avoid furloughs, of course, and protect workers.  And that’s
fundament- — central to the President’s belief system.  
  
Q    A follow-up on climate, Jen.  
  
Q    One last question.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Can I ask you just one last question —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Oh, go ahead, Yamiche.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    — on Haiti?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    I know that missionary — that there’s still significant assets —   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — Jake said yesterday — going to Haiti to deal with the
missionaries.  I just — I also wonder if you could respond to criticisms
of the Biden administration that there are deportations still happening
and going on and people being sent back to Haiti amid the — not only the
fuel shortage, but also this hostage situation continuing.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think it’s important for people to remember: One,
we’re doing everything we can to bring these missionaries, U.S.
citizens, home safely.  We have FBI.  We have sent an enormous number of
law enforcement officials to help assist with that.  And obviously, our
embassy in Port-au-Prince is running point.   
  
These are U.S. citizens.  They are — we know — and we put — put out a
warning in August and put out repeated warnings, I think, over the past
several months and even before then — about the threat of kidnapping for
ransom for U.S. citizens.  That is different from the threats, which are
different — and the challenges — that are facing Haitians, who are in
Haiti or who are deported back to Haiti, through the system we apply
across the board through our immigration system.   
  
As you know, that’s an assessment that’s made by the State Department
and the Department of Homeland Security.  They have made the assessment
that the conditions on the ground allow for individuals to return to
Haiti.  They continue to assess that, but there’s been no change to
that.   
  
But I think it’s important for people to understand there’s a bit of a
difference between the U.S. citizens — the threat facing the U.S.
citizens, which we have warned before is a threat of kidnapping for
ransom and of great concern to us (inaudible).  
  
Q    Well, a lot of those Haitians have been getting kidnapped — 200,
300 percent increase.  So could you explain the difference in the
kidnapping threat to U.S. citizens versus Haitians who have been getting
kidnapped for years?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think what you were — why — I was answering the question,
Yamiche, because you were combining the things into one, and I thought
it was important for people to understand the threat of the 17
individuals that we’re talking about is one that is — we have warned
about, has been a unique threat that we have posed concerns about in the
past.  So I wanted people to understand — and sometimes it’s combined. 
I’m just trying to explain —  
  
Q    Yeah, I was just trying to figure out if you could explain that.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m just trying to explain the policy.  I would remind you
again that we are a enormous contributor of assistance to the Haitian
authorities.  We will continue to do that.   
  
And I would also note that on the oil shortage, what we’re working to do
— and our focus right now is on supporting the Haitian National Police. 
What they are trying to do is secure transportation corridors to allow
for fuel deliveries.  And it is a challenge, obviously, because there
are — as you know, Yamiche, there are parts of Haiti where it is hard to
get to.  That’s why these cor- — because of the threats of crime and —
on the ground and challenging circumstances on the ground.   
  
So these transportation corridors are meant to help enable these fuel
deliveries to get fuel out to communities that need it.   
  
And we — obviously, in response to also the seriously — the serious
security situation, we’ve also allocated an additional $15 million to
the Haitian police, including $12 million specifically to strengthen
their capacity to respond to gangs.  And we’re looking to increase this
assistance even more.  And this is related to your other question about
the kidnapping and threats and risks to Haitians on the ground as
well.   
  
So, there are a lot of things to unpack — to unpack there, which I
attempted to do.   
  
Q    A follow-up on China.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay, one more in the back.  Did you —  
  
Q    Follow-up on China, Jen.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead, in the back.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  A couple of things real quick.  First, it seems like
the paid leave might actually be out entirely.  Is that something that
you all can accept?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  It’s still under discussion.  I would note that the
President proposed 12 weeks of paid leave because he absolutely believes
it’s long overdue to ensure women across the country, families across
the country have access to paid leave.  It’s something we’re continuing
to fight for, but I don’t have a final package quite yet.  
  
Q    But he said at that town hall that 4 is better than 12, but,
obviously, zero is worse than 4.  Right?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Again, we — I can convey to you what the President
supports.  What I think your understandable questions are, are: Is there
50 votes for paid leave for a package?  We hope there are.  That’s what
we’re advocating for and we’re pressing for.  The President wants paid
leave to be in this package.  
  
Q    And second, there was a letter from the White House General Counsel
yesterday to the National Archives, I believe.  And it mentioned in
there that there’s a subset of documents that the committee had agreed
not to request at this time.  And I’m wondering what — how those
documents are different from other documents that the President has
said, “Go ahead and turn them over,” that there’s no executive privilege
that applies.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the deferred ref- — deferral referenced in the letter,
which I think is what you’re talking about, is a routine part of the
accommodation process between Congress and the executive branch in these
types of matters.   
  
The committee agreed to defer a small number of documents, so I would
refer to you on what those documents are or what that looks like or the
scope of those, that they’d be best equipped to address that.   
  
Okay.  Thanks, everyone.  
  
2:16 P.M. EDT
