---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-10-30'
modified_time: 2021-10-30 18:59:52-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/10/30/on-the-record-press-call-by-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-commerce-secretary-gina-raimondo-and-u-s-trade-representative-katherine-tai-on-a-u-s-eu-agreement-on-steel-and-aluminum-tariffs/
published_time: 2021-10-30 19:00:00-04:00
title: "On-The-Record Press Call by National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan, Commerce\
  \ Secretary Gina Raimondo, and U.S. Trade Representative Katherine Tai on a U.S.-EU\
  \ Agreement on Steel and Aluminum\_Tariffs"
---
 
Via Teleconference

(October 30, 2021)

7:41 P.M. CEST

MR. MEAGHER:  Thank you for joining us for this important call
previewing a major agreement with the European Union.  We will have two
portions of the call — an on-the-record portion and an on-background
Q&A. 

Joining us for the on-the-record comments are National Security Advisor
Jake Sullivan, Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo, and U.S. Trade
Representative Katherine Tai.

\[…\]

The contents of this call will be embargoed until the conclusion of the
call.  I’ll go over those ground rules at the end.  But for now, I will
hand it over to our National Security Advisor, Jake Sullivan.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Thanks, Chris.  And thanks, everybody, for joining.  And
greetings from Rome, where the U.S. and the EU have concluded an
agreement with respect to steel and aluminum tariffs and the retaliatory
tariffs imposed by the EU.  This is really the work of Secretary
Raimondo and Ambassador Tai and their teams with support from the White
House.

So I’m going to let them talk through the specifics of the deal and how
we got here, and then, obviously, their teams who will be available to
take questions on background, as Chris laid out.

The reason I wanted to just say a few words at the top is to set a
little bit of the larger context here and just to underscore that not
only does today’s deal remove one of the largest bilateral irritants in
the U.S.-EU relationship, it actually transforms it into a joint forward
progress on two central challenges.

The President has said that one of his — the key goals of his presidency
is to demonstrate that democracies can deliver results for their people,
especially working people, and solve the challenges of the 21st
century.  And two of the greatest of those challenges are the threat of
climate change and the economic threat posed by unfair competition by
China. 

Today’s deal with the EU delivers on that promise by making headway on
both fronts.  The agreement, ultimately, to negotiate a carbon-based
arrangement on steel and aluminum trade addresses both Chinese
overproduction and carbon intensity in the steel and aluminum sector; it
shows that we can solve the climate crisis while at the same time better
protecting our workers; that we don’t have to pick between climate or
the economy — that the path to climate progress is through ensuring good
jobs.

Today’s deal is evidence of this in motion and evidence that we can
rally key likeminded partners to join us.

So we’re excited about the opportunity to write the rules of the 21st
century with our partners and allies.  We’re committed to making a
future carbon-based arrangement open to any country that shares our
commitment to restoring market orientation and promoting trade and
low-carbon steel and aluminum.

And so we not only have an immediate, near-term solution, we also have
an ambitious undertaking ahead of us to negotiate this new arrangement.

And with that, let me turn it over to Secretary Raimondo.

SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  So, good afternoon and good evening.  And thank
you, Jake.  As Jake said, this is a important and, in some ways,
historic announcement. 

At the beginning of the administration, the President asked Ambassador
Tai and me to work with the EU to find a solution to the 232 tariffs
disputes but to do it in a way that would, as Jake said, rebuild our
alliances with the EU, protect America’s steel and aluminum workers, and
move us meaningfully forward to achieving our climate goals.

And today, we are here to announce a deal that does exactly that.  We’ve
reached an agreement with the EU which maintains the 232 tariffs but
allows limited volumes of EU steel and aluminum to enter the U.S.
tariff-free. 

We’ve also agreed to work together with the EU to use trade tools to
fight global excess capacity of steel and aluminum, to address carbon
intensity, which is — set a huge milestone in our fight against climate
change.

Before I take a second to go through the details, I do want to thank our
counterparts in the EU, particularly President von der Leyen and my
counterpart**,** Executive Vice-President Valdis Dombrovskis, for their
partnership.  This is a very difficult negotiation.  It was arduous,
complicated.  Both sides argued forcefully but respectfully.  And I want
to thank them for their partnership, because it was a very successful
negotiation, and we agreed on a way forward for how to face our shared
challenge, which is global excess capacity, mainly by China.  And it was
in our mutual interest to find compromise. 

The deal that we struck achieves the following goals:  First, it, as I
said, protects American steel and aluminum industries, (inaudible)
national security and our steel and aluminum workers from the excess
capacity driven by China dumping steel into our markets.

For far too long, China was routing its cheap steel into the U.S. via
Europe and other markets, which drove down prices and made it
essentially impossible for America’s steel and aluminum industry to
compete and, of course, in so doing, hurting the industry and hurting
our workers. 

So, today’s agreement enables us to allow limited volumes of steel to
enter the U.S. tariff-free while still protecting America’s steel
industry by ensuring that all steel entering the U.S. via Europe is
produced entirely in Europe.

Secondly, this agreement is significant in that it will reduce costs for
American manufacturers and consumers.  We obviously all know that steel
and aluminum are in a range of products, from cars to trucks, to washing
machines and other household appliances and construction materials.

In the past year, the cost of steel for manufacturers in the downstream
industries has more than tripled.  And I think every American is seeing
that.  You know, every American is seeing increases in car prices,
increases in appliances, increases in a number of different products. 
And we’ve also — we are also experiencing unprecedented supply chain
disruption.  And we fully expect this agreement will provide relief in
the supply chain and drive down cost increases as we lift the 25 percent
tariffs and increase volume.

Of course, it’s also good for the American manufacturers who use steel
and aluminum in their product.  And we believe it will help them lower
their costs, (inaudible), and create more jobs. 

(Inaudible) and thirdly, in this deal we were able to reach an agreement
whereby the EU will drop their retaliatory tariffs.  As many of you
know, the EU was set to increase tariffs on December 1st to 50 percent
on iconic American companies, like Harley Davidson and the Kentucky
bourbon industry.  I don’t think we can underestimate how crippling a 50
percent tariff is.  A business can’t survive with a 50 percent tariff. 
There’s 1.7 million Americans supported by the distilled spirits
industry, 5,600 manufacturing workers at Harley Davidson.  And all of
their jobs are safer today because of this deal.

Finally and importantly, as Jake indicated, this deal creates a
framework through which the U.S. and EU agree to take carbon intensity
into account in future negotiations.  It’s the first-of-its-kind deal. 
And it means that the U.S. and EU, you know, both produce steel and
aluminum that is significantly cleaner — i.e. less carbon intensive —
than the steel produced in China.  And China’s lack of environmental
standards is part of what drives down their cost, but it’s also a major
contributor to climate change.

So, this is a significant achievement by the President.  By agreeing to
the framework, we’re protecting American jobs.  We’re showing clean
manufacturing can be good for business and consumers.  We’re helping the
planet.  And we are alleviating some of the challenges now related to
increased costs and supply chain disruption.

So, it’s an exciting day, and I’m thankful to (inaudible) to Ambassador
Tai.

AMBASSADOR TAI:  Thank you so much, Gina and Jake.  Thank you all for
joining the call.  It’s been an intense few weeks of negotiations as we
work to reach this arrangement.  But as Secretary Raimondo just said,
this is a great day for American workers, American producers, our
alliance with the European Union, and our joint commitment to battle
climate change.

Today’s announcement delivers on President Biden’s vision to turn the
page on past disputes and begin a new chapter of enhanced transatlantic
relations. 

Earlier this year at the U.S.-EU Summit, we resolved the Boeing-Airbus
dispute over aircraft subsidies.  That framework strengthens our
respective aircraft industries, helps secure good jobs for workers on
both sides of the Atlantic, and lays the groundwork for increased
cooperation on shared challenges posed by China and other non-market
economies.

The summit also launched the U.S.-EU Trade and Technology Council, which
held its inaugural meeting in September and provided a forum for the
United States and European Union to strengthen our cooperation on key
global trade, economic, and technology issues.

These actions all help to create momentum and the trust necessary for
reaching this agreement, which will help ensure the long-term viability
of our steel and aluminum industries, the communities they support, and,
most importantly, the workers in these industries on both sides of the
Atlantic.

Before we get to your questions, there are a few parts of the agreement
that I want to highlight.  In addition to the EU eliminating the
retaliatory tariffs against the U.S. that Secretary Raimondo just
mentioned, we have also agreed to suspend the WTO disputes against each
other related to the 232 actions.  The agreement also addresses global
overcapacity from China and toughens enforcement mechanisms to prevent
leakage of Chinese and other unfairly traded steel and aluminum into the
U.S. market.  
  
Going forward, the U.S. and the EU will analyze the volume of steel and
aluminum imports from the EU each year, share information and best
practices on trade remedies, and ensure that products from non-market
economies do not benefit from the arrangement.   
  
Lastly, this deal is a significant win on one of President Biden’s top
priorities: fighting climate change.   
  
President Biden has been clear that we must find new ways to tackle the
growing crisis and create jobs.  As part of the resolution, the U.S. and
the EU have agreed to negotiate the first-ever carbon-based arrangement
on steel and aluminum trade, and create greater incentives for reducing
carbon intensity across modes of production of steel and aluminum
produced by American and European companies.   
  
We know our allies and trading partners agree.  That is why we will
create a global arrangement to encourage likeminded economies that share
our collective commitment to market-based principles and addressing the
carbon intensity of these industries.   
  
Before I close and turn this back to our moderator, I want to thank
European Commission Executive Vice-President Valdis Dombrovskis.  In the
last month alone, he and I have met with or spoken to each other more
than 10 times.  And the staff on both sides have worked around the clock
to get this agreement across the finish line.   
  
This renewed cooperation and shared commitment to creating durable trade
policy that puts workers front and center will lead to greater
prosperity for our citizens on both sides of the Atlantic and around the
world.   
  
Thank you very much.  
  
MR. MEAGHER:  All right.  Thank you to the three of you for taking the
time this evening.

END  
