---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-11-03'
modified_time: 2021-11-03 16:30:33-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/11/03/press-briefing-by-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-public-health-officials-66/
published_time: 2021-11-03 16:30:32-04:00
title: "Press Briefing by White\_House COVID-\u206019 Response Team and Public Health\_\
  Officials"
---
 
Via Teleconference 

1:25 P.M. EDT

MR. ZIENTS:  Good afternoon, and thanks for joining us.  Today, we will
focus on yesterday’s exciting development: CDC’s recommendation of a
vaccine for kids ages 5 through 11, following FDA’s authorization last
week.

Vaccines for kids ages 5 through 11 is a landmark moment in our
vaccination campaign.  The first mother to get her child vaccinated last
night captured it well: “It’s a sigh of relief.”  
  
Twenty-eight million young kids are now eligible for vaccination.  We’ve
been planning for this moment, and we are prepared.  
  
And beginning the week of November 8th, our program will be fully up and
running, with about 20,000 trusted providers and convenient sites across
the country offering vaccinations for kids ages 5 through 11.  
  
Let me first turn to Drs. Walensky and Fauci to discuss the CDC decision
and the effectiveness of vaccines for kids.   
  
Then, I’ll share the latest on how we’re ramping up our execution of our
kids’ vaccination program.  
  
And then, Dr. Murthy will cover our efforts to build vaccine confidence
among parents.  
  
Over to you, Dr. Walensky.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you, Jeff.  And good afternoon, everyone.  As you
just heard from Jeff, today is truly a monumental day in the course of
this pandemic and one that many of us have been eager to see.  
  
Nearly 12 months have passed since the initial recommendation of
COVID-19 vaccination for those 16 years and older.  And since that day,
many of us have been asking, “When will we be able to expand this
protection to our younger children?”  
  
Yesterday, CDC’s Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices met to
review the latest data from Pfizer on the safety and efficacy of
COVID-19 vaccination in children 5 to 11. The committee also discussed
in detail the clinical need for vaccination in these younger children.  
  
Throughout the day, I listened intently to the committee’s open,
transparent, and robust discussion.  Following their unanimous vote, I
endorsed their strong recommendation that children 5 to 11 years old
should be vaccinated with the Pfizer pediatric COVID-19 vaccine.  
  
With this vote, we are now expanding vaccine recommendations to more
than 28 million children in the United States.  Distribution of
pediatric vaccinations across the country started this week, with plans
to scale up to full capacity starting the week of November 8th.  
  
I want to speak directly to parents about this recommendation.  We have
followed the scientific process.  We have done our due diligence. 
Please know we have thoroughly reviewed all of the available safety,
immunogenicity, and efficacy data before recommending this vaccine for
your child.  
  
In clinical trials, vaccination was found to be nearly 91 percent
effective in preventing COVID-19 among children ages 5 to 11.  In
clinical trials, vaccine side effects were mild, self-limiting, and
similar to those seen in adults and with other vaccines recommended for
children.  The most common side effect was a sore arm.  
  
The safety of our children is the most imp- — of utmost importance to
me, and I believe these vaccines will help us to better protect our
children from COVID-19.  
  
Throughout this pandemic, we have learned a tremendous amount about both
COVID-19 disease and the way it affects our children, with nearly 2
million reported cases of COVID-19 in children in 5 to 11 since the
start of the pandemic.  These cases have ranged from mild to severe,
with some cases resulting in hospitalizations; deaths;
multi-inflammatory \[sic\] — multisystem inflammatory syndrome, or
MIS-C; and other long-term complications.  
  
The spread of the Delta variant resulted in a surge of COVID-19 cases in
children throughout the summer.  During a six-week period in late June
to mid-August, COVID-19 hospitalizations among children and adolescents
increased fivefold.  
  
The risk to children of severe COVID remains too high and too
devastating.  And vaccination, along with other important preventive
measures, can protect our children.  
  
While children are at lower risk of becoming severely ill with COVID-19
compared to adults, we know that beyond the clinical impact of COVID,
there have been detrimental social and mental health impacts from this
pandemic.  
  
For almost two years, schools and many milestone celebrations have been
fundamentally changed.  
  
There are children in the second grade who have never experienced a
“normal” schoolyear.  There are students in middle school who missed out
on school sports and extracurricular activities.  There are missed proms
and homecomings, and too many missed graduations.  
  
We have watched as the education gaps that exist in this country have
widened as this virus has disproportionately impacted racial and ethnic
minority communities.  And we have seen the negative impact on the
mental health of our youth.  
  
We are reminded of the importance of providing children with an
environment where they can succeed.  
  
Pediatric vaccination has the power to help us achieve healthy, safe,
and inclusive environments for our children.  
  
Getting your child vaccinated can help protect them against COVID-19, as
well as reduce disruptions in in-person learning and activities, helping
us get back to school as we once knew it and hope it can be: a safe and
enriching environment for all of our children.  
  
Beyond protection for our children, pediatric vaccination can help us
better protect our families and our communities, helping prevent
children from bringing the virus home to family members who may be more
vulnerable and helping reduce community transmission levels.  
  
While we celebrate this important milestone today, I want to recognize
the over 700 children who we have tragically lost to this disease.  I
want us to remember that pediatric vaccination is just one important
piece to this complex puzzle.  
  
We continue to work to address the outstanding need to vaccinate as many
adults as possible and to provide protection to our communities,
including to those who are younger than five and are not yet eligible
for vaccination.  
  
We know that vaccination helps to decrease community transmission and
protect those who are most vulnerable.  
  
With this new recommendation, I know parents have questions.  As a
parent myself, I understand the need to have as much information as
possible to ensure our decisions are in the best interest of our
children.  
  
I encourage parents with questions to talk to their children’s
pediatrician, their school nurse, and their local pharmacist or other
trusted source to learn more about this vaccine and its benefits and to
get answers to your questions.  
  
Get the information you need to make the best decision for your child. 
And let’s take a moment to commemorate today, this moment, that we can
bring protection to our children.  
  
Thank you.  And, with that, I’ll turn things over to Dr. Fauci.  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Thank you very much, Dr. Walensky.  
  
Dr. Walensky has articulated very clearly the importance of getting our
children vaccinated.  I’d like to spend the next couple of minutes
showing you the data why this is so.  
  
Can I have the next slide, please?  
  
Let’s take a look at the cumulative burden of all children, those less
than 18 years old: over 5 million cases, over 65,000 hospitalizations,
and, as the total group, over 5,000 multisystem inflammatory syndrome,
with total deaths, as mentioned by Dr. Walensky, of now approaching 800
individuals.  
  
Next slide.  
  
Let’s take a look specifically at the group under discussion today, of
the 5- to 11-year-olds: 1.9 million cases reported; more than 8,000
hospitalizations — one third of which resulted in a requirement for an
ICU admission.  Among that younger group, more than 2,000 multisystem
inflammatory syndrome.  And in the total cohort, at least 94
COVID-associated deaths.   
  
Next slide.   
  
Let’s take a look at the underlying medical conditions among children of
that age group who are hospitalized.  As you can see, it’s dominated by
chronic lung disease, obesity, and neurological disorders.  But there
are a number of other disorders — many of which we see frequently in
children, particularly children of a certain age — that make it very,
very likely that an individual, if they do become hospitalized, will
have one of these underlying conditions.   
  
Next slide.   
  
What about the post-COVID conditions?  I’ve already mentioned, as has
Dr. Walensky, the multisystem inflammatory syndrome, but there’s also
ongoing and residual symptoms and complications reported in children —
referred to as “long COVID” — which occurs in children, maybe to a
lesser extent, about 4 to 6 percent.  But nonetheless, long COVID does
occur in children.   
  
Next slide.   
  
Let’s take a look now at the incident rate.  Children and adults are
equally vulnerable to coronavirus infection.  There was some
consideration earlier on that that was not the case.  That may be
because children are less likely to become sick.  And in this JAMA
Pediatrics paper, it was shown that 50 percent of children 5 to 11 years
are without symptoms.  So, we should not underestimate the incidence in
children.   
  
Next slide.   
  
What about transmission?  Transmission — secondary children transmission
does occur both in the household and in the school settings.  And
vaccination, we hope, will decrease this transmission.   
  
Next slide.   
  
What about the efficacy?  In individuals 12 to 15 years old, this study,
just a few months ago, showed that in adolescents of those age, the
vaccine efficacy is extremely high, approaching 100 percent.   
  
Next slide.  
  
And in a very recent study that Dr. Walensky mentioned, when you look at
children within the age group under discussion today, 5- \[to\]
11-year-olds, about 91 percent efficacy during a period of time when
Delta was the prevalent strain.   
  
So, if in the next slide what we show — if I could have the next slide. 
That’s not there.  Okay.   
  
What I was going to say is that I’ve shown you disease burden,
incidence, transmission, and the efficacy of the vaccine — every reason
in the world to get our children vaccinated.   
  
Back to you, Jeff.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Okay.  Well, thank you, Doctors.  
  
Following FDA’s authorization last Friday, teams immediately began
packing vaccines specifically formulated for kids ages 5 through 11 into
specialized containers and they’ve been working 24/7 to ship millions of
doses to thousands of vaccine sites across the country.  
  
In fact, over the next 24 hours alone, there will be millions more doses
in the air and on trucks heading to cities and towns across the country
from Bar Harbor, Maine; to Anchorage, Alaska; to San Juan, Puerto
Rico.  
  
Packing and shipping will continue over the weekend and into next week,
with doses arriving at thousands of vaccination sites in every state,
Tribe, and territory.  
  
This is an exciting and long-awaited moment for parents and for our
vaccination program.  And I want to explain what parents can expect as
we ramp up to full strength.  
  
Pediatricians, family doctors, pharmacies, community health centers, and
children’s hospitals are receiving doses and are standing up their
operations across the next several days.  
  
Some pediatricians and family doctors are already beginning to schedule
appointments.  
  
And many pharmacies, including CVS and Walgreens, will open scheduling
systems today so that parents can schedule appointments for their kids
over the coming days and weeks.  
  
As more and more doses get delivered, more and more of these trusted
providers will start scheduling and offering vaccinations.  
  
Across the country, children’s hospitals, local health departments, and
education leaders are also kicking off their programs to vaccinate kids
in their communities.  
  
In Houston, Texas Children’s Hospital has already scheduled over 28,000
appointments, held numerous town halls to educate the community, and is
planning to partner with churches and schools to offer vaccination
clinics across the city starting next week.  
  
In Milwaukee, Children’s Wisconsin will host vaccination clinics at
regional sites every Saturday throughout the month of November and
December, offering both COVID-19 and flu vaccines to kids and their
families.  
  
In the state of Colorado, the Children’s Hospital Colorado and other
partners — they will host the first of many clinics this Friday, with
more than 4,000 appointments already scheduled through the weekend.  
  
Massachusetts is planning to host vaccination clinics at youth-focused
sites, such as the Dr. Seuss Museum and the Museum of Science.  
  
Illinois has equipped mobile units to meet kids and parents in their
communities, with over 100 clinics already scheduled and hundreds more
to come.  
  
Maine is working with local education leaders to bring vaccinations to
schools across the state.  
  
State and local health departments are planning to launch thousands of
community-based clinics, including at youth sporting events, fairs,
zoos, and community centers.  
  
And across the country, schools will partner with vaccine providers to
host vaccination clinics, with more than 6,000 clinics at schools being
planned before the winter holiday break.  
  
Later today, we’ll be meeting with governors’ offices, state and local
health departments, community health centers, and pharmacies as they
stand up their vaccination operations.  
  
Altogether, starting next week, parents will have approximately 20,000
trusted and convenient locations to get their kids vaccinated, with more
and more sites coming online in the weeks ahead.  
  
Importantly, by the end of this week, parents and guardians can go to
Vaccines.gov to search for locations near them offering vaccinations for
kids ages 5 through 11.  
  
And as we hit full strength next week, finding a site nearby and
scheduling an appointment will become easier and easier.  
  
Bottom line: Starting the week of November 8th, the kids’ vaccination
program will be fully up and running.  Parents will have a wide range of
options to schedule appointments and to get their kids vaccinated in
settings they’re familiar with and from providers they trust.  
  
Before I turn to Dr. Murthy, I want to underscore: We have made
significant progress over the past 10 months, with more than 222 million
Americans with at least their first shot and 70 percent of adults now
fully vaccinated.  
  
And the pace of vaccinations continues to be strong.  Just today, we
reported over 1.3 million shots in arms.  That’s up almost 20 percent
from last Wednesday’s report.  Importantly, over 300,000 Americans got
their first shot.   
  
We remain laser-focused on accelerating our path out of the pandemic by
getting more Americans vaccinated — from getting booster shots to tens
of millions of eligible Americans, to vaccinating unvaccinated
Americans, and now helping parents get their kids vaccinated.  
  
With that, over to you, Dr. Murthy.  
  
SURGEON GENERAL MURTHY:  Well, thanks so much, Jeff.  And it’s great to
be with everyone again today.  
  
I want to start by saying that for all parents, caregivers, and everyone
who wants to protect the health of our children, the arrival of vaccines
for kids truly is a landmark moment.   
  
We want to make sure that every parent out there has the opportunity to
get their questions answered, and that’s why we’re focusing on a variety
of outreach efforts that will meet parents where they are with
scientific information from sources they can trust.   
  
To do this, we will be working with trusted people and organizations. 
These include educators in schools, clinicians in health centers, and
faith leaders in their congregations.  And we’re partnering with groups
that have longstanding relationships with parents, including the
National Parent Teacher Association and the American Academy of
Pediatrics.   
  
Now, we’ll be providing all these organizations with toolkits,
factsheets, and flyers with information about the vaccine.  And we are
setting up forums and town halls to answer parent questions, including a
town hall this Sunday with dozens of faith communities.   
  
We’re also working with medical groups to encourage doctors to talk to
their patients about the vaccine and to appear on local media outlets. 
This will include appearances by Spanish- speaking doctors on
Spanish-language media so that all parents can get their questions
answered, regardless of background or English-language skills.   
  
In addition to all of this, we are going to be leveraging the full
network of federal government programs and partners to get the word out
to parents, working with Head Start programs, federally qualified health
centers, Medicaid providers, and others.   
  
And finally, we are setting up a nationwide network of vaccination
clinics at schools and local health departments so that families have
easy access to vaccinations in their neighborhood, administered by
organizations they trust.  And as part of this effort, we’ve partnered
with the Children’s Hospital Association to host clinics at children’s
hospitals across the country.   
  
In all of this outreach, what we want to convey to parents is that this
vaccine will help protect our kids from COVID.  It’s true that, overall,
kids do much better than older adults with COVID.   
  
But COVID is far from harmless in children.  You saw the numbers from
Dr. Fauci and you heard them from Dr.  Walensky.  During the pandemic,
we’ve lost hundreds of children to COVID-19, including nearly 100
children ages 5 to 11.  Thousands have been hospitalized, and thousands
have developed a serious COVID-19-related inflammatory condition that
affects multiple organ systems, including the heart.   
  
On top of this, many children have suffered with long COVID, where
symptoms like shortness of breath, fatigue, and brain fog stretch out
for weeks or even months.   
  
There are also the effects of COVID-19 on our kids’ mental health and
their social and emotional wellbeing, which Dr. Walensky talked
about.   
  
While a vaccine for kids is a landmark positive development in the face
of these challenges, I want to warn parents about the wave of
misinformation about COVID-19 and vaccines that is coming their way.   
  
Many parents are already seeing inaccurate claims on social media, text
threads, and in their inboxes.  Now, I believe every parent has a right
to the facts so they can make decisions for their children based on
accurate scientific information.  Misinformation robs them of this
freedom.   
  
That’s why I’m asking parents to please seek answers from credible
sources, like their doctor, their local hospital, their local health
department, or the CDC.   
  
On a personal note, I just want to say that my wife and I will be taking
our five-year-old son to get vaccinated, and we will be so grateful that
we can more confidently send him out into the world knowing that he has
strong protection against COVID-19.   
  
Ultimately, we want every child in our country to be safe from COVID and
to be able to get back to the lives they love: sleepovers and birthday
parties, school plays and soccer games, visits with friends and
grandparents, and so much more.  And that’s why we must do everything we
can to support parents as they consider vaccinating their children.   
  
Thank you.  And I’ll turn it back over to Jeff.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Thank you, Doctor.  Let’s take a few questions.   
  
First question?   
  
MODERATOR:  Thanks, Jeff.  Keep your questions to one question.   
  
Erin Billups, Spectrum News.  
  
Q    Hi.  Thank you so much for taking my question.  This is for Dr.
Walensky and Dr. Fauci.  It’s been well documented that a natural
SAR-Cov-2 infection offers some protection, natural immunity to the
coronavirus.  And particularly as many parents are still hesitant and
concerned about unnecessary exposure to these vaccines, will there be —
is there any discussion about allowing just one dose for children who
have had prior infection?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Walensky?  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, maybe what I will just start with is to say we
absolutely recommend that children who have previously had COVID also
get vaccinated.  That is definitely a recommendation.   
  
We have data from the trials.  In fact, several of the — about 10
percent of people in the clinical trials for the kids had previous
infection, and we have seen that it bolsters their protection and it is
safe to do.  
  
So, we absolutely recommend two doses of vaccines for these children. 
We do know that after nearly all infectious diseases, you have some
protection from getting that infection again, but we don’t really know
how long that lasts or how robust it is.  And so we absolutely recommend
that children, even children who had disease before, get vaccinated.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Next question, please.  
  
MODERATOR:  Let’s go to Monica Alba at NBC News.   
  
Q    Thank you so much.  My question: Is the CDC closer to reevaluating
the definition of “fully vaccinated” as it relates to third doses or
boosters now that all three vaccines are approved for that?  How will
that be determined and when?  And how might that figure into federal
vaccination guidelines and, in particular, the U.S. Department of Labor
mandate rule that we’re expecting soon?  Thank you.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Yes.  Thank you for that question, Monica.   
  
The definition of “fully vaccinated” is one dose of the Johnson &
Johnson vaccine and two doses of the either Pfizer vaccine or the
Moderna vaccine.  And we’re not examining changing that definition
anytime at this point.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  And then I would add that the federal requirements will
follow the CDC guidance.   
  
Next question, please.  
  
MODERATOR:  Let’s go to Ebony McMorris at the American Urban Radio
Network.  
  
Q    Hi.  Thanks for taking my question.  This is to anyone.  My
question is: Given the reduction in dosage for the Pfizer vaccine among
5- to 11-year-olds and the increased risk of myocarditis in the
adolescent population, is there any type of consideration and getting
Pfizer to revisit the dosage for vaccine among children that are 12 to
18?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Walensky?  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, may I take this?  
  
So, thank you, Ebony, for that question.  We carefully looked at this
issue of myocarditis for our 5- to 11-year-olds because of exactly the
question.  And that is among the reasons that the dose was changed to a
lower dose — one third of the dose.   
  
And I do want to highlight that in the clinical trials that Dr. Fauci
noted, there were no cases of myocarditis in the children between the
ages of 5 to 11.  The CDC has previously, as has the FDA, thoroughly
reviewed the data and the evidence in our older age groups as well as
our adolescents, and have demonstrated that there’s absolute benefit to
vaccination over the risk of COVID and especially the risk of
COVID-induced myocarditis.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Next question, please.  
  
MODERATOR:  Josh Wingrove at Bloomberg.  
  
Q    Hi, there.  Thank you.  Jeff, the parents today are having trouble
scheduling their appointments.  Can you say when Vaccines.gov will offer
scheduling for the 5-to-11 age group?  I know you said that this will
ramp up into next week.  When can people log on and get that?  
  
And can you tell us also when you expect the OSHA rule to be released? 
Is that coming this week as well?  And will it have an implementation
period, or will it just sort of kick in immediately?  Thank you.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  So, on the OSHA rule: That will be coming quite soon — so
in a matter of days, at this point.  And I’ll leave the details to the
rule when it’s made public by the Federal Register.  
  
You know, after 18 months of a pandemic, as we’ve all talked about, it’s
understandable that parents have anxiously awaited this day.  It’s a
very important day.  And we share parents’ relief and enthusiasm to get
their kids vaccinated.  
  
As to scheduling, some pediatricians and some family doctors are already
beginning to schedule appointments; many more will come across the
coming days.  By the end of this week, parents and guardians will be
able to go to Vaccines.gov to find locations offering vaccinations for
kids ages 5 through 11 near them.  
  
CVS and Walgreens are already online, with more pharmacies coming online
soon, so parents can schedule appointments for their kids over the
coming weeks and days.  And starting the week of November 8th, next
week, 20,000 sites — convenient and trusted sites — will be open and the
kids’ vaccination program will be fully up and running.  
  
Last question, please.  
  
MODERATOR:  Last question.  Let’s go to Christina Hall at the Detroit
Free Press.  
  
Q    Thank you for taking my question.  It also had to do with the
Vaccines.gov website.  We did not see a specific search option for the
Pfizer vaccines for children ages 5 to 11.  The only listing was for 12
and older.  And with all of the advanced preparation, do you have a
specific day this week when parents will be able to search for vaccines
for children ages 5 to 11 on the website?  
  
And why wasn’t the federal government prepared to have this search
option on the website already, especially with the vaccines starting to
be shipped out last week?  Thank you.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  So, it’ll be on, as I said, by the end of week, Friday. 
You need to get the vaccines to the sites.  The sites have to be ready
and up and running.  That’s happening as we speak; more and more sites
are coming online.   
  
We’ll have a threshold number of sites online by Friday, and that’s when
Vaccines.gov will be live.  And Vaccines.gov will continue to add more
and more locations — those 20,000 locations and more — across the coming
days.  
  
Thank you for today’s briefing.  And we look forward to the next one.  
  
1:52 P.M. EDT

To view the COVID Press Briefing slides,
visit: <https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/COVID-Press-Briefing_3November2021.pdf>
