---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-11-01'
modified_time: 2021-10-31 16:07:56-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/11/01/on-the-record-press-call-by-special-envoy-john-kerry-and-national-climate-advisor-gina-mccarthy-previewing-day-one-of-cop26/
published_time: 2021-11-01 01:00:00-04:00
title: "On-The-Record Press Call by Special Envoy John Kerry and National Climate\
  \ Advisor Gina McCarthy Previewing Day One of\_COP26"
---
 
Via Teleconference

5:49 P.M. CET

MR. PATEL:  Hi, everybody.  Good afternoon, or good evening, depending
on where you are in the world.  Thank you so much for joining us on this
call with National Climate Advisor Gina McCarthy and Special Climate
Envoy John Kerry.  It’s a special day over Zoom for Massachusetts and
Boston. 

As we advised, this call will be on the record and it will be embargoed
until 5:00 a.m. GMT and 1:00 a.m. Eastern time.

We will have a factsheet coming your way later this evening that we’ll
make sure it goes out to everybody that this call was invited to.  And
we, of course, as usual, will have some time for a brief Q&A at the
end. 

But, first, let me turn it over to our first speaker, National Climate
Advisor Gina McCarthy.

ADVISOR MCCARTHY:  Well, thanks Vedant.  And thanks, everybody, for
joining in the call.  I am here in Glasgow ahead of President Biden’s
participation in the World Leader Summit.  And I’m excited to be here.

I’m the first-ever U.S. National Climate Advisor, and that position was
created because the American people resoundingly know that we need to
meet the demands of this moment with action and jobs and justice.  We
have to take action on climate. 

You know, one year ago, in November 2020, President Biden was elected
with more votes than anyone in U.S. history.  And he ran on a platform
of taking bold climate action and growing a clean energy economy and
advancing environmental justice. 

And he came into office knowing that he has a mandate, as the U.S.
President, and a responsibility as well, as a world leader, to tackle
this climate crisis head on. 

And on day one, President Biden rejoined the Paris Agreement and he
restored U.S. leadership on tackling the climate crisis both at home and
abroad. 

And now, here in Glasgow, he’s renewing the United States’ commitment to
take swift and decisive action, including through his Build Back Better
framework. 

It’s the largest investment to combat the climate crisis in American
history.  And it’s going to let us reduce emissions well over a gigaton
— that’s 1 billion metric tons — in 2030. 

As the President said: It’s a darn big deal.  And I agree with him, only
I would say: It’s a damn big deal. 

You know, witnessing this bold framework come together has been one of
the most significant and most engaging moments in my lifetime. 

And together with the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal, this framework is
going to put us on a decisive path to achieve our climate goals of
reducing emissions 50 to 52 percent by 2030 and achieving a net-zero
economy by 2050. 

This is a message you’re going to see from the President over the next
two days and from dozens of Cabinet officials who will be in Glasgow
over the next two weeks.

The United States is back at the table.  We’re back, hoping to rally the
world to tackle the climate crisis.  And we’re going to bring back jobs
and economic prosperity to our workers and our families in the United
States. 

In addition to the historic legislation moving forward, President Biden
will be coming to Glasgow with a strong footing because of his
unprecedented efforts to mobilize the entire federal government in
tackling the climate crisis through our first-ever National Climate Task
Force.  We have and will continue to use every agency and every tool at
our disposal to marshal a climate response that isn’t about sacrifice;
it’s about opportunity and possibility — to create millions of
good-paying union jobs, give our kids clean air and clean drinking
water, tackle racial injustice and economic inequality, and lead the
world on new industries and innovations. 

You know, since President Biden took office, we have already made
tremendous progress across every sector of our economy: advancing wind
and solar projects at a rapid pace; rallying automakers and autoworkers
around electric vehicles; reducing super pollutants like HFCs and
methane; providing communities with healthier living and working
conditions; and accelerating innovation and new technologies, as well as
climate-smart agriculture and forestry practices so we take advantage of
natural solutions to help with adaptation and resilience. 

And across all these efforts, we’re advancing environmental justice for
the communities that have been most burdened by pollution and by racial
and economic inequalities. 

But in addition to the accomplishments, the President is going into COP
and he’s going to have some new announcements.

Starting tomorrow, the United States is going to release its long-term
strategy report which details all of the pathways we have available to
us already to achieve net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. 

It illustrates how, within three decades, the U.S. can meet our global
climate commitments by decarbonizing the power sector, electrifying
transportation and buildings, transforming industry, reducing non-CO2
emissions, and reinvigorating our natural lands.

It shows how our 2030 goal is going to lay that foundation for us to
reach net zero. 

It also fulfills a commitment made with China back in April that both of
our countries would develop long-term strategies by COP26 to outline our
steps we have to achieve net-zero emissions. 

So, this is just one example of how we’re going to be maintaining our
commitments.  And I know that my good friend and Secretary, John Kerry,
will preview some more of what’s to come.  But I just want to close by
saying that — I know you’ve heard this before, but you’ll hear it again:
When President Biden thinks about climate, he thinks about jobs, and
vice versa. 

Our investments and policies will supercharge our economy, they’ll
strengthen the fabric of our society, and improve quality of life. 
That’s what President Biden sees so clearly about how we can fulfill our
global climate commitments and protect future generations so that we can
really deliver benefits at home, starting right now.

So, we’re continuing to make good on that promise.  And right now, I’ll
turn it over to Secretary Kerry.

SECRETARY KERRY:  Gina, thank you so much.  And thanks for all your
incredible work.  From my perspective, you’ve helped put us in a good,
strong position, which we needed to be post the withdrawal from the
agreement and our return to it.

And a 50 to 52 percent reduction over the next 10 years helps the United
States to be in compliance with the needs of keeping the Earth’s
temperature increased to 1.5 degrees.

So, let me just say to everybody: I’m delighted to be with you here. 
I’m in Rome with President Biden and flying in tomorrow in the morning. 
And the President, as you know, will be there both Monday and Tuesday. 
And it is filled with a lot of different events that are taking place. 

We’re going to have a very strong presentation overall by the United
States in Glasgow, including more than about 10 Cabinet Secretaries and
agency heads. 

Obviously, Gina is already there.  More than 50 members of Congress will
be coming at one point or another on various codels.  And other key
administration senior officials are all part of the U.S. delegation.
 So, we will be in many high-level events throughout the two weeks. 

I’d say it’s safe to say we have, really, four principal goals.  We have
a number of goals, but four principal goals.  And the number one is to
leave Glasgow having raised global ambition very significantly and to be
more on track to keep a 1.5 degrees within reach — the limit on warming
within the possibilities of reach. 

And I think we have done that, frankly.  We have — about 65 percent of
global GDP is now committed to keep the 1.5 degrees.  And when I came
into the job in January, and we began our outreach to countries, there
were only two or three entities — very few — who were on a track to try
to hold 1.5 degrees. Now we have half of — more than half of the G20 and
countries around the world that have come to the table in increasing
their ambition. 

And I think it’s important to note that through our global diplomacy — I
just came back from Saudi Arabia, an oil- and gas-producing giant, where
they announced a major change: agreeing to work towards net-zero
emissions in 2060.  And by 2030, half their power is going to come from
renewable energy. They agreed to work on a clean hydrogen initiative
with the United States and to significantly expand the ability to
perhaps supply Europe and Africa and so forth.

Indonesia, likewise, is making strides on reducing the rate of
deforestation.  And now they’ve announced a new commitment, which is
peaking emissions by 2030, getting net zero in 2060. We’re going to work
with them in that, in a very close alliance, which is an important part
of what we’ve been putting together.

In fact, each of the countries I’m listing — South Africa, similarly,
they’re on a plan now to try to achieve the 1.5.  If they do the things
they say they’re going to do, they will. 

In addition, Russia, another oil and gas giant, has made major new
announcements — much more engaged in this considering what they’re going
to do on methane, whether they join the pledge or not.  But they’ve set
a net-zero emissions target plan moving forward on a number of actions.

Mexico, which people thought was not possible to get, has now joined
up.  I spent a day in Mexico with them.  They’re doing — they’re going
to now submit a recalibrated, more ambitious NDC in the beginning of
next year.  And they’ve committed to deploy all major renewables —
geothermal, hydro, and wind and solar — which they weren’t even willing
to talk about literally even a few months ago.

India, which is the third-largest emitter in the world, has set forth an
ambition of 450 gigawatts of renewable over the next 10 years.  We have
formed a partnership with them, and we’ll be working closely with them
to get that deployment underway.

And all in all, the 65 percent of global GDP is a very important
benchmark because, as I said, more than half of them are G20 countries. 
And we have Canada; you know, South Korea; Japan; South Africa; and the
U.S., obviously; Canada; UK; EU — EU countries individually, like
France, Germany, Britain, Italy. 

So, we feel really strong about that.  Obviously, if you have 65 percent
in, you got 35 percent out, and that’s the challenge coming out of
Glasgow — is can those countries step up?  How fast will they step up? 
What will they pledge to do over the course of the next years?

That’s the second major goal out of COP for us, is to get countries
committing to this critical decade.  We think this is the decisive
decade, decade of decision, decade of action, and it is critical that
countries lay out long-term plans and we fight to keep the 1.5 degrees. 
The science tells us that with the track that we now have in the NDCs
and (inaudible), if people meet them, that we lower the rise of
temperature to a level where we’re at about 2.1 or so degrees, at least
in modelling.  And that’s a huge leap forward. 

The third critical goal is finance — finance and adaptation.  And we
need to — we will be upping the adaptation efforts in Glasgow and
obviously taking on the issue of loss.  And by “taking on,” we will be
acknowledging the need to deal with, appropriately, loss and damage. 

And the finance has been greatly enhanced.  We will have the most
significant galvanizing of the private sector that has ever taken place.
 And we will have new commitments made by private sector entities that
will be announced over the course of the week.

We built on the commitments of the six-largest American banks, which
have committed to invest, over the course of the next 10 years, to
accelerate this transition a minimum of $4.16 trillion.  And there are
asset managers outside of that grouping of our six major banks who have
committed additional trillions.  And that is in addition to the global
efforts that have produced a bankers — banking alliance for Glasgow, a
net — an asset-managers alliance and an asset-owners alliance.  And
you’ll be hearing from many of those people who will be in Glasgow who
will be announcing what their commitments are going forward.

Now the issue is actually deploying those trillions of dollars, because
they need to be for bankable, you know, investable deals.  And we are
now also galvanizing with the World Ba- — with the multi-development
banks, as well as the private sector.  And there will be announcements
from philanthropy and private sectors that demonstrate the way in which
concessional funding — first risk, blended financing — will become
available so that we can actually leverage the creation of these new
initiatives.

And then the final piece I’ll just go into now is to complete the Paris
Rulebook.  We’ve been negotiating on that for some period of time now. 
And we’re all pretty determined to try to get that done.  I think that
will be a measurement, also, of success.

There’ll be some key initiatives announced that are going to back up
what I just said.  I think you have some of them which had been
embargoed, but you’re aware of the President’s emergency plan for
adaptation and resilience and net-zero world, which leverages U.S.
technical expertise, helping major emerging economies to be able to
really get on a decarbonization pathway.

Many of these countries want to be good citizens and get the job done. 
They just can’t afford to close a plant today, and they don’t know what
they’re going to replace it with.  That’s our job.  We’re going to come
— many developed countries — to the table in a concerted and organized
way to help them do that.

We’ve created something called the First Movers Coalition and Clean
Energy Demand Initiative, which enlists major companies — big companies
— United Airlines, DHL, Amazon, others — who have joined up in order to
declare that they’re going to purchase, whether it’s electric vehicles
in X amount or sustainable aviation fuel in X amount, or whether they’re
going to do cement, or — you know, various key sectors of our industry
are prepared to step up and declare so that they’re creating markets and
accelerating the creation of those markets.

So, I think, you know, just — there are a number of other things: the
net-zero world I mentioned, the plan to conserve global forests.  And we
will be finalizing the Rulebook — the transparency framework — creating
a common system for parties to report their emissions and
implementation, and finalizing the accounting rules for parties’ use of
market mechanisms to ensure that parties are not double counting or, you
know, that there are — you know, we’re making sure they’re really moving
towards the reduction of (inaudible) NDC target.

So, that’s a quick synopsis. 

I think — I would say in response to some comments I’ve heard: We had a
major breakthrough today here in Rome because we now have consent from
all the parties, I believe — at least when I left the center to come
over here to do this.  There is agreement that external coal will no
longer be funded by anybody after this year.  That’s a big step. 
Everybody knew that China had followed on.  We’ve been working with
China for months to urge that step.  And now countries that everybody
said will not join have joined.  And I think G20 can be very pleased
that it came out exactly where the G7 did.  And that’s a big step
forward.

So, why don’t I stop there and we’ll take questions.

MR. PATEL:  Thanks so much, Mr. Secretary.  Why don’t we — as I said,
we’ll move over to Q&A and use the “raise hand” function on Zoom if
you’ve got a question.  And we’ll try to get through a few of them.

Why don’t we first go to Scott Detrow with NPR.

Q    Hello from the press bus outside the G20.  I’m hoping you could say
a little more about the joint statement today.  You said that it was a
step forward, but I think the early read from a lot of experts is the
opposite.  This is really just restating what had been committed to
already — that it did not quite raise the bar in the way that you’re
saying the goal for COP is.  What’s your read on this?  And how much do
you think this influences what happens over the coming weeks?

And, Administrator McCarthy, I’m also very curious what you’re — what
you’re thinking about the Supreme Court challenge to the EPA regulating
carbon.  I mean, given how much the administration is banking on
aggressive administrative action, how big a blow would that be if the
Court does take this up — we all know how conservative it is now — and
scales back the EPA’s ability to regulate greenhouse gas emissions? 

Thank you.

SECRETARY KERRY:  Well, great.  Let me just quickly say to you: I don’t
know why you read that this is more of the same.  We’ve never had all
these countries adopting 1.5 degrees.  And this document says keeping
1.5 degrees within reach will require meaningful, effective commitments
and so forth.  And everybody is buying into the notion we’re now working
towards the 1.5. 

It has, as I said, the unabated coal commitment.  It has national
recovery and resilience plans requirements.  It has a global goal on
adaptation and a commitment to scale up the adaptation finance.

You know, these general — these general statements and communiqués are —
frankly, they’re important, because everybody is on board. 

And I think — you know, I talked to Prime Minister Trudeau and Prime
Minister Modi and others, and they feel this is a step forward.  And
people felt like there was, you know, strong commitments on certain
things.  They said they will strive to significantly reduce our
collective greenhouse gas, including methane emissions.  That’s never —
people just haven’t been focused on methane. 

So, I think this tracks a lot of the ambition that we’re going to
express and want to express in Glasgow.  And I think the fact that
there’s a unified effort containing all of those things augurs well.

I mean, I’m on the inside of this, and nobody — I think, you know, very
sensitive to whether we, you know, we had a setback or whether we’re
moving forward.  And I think you know I’ve been pretty honest about
where I think we are: We have a long way to go in terms of getting the
job done because we still have 35 percent that have got to step up
further. 

But we’re stepping forward in ways that are going to make it extremely
difficult for people not to raise their ambition, each — you know, on an
ongoing basis here. 

Glasgow is the beginning of this decade race, if you will.  This is, you
know, the first time we’ve gathered since Paris, with the goal of really
revamping ambition in a broad way.  And that’s going to happen. 
Ambition is going to be — in a broad way, it’s going to be revamped.

And when you get major industrial nations — the largest economies of the
world — more than half of them saying, “We’re on board to hit 1.5
degrees,” that is a giant step forward. 

And it leaves me with optimism that we can still close the gap with some
of these other countries.  So, we’re working on that. 

You know, we talked to Russia today.  We’ve talked to other countries. 
We have ongoing discussions.  We have two weeks to be working on this. 
And the process will go on.

ADVISOR MCCARTHY:  Let me just add — the second part, Scott, of your
question is that I think that we all know that power plant emissions of
both toxics and carbon pollution is damaging to our families and
communities.  And it threatens our businesses and it threatens our
workers.  And the courts have repeatedly upheld the EPA’s authority to
regulate dangerous power plant pollution. 

And so, I do know that the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
did strike down the ACE rule.  So, we’ll see what the Supreme Court
might have in mind.  But we’re confident that the Supreme Court will
confirm what those have before them, which is EPA has not just the right
but the authority and responsibility to keep our families and
communities safe from pollution. 

Thanks.

MR. PATEL:  Thanks so much.  Next, why don’t we go to Lisa Friedman with
the New York Times.

Q    Hi guys.  Thank you very much for doing this today.

Two questions as well.  You know, I understand what you’re saying about
the G20 and the 1.5 degrees, Secretary Kerry, but the language on
domestic coal out of the G20 is pretty weak — looks weaker than what
I’ve seen in previous drafts.  Can you explain what happened there?

And secondly, for either of you, you know, President Biden has asked
major G20 energy-producing countries to boost production and is, you
know, pressuring OPEC and partners to increase oil supply.  How do you
square that with what the IEA says — that countries have to pivot away
from fossil fuels now — and what you’re about to ask countries to do
here in Glasgow this week?

SECRETARY KERRY:  Lisa, can I — give me the last part of that question. 
I got the first part on the coal, but what was the other?

Q    Sure.  Pardon me.  Just asking you how the administration squares
asking countries to boost energy production with the need to ask
countries and companies to phase out of fossil fuels.

SECRETARY KERRY:  Because it’s not inconsistent.  It’s just not
inconsistent, I got to tell you.  If it were — if he were asking them to
boost their production over five years, I’d quit.  But he’s not.  He’s
asking them to boost production in this immediate moment. 

But we’re all trying to facilitate the transition.  And as the
transition cuts in, there won’t be that need as you deploy the solar
panels, as you deploy the transmission lines, as you build out the
grid. 

I mean, he’s been fighting for a year — not in Europe, quite — but he’s
been fighting all year to get the legislation necessary to be able to
move more rapidly, and that liberates us.  That’s what frees us from
this current paradigm. 

But you can’t just shut down everybody’s economy across the planet and
say, “Okay, we’re not going to use (inaudible)” or whatever.  And it
happens that you have a short-term demand because COVID created it.  You
didn’t have the filling of storage tanks, among other things.  You’ve
had extreme weather.  You had weather, you know, problems that lasted a
lot longer in Europe.  In the spring, it was colder, so they had heating
that was used for longer. 

So there are real reasons why that demand has spiked up, including
getting out of COVID and the economies beginning to resuscitate and the
demand goes up. 

So, yeah, you got to keep it going momentarily, but that’s what’s going
to help pay for the transition.  That’s what’s going to help effect this
transition. 

We are committed, in the United States, to be, you know, carbon-free
from power — the power sector — by 2035.  That’s not going to happen in
2025.  But if we do the things correctly that we’re planning to do, and
Gina and her team will be implementing, we’re going to get there.  I
don’t have any question about that.  And the utilities are on board and
so forth, and so are labor and others. 

So, I just don’t think it’s inconsistent to say you’re going to have a
temporary capacity to boost your — you know, keep the economy moving so
that you have the revenues and the capacity, and people buy into the
notion of what you have to achieve. 

And if life is so miserable that you don’t, and the prices go up and
other things happen, you’re going to lose — I think it becomes more
challenging to get the job done.

So, I see no inconsistency in that.  And whether — I mean, again, if it
were a long-term thing, that would be bothersome, but it’s not. 

And then the other question on the — did you ask about the coal?

MR. PATEL:  Yes, sir.  It was a question on — yeah.

SECRETARY KERRY:  Yeah, I’m trying to pull up the final language here so
that I have it in front of me.  I want to get the latest. 

Here it is: “We acknowledge the close link between climate and energy
and commit to reduce emissions intensity…in the energy sector to meet
the timeframes that align with” Paris. 

And here it says: “This will also enable those countries to commit to
phasing out investment in new unabated coal power…to do so as soon as
possible.  We commit to mobilize international and public-private
finance to support…and we will put an end to the provision of
international public finance for new unabated coal power…by the end of
2021.”

I don’t know what’s weak about ending unabated coal power generation and
finance by the end of ‘21.  Those folks were not supporting that a
little while ago.  And right — you know — I think, you know, Bloomberg
ran a thing saying, “G20 leaders have a chance to usher in the end of
coal.”  And that’s exactly what they’ve done.  Two hundred and thirty
million tons of emissions a year will be prevented as a result of that
step.

MR. PATEL:  Thanks so much.

Next, let’s go to Jen Dlouhy from Bloomberg.

Q    I wanted to follow up, Secretary Kerry, on your comment that, at
this summit, you “will be acknowledging the need to deal with,
appropriately, loss and damage.”  For a longtime the U.S. has been
viewed as standing in the way of a real meaningful commitment to loss
and damage.  What does that mean?  And what will that translate to in
Glasgow?

SECRETARY KERRY:  Well, the first thing it’ll translate to is standing
up the Santiago Network in a real way so that there’s no longer just
this idea hanging out there and this sort of unfulfilled commitment. 

And, you know, I think, obviously, the United States remains concerned
about not opening up some legali- — legal track with respect to
liability, and we don’t intend to do that.

So, whatever we do will have to be within the framework.  But we also
know that there’s real loss and damage out there, that there are
nation-states that are talking about where their people are going to
move because the sea level is rising.  There are areas where people can
no longer live.  And there are migrants moving around the planet as a
consequence of the destruction of habitat.  So, you can’t ignore that. 

And I don’t think you can galvanize the kind of global action that you
need to be able to accomplish our goals if we’re not being sensitive and
thoughtful about people up and down the economic food chain and people
who have done nothing, in most cases, to contribute to the problem. 

Eighty percent of the emissions come from 20 economies.  And that’s the
meaning of the meeting here today.

So, I think it is important, finally — and I know President Biden feels
very strongly that it’s important — you know, for the United States to
be thoughtful and sensitive to the reality at the same time as we’re not
creating some — you know, some unfulfillable obligation that people just
aren’t able to manage.

MR. PATEL:  Thanks.  So, I think we’ve got time for one last question. 
So, for the last question, why don’t we go to Zeke Miller with the
Associated Press.

Q    Thank you for doing this.  Just to the logistics of the next 48
hours or so, I’m hoping you might be able to preview what the
President’s direct engagements and involvement would be with world
leaders and other stakeholders over the — while he’s in Scotland.  Who
will he meet with?  What we will he do?  What will he say?  When will he
do those things?  There’s really not been any details offered, so I was
hoping you might be able to provide some clarity.  And how are you
looking to use the President at a summit like this to further U.S. aims?

ADVISOR MCCARTHY:  I’m sorry.  I thought Secretary Kerry would jump in
there, but let me pick up. 

You know, I — he is going to be giving a speech in front of all of the
parties, and he’s going to outline the commitment of the U.S. and our
strategies moving forward.  He is going to have discussions with the
principals to talk about ways in which we can move forward together.

Secretary Kerry, if you’re still there, you may want to embellish a
little bit on that.

MR. PATEL:  I see him on.  Let me see if we can get him to unmute.  One
moment.

SECRETARY KERRY:  Finally got the unmute, guys.  We dropped completely,
and I apologize.  So I haven’t heard a word that anybody said for the
last three minutes, and I apologize for that.  What —

MR. PATEL:  Zeke, do you want to ask your question again so the
Secretary can hear it?  And then we can wrap right after that.

SECRETARY KERRY:  Do you have any of the schedule or —

AIDE:  No.

SECRETARY KERRY:  Hello?  Can you hear me?

MR. PATEL:  We can hear you, sir.  We’re just trying to unmute the
reporter real quick so he can ask his question one more time.  One
moment.

SECRETARY KERRY:  Yeah.  Don’t you guys — don’t you have the President’s
schedule there?  Because I don’t have his schedule in front of me.

I mean, I know some of the things he’s doing but I don’t have —

Hello?

Q    Thank you, Secretary Kerry.  No, we have not received any details
on the President’s schedules or engagements or who he’ll be meeting with
or (inaudible).

SECRETARY KERRY:  Well, why don’t we — why don’t we get whoever it is on
the phone.  We’ll get them on the phone with you.

MR. PATEL:  Okay, well, we can follow up with the President’s schedule
when it’s — when it’s advised appropriately. 

With that, thanks, everyone, for joining today.  As we said at the
beginning, this call is on the record, but is embargoed until 5:00 a.m.
GMT and 1:00 a.m. Eastern time.

Thank you again, and looking forward to talking to you all soon.

SECRETARY KERRY:  Thanks, everybody.  Sorry about the glitch at the end
there.

6:24 P.M. CET
