---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-11-23'
modified_time: 2021-11-23 20:30:48-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/11/23/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-and-secretary-of-energy-jennifer-granholm-november-23-2021/
published_time: 2021-11-23 20:45:00-05:00
title: Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen Psaki and Secretary of Energy Jennifer
  Granholm, November 23, 2021
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

3:12 P.M. EST

MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.

Q    Whoa.

MS. PSAKI:  Oh, sorry.  
  
Q    What, you got a holiday to go to?  (Laughter.)

MS. PSAKI:  Whoa.  We’re a little earl- — we’re just excited to see you
guys.  Okay, I realize we’re a little early. 

So, good afternoon, everyone.  Take your time.  If people want to
shuffle into their seats. 

I know this briefing is a bit later than normal, but we wanted to make
sure we had a special guest who could join us.  And Energy Secretary
Jennifer Granholm is here for, I believe, her third visit to the
Briefing Room with us.

SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  (Holds up two fingers.)

MS. PSAKI:  Second?  Okay.

Today, she’s here to speak about the President’s actions to make 50
million barrels of oil available from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to
lower prices for the American people.

We’ll turn it over to her.  She has a bit of a time hardout, so we’ll —
she’ll take some questions and then we’ll send her on her way, and we’ll
continue to do a briefing after that.

With that, I will turn it over.

SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  Thanks so much.  Hello, everybody.  Happy
Thanksgiving to all. 

So, let me just start by saying I was — I felt so honored to have joined
the President’s Cabinet because I know his deep desire to make sure that
we are doing everything in our power to reduce burdens for real people
and to give opportunity to American families. 

And top of mind, of course, as you have heard today, is making sure that
every American has access to affordable energy, both at home and at the
pump. 

And while our Energy Information Agency — and that’s underneath the DOE
— it predicts that we are going to turn the corner in 2022, the fact is,
right now, that energy prices at the pump and at home are too high.

This administration realizes that people are seeing this every single
day as they go to work, as they fill their cars with gas.  And we also
recognize who’s hurt the most from this. 

Low-income families already spend up to 30 percent of their monthly
income on fuel, on energy.  And so, any price increase — for them, in
particular — causes an undue strain, but it causes a strain on everyone,
obviously.

So, to be really clear: Obviously, the President does not control the
price of gasoline — no President does.  But what we’re seeing right now
is this global mismatch between supply and demand.  Oil production
is lagging behind as the rest of the economy roars back to life after
the shutdown. 

So, we, in this administration, are leaving no stone unturned as we
examine the market to figure out what’s behind the high prices.  

And, you know, that’s one of the reasons why the President sent a
letter to the FTC last week to ask them to investigate why there is such
a huge price difference between the price of unfinished gasoline and
then the average price at the pump.  And he explained that a little bit
in his remarks earlier. 

But, if historical averages were true today, people would be paying
about 30 cents less per gallon at the pump, based upon the differential
between unfinished gas and gasoline at the pump.  So, he’s asked for the
FTC to take a look at this.

But this administration has been looking at every single tool that we
can use to shield families from the rising cost of fuel.  And, you know,
that’s why the LIHEAP funds were — is a very important tool for Low
Income Home Energy Assistance.  The American Rescue Plan has additional
funds to be able to have — help families pay their utility bills this
winter.

And, of course, the President, today, as Jen just said, has announced
that he’s directing the Department of Energy to make up to 50 million
barrels of oil from the nation’s Strategic Petroleum Reserve — or “SPR”
— available.

We’ve been having these conversations with other major economies, as
you’ve heard.  And since that has been happening over the past few
weeks, we have seen oil prices fall nearly 10 percent, which is, again,
I think, a testament to the President’s leadership on looking for every
tool possible to bring down the price.

Of course, oil is traded on a global market, and the more countries that
can join us, the more the impact will be.

In response to the President’s announcement, clearly, the Department of
Energy is moving to make two slugs of oil available.  One is 32 million
barrels from the SPR, available through an exchange.  And that means
that oil that is taken out today will eventually be replenished to the
SPR with an additional premium — a premium of additional oil — when that
amount is returned at a later date. 

And that’s a tool that is very well suited to what we’re experiencing
right now, which is the high cost of gasoline, and knowing that, over
the horizon, the projections are that the oil prices — and, therefore,
hopefully, the gas prices — fall.  So, bridging that time is what the
SPR is being used for.

And then that also means that we will be accelerating 18 million
barrels of oil from the congressionally — from congressionally
mandated sales that we are moving forward — 18 million barrels for
that. 

So, we’re taking these steps, obviously, because we have to meet the
immediate need of affordable energy and protect families
from further pain at the pump.  Oil prices have not been this high in
seven years. 

And to be clear, the President is prepared to use every appropriate tool
to ensure that Americans have access to affordable energy today.

Some — you know, because low-income families and middle-class families
and working-class people are suffering the most, he wants to make sure
that he has got a robust array of tools and he is prepared to evaluate
them and use them.

But as we look ahead, the situation shows that we’ve got to stop relying
on one source of energy, especially from volatile sources.  So, we have
a short-term issue and we have a long-term issue.  Relying upon volatile
sources or relying upon fuel from countries that may not have our best
interests at heart hurts the American in the long and in the short run. 

So it’s why we we’re working faster than ever to diversify our energy,
to add more clean energy.  It’s why the President’s vision of building
out clean energy sources like solar and wind and hydropower and
geothermal and advanced nuclear — that is the answer.  That is the best
strategy, long term, to protect American consumers from these
energy price shocks. 

The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law that was just signed is going to
expand our infrastructure, related to clean energy — the electric grids
— so we can integrate more clean sources.  It’s also going to — that
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, as you know, is going to help build a
nationwide electric vehicle charging network.  It’s going to help
us build those electric vehicles right here at home with $7 billion for
the battery supply chain.

I was just in Chattanooga yesterday at a virtual — not a virtual — a
ribbon cutting for a factory that is producing a component of batteries
for the electric vehicle, creating 300 jobs in Chattanooga.  That’s just
one tiny example of the whole ecosystem as a supply chain that will be
created as a result of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and then, of
course, the Build Back Better Agenda. 

Just one other thing: The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law also invests $21
billion in demonstration projects for technologies, like clean hydrogen
and advanced nuclear, that will put people to work in every pocket of
the country.

And then, of course, what’s really going to help us escape this — these
energy price shocks in the long haul is the second part of the
President’s agenda, which is the Build Back Better Agenda and — because
the clean energy tax credits in that agenda will help Americans save an
estimated $9 billion per year in energy costs.  It will make electric
vehicles and other clean technologies accessible to every American.  And
historic investments in manufacturing and supply chains as well will put
Americans to work making the technologies — not just batteries, but wind
and solar and vehicles — the whole array of clean energy solutions.

So, economists say that these bills, together, will ease inflationary
pressures and grow the economy and create 1.5 million jobs every single
year.

So, we’re laser-focused on ensuring all of these benefits are realized
as we aim to achieve the biggest thing that America has ever done to
address the climate crisis. 

Our administration is deeply committed to tackling this existential
threat by transitioning to clean energy while, at the same time, making
sure that every American has access to affordable energy. 

So, thank you so much.  I’m happy to take your questions.

MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  Let me just say I think it would be helpful if you
guys go sit in some of the seats that are open, if you don’t mind, since
there are some open seats.  That’d be great. 

Okay.  Josh, why don’t you kick us off. 

Q    Secretary Granholm, thanks so much for doing this.  EIA says,
domestically, we’re producing about 11 million barrels of oil a day on
average.  That’s down from 12 million in 2019, pre-pandemic.  Why hasn’t
domestic production returned in a way that would lower prices?

SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  Yeah, this is a great question — a really great
question.  We have 250 fewer oil rigs that are functioning today than we
did before the pandemic.  And yet, the oil and gas industry has leases
on 23 million acres of public lands on and offshore, over 9,500 permits
have been issued that are not being used. 

At the same time, the energy industry is making enormous profits. 
They’re back up to above where they were before the pandemic started. 
So, they have taken advantage of that moment — the profits — to be able
to engage in shareholder buybacks, for example. 

But we want to encourage them to increase supply.  We want supply to be
increased both inside the United States and around the world so that we
can reduce the pressures at the pump.

Q    So, just to check: You’re saying that U.S. companies have not
necessarily returned production —

SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  Have not — have not returned to production.  They
have not.  In fact, there are 150,000 fewer workers in oil and gas
today.  The fi- — it was over 200,000 people who were working in the
industry before the pandemic.  They have not rehired people.  They have
not turned on the rigs.  They have not taken advantage of the permits
that they have on the land that they have.

MS. PSAKI:  April.

Q    Yes.  Madam Secretary, as you talk about supply and demand and as
that was part of the issue for this spike in gasoline prices and energy
prices, COVID is here.  COVID is part of the bargain.  And you just kind
of talked about that pre-pandemic versus what is happening pandemic. 
COVID is expected to stay.  How do you marry the distance between what’s
happening now with U.S. production -– COVID — and trying not to — to try
to keep prices down as prices are going up?

SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  Yeah, April, that’s a great question.  This is why
what today’s action was so important.  We recognize, obviously, that
there will continue to be spikes.  However, this administration has been
very aggressive, obviously, about getting people vaccinated, and that’s
the ultimate answer.

But as we know and as the Energy Information Agency has projected, the
price of gasoline will come down what they project to be below $3 a
gallon in 2022 — early 2022 — and continue to ratchet down bit by bit.

What we want to do with today’s action is to bridge the gap between the
high prices today — try to reduce it as much as we can within our power
by increasing the supply that we have access to as we move through — and
the market then corrects itself and hopefully increases supply from the
private sector.

Q    And a follow-up.  You said your effort is primarily targeting
working and low-income families.  What do you say to those families who
are feeling the pinch right now at the pump?  The prices are very high.

SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  Yeah, no doubt.  This is why the President has been
really thoughtful about this. 

I mean, this is — you know, we’ve looked at every angle of what the
tools are to him.  He feels so strongly that all Americans are feeling
the pinch as a result of gasoline at the pumps.  And short term, we have
to do everything in our power, and that’s why we have the Strategic
Petroleum Reserve. 

But he also feels very strongly that, long term, the strategy really is
to go clean.  I mean, right now, the price, for example, of solar and
wind is cheaper tha- — in most places in the country — because it’s free
fuel — than more traditional sources of energy.

So, he wants to bridge that time and double down on investing in clean
while creating jobs, but do what we can within our power to lower the
cost today.

MS. PSAKI:  Ed.

Q    Thank you, Madam Secretary, for doing this.  There are various
figures about this, so I’m curious if you know: How many barrels of oil
does the U.S. consume per day?

SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  I don’t have that number in front of me.  Sorry.

Q    So some suggest it’s about 18 million, which would suggest you’re
releasing less than three days’ worth of supply from the Petroleum
Reserve.  Why is that enough?

SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  Well, we — what we are doing plus what other
countries may be doing — which will be less than what we’re doing
because we have the largest amount of strategic petroleum reserves — we
believe will be this bridge.

I mean, the Energy Information Agency has said, for example, that, in
December, the am- — this is what they have projected.  Now, again, it’s
probably more of an art than a science.  Projecting is subject to a lot
of different volatility.  But that, in December, the price will be $3.19
a gallon, and then, in January, continue to go down.

So, this is really a question about a short-term strategy that allows us
to make this bridge.  So, it’s not — we’re going to not supply all of
the oil for three days, obviously.  We want to — we will be releasing it
over a period of time.  And we will have a certain amount that each
particular cavern is releasing.  But we’re not saying that we’re going
to be supplying all oil for the country.  We’re just going to try to do
what we can to temper.

Q    And it’s coming over several weeks then, you said?

SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  Mm-hmm.  It will be.  It’s — well, first of all, we
are not going to release it all at once.  It will be thoughtfully done
over the next bit of time.  And it will be dependent on those who bid. 
So, that takes a little bit of time to do.

Q    But listening to you just now –-

SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  Yes. 

Q    — it sounds like you’re saying the price is going to hit a certain
amount in December and then, down into January, it will hit a lower mark
—

SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  Yeah, it will be over a few weeks.  It will be over
—

Q    So, we’re looking at increased prices continuing through the
Christmas season.

SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  Well, we’re hopeful that this will — because it’s
increasing supply and it’s the largest effort ever, we are hopeful that
there will be a lid.  Although some of this, honestly, has — there has
been movement on oil.  The price of per barrel has dropped about 10
percent since this conversation started and was out there.

So, we’re hopeful that prices will be stabilized and start to move
down.  We are not saying that there is going to be some dramatic
difference.  But we also are recognizing — and everybody needs to, I
think, be a partner in letting people know that last year was an anomaly
because demand during COVID for gasoline was so low that the prices that
the prices were so low. 

And when demand is high, the price goes up.  And demand now has exceeded
supply, and we are doing our part to make sure that we can alleviate as
much of that pain as possible.

MS. PSAKI:  Rachel.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  Thank you, Madam Secretary.  So, bottom line: How
soon will Americans see prices at the pump drop?  And how long do you
expect that to last? 

SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  Yeah, I’m –- I — I’m not going to make a prediction
about how much and how long.  I’m — what I’m saying is that these — this
is the largest amount that we’ve ever done.  And it won’t happen
tomorrow, but it will happen over the next few weeks that people,
hopefully, will start to see the difference.

Q    Before the end of the year?  Before the Christmas holiday?

SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  I think that people will start to see some ticked
down over the next bit. 

But again, we want to make sure that the gas prices at the pump are not
being held artificially high for some reason. 

So, as I mentioned, it is unusual that the price of gas at the pump
doesn’t drop with the same — at the same rate as the price of unfinished
gas.  And they — people would be paying 30 cents less per gallon if that
had done it.  So, this is why the President sending the letter to the
FTC was important.

Q    Some experts have called it a short-term fix, simply putting a
“Band-Aid” on top of a longer-term issue.  So, should Americans be
bracing for prices to go down just for maybe a couple of days or a
couple weeks and then go right back up again?

SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  Yeah, again, it’s hard to predict what gasoline is
going to do because it is a global market. But we are doing what we can
right now because this is a bridge to a longer-term issue.  It’s a
short-term pinch.  We want to make sure we do what we can to sort of
even out the market while these prices come down. 

And in the long term, of course, the long-term solution is to build
clean.  And that’s what we’re doing.

MS. PSAKI:  Let’s try to do like one so that we can get to more people.

Alex, go ahead.

Q    Okay.  I’ll just link them together.  Is this –- would you say this
is like a one-off, or will this become policy for the U.S. to rebalance
the market in this way whenever OPEC starts to keep supply tight?

SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  Yeah, I mean, this is an unusual situation because
we’re coming out of a once-in-a-century pandemic.  And so, we have a
very unusual mismatch between supply and demand. 

I do know that the President has got a lot of tools that he is looking
at, and those tools remain on the table.  But this is an unusual
situation.

Q    And one thing he mentioned — I’m sorry — in his speech was that
“China may do more as well.”  And I wondered if you could illuminate a
little bit what he might be referring to.

SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  Yeah, I mean, China will make its own
announcement.  But I think the point is that the President has been
doing everything he can to affect the global market, as well by reaching
out to allies who have — I mean, not everybody has a strategic petroleum
reserve, and nobody’s is as large as the United States’.  So –-

MS. PSAKI:  Scott.

Q    You addressed this in your comments, but I wanted to directly ask
about it.  Are you concerned at all that the short-term message here for
the short-term problem of “please drill more oil” undermines the
administration with its long-term goal, which everyone talks about as a
key goal, of completely transitioning the country toward clean energy? 

SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  No.

Q    I mean, it’s two very different messages.

SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  It is — well, I mean, the message is that — we are
in a transition, and the transition does not happen overnight.  And we
recognize we’re not going to flip a switch and be completely all clean
because we haven’t done the investment necessary.  The President just
signed the bill.

So, this is a short-term strategy to be — make sure that people are not
hurting.  And the long-term strategy to make sure that the country
doesn’t hurt into the future is to build clean.

MS. PSAKI:  Monica, last one.

Q    You just mentioned, Secretary — Madam Secretary, that the
administration is still considering some other tools at its disposal. 
We saw the main one today.  What are the other ones actively being
considered and under what timeline?

SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  Yeah, I’ll just say this: That the President has
got a few options, and he will be the one to announce. 

MS. PSAKI:  All right.

SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  Okay.

MS. PSAKI:  Thank you —

SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  Thanks.  All right.

MS. PSAKI:  — Secretary Granholm –-

SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  Thank you.

MS. PSAKI:  — for joining us today.

SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  Appreciate it.  And happy Thanksgiving, again, to
everybody.  (Laughter.) 

All right.  Bye-bye. 

MS. PSAKI:  Okay, a couple more items for all of you.  And then we’ll
try to get around to as many people as we can in the time we have left
together.

Yesterday, CISA and the FBI urged organizations to remain vigilant to
ransomware and other cyber threats this Thanksgiving holiday.  We’ve
seen in the past that sometimes those threats – there’s an uptick around
holidays, so we’re mindful of that.  Their — and their advisory is based
on that. 

These — the advisory lists best practices and recommendations for
organizations to implement, including multifactor authentication, strong
passwords, to identify IT employees for weekends and holidays in the
event of an incident, and more.

We urge organizations to take a look at this advisory and implement
these best practices before heading into the holidays.  And this info is
available online at StopRansomware.gov.

Today, the Department of Health and Human Services began distributing
$7.5 billion in American Rescue Plan payments to more than 40,000 rural
health providers in all 50 states who serve Medicaid, Medicare, and CHIP
beneficiaries.

Healthcare providers in rural communities have historically faced
significant financial challenges, which the pandemic has only made
worse, and these payments are a key part of the administration’s effort
and commitment to keeping rural hospital doors open.

Also wanted to note, as we gear up for Small Business Saturday this week
— go to your local small businesses on Saturday, to give a little plug:
We have good news from Etsy, which represents over 5 million small
businesses.

The Etsy CEO, Josh Silverman, said that Etsy sellers are, quote, “well
positioned to meet customer demand.”  And according to survey data, Etsy
small businesses are, quote, “less concerned about supply chain
challenges this year than they were last year.”

And Small Business for America’s Future, which represents a network of
80,000 small businesses, says their owners are prepared to handle the
increased demands of the holiday season.

In addition to these strong reports from small businesses, major
retailers like DICK’s Sporting Goods and Best Buy are also ready for
Black Friday and the holiday season.

Today, the Best Buy <s>CEO</s> \[CFO\] said, quote, “We are looking
forward to a strong holiday season and believe we are \[strongly\]
well-positioned \[for\] both what tech customers want and fast and
convenient ways to get it.”

With that, Josh.  Do you have any more questions?  (Laughter.)

Q    I have just two more quick ones. 

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.

Q    First, what’s the status of FARC?  Is it being delisted as a
terrorist group?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any update on that.  I will — I’m happy to
check with our national security team and see if there’s anything we can
get to all of you.

Q    Secondly, Apple is suing the spyware firm NSO Group. The U.S.
recently blacklisted NSO.  Does the administration have any additional
thoughts on these foreign companies operating in the U.S. that might be
snooping in on political activists, journalists, and dissidents?  How do
you protect people who use their phones and make them feel safe?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I will also talk to our national security team about
this.  I suspect we’re not going to weigh in too much, given it sounds
like it’s a case of litigation. 

But I will say, broadly speaking, obviously we’re trying to do
everything we can to help prepare and provide guidance to private-sector
companies and entities out there — many of whom are providers to
customers and provide services to customers — as we head into holiday
seasons, where we see upticks in cyber threats or ransomware attacks, to
ensure that customers can feel confident and the American people can
feel confident.

And our view is: That is a role the private sector and the public sector
can and should play together.  That’s something we’re uniquely doing in
this administration that hasn’t been done in the past. 

But I will check and see if there’s more offer on that as well.

Alex.

Q    Thank you.  Me, Alex.  Okay.

MS. PSAKI:  (Laughs.)  Or another Alex.  There’s another one over here. 
Either way.

Q    I wanted to know if the U.S. has been in contact with Saudi Arabia
or Russia about this move, and what has happened as part of those
discussions.

MS. PSAKI:  We have been in touch with OPEC member countries.  As you
know, there’s an OPEC meeting — OPEC Plus meeting coming up next week,
and we are certainly aware of that and mindful of that.

We’ve been clear that our preference was producing countries take
action, but we were clear we would also use tools — our own tools to
take action, meaning we were asking for an increase in supply but also
made clear in our conversations, we would use our own tools as needed. 

As you know, we’re not a party to OPEC Plus, and we, of course, can’t
speak to them.  But we know that the world needs oil supply to meet the
growing demand as the world emerges from the pandemic. 

OPEC Plus has said they will release an additional 400,000 barrels, and
our hope and expectation is that they will continue and remain — abide
by that commitment when they meet next week.

Go ahead, Jeff.

Q    The reserve was created for emergency purposes.  Does the President
believe that this is an emergency of an energy sake or more of a
political crisis?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’re emerging from a once-in-a-century pandemic, and
the supply of oil has not kept up with demand as the global economy has
emerged from the pandemic. 

So, it’s certainly something that we are not just experiencing here in
the United States, in terms of the supply issues, but many countries
around the world, globally, are experiencing it.  And the price of gas
is also up around the world. 

I would note that this is not technically an emergency release but
tailored to market circumstances.  The Department of Energy has broad
authority to do exchanges, which, as you know, 18 million barrels of
this sale is, in fact, congressionally mandated and the other set of
barrels is through an exchange.  So, we don’t even classify it as an
emergency.  It’s under the authority of the Department of Energy.

Q    But is this being done primarily to try and stave off a political
crisis?

MS. PSAKI:  This is being done in order to take — use every tool at the
President’s disposal to lower the price of gas for the American people. 
And it follows a step he took last week where he sent a letter to the
FTC asking them to look into what we see as a concerning trend, where
oil — there’s an increase in supply of oil and not a decrease in the
price of gas.  It’s something he’s asked the FTC to look into because
that’s not aligned with what our expectation or the American people’s
expectation should be.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Just following up on that.  We’ve heard, certainly,
from some critics who say that this should only be used for supply
disruptions.  Previously, House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer also said
that it should only be used not for the ri- — for the rise in prices but
just a “collapse” at — in times of an emergency.  What is your response
to critics who say that this sets a dangerous precedent?

MS. PSAKI:  I think our response is that: We’re emerging from a
once-in-a-century pandemic — we’re hopeful we’re not going to face an
emergence from a once-in-a-century pandemic in the future; and that
we’re using existing authorities, both in the form of an 18 mil- —
moving up the 18 million barrels of sale that is congressionally
mandated and also using authorities that the Department of Energy have;
and that, as the President of the United States or as the White House or
the federal government, we have a responsibility to do everything we can
to ease the burden, cut costs for the American people. 

If there are other proposals out there, we’d be happy to hear them.  But
the President is going to use every step, take every — use every tool in
his toolbox to help address these costs for people across the country.

Q    And just one quick follow-up to Monica’s earlier question: The
White House is not ruling out any possible further action if the prices
do not obviously settle down here.  Could we possibly see that by the
end of the year?  Is that — is that off the table?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’re continuing to evaluate. Obviously, we have a
whole month left in the year, so I don’t want to give you a timeline
from here, but we’ll continue to monitor prices, we’ll continue to
monitor supply, and this is obviously a top priority for the President. 

Go ahead.

Q    Well, and following up on all of these as well: To be more
explicit, do you rule out releasing more from the reserves if prices
don’t go down?

MS. PSAKI:  I’m not going to rule out options from here.  Obviously,
we’re emphasizing a significant step the President took today; the
Department of Energy is preparing to take, as you heard from our guest
at the briefing room today.  We’re looking at a range of options; we
will continue to. 

But we feel this is an important step — something that, as the Secretary
noted, over the last several weeks, as these discussions have happened
and as other countries have announced parallel releases, we’ve seen the
oil prices go down about 10 percent.

But I don’t have anything to predict, preview, or rule out for you here
today.

Q    Just two more quick follow-ups.  The Japanese were quoted this
morning as saying they weren’t certain yet when or how they would do
this.  So, who exactly has committed, other than us, to doing this?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think, one, there have been a number of countries
who have already announced planned releases, including China, including
India, Japan, Republic of — I mean, Japan, I think it has the intention
to — the Republic of Korea, and the United Kingdom.  So, there are a
number of countries that either have or will.  You know, that’s part of
the discussions we’ve had. 

Q    And have you —

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t want to obviously speak for them.  These are just
the countries we’ve had discussions with — I should say — to be more
specific.

Q    Yes, there’s no confusion.  You are not the spokesperson for the
Japanese.

MS. PSAKI:  No, I have enough on my plate.

Q    And then, just real quick — you keep mentioning and others have
mentioned this letter from the FTC — or to the FTC.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    Have you heard back from the FTC?

MS. PSAKI:  They’re obviously an independent actor, and we will let them
speak for themselves.  I would point you to the fact that we’ve sent a
letter to them earlier this year where we expressed a concern about kind
of monopolies or oil — conglomeration of oil companies.  That’s
something they responded to and took action, but I would point you to
them for any intention of their response. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  A couple days ago, President Biden was in Michigan
and he was thanking Congresswoman Rashida Tlaib for the “passport” into
her district.  Now she is supporting legislation that would release all
federal prisoners within 10 years.  Would the President ever support
that?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President did enjoy visiting Michigan and visiting
Congresswoman Tlaib’s district.  But let me be absolutely clear: The
President does not support abolishing prisons.  He does not support
defunding the police.  He thinks measures like that will make us less
safe.  And he would not support legislation that includes it. 

What he does support is effective and accountable community policing and
a fair justice system.  And he supports investment in public health,
education, the environment, housing, community-based programs.  But he
knows there are steps — and he believes there are steps that we know are
going to reduce crime and make our neighborhoods safer, but that is not
one of them in his view.

Q    Another topic: Would the President ever apologize to the acquitted
Kenosha shooter, Kyle Rittenhouse, for suggesting online and on TV that
he is a white supremacist?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, let’s be clear what we’re talking about here.  This is
about a campaign video released last year that used President Trump’s
own words during a debate as he refused to condemn white supremacists
and militia groups.  And President Trump, as we know from history, and
as many of you covered, didn’t just refuse to condemn militia groups on
the debate stage, he actively encouraged them throughout his
presidency. 

So, you know, what we’ve seen are the tragic consequences of that when
people think it’s okay to take the law into their own hands, instead of
allowing law enforcement to do its job. 

And the President believes in condemning hatred, division, and
violence.  That’s exactly what was done in that video. 

Q    But if — you’re saying that it was just a campaign video; it
wasn’t.  The President also gave an interview where he said this:
“\[Rittenhouse\] was part of a militia coming out of… Illinois.  Have
you ever heard this President” — referring to Trump — “say one negative
thing about white supremacists?” 

These are all things — none of this was proven in the trial. 

And Kyle Rittenhouse is saying that the President had “actual malice” in
“defaming \[his\] character.”  Is that what happened here?

MS. PSAKI:  The President spoke to the verdict last week.  He has
obviously condemned the hatred and division and violence we’ve seen
around the country by groups like the Proud Boys and groups that that
individual has posed in photos with.  But beyond that, I’ll leave it to
his comments around the verdict.

Q    Okay.  And then just one more topic.  What message does it send to
the middle-class Americans President Biden says that he’s trying to
help, who are struggling this week to cover the cost of the most
expensive Thanksgiving ever, that the President is going to take a few
days off at a billionaire’s compound in Nantucket?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I would say — I don’t know if you’ve cooked a
turkey before, but a 20-pound turkey is a pretty big turkey.  I think we
can all agree.  They’re about one dollar more.  So, not to minimize that
— any increase in prices is something the President is concerned about,
as is evidenced by his announcement today and as his efforts to push
forward on additional relief for the American people.

But I just want to be clear that there are abundance of turkeys
available.  They’re about one dollar more for a 20-pound bird, which is
a huge bird if you’re feeding a very big family.  And that’s something
that, again, we’ve been working to make sure people have more money in
their pockets to address it as the economy is turning back on.

Q    But the President said today that he was “sent here” to look out
for these working- and middle-class families who are strained right
now.  So, what should they read into him leaving now at this time of
great personal and financial hardship for so many to go to Nantucket for
the week?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I would say, Peter, that I hope you’re spending
time with your family.  I’m spending time with my family, and I hope
everybody in here is spending time with their families.

This is a time to put politics aside, spend time with your loved ones,
and talk about what you’re grateful for.

I will also tell you, from spending some time working for this President
and a past President, that: You are President no matter where you are. 
He will conduct his work from wherever he is, on any vacation, on any
time he is in Delaware, at Camp David, or wherever he may be spending
time with his loved ones.

He has secure phone capabilities.  He has staff traveling with him.  And
I think the American people can be assured that he will continue to
press to lower their costs and ensure they have more breathing room.

Go ahead, Monica.

Q    Jen, I’m curious — because of the President’s comments about the
deadly events in Charlottesville being an inspiration for his decision
to run for President: Has he been following the Unite the Right trial? 
And is there any White House reaction to the partial verdict today?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have — I’m not going to comment on it until there’s
a final verdict or the — nor will the President.

I will say, obviously, it’s been covered extensively on television, so
I’m sure, like many people, he has seen some components of it as he’s
gone about his — his duties from the Oval Office.

But I would just reiterate, broadly speaking, that the President has
spoken to his concerns about the division that we’ve seen in the
country, spurred over the last couple of years: the allowance of
violence, in some cases; the fact that white supremacists have been able
to run freely around the country in moments, in protests.  And that’s of
concern to the President.  That is one of the reasons why he ran. 

And addressing racial injustice — certainly not something that will be
done through any verdict, but — is central to his objective as
President.

Q    And on COVID, we’re seeing numbers again with cases rising, a
thousand people a day are still dying heading into what many experts
fear could be a winter surge.  Is the message from the White House a
little bit shifting more to “the virus is here to stay” and going from
“pandemic” to “endemic”? 

But heading into the holiday season, where so many are traveling again,
where it is so different from last year, as the President has noted,
what can you tell people who are a little alarmed by these growing
numbers?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I would encourage people — we would encourage
people to look at some other numbers that are very encouraging, which
is: Last year, we had 250 million adults in this country who were
unvaccinated — because the vaccines weren’t approved yet — and highly at
risk of illness, hospitalization, and death from COVID.  People were not
gathering with their family members last year. 

This year, we’ve cut that number to 50 million adults who remain
unvaccinated, given 82 percent of adults are now — have received at
least one dose. 

We now have vaccines that are accessible.  They’re free.  They’re
convenient.  They’re lifesaving. 

And we now have vaccines for kids, as people are thinking about
gathering with their children and young ones or grandchildren, et
cetera.

So, things are certainly different than they were one year ago.  And
boosters are readily available.  And we’ve dramatically scaled-up
testing and millions of rapid tests.

So, I would think — we would encourage people — I would encourage people
to look at the fact that: Now that vaccines are readily available —
something 82 percent of the country — adults have taken the opportunity
to get vaccinated — you’re nine times more likely to be hospitalized or
die from the virus if you’re not vaccinated.

We are in a different place than we were a year ago.  And certainly, we
have more work to do, but we’re going to continue the fight against the
virus.

Go ahead, Steven.

Q    Back on the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    The President made note of the fact that this is the largest
release ever — larger than after Hurricane Katrina, larger than after
the 1991 Iraq War. 

The Energy Secretary, in response to Rachel’s question, was not able to
explain what impact this might actually have for drivers.  So, how did
you arrive at 50 million barrels?  What — where did that number come
from?  It’s the largest release ever.  Why?  What’s the goal?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, as I noted a little bit earlier, Steve, 18 million
barrels of the sale was, in fact, already congressionally required, and
the President is accelerating that, which is important for people to
understand.

Yes, it’s a part of the largest release, but he just moved it forward
several — a couple of months to provide immediate relief as we work to
ensure there’s a bridge.

The remaining 32 million is from — in the form of an exchange: putting
barrels on the market now in exchange for their return in the future. 
And the exchange is a tool matched to today’s specific economic
environment.

But again, I would reiterate that we’re facing a once-in-a-lifetime
recovery from a pandemic which has impacted us in many ways, including
the cost of some goods around the world, including the cost of gas.  And
increasing the supply — something we’ve asked OPEC Plus member countries
to do and we will continue to press them to do.  But we’re going to use
every tool at our disposal to do that.

And the President took this step because he’s going to do everything he
can to lower costs for the American people.  He knows that the price of
gas is something that is impacting people as they go into the holiday
season, as they’re working and looking at their budgets, and that’s why
he took this significant step today.

Q    I’m still curious how 50 million was achieved — was reached.  But I
want to ask you also — to follow up on Alex’s question about China. 

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    The President made a point of saying that India, Japan, South
Korea, and the UK would release.  But he also said, “China may do more
as well.”  Was he intending to separate China?  Is China not publicly
committed?  You just said it a minute ago.  I’m just trying to get some
clarity.

MS. PSAKI:  They announced last week they — that they were intending to,
Steve.

Q    So, why would the President separate China when he said that India,
Japan, South Korea, and the UK would, but “China may do more”?  Is — was
he not wanting to speak for China?

MS. PSAKI:  He doesn’t want to speak for any country.  But again, you
know, he’s had conversations — as our national security team has — with
many of these countries.  And we’ll let them speak for any announcements
they have to make.

Go ahead, Alex.

Q    Did President Biden bring up this topic with President Xi when they
spoke? 

MS. PSAKI:  They did talk about it, which I think was in the readout we
issued afterwards.

Q    Okay.  But he specifically asked him to help out with this effort? 

MS. PSAKI:  They did talk about the supply out there.  I’m not going to
detail it any further than that. 

Q    And secondly, on Ukraine, just a little bit more: Do you have any
updates on how the White House is assessing the situation there?  Are
there any plans for a phone call, for example, with President Putin?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything to preview along those lines at this
point in time.

I will reiterate that we remain in very close contact with our European
partners at — from the State Department, a range of levels from the
President’s national security team. 

While I have nothing to announce or preview today, I would just remind
you all that we announced we’ll be sending more than $60 million in
security assistance during President Zelenksyy’s visit to the United
States earlier this year as part of the U.S.-Ukraine Strategic
Partnership agreement.  And we have spent more than $400 million overall
this year to support Ukraine’s sovereignty.

So, I just wanted to note that, given that with some time ago.  But that
is something that we had committed to during that meeting. 

And we have repeatedly demonstrated, under this President’s leadership,
that we are willing to use a number of tools to address harmful Russian
actions.  And that is something we will continue to convey, obviously,
through direct conversations and in coordination with our European
partners as well.

Go ahead.

Q    Just to follow up on that Ukraine question.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    Ukrainian officials have publicly called for more U.S. weaponry to
help them defend themselves.  And is the administration willing to do
that?  And would the U.S. provide military advisors to aid the Ukrainian
government?

MS. PSAKI:  We are in close touch with the Ukrainian leaders, but I
don’t have anything to preview today. 

Go ahead.

Q    White House officials have previously said they think inflation is
transitory.  Is that still the view of the White House right now? 

MS. PSAKI:  That’s the view of the Federal Reserve and outside economic
experts, most importantly.

Q    And secondly, in terms of gas prices, you’ve talked a lot about
bringing them down.  Is there a specific price per gallon at the pump
that the White House is aiming to get to or would be satisfied to see?

MS. PSAKI:  We just want to continue to lower it, and we’ll look at a
range of tools to do that.  I would note that because — as Secretary
Granholm touched on, because of the discussions around the parallel
release of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, we did see a 10 percent
decrease in the price of oil.  That has not translated to a reduction of
the price of gas, hence the President sending the letter to the FTC. 

And I would note that record oil profits and oil CEOs bragging about the
profits they make from the price of gas certainly sends the message that
something isn’t quite right there. 

So, point is: There’s a number of steps that the President will continue
to press on and push on, but I’m not going to make a prediction of where
it will be.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  Two question, if I may.  The State Department is
urging Americans to leave Ethiopia now that commercial flight remain
available.  “You have to leave now.  Now is the time to leave,” two
State Department officials told — said yesterday.  The military will not
be deployed to — for mass evacuation.  Should we consider that diplomacy
has failed or is failing in Ethiopia?

MS. PSAKI:  The President — the State Department is simply conveying
directly to American citizens who wish to depart that they need to do so
while commercial airlines are still up and functioning. 

Q    One — one —

MS. PSAKI:  I got to just keep moving because we’re going to run out of
time.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.

Q    Jen, I’m sorry, one quick question —

MS. PSAKI:  No, no, I have to just keep going on. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  You announced yesterday that 95 percent of federal
workers who are covered under the President’s COVID vaccine requirement
have complied.  I’m curious about which agencies have the highest
compliance rate and which have the lowest.

MS. PSAKI:  The good news, if you’re working tomorrow, is that OMB is
going to release a chart that gives you all of this sort of data
tomorrow.  (Laughter.)  They just needed a little bit of time to compile
everything together.  But we’ll have that out tomorrow, and you’ll see
for yourself.

Q    Okay.  And one more thing: Do you know if that data will specify
how many people at each agency requested a religious exemption and how
many got one?

MS. PSAKI:  There are exemptions for a varie- — not just religious
exemptions.  There are a couple of reasons for exemptions.  That is all
done through HR. 

I haven’t seen the exact chart or data so I can’t preview that for you,
but we will be putting that out through OMB tomorrow.

Go ahead.

Q    Just to look ahead on this issue of gas prices: When OPEC Plus
meets next week, is the White House still calling on them to increase
production to ease pressures in the longer term?  Is that the
(inaudible)?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, as I conveyed earlier, they’ve con- — they have
committed to, I believe I said, about 400- –- if I’m correct here, let
me just get it right –- release an additional 400,000 — barrels, I
assume.  And our hope and expectation is that they will continue and
remain — abide by that commitment.

Q    How worried are you that this announcement today could backfire and
actually get them to say, “We’re going to — we’re not going to increase
production at all”?

MS. PSAKI:  Again, we are communicating directly with them.  I’m not
going to speak for them.  They — as you know, they have a meeting next
week.  And we have been in close contact with them for months now
conveying and advocating for an increase in supply –- a release of
supply to meet the demand.  But also, we have been very clear that we
would take actions, if needed, as well. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  A month ago, you said that the President would, in
the coming weeks, lay out options to fundamentally alter the
filibuster.  Can you give any update on that?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any update.  He spoke to this, as many of you
know, at a CNN town hall a couple of weeks ago, himself.  But I don’t
have anything in addition to preview.

Q    Do you know –- you said “coming weeks,” so should we expect
something by the end of the year?  Or –-

MS. PSAKI:  We’ll see.  We’ll see.  We have a few more weeks in the end
of the year. 

Go ahead, April.

Q    Jen, you spoke previously about the divisions in this nation as it
relates to recent trial verdicts.  What does this administration have to
offer or say as we await the verdict in Georgia in the McMichael,
McMichael, Bryan case?

MS. PSAKI:  I’m not going to speak to any case that is — where there has
not been a verdict.  What — and I’m sure we will have a comment once
there is.  But I will say broadly, April, that, of course, you know, as
we’ve watched over the last — not just last year — obviously, long
before that — last few years and we have seen violence on the streets. 
We’ve seen people lose their lives. 

The President spoke himself — has spoken himself many times to the case
of Ahmaud Arbery.  And while we’re not going to speak to the particular
— an ongoing trial, I would point you to a long array of comments he’s
made about his horror in that case. 

And as was asked earlier, you know, one of the reasons he ran for
President, as you’ve all heard him speak about, is to help bring the
country together, to help address racial injustice in this country –-
help do that through whatever role the federal government can play.
 Doesn’t expect that to be all done in the first year, but we’re going
to continue to press forward.

Q    Thanks, Jen.

MS. PSAKI:  Okay, great. 

Q    Quick, Jen —

MS. PSAKI:  Okay, Francesca, go ahead.  One more.

Q    Thank you very much, Jen.  President Biden, you, other members of
the administration have repeatedly told Americans that wages are up,
unemployment is down, the shelves are being stocked, and that the
administration is working to address rising prices, including in a
speech that the President gave today. 

So why does the White House think that its messaging isn’t convincing
many Americans that the economy is getting better?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’ve spoken about this a little bit in the past, but I
would say that, one, we’re still in the middle of fighting a global
pandemic, and people are sick and tired of that; we are too.  And it
impacts how people are living their lives, their fear about sending
their kids out the door, about going to work.  It’s impacting –- the
economy is just turning back on again, and we’re seeing the impacts of
that, whether it relates to the ability the — unsticking the bottlenecks
in the supply chain or it relates to the rise in gas prices.

The important thing for the American people to know and understand is
that the President has a plan to address these issues, whether it’s the
action he took today to take one of the steps, in his view — we can take
to lower the price of gas; or the steps he’s taken on anti-competition;
the steps he’s taken to address meat conglomerates who are making record
profits in rising the price of meat out there; or whether it’s the Build
Back Better Agenda that will help lower costs for working people.

And what I think you’re going to see us do more and more is draw the
contrast.  We have a plan to address these issues — lower prices for the
American people.  And we’re not seeing a lot of ideas on the other side.

So that’s what you’ll preview for when we come back from Thanksgiving. 

Everyone have a happy Thanksgiving with your families.  I look forward
to seeing you — or I’ll be here tomorrow, but we won’t have a briefing. 
But, all right.  Bye, guys.

4:00 P.M. EST
