---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-11-17'
modified_time: 2021-11-17 17:17:02-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/11/17/press-briefing-by-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-public-health-officials-68/
published_time: 2021-11-17 17:17:01-05:00
title: "Press Briefing by White\_House COVID-\u206019 Response Team and Public Health\_\
  Officials"
---
 
11:04 A.M. EST

MR. ZIENTS:  Good morning, everyone.  And thanks for joining us.  I’ll
turn to the doctors in a moment.  
  
First, I want to share an update on the progress we’re making on
vaccinations both here in the United States and around the world.  
  
I’ll start with our vaccinations program for kids ages 5 to 11.  
  
Our kids program hit full strength last week — 10 days ago.  Already,
our effective rollout is helping parents and families across the country
experience the giant sigh of relief of knowing their kids are on the
path to having protection from the virus.  
  
We estimate by the end of today, 2.6 million kids ages 5 to 11 will have
gotten their first shot.  2.6 million — that’s about 10 percent of
kids.  So, just 10 days into our program being at full strength, we’re
at 10 percent of kids.  
  
For perspective, it took about 50 days for us to reach 10 percent of
adults with one shot.  And when the polio vaccine was first rolled out
for kids in the 1950s, it took about three months to cross two and a
half million shots in arms.  
  
And, in fact, the pace of vaccinations for kids has been accelerating. 
In the last week, 1.7 million kids got vaccinated — double the prior
week.  
  
CDC will be publishing additional vaccination data later this week, as
it gets more data from states and providers.  As we noted, the data CDC
receives is delayed by several days.  
  
Operationally, we continue to make strong progress with the kids
vaccination program.  Vaccines for kids are now available at more than
30,000 trusted and convenient locations; that’s up from 20,000 last
week.  
  
That means just 10 days in, we have 1 vaccine site for every 900 kids. 
That compares to one vaccine site for every 3,500 Americans age 12 and
older.  
  
So, in addition to being safe, effective, and free, vaccines for kids
are readily available and convenient.

At the same time, we’re continuing to get first shots to unvaccinated
Americans 12 and older and booster shots to provide enhanced
protection.  
  
Each day, about 300,000 individuals roll up their sleeve to get their
first shot.  And today, we reached the milestone of 80 percent of
Americans 12 and older with at least one shot.  
  
We also crossed 31 million Americans with a booster shot.  Importantly,
we are getting boosters to eligible seniors — those most at risk and
most vulnerable.  
  
Since the program launched in late September, about half of eligible
seniors vaccinated with Pfizer have gotten their booster.  That’s
compared to the almost three months it took to get half of all seniors a
first shot when the vaccination program launched under the prior
administration.  
  
Let me end with an update on the global vaccinations program.  
  
From the start, President Biden has been clear that the only way to
defeat COVID is to defeat the virus here at home and around the
world.  That’s why we have committed to donating 1.2 billion doses to
the world.  
  
For every one shot we’ve administered here in the United States, we’re
donating about three doses to people around the world.  
  
Today, we will hit a major milestone in our effort to deliver on this
commitment: 250 million doses delivered to 110 countries.  A quarter of
a billion doses donated and delivered around the world for free, with no
strings attached.  This is a remarkable achievement.  More doses
delivered than every other country in the world combined, and millions
more doses shipped each and every week.  
  
We’re also continuing to take additional steps to help vaccinate the
world.  Already, we’ve ramped up manufacturing here and abroad, built
out a sustainable supply chain, and increased capacity globally to make
vaccines.  
  
Today, we’re taking another major step to bolster vaccine manufacturing
both for this pandemic and to prepare for any future threats.  
  
HHS is soliciting interest from companies that have experience
manufacturing mRNA vaccines to identify opportunities to scale up their
production capacity.  Importantly, initial production could provide more
mRNA COVID vaccines for the world.  
  
The goal of this program is to expand existing capacity by an additional
billion doses per year, with production starting by the second half of
2022.  
  
This program would also help us produce doses within six to nine months
of identification of a future pathogen and ensure enough vaccines for
all Americans.  It would combine the expertise of the U.S. government in
basic scientific research with the robust ability of pharmaceutical
companies to manufacture mRNA vaccines.  
  
We hope companies step up and act quickly to take us up on this
opportunity to expand production of mRNA vaccines for the current
pandemic and set us up to react quickly to any future pandemic
threats.  
  
We know vaccinations are the best way to accelerate our path out of the
pandemic.  And taking a look at the data, we know the President’s plan
is producing results: 80 percent of Americans 12 and older with at least
one shot; 10 percent of kids already with their first shot, just 10 days
into our program being at full strength; 250 million doses donated and
delivered to the world.  
  
We know there’s more work to do, but these milestones represent critical
progress and show we are on the right track in our fight against the
virus.  
  
With that, let me turn it over to Dr. Walensky.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you, Jeff.  And good morning, everyone.  As always,
I’d like to start by walking you through the data.  The current
seven-day daily average of cases is about 83,600 cases per day.  The
seven-day average of hospital admissions is about 5,300 per day.  And
seven-day average daily deaths are about 1,000 per day.  
  
Week by week, I present to you the current state of the pandemic on a
national scale.  These data reflect our entire country across all
states, all age groups, and all people, and are independent of
underlying medical conditions or vaccination status.   
  
At CDC, we look at data more granularly to understand important trends,
separated out by different demographic and geographic subgroups.  We do
so to understand who may be at greater risk of COVID-19, who may be at
risk for complications, and to assess the waning vaccine effectiveness,
and what interventions we can put in place to help protect those who are
most vulnerable.  
  
Studies show that those who are unvaccinated continue to be more likely
to be infected, more likely to be in the hospital, and more likely to
have severe complications from COVID-19.   
  
In recent weeks, we have also seen additional data that reinforce the
importance of COVID-19 boosters for these populations at higher risk of
severe disease, particularly to ensure protection against severe illness
and hospitalizations.   
  
Those who live in long-term care facilities and adults over age 65 were
among the first eligible for vaccination.  And as vaccine coverage
increased in these groups, we saw emergency department visits decline in
both.  
  
After early and robust vaccination efforts in January and February, we
had powerful evidence that demonstrated that vaccines are effective and
provide protection against the severe complications of COVID-19,
especially in those at risk because of their age or underlying
conditions.   
  
Since then, we’ve been watching vaccine effectiveness in this population
carefully.  Although the highest risk are those people who are
unvaccinated, we are seeing an increase in emergency department visits
among adults age 65 and older, which are now again higher than they are
for younger age groups.   
  
Similarly, we also have new data that look at COVID-19 cases in
long-term care facilities from our National Healthcare Safety Network.
 When we compare rates of COVID-19 disease between those who are
vaccinated with two doses and those who have received a booster dose,
the rate of disease is markedly lower for those who received their
booster shot, demonstrating our boosters are working.  
  
FDA is currently evaluating data on the authorization of booster doses
for all people over age 18.  As we’ve done before, CDC will quickly
review the safety and effectiveness data and make recommendations as
soon as we hear from FDA.   
  
So, we want to reinforce the importance of people who are eligible
getting boosted now, especially those at highest risk for severe
disease.   
  
This time of year, we typically see other respiratory viruses
circulating, like influenza.  Last week’s influenza surveillance report
noted an increase in flu activity that could mark the beginning of the
influenza season.  We have been anticipating the return of flu viruses
this season.  
  
If you’re wondering if you should get a flu vaccine, you should.  It’ll
protect you and your family against the flu.   
  
What’s the best gift to give this year?  Consider the gift of health. 
It’s priceless.  
  
As we head into the holiday and winter season, now is the time to think
about protection for ourselves and our families.  So many of us missed
being with our friends and family last year.  For those who are at
higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 and who are eligible for a
COVID-19 booster dose, go out now and get your extra booster dose to
protect you.   
  
And for those who are not yet vaccinated — including our children,
teens, and adolescents, who are now all eligible for vaccination —
getting vaccinated this week will set you up to being fully protected in
time for the holidays and by the end of the year.  
  
Thank you.  I’ll now turn it over to Dr. Fauci.   
  
DR. FAUCI:  Thank you very much, Dr. Walensky.   
  
What I’d like to do in the next few minutes is underscore some of the
scientific data on why vaccines protect, namely what is the real-world
effectiveness of the COVID-19 vaccines.  
  
And the reason I say that is that as more and more people get
vaccinated, no vaccine is 100 percent effective. So we’re hearing
reports of even vaccinated people getting infected, having some people
to, in fact, question the effectiveness of vaccines.  
  
So let’s take a look at that to see if we can clarify that situation.   
  
Next slide.   
  
Let’s just go to different places.  Let’s take Texas and look at a
comparison of unvaccinated people with vaccinated people.  Unvaccinated
people were 13 times more likely to become infected than fully
vaccinated, and unvaccinated people were 20 times more likely to die
than fully vaccinated people.  And that is the state of Texas.   
  
Next slide. 

 Let’s take a look now at the age range of that, because people may
think that when you’re in a certain age range, you may not benefit from
vaccines.  
  
Look at the left-hand part of the slide — is the different age
groups.   
  
Look at the right-hand part of the slide in red, which shows you the
fold-higher death rate in the unvaccinated compared to the vaccinated
within that given age group that you see on the left.   
  
Next slide.   
  
Let’s go to Indiana.  And take a look: The blue is those who are fully
vaccinated and the red are not fully vaccinated.  And we’re comparing
new hospital admissions, total admissions to the ICU, and total deaths. 
It’s pretty clear to see the difference between the density of the red
versus the density of the blue.   
  
Next slide.   
  
Let’s take a look at Virginia and take a look at, among over 5 million
Virginians who’ve been vaccinated, the hospitalization rate is
extraordinarily low at 0.035 percent.  And the die — those who’ve died
is 0.0125.  
  
Next slide.   
  
This isn’t only in the United States.  Let’s take a look at New South
Wales in Australia.  Again, unvaccinated individuals are more than 16
times more likely to end up in the ICU or die during the peak period.   
  
So, any concern about the efficacy in the real world of vaccines, I hope
we’ve put that to rest.  
  
Next slide.   
  
So, what do we have?  We have 62 million Americans eligible for vaccines
who are still not vaccinated.  The data that I show you do not lie. 
Vaccines protect you, your family, and your community.   
  
And importantly, it is not too late, as Dr. Walensky has said.  Get
vaccinated now.  
  
And importantly, if you were already vaccinated six months or more ago
and eligible for a boost, get a boost.  Because as a matter of fact, the
data that I just showed you for vaccinations in general hold true for
boosters, because the Israelis have shown that when you boost, you
multifold diminish the likelihood of getting infected, getting sick, or
dying.  
  
And a recent paper from England — it isn’t only Israel — shows: For
those who got the Pfizer vaccine months earlier and the efficacy against
symptomatic infection decreased to 62.5 percent, with a boost, it went
up to 94 percent.   
  
So, vaccinations work and boosters optimize the vaccination.   
  
Having said that, let us all enjoy the holidays.  Now over to you, Dr.
Murthy.   
  
SURGEON GENERAL MURTHY:  Well, thanks so much, Dr. Fauci, and it’s good
to be with everyone again today.   
  
I want to speak a little bit today about misinformation and our efforts
to fight misinformation.  Just a few months ago, my office released a
Surgeon General’s advisory on health misinformation, which is “false,
inaccurate, or misleading information according to the best evidence at
the time.”   
  
Now, in this advisory, we declared that health misinformation is an
urgent public health threat.  Since then, I’ve been inspired by people
all over the country who have stepped up to confront misinformation. 
I’ve heard from doctors and nurses and pharmacists who have talked to
their local schools about vaccines.  I’ve heard from local elected
officials who are making health misinformation a priority.  
  
Just a couple of weeks ago, I joined hundreds of people of faith who
gathered virtually to hear the truth about the COVID-19 vaccines and to
share that with their communities.   
  
So we are continuing to meet people where they are today.  And today,
we’re also happy to welcome the singer and philanthropist Ciara to the
White House, where she will participate in a roundtable about getting
vaccinated with First Lady Dr. Jill Biden.   
  
These are just a few of the many encouraging steps that we’ve seen over
the last few months.  But despite all of that, health misinformation
remains a threat today.  
  
With new milestones like vaccines for kids ages 5 through 11, we’re
seeing new waves of misinformation hitting the inboxes of parents and
social media feeds across the country.   
  
This isn’t just something that affects a small segment of society.  A
recent poll indicated that nearly 80 percent of American adults either
believe or aren’t sure about a common COVID-19 myth.  As clinicians,
community leaders, and other partners tell me as well, they are
continuing to hear people quoting these myths to explain why they won’t
get vaccinated.   
  
I’ve even heard some of these myths from my own family members who have
received misleading videos and false articles through text chains and
social media feeds.  I’ve had to talk to my family members about why
this content is harmful.   
  
But while it’s clear that stopping misinformation is an urgent task, we
recognize it’s not always clear to people what they can do to help.  And
that’s why last week I released “A Community Toolkit for Addressing
Health Misinformation.”   
  
This toolkit is meant for everyone, from healthcare professionals, to
teachers, to librarians, to faith leaders, and really anyone who’s
concerned about health misinformation in their community.   
  
We have two key goals with this toolkit.  The first is for people to
learn about health misinformation.  So, the toolkit includes the basics
about what it is, how it’s impacting us, and why it’s so tempting to
share.   
  
The second goal of the toolkit is for people to apply what they learn,
and that’s why we’ve included interactive activities in the toolkit. 
There are graphics, checklists, five-minute exercises, even a comic
strip.  And we’ve included tips on how to identify misinformation and
how to talk with friends and family about health misinformation.   
  
This is something, in fact, which might come in handy around the dinner
table this Thanksgiving.  
  
The toolkit is easy to read.  It’s illustrated.  It’s designed to give
people the power to stop health misinformation in their communities. 
You can view the advisory and the toolkit at
SurgeonGeneral.gov/HealthMisinformation.   
  
I also want to be clear that our country still needs technology
companies to step up and stop the avalanche of health misinformation on
their platforms.  
  
In order to fully turn the tide on health misinformation, we not only
need individual action, but we also need these companies to move faster
and more effectively than they’re currently moving.  
  
In the end, we all have the power to protect people in our lives from
health misinformation, whether we’re able to reach just a few trusted
family members and friends, or a few million people through our
platform, we can all make an impact on the urgent issue.  
  
Because the bottom line is that health misinformation takes away our
freedom to make informed decisions about our health based on facts and
science.   
  
This toolkit one more step we are taking to help Americans recognize and
stop health misinformation and to help people around them do the same. 
It will help us restore our freedom to make decisions about our health
that are grounded in accurate, science-based information.  
  
Thanks so much for your time today.  And I’ll turn it back to you,
Jeff.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Well, thank you, Doctors.  Let’s open it up for a few
questions.  Kevin?  
  
MODERATOR:  Thanks, Jeff.  First question, let’s go to Kristen Welker at
NBC.  
  
Q    Hi, everyone.  Thanks so much for doing the call. Really appreciate
it.  Two questions: One, can you bring us up to date on any data that
you might have about breakthrough cases with kids?   
  
And number two, can you weigh in on or reflect upon the fact that you
have some areas that are lifting mask mandates and others that are
reinforcing them?  For example, D.C. is set to lift its mask mandate
indoors, whereas you have other areas in the region that are set to
reimpose them.  What should we make of that, and should there be a
uniformity as it relates to masks?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Okay.  Dr. Walensky, the first question was: data on
breakthrough with kids.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, thank you for those questions, Kristen.  So, we are
actively following vaccine effectiveness in our adolescents, our ages 12
and up, where we have more data.  And we’ll be updating our data on
vaccine effectiveness later this week.  
  
In the meantime, we are actively also following data on our 5- to
11-year-olds.  Obviously, we need some time for them to get their first
dose, get their second dose in order to follow those breakthrough cases,
but we are actively collecting those data.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Walensky, there is strong data that I think the CDC has
cited about hospitalizations of kids that are vaccinated versus
unvaccinated.  Is it worth reviewing that data?  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  In terms of — so — certainly — in terms of our
adolescents?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Yes.   
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, so certainly the protection from our adolescents,
as we’ve seen, is more than tenfold prevention of hospitalizations and
deaths among our adolescent group.  And we expect that same kind of
extremely robust coverage for our younger group as well.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Then the second question was the masking mandates.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, absolutely.  So, we currently still have over 85
percent of our counties in this country that are in substantial or high
transmission.  And the CDC guidance — first of all, obviously getting
vaccinated — but the CDC guidance does recommend that jurisdictions be
in the moderate- or low-transmission — community transmission for
several weeks before releasing mask requirements.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Let’s go to Victoria Knight at Kaiser Health News.  
  
Q    Hey, thanks so much for taking my question.  I actually have two. 
So, first of all — I’ve talked to experts; I’ve looked at the data
myself — I don’t see a lot of evidence to support getting a booster for
young people, mostly in the 18-to-39 age range, because there’s just,
like, not a lot of evidence that it protects from severe disease or
hospitalization.  It seems like that group of people is already pretty
well protected.  So, can you talk about what evidence we might see if
the FDA does decide to authorize a third booster for everyone?  
  
And then I’m also wondering: If boosters do get authorized for everyone,
are we moving to kind of a post-full-vax society?  Are workplaces, are
businesses going to need to ask for proof of boosters?  Is that the
direction that we’re moving in if we do decide that the whole public
needs boosters?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Good.  Dr. Fauci, why don’t you start with the evidence
around younger people and boosters?  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Yeah, I think we better be careful to not make too sharp a
distinction between protecting against infection that’s symptomatic
versus protection against hospitalization and deaths.   
  
Obviously, young individuals have a much less of a likelihood of
progressing to severe disease than elderly individuals and adults.   
  
However, the children do get infected and they do get mild and sometimes
moderate illness.  So, I don’t know of any other vaccine that we only
worry about keeping people out of the hospital.   
  
I think an important thing is to prevent people from getting symptomatic
disease.  And I think there are plenty of children, adolescents and
otherwise, who clearly get infected, get symptomatic disease, and some
even go on to long COVID.  
  
So, there’s a really good reason to optimally protect younger
individuals, in addition to obviously emphasizing the very strong
importance of making sure that more vulnerable people, namely the
elderly and those with underlying conditions, not only get their
vaccination but also get their booster.  
  
Back to you, Jeff.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Walensky, the second question was really the definition
of “fully vaccinated.”  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, great.  Thank you.  So, the definition of “fully
vaccinated” is: two doses of a Moderna or a Pfizer vaccine, as well as
one dose of the J&J vaccine.   
  
Thank you.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Zeke Miller, AP.  
  
Q    Thanks for doing this.  Just from the 30,000-foot level: As a
number of public health officials across the country and around the
world are saying that COVID-19 is becoming endemic, what is now the U.S.
government’s goal?  What is the objective now in controlling the
COVID-19 pandemic?  Is it, you know, stamping it out entirely?  Is it
coming up with a way for the country to live with it going forward?   
  
And then, secondly, given the data that Dr. Fauci showed about the
effectiveness of vaccines at preventing serious illness and death, how
much longer will the public health protection measures that Dr. Walensky
was talking about, along the lines of masking and the like — how long
should those stay in place for when, you know, vaccines are now widely
available for 90-odd percent of the country’s population?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Fauci?  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Well, when you look at any kind of an outbreak, as I’ve said
multiple times, but I’ll very briefly repeat it: You know, there’s the
pandemic phase, the deceleration phase, control, elimination, and
eradication.  
  
I don’t think we’re going to get eradication.  We’ve only done that with
smallpox.  We’ve eliminated diseases by vaccination, like polio in the
United States, as it exists other places.  We’ve eliminated measles in
the United States; it exists other places.  We’ve eliminated malaria
years and years ago, but it exists in other places.   
  
So, I don’t think we’re going to eliminate it completely.  We want
control.  And I think the confusion is: At what level of control are you
going to accept it in its endemicity?  And as far as we’re concerned, we
don’t know really what that number is, but we will know it when we get
there.  It certainly is far, far lower than 80,000 new infections per
day, and it’s far, far lower than a thousand deaths per day and tens of
thousands of hospitalizations.  
  
So even though there’s a wide bracket under control, we want to get to
the lowest possible level that we can get.  And rather than picking an
arbitrary number, why don’t we get as many people as we can get
vaccinated vaccinated as quickly as possible, and get as many people who
are eligible for boosters getting booster as possible?  And then when we
get to that low level, we will know it rather than picking out an
arbitrary number.  
  
Back to you, Jeff.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Thank you.  Thanks, Dr. Fauci.  Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Let’s go to Alex Alper at Reuters.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Alex?  
  
Q    Thank you so much.  I just wanted to ask: The funds for the billion
dollars in extra doses are only going to the mRNA vaccine makers.  That
list only includes Pfizer BioNTech and Moderna — or are there others? 
Why are you limiting it as such?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Well, we do want to create the capability to have a billion
doses of mRNA vaccine produced.  That’s incremental capacity to what we
have today, where the first application is likely to be used to produce
more COVID-19 vaccines for the world.  And then we have this ability,
for any future threat, to produce mRNA vaccines to counter that
threat.  
  
The companies that you mentioned are companies that currently produce
mRNA vaccine, but there are also other companies that are subcontractors
of those companies.  So, we envision a wide array of companies
responding to HHS’s request for information.  
  
Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Last question, let’s go to Cheyenne Haslett at ABC News.  
  
Q    Hi, thanks for taking my question.  My first question is on
boosters.  The J&J boosters are already recommended for all adults. 
Pfizer boosters for all adults are expected by Friday to be authorized. 
Will the FDA consider Moderna in this upcoming authorization too?   
  
And my second question is on the confusing patchwork of booster
recommendations in different states this past week.  And I’m wondering: 
Why have the CDC and FDA not spoken out to give uniformed guidance as
that has happened?  
  
Thank you.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Walensky?  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, thank you for that question, Cheyenne.  And maybe
I’ll just answer them all together and say: We are actively following
the science and the data.   
  
We know now that tens of millions of Americans are eligible for
boosters, and we are encouraging everyone who is eligible — and
especially those who are most vulnerable: those over the age of 65,
those with underlying medical conditions — to go and get your booster
right now.  
  
And as you noted, the FDA is actively reviewing data as soon — and we
are in close touch with them.  As soon as the FDA reviews those data and
provides an authorization, we at CDC will act swiftly.  We will be
reviewing the epidemiologic data, the effectiveness data, as well as the
safety data.  And we will provide our recommendations as soon as we
can.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Well, thank you for today’s briefing.  We look forward to
the next one.  Thank you, everybody.  
  
11:35 A.M. EST

To view the COVID Press Briefing slides,
visit: <https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/COVID-Press-Briefing_17November2021.pdf>
