---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-11-15'
modified_time: 2021-11-15 18:02:40-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/11/15/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-november-15-2021/
published_time: 2021-11-15 18:02:39-05:00
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, November 15,\_2021"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:51 P.M. EST

MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.  Okay.  I just have one item for all of you at
the top. 

Obviously, an exciting day here at the White House, but I also wanted to
note that the President — which we announced, of course — but signed an
executive order this morning on the implementation of the infrastructure
bill, which laid out six main priorities to guide implementation,
including:

-   Investing public dollars effectively — efficiently, effectively — of
    course, avoiding waste and focusing on measurable outcomes for the
    American people.
-   Buying American and increasing the competitiveness of the U.S.
    economy, including through implementing the act’s Made in America
    requirements, and bolstering domestic manufacturing and
    manufacturing supply chains.
-   Creating good-paying job opportunities for millions of Americans by
    focusing on high labor standards for these jobs, including
    prevailing wages and the free and fair chance to join a union.
-   Investing public dollars equitably, including through the Justice40
    Initiative, which is a government-wide effort toward a goal that 40
    percent of the overall benefits from federal investments in climate
    and clean energy flow to disadvantaged communities.
-   Building resilient infrastructure that can withstand the impacts of
    climate change, that helps combat the climate crisis.
-   And finally, coordinating with state, local, Tribal, and territorial
    governments in implementing these critical investments. 

We also announced yesterday that former Lieutenant Governor and former
Mayor Mitch Landrieu will be leading this effort.  And the executive
order also started a task force that will include — that will be
co-chaired by National Economic Council Director Brian Deese and, of
course, our new implementation coordinator, Mitch Landrieu, and will
include a number of members of our Cabinet.

With that, Colleen, welcome.  I don’t think I’ve engaged with you in the
briefing yet. 

Q    No.

MS. PSAKI:  So, welcome to the briefing room.

Q    Thank you.  It’s nice to be here.  So, the bill is being signed,
and now we’re going to spend the money.  So I wanted to ask a little bit
about if the President has been in touch with governors about how the
funds are going to be spent.  And I wanted to know if you could talk a
little bit more about the potential oversight mechanisms in place for
how the public is going to be able to know how the money is being spent.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, first, I would note — and I know you are all
eager to have a list of exactly who is attending today, and I expect
someone will ask me that question.  We are still getting attendees lists
and people who are still RSVPing.  Believe it or not, this is sometimes
how it works.  It is open press; you will see the group. 

But let me just note — I know this wasn’t your question, but since this
is a popular one, some of the people who will be attending today — you
reminded me of it when you asked about governors: Governor Kate Brown of
Oregon; Governor Larry Hogan of Maryland; Governor John Bel Edwards of
Louisiana; Mayor David Holt of Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Mayor Steve
Benjamin of Columbia, South Carolina.  Again, this is not everyone but
just to give you a sense of the bipartisan group who will be attending.

Also, members of Congress, as you know, because we put out, I think, the
list of people who will be speaking.  Of course, Speaker Pelosi and
Leader Schumer will be in attendance.  Other members of leadership —
Senator Cassidy, Senator Collins, Senator Portman, Congressman Reed,
Congressman Young, and others, as well as a number of business leaders,
union leaders, and others. 

So I would say that Mitch Landrieu is starting his job today.  He’s
going to be in attendance at the ceremony today.  He’ll be traveling
with the President tomorrow.  And then he will be getting to work right
away. 

And as our executive order is an indication of, the President is very
focused — they call him “Sheriff Joe” for a reason — on the
implementation of this, making sure we keep waste, fraud, and abuse — we
prevent waste, fraud, and abuse, and that we are working directly for
hours a day, which is what Mitch Landrieu will be doing, with governors,
local officials, and others. 

I expect we will have more to say on how that will work, what that work
will look like as Mitch Landrieu gets his role underway.

Q    Can you talk a little bit about how the President’s message is
going to be to voters as he (inaudible) this week?  You know, how is he
going to explain to the voters how this spending plan is going to help
deal with inflation and supply chain issues?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, let me give you — I know he’s going to speak in
about an hour and a half, depending on how long the preprogram is — but
a little bit of a preview of what you’ll hear from him today.  And I
think that will also be an indication of how he’ll talk about some of
these plans when he’s out in the country. 

One, you’ll hear him convey today that he’s also frustrated by the
negativity and by the infighting that we’ve seen in Washington over the
last couple of months.  He’s tired of it too, and that he knows that
what the American people expect is that leaders are going to be talking
about issues that matter to them — the issues that they’re talking about
at their kitchen tables, in their communities, in community centers, at
their kids’ soccer games, or whatever it may be.

How can I get a good-paying job?  How can I make sure my kid will
succeed?  What are we doing to make sure that we are setting up the next
generation for success in the future? 

And so, what you’ll hear him talk about today is how this bill, the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Plan, will impact people’s everyday lives. 
You’ll hear him convey that America is moving and life is going to get
better for people across the country, and that this is part of his
effort to finish the job — part of it — in getting the pandemic under
control, making sure we are addressing rising costs, bringing costs down
for the American people, and making us more competitive. 

So what you can expect to hear from him today is what I’ve just
outlined.  And as he goes around the country, he’s really going to want
to — he’s going to dig into how these issues — how the benefits of these
packages will impact people’s everyday lives and what they talk about at
their kitchen tables. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  We’ve got the meeting later on today between
President Biden and President Xi.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    We’ve been told that there won’t be a huge emphasis on trade.  I
wonder, though, given the fact that the U.S.-China trade agreement is
nearing an end, China is still very short — falling very short of its
pledges to buy more goods and services.  I’m wondering why that isn’t
going to be a bigger factor in that discussion.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, Andrea, I know we did a preview call last night, but
let me reiterate a couple of the highlights of what will be the focus of
the meeting, which we expect to run for a couple of hours later this
evening virtually. 

One, the meeting, in our view, is an opportunity to set the terms of the
competition with China in a way that reflects our interests and values,
insists that the PRC play by the rules of the road. 

So, there are areas, of course, of concern as it relates to the economy
where the President will certainly express his concern, express his view
that China should be playing by the rules that the rest of the global
community expects, raise our concerns with a number of their actions,
and discuss areas where our interests align. 

As you know, Ambassador Tai gave a speech just a few weeks ago outlining
our role in the — where we are in the phase one — in phase one.  She is
running point, and the President entrusts her to lead these negotiations
and discussions around trade tariff reviews. 

That’s why there’s a lot to discuss in this discussion.  We’ll give you
— there’ll be a call late tonight — have your coffee now — to read out
this call.  And there could be a range of topics discussed. 

But it’s really under her purview.  He entrusts her to do that.  He’s
regularly briefed.  And that’s why there’s a lot of other topics that
will be discussed.

Q    Is he going to foot stomp, though, his insistence that China make
good on those promises?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, certainly the President will express areas where he
feels China should be taking additional action, should be behaving in a
different manner that is more aligned with the rules of the road and the
expectations of the United States and the global community.  So, you can
certainly expect that coming out of the meeting.

Q    Can I just ask one more on oil and gas?  So, we just saw President
Biden take action now in terms of the — protecting oil and gas
development on Native lands and Tribal lands.  But later this week, the
U.S. government will open up for auction many, many acres — an area
larger than several states, actually — to oil and gas leasing because of
this legal situation. 

So there are critics who say that you should have done more to avert
this action.  And I wonder if you can just say, you know, what action
could potentially be done.  Is there — are there any last-minute steps
that could be taken to prevent those auctions from going forward?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, you know, the President did — as you know, Andrea, but
just to get others up to speed — issue an executive order pausing oil
and gas leasing on public lands and in offshore waters to facilitate the
identification and implementation of long-needed permitting and leasing
reforms. 

Shortly thereafter, the Interior Department cancelled the pending
offshore oil and gas lease in the Gulf of Mexico known as Lease Sale
257. 

So, what you’re referring to, I believe, is the fact that, in June, a
federal district court in Louisiana stopped the President’s leasing
pause and ruled that the Interior Department is legally required to go
through with the sale of the Lease Sale 257, which is what you’re refer-
— what Andrea is referring to in terms of putting up a bunch of lease
sales — oil and gas lease sales. 

We believe the decision is wrong, and the Justice Department is
appealing it.  So it’s in the courts; it’s in a legal process.  We’re
required to comply with the injunction.  It’s a legal case and legal
process, but it’s important for advocates and other people out there who
are following this to understand that it’s not aligned with our view,
the President’s policies, or the executive order that he signed.

Go ahead.

Q    So there’s no more la- — so, you can’t take any last-minute action
to prevent that from going forward?

MS. PSAKI:  I would point you to the Justice Department.  They, of
course, are appealing this, and I would point you to them for any legal
action or what their options are.

Q    Just following up — at least tangentially related to China and
trade: When you guys look at tariffs right now, do you view them purely
through the prism of the administration’s China strategy, or do you
consider them as part of a potential tool in the tool belt, as it
relates to increased prices? 

I ask because the Treasury Secretary this weekend said, to pull off
tariffs, it probably “would make some difference” in the price
increases.  You have business groups sent a letter, in the last couple
days, asking the administration to consider easing them. 

Is that something you’re viewing through the lens of the price
increases, or is it purely separate and only along the lines of the
China strategy?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, it is part of the China strategy, but it is also
something that — you know, even while we have been pursuing phase one
enforcement, which is what Ambassador Tai gave a speech about a couple
of weeks ago, we’ve restarted our domestic tariff exclusions process to
mitigate the effects of certain tariffs because, as you said, there are
certain industries that are impacted, and there are areas where they
don’t generate strategic benefit but they raise costs on Americans.

So that is all a part of the review.  And certainly part of the review
is our China — our China relationship is the backdrop for it but also
the impact on Americans, how we’re strengthening the middle class, is
the priority and the focus for the President.

I will say, just on the China meeting — you know, one of the things to —
as you look at this meeting and where it’s falling: The President and
the national security team feel that the President is coming into this
meeting really from a position of strength, if you look at where we were
9, 10 months ago. 

And if you look at how we outlined our approach to China many months
ago, we talked about the importance of rebuilding our alliances, our
relationships, coordinating with Europeans and other key partners in the
world on how we’re approaching this relationship.  We have made enormous
strides in building those relationships, including on the President’s
trip just two weeks ago where he had a range of conversations.

In addition, the President has also emphasized the need to come to this
relationship, one, through the prism of competition from a position of
strength as it relates to what we’re doing at home.

Today, he is signing this infrastructure bill.  And this infrastructure
bill is essential and important for many reasons, but one of which is:
For the first time in 20 years, we will be investing <s>more</s>
\[faster\] in infrastructure than China.  And that is going to
strengthen our competition at home in addition to putting millions of
people to work.

Q    And one more on the economy.  The University of Michigan Consumer
Sentiment survey came in at the lowest level since November of 2011.  If
you look at the story that you guys have made clear you believe you have
on what the President has accomplished in the last 10 months, you’re
also seeing all of your own numbers.  What do you attribute that to?  Is
it just inflation?  Is it coverage?  What does the White House think is
driving consumer sentiment to be at that low level?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say, without being an economist, we look at
most of these data points through the prism of COVID, and we know that
we were in this place we are in now because of COVID, because of the
impact of the pandemic.  That has led to inflation; that has led to
supply chain issues.  And we know that even on a fundamental human
level, people are tired of the pandemic. 

And so it’s hard to get into the psychological mind, which this is a
measure of, of course — different than some other data — but we see that
consistently across, you know, a range of data and a range of economic
analysis and even polling as it relates to how the current state of play
in the country is impacting the American people.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  In that same vein, can you just expand on that as it
relates to the poll that came out this weekend?  You know, you’ve got
the President’s popularity down to 41 percent approval; on his handling
of the economy, down to 39 percent.  And then you see the response to
his legislation, which is pretty popular. 

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    Where’s the disconnect there, in that his legislation right now —
infrastructure, particularly — is more — significantly more popular than
he is?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, what we see this as is an opportunity, because we know
that the President’s agenda is quite popular, as you noted and as you
can see in the poll.  The American Rescue Plan, the infrastructure deal
are some of the most popular major pieces of legislation in the last 20
years.  The Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal and the Build Back Better
Agenda are very popular.

And on COVID, polling shows there is support for our vaccine
requirements.

We know also — and I’ve been doing press and communications for some
time — I will tell you that you don’t design a communication strategy
around infighting within the Democratic Party in Washington.  That is
not how you typically design it.  That has been a necessity in order to
get this legislation done.

And looking back, the President would have done the same thing because
he wants to deliver for the American people.  But now is an opportunity
for the President, the Vice President, I’ll note — and he’ll mention
this today — our Cabinet to be out in the country connecting the agenda,
the impacts on people’s lives, moving beyond the legislative process to
talk about how this is going to help them.  And we’re hoping that’s
going to have an impact.

Q    But you don’t see the infighting in Washington within the
Democrats’ own party as the reason for the President’s approval rating
as where it is, do you?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we think, one, there’s a couple factors.  One is
people are still — there’s a fatigue from COVID.  We see that in poll
after poll — in your poll and many other polls that have come out around
the country.  People are sick and tired of COVID and the impacts on the
economy.  We understand that; we’re tired of it too.  That’s why this is
the number-one priority — continues to be — getting COVID under control.

I was just noting the fact that how we have spent our time and how our
time has been consumed here is by getting this bill across the finish
line.  There’s absolutely no regrets across — about that.  This is going
to get America — continue America moving again, make a fundamental
difference in people’s lives. 

But it hasn’t allowed for all of the time we would typically be out
there talking about the benefits, as the bill was not finalized — it
wasn’t finished.  We’re looking forward and eager to do that.

Q    And just quickly on infrastructure: You said at the top that the
President’s message is going to be that it’s going to get better, how
this is — you’re just going to lay out how this is going to impact their
lives.  What is the timeline on this, particularly what he is signing
today?  When will Americans start to see this in their communities in a
very real way?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, there are some components that we are going to see
rather quickly and some that will take a little bit more time.  And part
of what our focus is on, as you saw the President — and I announced at
the top: sign the executive order on implementation, creating this task
force, name somebody who’s going to oversee it.  And we’re going to get
components of this done as quickly as possible.

I would note, though, that this is designed to be — this is not designed
to be a stimulus bill; this is designed to be something that is spent
out over time.

What the President feels this bill is going to help do is have an impact
over the short, medium, and long term by putting people — more people
back to work, by investing in our infrastructure, by making sure people
know that there are industries of the future that we are investing in,
and we’re creating good-paying jobs for the long term as well. 

So, I would just note this is not — you know, sometimes it’s — I’m not
saying you’re doing this, but sometimes people compare this to the
Recovery Act of 2009.  It is not that.  We are not in the middle of an
economic — a historic economic crisis right now. 

This is an opportunity to build our country back better, build our
industries back better, and that’s what we are going to work to do as we
implement this bill.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  A couple more China questions in advance of tonight’s
meeting.  Has the President been briefed on China’s hypersonic test this
summer?  And does the President intend to bring up that hypersonic test
in this meeting?

MS. PSAKI:  I’m not going to get into classified intelligence briefings
with the President from here.  Obviously, the President receives a
Presidential Daily Brief every single day, and certainly he is up to
speed on anything our intelligence community is reviewing.

And I know there will be — you know there will be a readout later this
evening where they will talk in more detail about the topics that are
discussed at this meeting.  But beyond that, I don’t have anything to
preview.

Q    That test has been described by analysts as China’s “Sputnik
moment” or the start of a new arms race between China and the U.S.  Does
the President see it that way?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything more to speak to it beyond what I’ve
said.

Q    And the President, this summer, told Peter here that he does not
consider President Xi an “old friend.”  How would you describe —
(laughter) — how would you describe their relationship going into this
meeting?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I — I think — I can confirm, Peter, he still does not
consider him an “old friend,” so that remains consistent. 

You’ve heard the President note in the past that he is — President Xi is
somebody he has spent time with, he’s had face-to-face conversations
with.  And because of that, the President feels that he’s able to have
candid discussions with President Xi — someone where he can raise — whom
— with whom he can raise directly areas where we have concern, whether
it’s security issues, whether it’s economic issues, whether it is human
rights issues.  And he will certainly do that this evening during the
call.  But he will also look for areas where we can work together and
where there are areas where there is cohesion of opportunity moving
forward.

So, he — it gives him the opportunity — it gives him the ability, I
should say, to approach this multi-hour meeting with a level of candor,
to be direct and not to hold back, and to continue that moving forward.

I’ll note that because of the — kind of the condensing of power in
China, that this relationship, these ongoing discussions between
President Biden and President Xi, we feel, is a key part of having
intense diplomacy with a country that it’s important to do that at this
stage. 

So — but the long history helps enable him to do that effectively.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  Ahead of this meeting with President Xi, is President
Biden considering a diplomatic boycott of the Beijing Olympics this
winter?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I know you’re asking this because there have been
reports out there or questions, I should say, about whether or not
President Xi will raise the question of the Beijing Olympics.  We don’t
know if he will or will not, and we’ll leave that to them to preview. 
But I don’t have anything beyond that for you.

I’ve outlined for you what the President will talk about and discuss in
his meeting, and that’s what our focus is on from this end.

Q    Okay.  There are a few reports from over the weekend that the Vice
President is unhappy.  Can she expect the President’s automatic
endorsement if she decides to run herself in either 2024 or 2028?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first of all, the President selected the Vice
President because — to serve as his running mate because he felt she was
exactly the person he wanted to have by his side to govern the country. 
She’s a key partner.  She’s a bold leader.  And she is somebody who has
taken on incredibly important assignments, whether it is addressing the
root causes of migration at the Northern Triangle or taking on a core
cause of democracy in voting rights. 

So that is who the President selected.  I don’t have any predictions of
whether she will run, when she will run; I will leave that to her.  But
I can tell you that there’s been a lot of reports out there, and they
don’t reflect his view or our experience with the Vice President.

Q    And so you guys have not heard that the Vice President or key
members of her staff are unhappy?

MS. PSAKI:  Here’s what I know, Peter: I know that the President relies
on the Vice President for her advice, for her counsel.  She’s somebody
who is not only taking on issues that are challenging.  She’s not
looking for a cushy role here — no Vice President is, no President is —
and that she’s somebody that is a valuable member of the team. 

And he expects to also — you can all expect to be out there, out in the
country — on the infrastructure bill, and he’s looking forward to having
her out there too.

Q    And then just something tied to an ongoing court case.  Why did
President Biden suggest that Kyle Rittenhouse, on trial in Kenosha, is a
white supremacist?

MS. PSAKI:  So, Peter, what I — I’m not going to speak to right now is
anything about an ongoing trial nor the President’s past comments. 

What I can reiterate for you is the President’s view that we shouldn’t
have, broadly speaking, vigilantes patrolling our communities with
assault weapons.  We shouldn’t have opportunists corrupting peaceful
protests by rioting and burning down the communities they claim to
represent anywhere in the country.

As you know, closing arguments in this particular case — which I’m not
speaking to; I’m just making broad comments about his own view — there’s
an ongoing trial.  We’re awaiting a verdict.  Beyond that, I’m not going
to speak to any individuals or this case.

Q    But the President has spoken to it already.  And his mom now — Kyle
Rittenhouse’s mom came out saying that the President defamed her son and
that claims — she claims that when the President suggested her son is a
white supremacist, he was doing that to win votes.  Is that what
happened?

MS. PSAKI:  I just have nothing more to speak to an ongoing case where
the closing arguments were just made.

Go ahead.

Q    Given the National Guard is on standby though in Wisconsin right
now, Jen, does the White House or the President have any message to
those who may stir up trouble, regardless of the outcome at the end of
the Kyle Rittenhouse trial?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I can give you a little bit of an update that we’re in
contact — the White House is in contact with state officials at the
request of community leaders.  The Department of Justice’s Community
Relations Service has provided trainings and deescalation and
contingency planning to local community organizations, and they’re
prepared to provide any further assistance that is needed. 

But, you know, our message, I would say, is that, you know, President
Biden ran on a promise to bring Americans together and to turn down the
temperature on the angry, divisive rhetoric and actions we saw over the
past four years.  That’s his overarching objective. 

It doesn’t mean that he doesn’t understand — of course he does — when
emotions are high, when passions are high.  We’re here to provide
support.  And obviously, we’re going to wait for any verdict to come
out.  And beyond that, certainly we, you know, are hopeful that any
protests will be peaceful.

Q    And then, broadly, on the state of America right now: inflation,
obviously, at a 31-year high right now.  Americans are seeing their
dollars, their paychecks stretched right now.  Why should Americans not
be concerned that injecting another $1.75 trillion or more would further
raise inflation?

MS. PSAKI:  Because no economist out there is projecting that this will
have a negative impact on inflation.  And actually, what it will help do
is it will help increase economic productivity.  It’s — it will help
economic growth in this country.  That and the Build Back Better Agenda
will help reduce inflation, will help cut costs for the American people
over the long term. 

Q    But as you acknowledged, that’s over the long term.  So, I guess,
for those Americans who are really struggling with the bottom line right
now, what is the President doing now, like immediately, to try to
directly impact the rising costs that are Americans are witnessing?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the number one thing that the President can do is help
get COVID under control.  That, we know, is the root cause of inflation
and the price increases we’re seeing for a range of reasons.  That is
the best step that he can take, that the administration can take to help
get it under control. 

I’d also note though, in his — many of his proposals, but his Build Back
Better Agenda that is currently working its way through Congress and
we’re eager for the House to pass this week, there are a number of key
components in there that will lower costs next year for the American
people: cutting childcare costs in half; making preschool free for
families starting in 2022, saving families $8,600; leading to the
construction of additional housing units.  We’re seeing housing and the
cost of rent as a major driver of costs for families across the
country.  And even on issues like negotiating prescription drugs.  There
are people across the country that are paying a lot of money out of
pocket infl- — for insulin.  It will cap the cost at $35.

The President has a plan for lowering costs for American — the American
people.  No one is denying that inflation and any element of rising
costs is an issue for the American people. The question is: What are the
solutions?  We’re proposing solutions.  In the short term, we have to
continue to get COVID under control.  In the medium and long term, we
want to pass this agenda, which economists will tell you, including
Nobel laureates, this will help address inflationary issues over the
long term.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  We’re seeing some reports that Russia carried out an
antisatellite weapons test over the weekend and it potentially created
some kind of debris in space.  I’m wondering if the President has been
briefed on that at all and if the White House has a response beyond what
we heard from —

MS. PSAKI:  I have seen these reports.  I know that the State Department
was going to bi- — issue a statement about it, so let me refer to them
on any commentary on it at this point.

Q    And then American journalist Danny Fenster has been freed from
prison in Myanmar.  I’m wondering if the U.S. was involved — the U.S.
government was involved at all in his release.

MS. PSAKI:  I would again point you to the State Department.  They would
have the negotiating team that would have been engaged with any
officials or others there playing a role in getting him released.  I
would point you to them for any more details.

Q    I’ve got to ask this: Does the President intend to announce his
pick for Fed chair this week?  (Laughter.)

MS. PSAKI:  We’ll see.  I have nothing to preview for you quite yet.  I
understand the interest.

Q    And can you just confirm again that we’re expecting to have a press
conference with the heads of Mexico and Canada (inaudible)?

MS. PSAKI:  I have not.  I know I said that last week.  I have not.  The
schedule is constantly changing, so let me just take another fresh look
at it and we will confirm any details for you after the briefing. 

Go ahead, Shelby.

Q    Thanks.  There’s been reporting indicating that there’s a lower
vaccination rate in some of the intelligence agencies.  Congressman
Chris Stewart had said that some are up as high as 40 percent
unvaccinated. 

There’s also been similar reporting on vaccine holdouts at key military
bases.  RealClearPolitics said there’s around 10 percent of highly
educated and trained personnel refusing the vaccine at one of their top
weapons testing base. 

So with the vaccine deadlines looming, is the administration concerned
about the impact on national security if some of these percentages
remain high?  And secondly, is there any sort of contingency plan in
place in the event that we see a number of personnel taken off because
of this mandate?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would first point you to the Department of Defense. 
Their uptick numbers of people who are getting vaccinated are quite
high, so that’s not consistent with what I have heard, and they can give
you more specific details. 

And I don’t know if this is applicable to the agencies that you have
mentioned, but we know, in some components of the federal government,
we’re in a little bit of a delay in people entering the information and
data for their vaccination status.  And that’s something that we’re
encouraging people and workers to update as needed as we lead up to the
timeline. 

So that does not sound consistent with the data that I understand to be
accurate, but I would point you to any agency on the specific
percentages within their agencies.

Q    So there’s no –- there’s no concern about a number of personnel in
any of these agencies having to leave the workforce because they’re not
vaccinated?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, those numbers are not consistent with what I
understand to be accurate.  So I would point you to the agencies on the
numbers and the specific percentages per agency.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  One on China and one on infrastructure. You just
mentioned again, as part of your broader China strategy, working with
allies, coordinating with them.  In anticipation of tonight’s meeting,
have you briefed partners in Asia and Europe on sort of what you hope to
achieve from this meeting?  And do you plan to give them a readout after
— how it went — where you might have to coordinate with them?

MS. PSAKI:  Yes, we are in regular contact.  The President saw a number
of allies and partners just two weeks ago.  Our State Department
officials, our national security team are in regular touch, and I’m sure
there will be continued coordination after the meeting.

Q    Great.  And then one more on Mitch Landrieu.  In his new role, is
he expected to be involved in the effort to promote the infrastructure
package around the country, traveling like other Cabinet members are
going to be doing?  Is that part of his role?

MS. PSAKI:  We’ll see.  You know, I think he will be traveling, as I
noted, with the President tomorrow.  But I expect, at least for the
early stages, that his focus will be keeping his head down and getting
this — the implementation off the ground.  He is a very effective
communicator, a former mayor, a former lieutenant governor, so I’m sure
we will utilize him to be out there explaining the implementation plan
as well.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  On Belarus — the situation in Belarus: Is there
anything specific that you can share that the White House is doing or
can do to help in that situation, such as the President considering a
call with Putin, as some other leaders have?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything to preview on that front for you.  We
continue to work in close contact — or stay in close contact, I should
say, with our EU partners and other allies who are working to hold the
Lukashenko regime accountable for its ongoing attack and that includes
preparing follow-up sanctions in close coordination with them. 

So, we are working to continue coordination with them on these efforts. 
I don’t have anything in terms of a Putin call to preview.

Q    Any indication that Russia is involved indirectly/directly in any
fashion or form?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything on that from here.

Q    On — and one other question: Can you share some details about
tomorrow?  You know, it’s a swing state.  Why New Hampshire, and why
this particular bridge?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Let me just say one thing on the last piece, just so
I note it: While I don’t have anything to convey in terms of engagement,
I can tell you that we are still calling on Russia and encouraging them
directly to use its influence to press the Lukashenko regime to cease
its callous exploitation and coercion of vulnerable people.  There’s no
question they have that relationship and that ability to impact.

Okay.  To go to your New Hampshire question, quickly switching topics:
The President is going there because there is a broken-down bridge that
needs to be repaired.  And he is — it’s an opportunity to highlight how
this infrastructure bill can help communities, help people who are
taking their kids to school, help people who are holding their breath as
they’re going across bridges worrying about the safety and security of
how they’re traveling, to do exactly that. 

So, that’s why he’s headed to New Hampshire tomorrow to highlight that,
highlight this bridge that is decrepit and needs to be rebuilt, and show
people visually what the impact will be so they can understand how it
will help impact their lives.

Go ahead.

Q    You just talked about how the infrastructure bill is one of the
reasons why the White House thinks President Biden is coming into this
meeting tonight with President Xi with a position of strength.  But
legislation in Congress that would actually address boosting
competitiveness against China — the USICA, or the formerly known
“Endless Frontiers Act” — is pending in Congress.

MS. PSAKI:  So many names.

Q    I know.  (Laughs.)  So, I’m wondering if the White House is doing
anything to advance that bill in the House and to dislodge it, or do
they prefer this other version that House Democrats are working on.

MS. PSAKI:  So, the President is certainly eager to see USICA pass, and
he believes it is an important — would be an important step forward, an
important opportunity, perhaps in a bipartisan manner, to send the
message about our commitment to, you know, helping industries and make
us more competitive here in the United States.

I would say, though, that the reason why the infrastructure bill is such
an important component of our competition is because we are at the point
now where we are about 13th in the world in terms of our infrastructure
around the country.  And we’re seeing even as it relates to supply chain
issues, that we need to do a lot more to ensure that goods and services
can move across our country.  China has done more to invest. 

So, it is a very key and pivotal component of our — of the President’s
commitment to, you know, approaching the relationship from a position of
strength.

But we are eager to see it pass.  We’re engaged with members and
leadership on the Hill.  I don’t have anything from here in terms of the
particular components of it, but we would like to see the bill passed,
yes.

Go ahead.

Q    On that front, is the President — is there any hope in the White
House that this bill that he’s signing today will not be a one-off and
will, in fact, be like a turning point for future bipartisan agreements
like USICA or others?  Like, what’s your assessment of whether he can
turn this into political momentum?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think today what we’re focused on is the fact that
there hasn’t been a big, historic, impactful, bipartisan bill signing at
the White House in some time.  I guess there’s a lot of ways to view
that.  But — and we are — the President is grateful, and he will note
this in his remarks for the support of everyone from Mitch McConnell to
a range of members in both sides — both houses who supported this
legislation because they think it’s the right thing for the American
people and the right thing for their states.

The President will continue to — the door of the Oval Office will
continue to be open to working in a bipartisan fashion.  And the
President’s view is there are many ways that we can do exactly that. 
And that’s what the American people expect.  They expect and hope for us
to be able to work across the aisle.

He’ll also note that he is a President who is going — who believes that
consensus is a good thing, that compromise is a good thing, and that
that is how you get things done in this town and that we can’t be so,
you know, stiff in what we believe and “our way or the highway” in order
to get things done.  And he’s hopeful that that sends a message that he
is open to and eager to have opportunities to continue to work
together. 

But he can’t determine how everybody is going to vote in Congress.  We
know that.  But he does — he is somebody who wants to govern for all
people, pursue opportunities to work in a bipartisan way.  Today is a
great example of that, and we’ll continue to look for ways to do it,
moving forward.

Q    And to follow up: Does he have any expectation that, out in the
country, this success, this ceremony will translate into an improvement
in his poll numbers, his handling of the economy — any of that?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, as I said a little bit earlier, you know, there’s no
question that being able to go out there and talk about and sell a
package that actually exists, and we know the details of, is easier than
the alternative. 

And the President will be out there tomorrow; he’ll be out there
Wednesday.  The Vice President will be out there around the country. 
Cabinet members will be out there talking about how these packages
benefit the American people and the direct impact they’re going to have
on their lives.

We can’t predict for you what that will mean two months, six months from
now, but there’s no question that, you know, that will — that is a more
positive means of communicating from here than litigating every up and
down of the sausage-making in Congress.

Go ahead.

Q    Yeah.  Is it the White House’s expectation that the House will take
action — take up a vote on the Build Back Better plan before the
Thanksgiving break?  Where are you seeing things right now in terms of
timing on that?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would note for you that when a number of House
moderates, you know, put out a statement a couple of weeks ago.

Q    Yeah.

MS. PSAKI:  They conveyed that this was the week that they felt was the
time to move forward on this legislation.  We agree.  They’ve been
waiting for justifica- — you know, validation, I would say, of the White
House projections on the payfors in the legislation.  We’ve seen that
every component of information the CBO has put out has been consistent
with our projections.  There have been a number of other outside
economists and experts who’ve also conveyed that — you know, the nature
of this legislation. 

So, we’re hopeful that we will be — continue to move forward toward
getting this bill passed this week, as has been the plan for some time
now.

Q    Would you view it as a setback if there’s not a vote this week on
this?

MS. PSAKI:  We plan to move forward.  We’re not going to call bill votes
from here; we’ll leave that to the Speaker.  But we’re moving forward. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  To follow up on what you’ve said about
bipartisanship: By our count, there’s just 6 of the 32 Republicans in
the House and Senate who voted for the bipartisan bill that will
actually be there at the signing ceremony today.  Is the President
frustrated that more Republicans aren’t coming so he can highlight,
like, actually with everybody around him the bipartisan work that went
into this bill?

MS. PSAKI:  The President believes that today is an opportunity to
celebrate a bipartisan success that will have a huge impact on the
American people.  He invited everybody who supported it because he felt
that was the right thing to do.  Whether people come or not, that’s
their choice.  The President will still be elevating, talking about the
impact of this package as a bipartisan package that will help the
American people. 

I would also note that one of the other things he’ll highlight is that
we’re going to work with governors and mayors — and he’ll continue to
highlight in the days ahead, I should say — to implement this moving
forward.

And we don’t do that through the prism of somebody’s political
affiliation.  He’s going to work with and Mitch Landrieu will be working
with Democratic governors, Republican governors; Democratic mayors,
Republican governors — mayors.  And, really, what is most important to
the American people is what we do from here and how it’s going to impact
them and make their lives better, less than the attendance at a bill
signing.

Q    And that gets into my next question.  The New York governor said
today that there will be no MTA fare hike because of the funding that’s
coming from this infrastructure bill.  Do you have other examples of
immediate impact just like that?  Like, what can we see in the next
couple of days?

MS. PSAKI:  We will.  Look, I think the President is signing this bill
today.  The implementation coordinator is starting his job today.  We
will certainly have more updates, in terms of immediate impact, in the
days and the weeks ahead. 

Obviously, some governors and mayors can anticipate roads that will be
rebuilt, big bridges that will be rebuilt that are long overdue; how
this will help replace lead pipes that are in schools, in people’s homes
across the country; making sure families — and the President will talk
about this today — who have been sitting in, you know, McDonald’s or
Walmart parking lots to get their kid broadband access, moving forward,
soon, they won’t need to do that anymore. 

So, you will see mayors and governors talk about that in the weeks and —
days, weeks, and months ahead.  But we’re just at the beginning of
implementation, and we’re eager to get it started as quickly as
possible.

George, go ahead.

Q    Yeah.  In your answer to Colleen, you talked about the short-term
campaign.  Let me ask you about longer term.  You were here in 2010 when
President Obama signed the ACA, gave a couple of speeches, and then
moved on.  Is this going to be longer-term selling?  Are we going to see
him a year from now at the bridges and so on?  Or is this —

MS. PSAKI:  A year from now is an eternity away — (laughter) — I will
note.

The President wants to spend some sustained time out there communicating
with the country.  There’s a lot of ways to do that.  Certainly, he
loves getting out in the country.  No one loves a bridge or rail more
than President Biden.  So, you will certainly see him out there.  You’ll
see the Vice President out there quite a bit over the coming weeks as
well.  You’ll see Cabinet members out there, as well, fanning across the
country and talking about the direct impacts on people’s lives. 

So, I can certainly — you can certainly anticipate, George, that a
couple of weeks, months from now we will have a whole bevy of events and
photos and interviews that — that the team here will have done,
including the President, to go out there and communicate directly with
the American people.

Q    Thanks.  Oh, sorry.

MS. PSAKI:  Oh —

Q    No?  Go ahead.  Okay. 

MS. PSAKI:  One more.  One more.  And then we’ll go.  Yeah, one more. 
Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  I want to ask you, even though you said earlier you’re
not going to comment necessarily on the trial that’s happening: But when
we look at the case — the Ahmaud Arbery trial — and we’re seeing what’s
happening on the outside of this trial, and then you have one where —
just a pastor, Reverend Jesse Jackson, coming into a courtroom and seen
as threatening, and then 100 pastors coming this Thursday to pray
outside of the courtroom, what was the President’s response to that? 

Even though the judge, you know, reprimanded the lawyers — however, it
still speaks to what’s happening in our criminal justice system, the
unfairness — even in the Rittenhouse trial — how race has really still
taken precedence over in both cases.  And people are wondering what’s
happening next.

MS. PSAKI:  I appreciate your question.  And I just want to be clear
that what I’m trying — I don’t want to comment on from here is ongoing
trials where there are — you know, where the cases are being heard,
where the jury is still making decisions. And that’s just a
responsibility we have from here — or I have as the spokesperson —
right? — for the White House.

I will note that, of course, the President has watched and you’ve heard
him talk about the impacts that — what he has seen across the country:
protests, the emotions, racial injustice, whether it’s in our legal
system or it’s in policing and the reforms that need to happen.  And
that is something where there’s not one event, of course.  There are
many events that have deeply impacted him and made this a priority for
him and this White House.

I know, as there are verdicts and as there are — we will have more to
say.  But I just am limited in what I can convey beyond that from here.

Okay, thank you, everybody.  Thank you, everyone.

2:33 P.M. EST
