---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-11-22'
modified_time: 2021-11-22 22:11:59-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/11/22/press-gaggle-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-en-route-fort-bragg-nc/
published_time: 2021-11-22 22:30:00-05:00
title: Press Gaggle by Press Secretary Jen Psaki En Route Fort Bragg, NC
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Fort Bragg, North Carolina

5:00 P.M. EST

MS. PSAKI:  All right, hi everyone.  Okay, I have a few things at the
top for you.

Welcome to our trip to Fort Bragg.  The President and the First Lady
will be attending a Friendsgiving meal, hosted by the Robert Irvine
Foundation, as part of the First Lady’s Joining Forces initiative.

Fort Bragg itself is home to nearly 550,000 active-duty soldiers and
70,000 active-duty family members.  Its mission is to maintain America’s
Contingency Corps as a strategic crisis response force manned and
trained to deploy rapidly by air, sea, and land anywhere in the world in
order to fight upon arrival and win.

The President and First Lady visited the fort last in April of 2009 to
welcome home the 18th Airborne Corps from Iraq, which included
then-Lieutenant General Lloyd Austin, who was commander of the 18th
Airborne Corps.

On the base today, the President and the First Lady will offer brief
remarks thanking the service members and their families, serve part of
the Thanksgiving meal prepared by Chef Irvine.  After serving
Thanksgiving meals, they will meet with service members and families in
attendance.

They will also greet with a number of local elected officials.  We’ll
get you a list of that if you don’t already have that. 

Also wanted to note – you may have seen some of this earlier today –-
but as you know, today is the deadline -– later today, I should say;
midnight –- for our federal vaccine requirement. 

By the deadline for the vaccination requirement, we will have already
achieved 95 percent compliance across the federal government, and 90
percent of those employees will have had at least one shot.

Across the Executive Office of the President –- a question you may ask —
we have already reached a 99 percent vaccination rate.

The message today’s news sends is that vaccine requirements work.  For
example, nearly 25 percent of the IRS employees started getting –- of
IRS’s employees started getting vaccinated after the President’s
announcement, and nearly 99 percent of its employees are now in
compliance with their requirement.

Two more quick things: Last week, we reported that the price of shipping
a container between Asia and the West Coast has fallen.  Also wanted to
note we’re also watching where we have concerns about –- well, I’ll get
to this. 

Okay, while our nation’s importers are struggling with record shipping
costs and our nation’s exporters, including farmers, are struggling to
get their products shipped, new data from the industry experts show that
ocean carriers have been making extraordinary profits this year.  In the
third quarter alone, they made $48 billion, which is nine times more
than they made the year before.

So, last week, we called on the Federal Maritime Commission to use all
its tools at its disposal to ensure free and fair competition and ensure
there aren’t outsized profits. 

Last piece I just wanted to note is that the — today, the Department’s
Office of the –– the Department of Transportation’s Office of Aviation
Consumer Protection announced a record breaking $4.5 million settlement
with Air Canada for denying timely refunds to thousands of consumers for
flights that Air Canada had cancelled or significantly changed.  That’s
the highest penalty the office has ever –- has ever had against an
airline.

This is just the latest effort by DOT to promote competition and lower
prices for travelers as a result of the President’s Executive Order on
Promoting Competition. 

With that, where should we start?

Q    Thanks, Jen.  On the Ahmaud Arbery case, has the President been
paying any attention to the trial?  Does he have any reaction to how
it’s been going so far?  And then is the administration preparing for
potential protests like we’ve seen with some past, sort of, heavily
freighted cases? 

And then, on COVID, Dr. Fauci has been advising Americans that they can
safely gather with their families if they’re vaccinated, but we are
seeing a new surge in cases.  And given the threat of breakthrough
cases, how do you reconcile advising Americans to gather this holiday? 
Isn’t there a concern that that that could exacerbate the surge that
we’re already seeing?

MS. PSAKI:  So, let me start with the first question.  I’m not going to
speak to, obviously, an ongoing trial.  As we know, there’s closing
arguments that have been broadcast on television.  It’s certainly
possible the President has seen those, but I’m not going to have a
comment, nor will he, before they conclude. 

I will note, though, that the President has spoken many times to this
horrific event in the past.  And it’s not just about this case, in his
view; we have a lot of work to do as a nation.  And it’s just a reminder
of why the President has prioritized rooting out systemic racism. 

We remain in touch with local authorities, as we had in advance of the
Rittenhouse verdict.  But in — as it relates to any area where we are
preparing or there may be concerns raised by local authorities about
protests, ensuring we offer –- offer support, offer any assistance
needed, that remains the case here as well. 

As it relates to Dr. Fauci’s comments yesterday, on the Sunday shows — I
think you’re referring to — I mean, what he was referring to in his
questioning was about whether vaccinated families or vaccinated people
can gather together.  And he conveyed “yes.”  That remains consistent
with the CDC guidance, which is what he was speaking to and echoing. 
And we are certainly in a different place in that regard than we were
last summer. 

We also know that the vast majority of hospitalizations and certainly
deaths are from people who are unvaccinated.  So, there’s remaining
concerns, which he reiterated, of people who are unvaccinated and risks
that they pose to themselves and others.  But he was he cer- — he was
simply speaking to what the broad recommendation is by public health
officials and authorities.

Q    Jen, a couple on Fed nominations.  Just now, when the President
spoke and Fed Chair Powell and Lael Brainard, they spoke extensively
about containing inflation.  And we’re wondering if there is some kind
of agreement or understanding that could — tackling inflation and
containing inflation is the single-biggest priority for the Fed right
now?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, President Biden believes strongly in the independence
of the Federal Reserve and decisions around monetary policy.  And that
was reflected in his conversations with them, as well as, of course, his
announcement today.

We are — certainly recognize that any price increase, which is what most
people understand inflation to be, around the country is something that
impacts American families.  But, you know, we would also note that —
that we’re seeing, because of global supply chain issues and global
economic recovery issues, inflationary issues across the globe. 

And I would note that, you know, as the President said today, he feels
confident in the leadership of Chairman Powell and his re-nomination —
in order to independently make decisions about our monetary policy
moving forward.

Q    And for the economy, though, I mean, you know, containing inflation
is sort of really important.  And that kind of commitment has constantly
been, you know, conveyed by the White House.  And we’re wondering if —
you know, if the President, perhaps, now feels that, you know, that has
to be sort of the top priority for the administration overall?  And that
is, obviously, you know, the Fed is leading the charge on that.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I –- I think, yes, that the monetary policy and rate
increases — or not — is, of course, the purview of the Fed and
management of the — of predictions of inflation. 

I would note, though, that the way most Americans understand and feel
and experience inflation is by cost increases.  Right?  And they
experience that, as it relates -– and we see what the largest impacts on
cost increases are across the country, whether it’s gas prices or, in
some cases, food prices or a variety of issues. 

We know what the root causes of those are — right? — global supply chain
issues.  The best thing we can do as a government is to get the pandemic
under control.  That’s what the President’s number one focus is. 

We also know that getting his agenda passed — his economic agenda
further passed — Build Back Better specifically — as soon as possible
will help cut costs for families.  And what they’re really looking at is
what their pocketbooks, what their checkbooks look like, how they pay
for the cost of goods and experience that.  And that’s what we’re
working to do every day.

Yes, decreasing cost — cutting costs for families is our — one of our
top priorities.

Q    On oil, has the President weighed in yet on this proposal to do an
SPR release and this idea of other — bringing in other countries to join
as well?

MS. PSAKI:  So, as you know, because you’ve been covering this very
closely, as have others, we have been having conversations with a range
of countries about the importance of making sure that the supply out
there meets the demand and helps meet — prevent an imperiling of the
global economic recovery. 

But I don’t have anything to preview for you today.  We’ve been talking
with other energy consumers, as you know.  But at the — when the
President had his foreign trip recently and in ongoing conversations
with members of the national security team, we continue to consider a
range of options, as is evidenced by the letter that was sent by the
President to the FTC last week about price gouging, but I don’t have
anything more to preview.

Q    And then, on Russia, on the buildup of troops at the Ukraine
border, do you have any update for us on that?  And also, is there — we
know that there’s been some discussions about the possibility of a
virtual meeting between Putin and President Biden.  Is there anything
locked in on that yet?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything yet on a scheduled meeting or
engagement, though, certainly, high-level diplomacy is a priority of the
President, as of — as is evidenced by his meeting just a few weeks ago —
or last week, was it? — with President Xi.  But nothing on that.

We continue to have serious concerns about Russian military activities
and harsh rhetoric toward Ukraine.  We call on Moscow to deescalate
tensions. 

We’ve had extensive interactions with our European allies and partners
in recent weeks, including with Ukraine.  We’ve discussed our concerns
about Russian military activities and harsh rhetoric towards Ukraine.

We’ve also held discussions with Russian officials about Ukraine and
U.S.-Russian relations general- — generally. 

But beyond that, I would just reiterate that we are in touch with our
lo- — with European partners.  We continue to be — have serious concerns
about Russian military activities, rhetoric, and reports of buildup.

Q    And then one last thing, really quick.  Has he met or interviewed
with any of the candidates for the other three Fed board positions yet?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything in terms of the personnel process to
convey to you.  But I will tell you that we are hoping to — he is hoping
to make decisions soon and that those additional three open positions
are an opportunity to add additional diversity of experience and
background to the board.

Q    Jen, just a process question — a follow-up on the Fed process
question: I mean, is there any indication from Senator Brown that, you
know, he’s going to be holding the nomination hearing soon?  Is there —
is there anything the White House has heard from him?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any up- — I’d point you to Senator Brown and
the Hill on what the timeline of that office — of that process might
look like. 

I would note that — you didn’t ask me this, but I’ll just add it in
there — that Chairman Powell passed with 84 votes the last time and
Governor Brainard passed with a 30-vote margin.  So they’re both
eminently qualified, as you heard the President say this morning, and
we’re eager to get them confirmed.

Q    Do you know if any candidates of color were interviewed for the
Chair position by any chance?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything more about the process to read out for
you.

Q    Jen, on COVID: Europe is bringing back economic restrictions.  As
cases start to rise here in the U.S., is such restrictions, lockdown
policies back on the table or no?

MS. PSAKI:  I wouldn’t say — our process and our focus continues to be
getting more Americans vaccinated.  Every country has different
challenges they’re confronting.  We are fortunate in the United States
to have more than 81 percent of people in this country with at least one
dose.  We have — that is great progress that’s been made over the course
of the last few months.  We also have readily available vaccines across
the country.  We have purchased anti-vir- — the antivirals to further
add to our fight against the pandemic. 

So, we will continue to rely on the advice of our own health and medical
team.  And that’s not something that they have recommended. 

Q    And would the — does the President plan to travel to Waukesha?

MS. PSAKI:  Oh, sorry, I couldn’t hear you for a second.  I don’t have —
obviously, as I noted earlier today and you saw the President speak to,
you know, his heart, all of our hearts go out to the community, the
families who have suffered a tremendous tragedy when they were out
celebrating the holiday season with their family members.  But I don’t
have any trips or anything to preview for you at this point.

Q    Over the weekend, there were reports that President Biden was
telling allies that he is going to run for reelection in 2024.  Can you
confirm?  Is he going to run in 2024?  Is he telling staff that?

MS. PSAKI:  He is.  That’s his intention. 

Q    In 2018, then-Senator Harris voted against the confirmation of
Powell.  Did President Biden have to talk her into it?  How involved was
she in the decision-making?

MS. PSAKI:  Look, the Vice President is the first in the room, the last
in the room, and somebody that the President sees as a partner, and
somebody he consults with and seeks the advice and counsel of on nearly
every decision he makes.  So, certainly, she was consulted and this
decision was discussed with her.

I would note that, obviously, Chairman Powell has served in this
position for four years during a particularly tumultuous and difficult
time in the United States, as it relates to the pandemic and in keeping
the economy going during the pandemic. But beyond that, yes, certainly
he would have consulted with her.

Q    Jen, with the release of two of the missionaries in Haiti, is the
administration encouraged about the fate of the others?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, that is certainly news to be happy about — that these
two individuals have been released.  As you know, there are a number who
are still there.  And we have obviously been working around the clock —
our team on the ground.  We have a number of law enforcement who are
there, providing assistance and offering that.

But I just don’t want to get ahead or make predictions.  We’re just
working to continue to get more of the missionaries released and home.

Q    Any details to provide about how these two were released
(inaudible)?

MS. PSAKI:  I just don’t want to get into operational details because
our objective is, of course, to bring the rest home.

Q    The Washington Post reported earlier today that there’s, what they
called, a “budget crunch” in the Executive Office of the President —
that people have left and those roles have not been able to be filled
because of the September budget laws.  What is the White House doing to
address that, if anything?  Do they want to see more money for the EOP
in the next spending bill?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, because we’re still under the same CR –- right? —
through the first week after Thanksgiving, you know, we’ve had to
tighten our belts a little bit.  We’re certainly prepared to do that,
and we have done that as a result.

In terms of specific budgetary requests, I don’t have anything more.  I
can see if there’s more to get back to you on that.

Q    Following up on that, last week, you were asked about a potential
short-term CR or whether the White House favors a longer-term, sort of,
government funding bill.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah, we’re still having discussions.  I understand the
question.  We’re still having discussions.  I just don’t have anything
to preview for all of you on that.

Q    And then on Powell: He mentioned, I believe, and the President
mentioned today the importance of climate change and how the Fed needs
to consider addressing that going forward.  That was a critique of
progressives against Powell. 

Did he give the President any assurances that he would, sort of, change
his position and start looking into and dealing with climate change in
his position going forward?

MS. PSAKI:  So during his conversations with the President, he — Chair
Powell reiterated that he will make it a top priority to accelerate the
Fed’s efforts to address and mitigate the risks that climate change
presents.  I would note that you’ve seen, under his leadership, the Fed
take important steps toward — forward in putting climate change at the
center of their policymaking decisions: identifying it as a key risk
that needs to be addressed, joining with other Central Banks in working
to mitigate climate change, and hiring on one of the nation’s top
climate economists. 

But he did reiterate his commitment to that during their discussions.

Q    And then one more quick one on the American Rescue Plan, which we
haven’t talked about in a while.

MS. PSAKI:  Yes.

Q    Yeah. 

MS. PSAKI:  Yes.

Q    So, the Vice President announced another one point — $1
billion-plus going out to support diversifying the healthcare workforce.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    Do you have any update on how much money has been spent from that
bill and how much is remaining?  I mean —

MS. PSAKI:  I’m sure I can get you on from Gene Sperling.  So I will do
that.  You just want to look for a total amount?  Sure.

Q    And then just —

Q    Just a quick question.  Sorry.  Just a quick question on COVID —
the vaccine mandate that the White House put out for private employers,
Jen. : There’s obviously a stay and OSHA suspended it.  A, and while
many employers are still, you know, going ahead and asking their
employees to get vaccinated, there are some — and increasingly, perhaps,
expected to be others — who are sort of putting a hold on that
decision. 

And you’ve probably seen Disney came out this weekend and said that, you
know, their theme park workers — they don’t need the — need them to be
vaccinated.  They’re putting a hold on that. 

What more can the White House do to get private companies and employers
to act on what it, you know, has been pushing for, given, you know, now
the mandate is really stuck in the courts?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think the Disney piece is important to differentiate
because, as they’re based in Florida —

Q    Sure.  Sure.

MS. PSAKI:  — and, obviously, the governor there has consistently taken
steps to — take steps backward, as it relates to fighting the pandemic,
not forward.  So that’s where they’re based.

You know, I would note that a recent poll showed that 60 percent of
business leaders wanted to move forward on their own with vaccine
requirements, because we’ve seen them implemented at a lot of companies
-.  T- they’ve been effective.  And, overall, it gives a lot of comp- —
businesses certainty about their workforce.  It makes people feel more
confident in coming back to work.

So, one of the things we’ve done is csite a lot of the best practices
and the examples of companies — many of the airlines and others — who
have implemented these requirements, and done it effectively and
efficiently, and now have a very vaccinated and confident in the — in
the security — their health security — workforce.

We — there is a stay, as you noted.  Obviously, that will be litigated
through the process.  But, you know, we are still encouraging companies
to take steps to protect their workforce, and many are.

Q    Even though you have over 90 percent, you know, vaccination rate in
the federal government, that could also — I’m wondering, is the White
House doing anything to prepare for that 5 or 10 percent being, you
know,  — left off the job?  Is there plans to sort of make sure
everything keeps running?

MS. PSAKI:  Absolutely.  We have no concern about that.  I will say,
it’s 95 percent compliance.  Right?  Which means there are exemptions. 
Which — that percentage is actually consistent with a number of states
that have implemented vaccine requirements as well.  So, as we’ve said a
number of times, we don’t see this as a cliff. 

One, we have until the end — they have till the end of the day.  But
part of the process here will be, you know, different agencies — through
HR processes — consulting with, counseling with employees to move
towards being 100 percent compliant.  That’s our objective.  And it’s
certainly not a cliff where we’re going to look for the decreasing of
the workforce anytime soon.

Q    On the Olympics, are you hearing any chatter or discussion about a
boycott of the Olympics, especially over this missing — the tennis star
or for any other reasons?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything new to convey to you about the
Olympics.  But, you know, obviously, human rights and the handling of
human rights in China is something that we watch closely, and the world
watches closely .  So, when you say “chatter,” yeah, people are talking
about it.  But I don’t have anything new, as it relates to the U.S.
government approach.

Q    Thanks.

Q    Is there a deadline to make a decision on the Olympics?  I mean,
February is not that far away.  Is there any time for — timeframe to
make a decision?

MS. PSAKI:  I just don’t have an update on the timeline.

All right?

Q    Can I ask one on the SPR release?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    Especially if it’s like coordinated with other countries, I mean,
how can that work and how will that work?  And I mean, does that mean
that the White House hais perhaps — I don’t know — you know, given up on
asking OPEC to, you know, release more output?  Is that — is this a
result of that?  I mean —

MS. PSAKI:  One, no.  Well, I’m not going to get ahead of any — of any
process.  And I don’t have anything to preview for you on this. 

But I will say that, of course, we’re going to continue regardless to
press OPEC to ensure that the supply out there meets the demand.  And we
will continue to press oil companies who have made record profits and
are overseeing what we consider to be price gouging out there. 

When there’s a supply of oil or the price of oil is coming down and the
price of gas is not coming down, it does not take an economic expert to
know that’s a problem. 

But, you know, otherwise, we’ve been — we have been having conversations
for some time now with other oil-producing companies –- countries, I
should say — about how to meet this moment and make sure that the price
of gas that we’re seeing around the country is not something — around
the world, I should say — is not something that is going to hinder our
global economic recovery.

Q    Is the administration considering sending military equipment
weapons to the Ukrainian border?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything to preview for you on that.

Q    Do you have any intel specifically that suggests that Russia is
perhaps planning to attack Ukraine —

MS. PSAKI:  I’m not going to speak to intelligence.

Q    Okay.  Okay.  Because, I mean, you know, Moscow is like obviously
saying — you know, rubbishing the report, saying they’re inflammatory. 
But the U.S. continues to express concern.  So, I’m wondering if there’s
any actionable intel that —

MS. PSAKI:  I’m just not going to speak to intelligence.  I would just
note the long history of Russian propaganda. 

Okay.  Thanks, everyone. 

Q    Thank you, Jen.

5:21 P.M. EST
