---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-11-12'
modified_time: 2021-11-12 18:45:36-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/11/12/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-november-12-2021/
published_time: 2021-11-12 18:45:35-05:00
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, November 12,\_2021"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:32 P.M. EST

MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.

Q    Welcome back.

Q    Welcome back!

MS. PSAKI:  Thank you.  Okay.  I have a couple of items for all of you
at the top.

First, let me say it’s great to be back with all of you, although as a
longtime hater of heels, I do miss my slippers, so — which I’m sure some
of the women in this room can agree with.

But just to reiterate, I had intended to go on the trip with the
President about two weeks ago.  I did not go on the trip because I had
members of my household who had tested positive for COVID.  So out of an
abundance of caution, I stayed home.  I received four negative tests,
and then, on October 31st, I received a positive test. 

And I put out that information out of an abundance of transparency.  I
had not seen the President or had close contact for five days, given the
trip.  And when I did see him five days prior, we wore masks and we were
sitting outside.

As I noted in my initial statement — and was still the case even after
that — I had mild symptoms, primarily fatigue.  And I remain incredibly
grateful for the vaccine and the impact of the vaccine in keeping me
safe and other people in my house safe as well.

I also noted in my initial statement that I would be abiding by a 10-day
quarantine, which, for the math, it started on November 1st, which was
the day after I received a positive test.  It ended on Wednesday,
November 10th.  And then, yesterday, per White House protocols, I had a
negative test, and hence I am here back with all of you today.

So, I just wanted to outline that at the top.

I have a couple of other things.

Q    Thank you.

MS. PSAKI:  Thank you.

So, we’ve obviously had a very busy week as it relates to fighting
COVID. 

Our vaccination program for kids ages 5 to 11 hit full strength this
week.  Vaccines for kids are now available at 20,000 trusted and
convenient locations.  Our rollout is helping parents turn months of
anxiety into action.

On Wednesday, we estimated that nearly a million kids have already
received their first shot, and 700,000 additional appointments are
already scheduled through pharmacies alone.  That doesn’t obviously
track everybody, but that’s still a significant progress.  And we
anticipate many more will be getting vaccinated in the weeks to come.

The First Lady visited a children’s vaccination site this week in
Virginia and is headed to Texas next week to visit another site to help
communicate with families, with parents about the safety and the
efficacy of these vaccines.

I also wanted to give an update on the success of vaccine requirements. 
New data show that as vaccination requirements expanded, our vaccination
rate also increased.

In the past week, we’re averaging nearly 300,000 first shots for people
ages 12 and older per day.  These are new people getting vaccinated. 
For comparison, in mid-July, before the pandemic began im- — before the
President began implementing vaccine requirements, we were averaging
less than 250,000 first shots per day.

It’s clear that these requirements, driven by the President’s
leadership, are getting more people vaccinated, accelerating our path
out of the pandemic, saving more lives.

The vaccine requirements we put forward are going to continue to
accelerate our path out of the pandemic.  That’s how we see our path
forward.

I’d also note that we’re encouraged by the progress companies like
JetBlue are making as they implement their own vaccine requirement. 
Here, we are firmly in the camp of accelerating our path forward, as we
have conveyed.

I also wanted to note that over 27 million Americans have now gotten
their booster.

And on testing: This week, we invested an additional $650 million in
Rescue Plan funding to help point-of-care diagnostic test manufacturers
scale up their production.  It builds on aggressive actions we’ve taken
over the past several months, including to quadruple the supply of
at-home tests to over 200 million per month starting December.  I know I
ordered some from Walmart myself.  They came the next day, and I use
them at home.

Finally, on ensuring equity throughout our response: The President’s
COVID Health Equity Task Force submitted its recommendations to help us
build on this progress.  Already, we’ve announced a $785 million
investment in Rescue Plan funding to support community-based
organizations that are continuing to build vaccine confidence across
communities of color, rural areas, and low-income populations.

Finally, I would note 99 percent of schools are open for in-person
learning, and we’re helping parents get their kids vaccinated, which
means now 95 percent of people in this country are eligible to be
vaccinated.

Finally, a week ahead: 

On Monday, the President and the First Lady will participate in a Tribal
Nations summit coinciding with national Native American Heritage Month. 
This will be the first summit since 2016 and the first time that this
summit has been hosted at the White House.  The President will address
Tribal leaders and announce a number of steps to improve public safety
and justice for Native Americans, and protect private lands, treaty
rights, and sacred places.

The Vice President will be speaking at the summit on Tuesday, and
members of the Cabinet will be joining to discuss dozens of
agency-specific policy deliverables.

Also on Monday, the President will host, as you know, a bipartisan
bill-signing ceremony for his Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal, where he
will be joined by members of Congress who helped write the historic bill
and a diverse group of leaders who fought for its passage — governors
and mayors of both parties, and labor and business leaders.

Also on Monday — very busy day — have your coffee and spinach, or
whatever — whatever your — whatever you like for breakfast.  On Monday
evening, the President will meet virtually with President Xi Jinping of
the People’s Republic of China.  The two leaders will discuss ways to
responsibly manage the competition between the United States and the
PRC, as well as ways to work together where our interests align.

On Tuesday and Wednesday, the President will continue traveling across
the country to highlight how his Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal delivers
for the American people.

So, on Tuesday, he’s going to be visit — visiting the New Hampshire 175
bridge over the Pemigewasset — see how I did that? — River in Woodstock,
New Hampshire, which has been on the state’s “red list” of bridges in
poor condition since 2013.  There, he will discuss how the
Infrastructure Deal will repair and rebuild our nation’s roads and
bridges while strengthening resilience to climate change.

On Wednesday, he will travel to Detroit to visit GM’s Factory ZERO
electric vehicle assembly plant.  He will highlight how his
infrastructure plan will build electric vehicle charging stations across
the country, making it easier to drive an electric vehicle, and also
investing in a huge clean energy industry that will put many people back
to work.

In both Michigan and New Hampshire, he will underscore the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Deal will create good-paying union jobs across the
country.

On Thursday, the President will host Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of
Canada and President Obrador of Mexico for the first North American
Leaders’ Summit since 2016.  He will participate in individual bilateral
meetings with each leader ahead of the summit that day as well.

And last, but certainly not least, on Friday, he will pardon the
National Thanksgiving Turkey, continuing the <s>transition</s>
\[tradition\], in a ceremony in the Rose Garden.  This is the 74th
anniversary of the National Thanksgiving Turkey presentation. We’re all
very excited to meet the soon-to-be-famous turkey and its alternate. 
Did you all know there’s always an alternate?  Two lives are actually —
two turkey lives are actually saved — which were raised in Jasper,
Indiana.

With that, Zeke.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  And welcome back.

MS. PSAKI:  Thank you.

Q    On the health and COVID subject, could you speak a little bit about
how frequently the President gets tested for COVID-19 right now?  And
then also, has — when does he plan to undergo his annual physical?

MS. PSAKI:  He will be doing his physical soon.  As I’ve noted before,
as soon as he does that, we will provide that information transparently
to all of you. 

He is regularly tested under the guidance of his doctor.  We do provide
that information regularly to all of you.  I’m happy to check and see
when the last time he was tested and provide that to you after the
briefing as well.

Q    Thanks.  And does the White House have any reaction to the
sentencing of American journalist Danny Fenster in Myanmar?  Any
interaction from the White House or efforts on the part of the White
House to try to get him free?

MS. PSAKI:  I will say that, obviously, we are always concerned about
the detention of individuals around the world — journalists, dissidents,
people who are speaking freely and speaking on behalf of the media as
well.

In terms of direct action, it really would be under the purview, at this
point, of the State Department.  I would point you to them for any
updates on the status or engagement that they have with officials there.

Q    And then, lastly, after this morning’s APEC meeting, there was no
resolution on the U.S. bid to host in 2023.  Can you confirm that Russia
is the obstacle to the U.S. hosting — or hosting that summit in a couple
years?

And then, on the topic of Russia, there have been a number of reports
over the last couple of days about concerns on the U.S. government over
a potential Russian invasion of Ukraine with the troop buildup over
there.  Has the President reached out to President Putin?  What’s the
level of engagement right now between the White House and Moscow?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Let me start with your first question.  APEC hosting
requires the consensus of all 21 economies.  We thank the vast majority
of members for their strong support so far.  One economy — and I’m not
going to — I’m not going to confirm which economy that is — but is still
undergoing consultations and has not yet joined the consensus.

And our hope is certainly that we move past this impasse, that it is
resolved, and that we can continue the positive momentum on economic
cooperation through APEC.

And then, in terms of — your second question, say it one more time.  I
apologize.

Q    (Inaudible) that Russian troop buildup on Ukraine concerns the U.S.
government about a potential invasion over there.  And any White
House-to-Moscow engagement in the last couple of days regarding that
buildup?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, in recent week, and certainly days, we’ve extensive
interactions with our European allies and partners, including with
Ukraine — but about our concern about these reports.  And during these
meetings, we’ve, of course, been discussing our concerns about the
Russian military activities and their harsh rhetoric toward Ukraine. 

We’ve also held discussions with Russian officials about Ukraine and
U.S.-Russian relations generally.  As we’ve made clear in the past and
we’ve made clear directly to them as well: Escalatory or aggressive
actions by Russia would be of great concern to the United States.  We
call for an immediate restoration of the July 2020 ceasefire.  And we
stand with our partner, Ukraine, and condemn Russian aggression against
Ukraine in all forms. 

And, obviously, our European conversations are about shared concern
about the reports of this buildup and rhetoric.

Go ahead.  Andrea.

Q    Hey.  So, welcome back. 

MS. PSAKI:  Thank you.

Q    Thank you so much, Jen.  I wanted to ask you about the Xi meeting
that’s coming up on Monday.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure. 

Q    So are you expecting anything sort of concrete to come out of it? 
Or is this really more about reestablishing a — kind of a better basis
for dialogue?  Can you just say a few words?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, let me — I think this is why you’re asking me
the question.  So, let me just go back just briefly of, kind of, what
our strategy has been to date.  I mean, this meeting is coming after 10
months of President Biden taking action so we can outcompete China in
the long term.  And that means investing in ourselves at home to
strengthen our own competitive hand.  It means working with our partners
and allies to make sure we have a united approach and a coordinated
approach as it relates to engagement with China. 

We, of course, believe in intense competition.  We believe and
understand intense competition is part of that relationship.  We also
believe that that requires intense diplomacy.  So, this is a reflection
of that. 

And if you go back to the President’s phone call on September 9th, where
this was discussed — and, obviously, there was follow-up engagement —
one of the disc- — part of the discussion was about the importance of
that leader-to-leader engagement, not because we are seeking — and we’re
not — specific deliverables or outcomes, more because this is about
setting the terms, in our view, of an effective competition where we’re
in a position to defend our values — which certainly will be part of the
President’s conversation — and those of our allies and partners, and
also discuss areas where we can work together.

So, I would see this, Andrea, as more of a continuation of that
intensive diplomacy, given that we believe intense competition requires
that.  And I wouldn’t see this as an — I wouldn’t set the expectation, I
should say, that this is intended to have, you know, deliv- — major
deliverables or outcomes. 

Q    Yeah, so there were reports that President Xi could ask the
President to attend the Olympics in February.  What kind of signal would
it send if the President were to attend the Olympics, given the concerns
that have been raised about China’s actions toward Taiwan, its increased
aggression and, kind of, flights there in that region?  Is that — would
that be a problematic situation for the President?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I understand why, but we’re getting a few steps ahead
of where we are.  I will also note for all of your planning purposes —
and don’t want to ruin your Sundays — but there will be a preview call
of the summit on Sunday that all of you will be invited to.  So, in
terms of the Olympics or any invitation, I don’t have anything for you
on that at this point.

Q    Okay, just a quick one on the economy — on inflation.  So, one in
four Americans, according to a new survey, have experienced some kind of
loss of income as a result of higher prices.  The President has
expressed concern about this.  I know that you were working on different
fronts —

MS. PSAKI:  On cue.

Q    — to address this, but, I mean, how urgent is it?  And how — you
know, is there any sort of specific concern that this is going to affect
not just political outcomes, but just the overall economy? 

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, Andrea, first, let me say that, you know, a lot
of talk about inflation — I’m not saying from you, but in general out
there — has been — it’s become a political cudgel and it shouldn’t be. 
It’s impacting, as you said, millions of Americans no matter their
political party.  And that’s certainly of concern to the President. 

I would note that everyone from the Federal Reserve to Wall Street agree
with our assessment that inflation is already expected to be subs- — to
substantially decelerate next year.  I know you’re not talking about
that, but that’s an important component here.

And economists across the board also agree that the President’s economic
agenda — the Bipartisan Infrastructure Bill that he will sign on Monday
and the Build Back Better Bill that we’re working to move forward — will
not add to inflationary ples- — pressure, and will ease inflationary
pressure over the long term. 

But when we move past the economic jargon, which I realize is what
you’re asking me, and talk about the real impacts on people’s lives,
we’re really talking about costs to people.  Right?  And you talked
about this on Wednesday.  So it’s cost of childcare, cost of housing,
cost of gas, cost of household goods.  That’s how people are
experiencing this on a day-to-day basis.  And that is, of course, of
concern to the President. 

Our view is that the real risk here is inaction.  And the reason we — I
wanted to do this slide today — one, I love slides and graphics, so on
my first day back we had to have one — but is because if we don’t act on
Build Back Better, what we’re doing is we are — won’t be able to cut
childcare costs in 2020.  We know that is a huge impact on people’s
daily lives and American families. 

We won’t be able to make preschool free for many families starting in
2022, saving many families $8,600.  We won’t be able to get ahead of
skyrocketing housing costs. 

I mean, that’s a part of this bill too.  It has a major investment in
building new housing — affordable housing units so that people can move
into them and live in them and address the pending housing crisis. 

And we won’t be able to save American — Americans thousands of dollars
by negotiating prescription drug prices. 

So our view is this — this makes a strong case — this is a strong case
for moving forward with this agenda because what we’re really talking
about is cost to American families, how it’s impacting them.  And that’s
something that if we don’t act now, we won’t be able to address these
things in the short term either.

Go ahead. 

Q    Thanks so much, Jen.  And welcome back.  The President has picked
Dr. Rob Califf as his pick for FDA commissioner.  We’ve already seen
Senator Joe Manchin come out in opposition against him, citing his
“significant ties to the pharmaceutical industry,” as Senator Manchin
put it.  Is the White House confident that Dr. Califf can get confirmed
as FDA commissioner?

MS. PSAKI:  We are.  And I will say that the President chose Dr. Califf
— and this was in his statement, but let me reiterate some of this —
because he’s one of the most experienced clinical trialists in the
country, has the experience and expertise to lead the Food and Drug
Administration during a critical time in our nation’s fight to put an
end to the coronavirus pandemic. 

I’d also note that how we see this or how this President sees this
nomination is a continuation of what he views as excellent work under
the leadership of Acting FDA Commissioner Dr. Janet Woodcock, who’s led
the agency through a challenging time because of what’s happening in the
world and, of course, fighting the pandemic.

I would note that four years ago — five years ago, sorry — my math was a
little off there — he was confirmed by a vote of 89 to 4.  One of those
four is the individual you mentioned.  And every senator can vote for or
against members — or people who are nominated.  That’s their role.  But
we feel he’s a qualified person who has the exact experience for this
moment. 

Q    Thank you.  And how many Republicans should we expect to see at the
signing ceremony here on Monday?

MS. PSAKI:  We will see.  We’ve invited a broad group of Republicans:
some in Congress, governors, mayors, individuals who played a role in
helping move the Infrastructure Bill forward.  And as we get close to
Monday or on Monday, we’ll provide you, of course, a list of attendees. 

Q    Have any Republicans, like Senator Mitch McConnell, said that they
will not be at that signing ceremony?

MS. PSAKI:  I think he’s spoken to this publicly, so I’ll point you to
that.  But, certainly, we have the invite out to a range of members. 
We’re — we would — the President looks forward to thanking them for
their work, for working together to get this done for the American
people.

Q    And the —

Q    Have any confirmed at all?

Q    — last question on the President Xi meeting on Monday: Will the
President hold a press conference afterward like he did following this
meeting with President Putin?  And does he plan to bring up the COVID-19
origins with President Xi, given he has said that China has been
blocking investigators from getting access to information that’s
critical to them? 

MS. PSAKI:  That is a remaining concern.  And there will be a broad
range of topics that will be discussed, and the President is certainly
not going to hold back on areas where he has concern. 

Again, I would point you to the fact that we’ll do this preview call on
Sunday, where they’ll talk in more detail.  It’s Monday evening, so I
would not expect a press conference that — later after the call, given
the time difference.

Q    But anytime next week to hear the President talk about this
meeting?

MS. PSAKI:  I think there is one planned for after the — by — the
meetings with the Mexican and Canadian leaders next week.

Go ahead.  I’ll come back you.  I just want to jump around.

Q    Sorry.  You just said the real risk on inflation is inaction.  But,
so far this week, we haven’t seen any action from the administration on
gas prices.  The President, in Europe, said, you know, we would see
action sooner rather than later; on Wednesday, that it was his “top
priority.” 

So is he going to tap the SPR, ease biofuel blending requirements, ban
crude exports?  And if the answer is you still haven’t kind of decided
on any of this, is the message to Americans headed into Thanksgiving —
where everybody will be driving to see their family and friends — that
you think that the current prices are acceptable?

MS. PSAKI:  We certainly don’t think that.  The message to Americans is
that we’re not just closely and directly monitoring the situation —
which, of course, we’ve been doing — but we’re looking at every tool in
our arsenal.  You mentioned some of them. 

While I don’t have anything to preview today, the President is quite
focused on this, as is the economic team.  And I would note, again, that
we have taken a range of actions.  We’ve communicated with the FTC to
crack down on illegal pricing; are engaging with countries and entities
abroad, like OPEC, on increasing supply; and we’re looking at a range of
options we have at our disposal.  But I don’t have anything here to
preview for you.

Q    Axios reported that the President is considering appointing an
infrastructure czar to oversee that program.  Would that be somebody
that comes in from outside the White House or the administration, or
would we expect to have the Transportation Secretary or somebody like
that to sort of hold this position?

MS. PSAKI:  He does have an intent — he does intend to name a
infrastructure coordinator and someone who could oversee the
implementation of the bill.  I don’t have anything to preview yet on
that personnel announcement.  I expect we’ll have something soon, and
you can expect it will be someone from outside of the administration.

Q    And then, last one.  Senator Manchin was critical of, sort of,
inflation this week.  Obviously, there’s a question of if it’ll impact
his vote on the Build Back Better issue, and I’m wondering if you’ve
received any assurances from him that it will not. 

But also, it plays into sort of a larger critique that he’s had about
the Fed having, at some point, ramped down — he wishes that they’d
ramped down bond buying and (inaudible).  So I’m wondering if that is a
criticism that the White House agrees with, especially as the President
is sort of evaluating this position going forward.

MS. PSAKI:  I’m just not going to get into critiquing the Federal
Reserve from here or their decisions, given they make independent
decisions.  I would note that — and I’ll let Senator Manchin, of course,
speak for himself and his support or concerns he may have. 

You know, what we’re focused on is getting this bill passed through the
House next week.  And we have every intention of working with leadership
to get exactly — to get that done.  And we will remain, at a
senior-staff level, at this point, engaged closely with Senator Manchin
and answer any questions he has. 

I will note that most — the vast majority of outside economists agree
that this is not a bill that will add to inflationary pressure, and in
fact, over the longer term, it will ease inflationary pressure. 

And I would note just a couple of people who, at times, haven’t always
been positive about our proposals.  Former Treasury Secretary Larry
Summers said about Build Back Better, “I don’t think that’s an inflation
problem.”  He said if he was in Congress, he would vote for it. 

Moody’s Analytics chief economist, Mark Zandi: “I don’t think the Build
Back Better agenda will be inflationary.  I think it’s designed to lift
long-term economic growth by improving productivity.  That’s public
infrastructure, roads, bridges, broadband.  That will make us more
productive.  That should ease inflation.”  As we know, increased
economic productivity and growth eases inflationary pressure.  
  
And, of course, our favorite, the 17 winners of the Nobel Prize in
Economics, who wrote that “because this agenda invests in long-term
economic capacity and will enhance the ability of more Americans to
participate, it will ease longer-term inflationary pressure.” 

I would also note, and then I will keep cooking around here, but that
one of the reasons they don’t have concerns, as they’ve said in many of
these interviews that I was just pulling out components of, is because
it’s fully paid for.  And the reason it’s fully paid for is because
we’re asking corporations, the wealthiest Americans to pay more in
taxes. 

That is something — I don’t — you don’t need to be kind of a sleuth here
to understand why some Republicans are speaking out against this
package.  Is it because they’re opposed to lowering childcare costs?  Is
it because they’re opposed to making sure that preschool is available
for families?  Is it because they’re opposed to lowering healthcare
costs?  No, it’s because they don’t want to raise taxes on
corporations.  We all know that.  Hope people will ask them those
questions.

Go ahead.

Q    Jen, can I ask you about COVID very quickly?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    And welcome back, by the way.

MS. PSAKI:  Thank you. 

Q    The Colorado governor just signed an executive order making
everyone 18 and older eligible for a booster shot, which defies guidance
from the FDA and from the CDC, which says that the booster shot should
only go to those who are at higher risk or seniors.  What does the White
House make of that decision and move?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we, here in the federal government, are guided by
science and our country’s public health officials who are constantly
reviewing the data to make their own independent, evidence-based
decisions. 

As you noted, this isn’t currently the guidance that’s being projected
by our health and medical experts because they are looking at and
understanding the data.  So, we would certainly continue to advise
leaders across the country to abide by public health guidelines coming
from the federal government.

Q    If I can, quickly, just to detail your own experience: Do you have
any lingering symptoms?  Have you had anything that stuck with you?

MS. PSAKI:  I do not, fortunately.  And as I noted earlier, I was —
experienced a little bit of light fatigue in the first couple of days
but none that prevented me from participating in meetings here, engaging
with the President and the team on the road, and certainly probably
calling members of my team so many times they were tired of hearing from
me.

Q    As it relates to the White House, has the White House determined
whether it is safe to hold holiday parties, and will the White House do
so this year?

MS. PSAKI:  You know, it’s going to look a little bit different, Peter,
and I don’t have anything to outline for you at this point in time.  But
certainly we expect to celebrate the holiday season.  And we’ll have
more details, I expect, in the coming weeks on that for you.

Q    So, for clarity, when you say it’s going to look different, that
means there will be holiday parties and they will look different but
you’re not going to detail how they’ll look different yet?

MS. PSAKI:  We’ll have more to convey to all of you about what it will
look like, and I just don’t have those details at this point in time.

Q    Let me ask one last question if I can, quickly.  Across this
country, we’ve seen this new phenomenon lately chanted at sporting
events and on signs.  The phrase is, “Let’s go, Brandon.”  A sort of
code for a profane slogan attacking President Biden.  What does the
President make of that?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t think he spends much time focused on it or thinking
about it.

Q    The President said when he came into office on Inauguration Day —
he said he was going to help get rid of the “uncivil war” in this
country.  So I guess, through that lens right now, does the President
think there are things that he can do differently?  Or how does he react
to the stuff he sees out there when it is one of his primary promises or
desires to help bring Americans together?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, it takes two to move towards a more civil engagement
and discourse in this country.  And the President is going to continue
to operate, as you said, from the promise he made early on, which is
that he wants to govern for all Americans. 

He’s going to deliver for all Americans, as is evidenced by the
infrastructure bill that he’s going to sign on Monday, that’s going to
help expand broadband to everyone, no matter your political party, no
matter whether you voted for him or not.  That’s going to replace lead
pipes, make sure kids have clean drinking water, whether you’re a
Democrat or Republican or not political at all. 

That’s how he’s going to govern.  And certainly we’re hopeful we’ll have
partners to move toward more civil discourse with in the future. 

Q    Thank you. 

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead, Jacqui.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Welcome back.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Thank you.

Q    Democrats are calling for the President to release barrels from the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve to bring down costs.  And that would be
somewhat of an immediate action to mitigate these high gas prices as
opposed to waiting for the BIF money to be implemented to address the
long-term supply chain issues or the Build Back Better to be passed. 
Why has the President not yet done that?  Does he plan to do that soon?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything to preview for you.  I can just
reiterate what I conveyed a little bit earlier: is that certainly the
cost of gas is on the minds of the — on the mind of the President, as it
is on the mind of many Americans across the country. 

And there are several steps we’ve taken, including pushing the FTC, or
asking the FTC to look into price gouging — something we’ve seen and we
have concerns has been an issue over the past few months as the
availability and supply of oil has gone up and prices have not come
down; pushing OPEC to release more supply to meet the demand.  And
certainly there are a range of other domestic options, but I just don’t
have anything to preview at this point in time.

Q    And then, can I get your response to this report from the Tax
Policy Center that under the Build Back Better plan, most millionaires
would get a tax cut; two thirds of people making over a million dollars
would get a cut on average of $16,800, mostly because of SALT? 

Separately, it finds that 20 to 30 percent of middle-class households
would pay more in taxes — granted, it’s a small amount — between $100
and $230 depending on income levels.  But how does the White House frame
this reconciliation plan as a tax cut for the middle class, paid for by
the rich, when this analysis is showing the opposite?

MS. PSAKI:  It actually doesn’t.  Just to give a little bit more context
of what the report showed, it also showed that the average family with
children making $75,000 to $100,000 per year will get an income tax cut
of about $2,230.  It also showed the average —

Q    Isn’t that not until last year though?

MS. PSAKI:  It showed the average taxpayer with income above $1 million
per year will see their income taxes go up by $65,000.  Seventy-five
percent of the tax cuts go to families making less than $200,000 per
year, with 54 million families making less than $200,000 a year getting
a tax cut. 

What we also don’t buy into, which is part of your second part of this,
is that any tax that dares touch big corporations — many of whom are
making record profits and not paying any taxes at all — is somehow a tax
on the middle class. 

Most economists agree with us: Build Back Better will clearly lower
taxes, lower costs, raise wages, and economic growth — increase economic
growth for the middle class.

The strategy — and just look at the 2017 tax cuts — that was argued at
the time, that giving tax cuts to big corporations would trickle down to
lower income people — it didn’t.  None of that happened.  So we’re just
not buying into that notion

Q    But doesn’t that not take effect — that cut that you’re referencing
— until 2023? 

So, I guess what I’m getting at is: Next year, 2022, the expectation is
that middle-class families will be paying, granted, a little bit more,
but still a little bit more if this passes.  And then, also, you’re
still dealing with issues like gas prices being high.  You guys have
talked about the actions you’re going to take or are looking at, but
these are long-term solutions, mostly, that you’re talking about.  So
what will be done in the immediate future to address the next year?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Actually, many of them are short term.  But what is true and
is not often out there is that a lot of these pandemic relief programs
are ending — right? — are ending. 

So if you look at the spending — (gestures upward trajectory) — I don’t
really have a graph right now; I’m kind of making a fake one — but if
you look at the spending from pandemic relief, that is going to go down
because a lot of those programs are ending. 

So when people are out there — this isn’t your question, but just made
me think of it — when people are out there criticizing the influx of
money into the economy, that’s actually misleading and inaccurate. 

What we’re really talking about here is we’re ending those programs. 
The President supports that.  There are programs, to your point, like
the Child Tax Credit, that if we don’t extend the Child Tax Credit, 40
million Americans will no longer get the benefit of the Child Tax
Credit.  That’s an immediate benefit that would be happening next year. 

I mentioned, before, investing in housing and building lower inc- — or
available housing that allows for options for lower-income and
middle-income families.  That is something that will have an impact. 
Cutting childcare costs in half — that’s something that will happen next
year.

That — those are all ways that we’re working — we’re trying to and
focused on lowering costs for Americans.  That would be a part of this
bill.

Q    And then, I want to ask you about real — real quick about Ukraine. 
I know you discussed earlier the Russian troops amassing on the
Ukrainian border.  Field hospitals, as we all know, started being set up
in April, indicating that there might be some action there.  Blinken’s
comments about concern about Russia rehashing the 2014 invasion and then
Jake Sullivan underscoring the commitment to Ukrainian sovereignty and
territorial integrity.  But has — it doesn’t seem there’s been any
indication of more support on the way from the U.S. right now.

MS. PSAKI:  To the Ukrainians?

Q    To the Ukrainians.  And then — so why is that? 

And then, also, why did we send the CIA Director to Russia instead of
the Secretary of Defense or our ambassador or Blinken to handle this
kind of a diplomacy issue?  Like, who is he speaking for in that trip?

MS. PSAKI:  He’s speaking for the U.S. government.  I’d also note that
the CIA Director is also the former ambassador to Russia and the former
Deputy Secretary of State.  So he does come to it with quite a bit of
experience.  But the President looks at his national security team as a
group of smart, engaged individuals who are representing his national
interests overseas, and that’s what he’s doing. 

I will note, on the Ukraine question, part of the reason I mentioned the
engagement with European allies and partners is because, as you know, we
operate in lockstep with our allies and partners.  That’s how we’ve
approached things.  We are — we have a shared concern about reports of
military buildup on the border.  I don’t have anything to preview at
this point in time, but that is something that we are very actively
engaged with not just the Russians on and the Ukrainians, but also our
European partners as well. 

I just want to skip around because I know we’re not getting to enough
people in the back, so I hear.  Okay, let’s go all the way.  Time.

Q    Thank you.  Thank you very much, Jen.  I had a question about the
meeting between Xi Jinping and President Biden on Monday.  The U.S.
Holocaust Museum this week came out with a report that China’s actions
towards the minority population of Uyghurs in the country may amount to
genocide.  Its use of forced slave labor and forced sterilizations and
other actions, is that something that the President is going to bring up
with Xi Jinping?  And is that something the President will hold up as
something that Xi Jinping needs to take action on, to reverse, before
the U.S gets closer in its relationship with China? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say that one of the purposes of this
leader-to-leader engagement is to also discuss areas where you have
strong concern and disagreement.  And, you know, it’s not just the
President’s words, though; we’ve also acted.  We are engaged, first of
all, with members of Congress on technical advis- — providing technical
assistance on legislation that’s currently working its way through
Congress. 

But in addition to that, we’ve also taken concrete measures on our own,
including visa restrictions, Global Magnitsky and financial sanctions,
export controls, import restrictions, the release of a business
advisory, and rallying the G7 to commit to take action to ensure all
global supply chains are free from the use of forced labor.

So this is an area where we have been — the President has been vocal, he
has taken action. 

Again, in terms of topics that will be discussed, there will be areas
where we work together, and he will not hold back, as he never has, on
areas where we have concern.  But I will leave it to the preview call on
Sunday to give you more detail on that.

Q    Does the President believe that his personal relationship with Xi
Jinping — going back to having a meal together in a noodle shop in
Beijing in 2011 and their — the time that they spent together — will
that have an impact on his ability to engage with Xi Jinping and get
China to take actions that it’s been reluctant to take so far?

MS. PSAKI:  I would say that he — you’ve heard him talk about this
before, Brian, and he feels that the history of their relationship —
having spent time with him — allows him to be quite candid as he has
been in the past and he will continue to be as we look ahead to next
week.

Q    Just a follow-up on China.

MS. PSAKI:  Let’s go all the way in the back.  There you go.

Q    On the Monday virtual meet, will concerns on the border tensions
with India also be raised between the two leaders?

MS. PSAKI:  Again, I know there’s a lot of interest in this meeting.  I
certainly understand it.  We’re going to be previewing it later this
weekend.  There’ll be a range of topics discussed — you know, some where
we have concern; some where we have areas where we can work together;
some certainly security related; economic.  There’ll be a range of
topics, but I’ll leave it to the Sunday preview call.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  I wanted to ask about the numbers that came out this
morning about the record number of people quitting their jobs in
September.  Is there a concern that this number might go even higher
when the vaccine mandate goes into place? And what is the administration
doing to help companies who are concerned about retaining workers once
the mandate kicks in?

MS. PSAKI:  You’re talking about because of the vaccine mandate —

Q    Right.

MS. PSAKI:  — being implemented?  And is it specific companies?  I just
haven’t seen this data, so give me a little more information.

Q    So there are some companies that are concerned, once the vaccine
mandate goes into place, that they may have trouble retaining workers,
especially hourly workers who may not want to get the vaccine.  Are you
afraid that these numbers of people quitting their jobs will go up?  And
what is the administration doing to help companies who are worried about
this?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first I’ll say that hasn’t actually been what we’ve
seen at the vast majority of companies who have implemented vaccine
mandates.  And as you know, the deadline hasn’t come up for where it
would be required.  It’s coming up in the coming months. 

But many companies — the airlines, of course; hospital systems — have
implemented vaccine requirements.  The vast majority of people have
participated in them and abided by those requirements, and now they have
a healthier, safer, more predictable workforce.

So, we haven’t actually seen that to date, so I don’t know that we would
have that to predict in the future.

Q    But also, companies that are worried about losing their workers are
probably waiting to implement a vaccine mandate.  Right?  So as
(inaudible) —

MS. PSAKI:  I would see if companies convey that, we can speak to that. 
But, obviously, we’re working to implement the OSHA requirements — the
regulations that were put out just last week. 

And our view is that — and the view of a lot of outside economists and
experts too — is that this will require more certainty for companies and
that they will know their workplace is safe; that people will feel safe
going to their workplace, which has been an issue throughout the
pandemic; and that they will also know that workers are less likely to
get sick from COVID, which has been, you know, in a range of industries,
an enormous issue and created a great deal of unpredictability across
the board.

Go ahead. 

Q    Jen, can I follow on that?

MS. PSAKI:  I’ll come back to you, Weijia.

Q    Jen, with the Transgender Day of Remembrance fast approaching, 2021
is the — has the highest number of recorded deaths of transgender and
non-binary people, totaling out at 45 this year, according to the Human
Rights Campaign.  The President brought attention to this issue as a
candidate, but has he been briefed on it as — in the White House?

MS. PSAKI:  I’m not sure, Chris, and I’m happy to ask the President and
see with our domestic policy team if they have briefed him on that. 
That’s devastating, and that’s terrible and heartbreaking to hear.  It
is a commitment of the President to address violence, address threats to
transgender people and anyone who’s facing those threats.

But I will see if he has been briefed on that.

Q    What options are on the table for him to pursue on this issue?

MS. PSAKI:  In terms of reducing violence?  Let me just see if he’s been
briefed.  And I’ll talk to our domestic policy team and maybe we can
connect you directly with them to get more information. 

Go ahead, Weijia.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  So that report that my colleague was citing —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — was not directly just about people quitting because of COVID
mandates. 

MS. PSAKI:  Oh, okay.

Q    Yeah.

MS. PSAKI:  That’s helpful. 

Q    But the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that, in September
alone, 4.4 million people —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — quit their jobs after 4.3 million in August.  So how are those
figures accounted for when the President talks about the record 5.6
million jobs created in the first nine months, when he talks about job
growth, economic growth, et cetera?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, what you also see in the data, Weijia — I’m not sure
if this data, but other data — is that people feel the vast majority of
the American public, even when there — as there are concerns about cost
of household goods and other childcare costs, et cetera — that this is a
good time to change careers and look for a new job.

So, we’re also seeing that, and I think that’s likely reflected in that
data as well.  And we’ve seen that happen psychologically during the
pandemic and also because people, you know, may have taken the moment to
decide what they wanted to do with their lives.

So, in terms of — we have still created that number of jobs.  There are
people who are changing jobs.  I can check with our economic — I’m not
sure what your question is though.  Are you asking how many of the new
jobs created are people changing jobs?  Or —

Q    Well, I’m asking, you know, in two months alone, some 9 million
people quit their jobs, and I don’t know that they’re all going to new
jobs.  So, is there any concern about this trend dubbed “the great
resignation”?  Is there anything you can do to reverse it?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we know we’ve seen labor shortages in some
industries.  In some industries, that’s because they need to have a more
competitive package to offer to workers.  It’s a worker’s market right
now.  We know that.  People are looking for more dependable benefits. 
They’re looking for wages that are higher.  And that’s something that is
incumbent on a lot of industries to meet the moment on.

But I can certainly dig more into this data and see if there’s more to
provide.

Q    And then, just a quick question on the infrastructure bill —
because, in Baltimore, the President talked about how it will ease
congestion at ports.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    But those projects are going to take time.  So, when do you think
that funding will actually have a direct impact on the bottlenecks we’re
seeing now?  And in the meantime, is there anything more the
administration can do ahead of the holiday season?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, one of the steps we took — there’s no question that
addressing — being able to ensure that goods are moving around the
country more safely, more easily, without congestion is a big objective
of this infrastructure bill the President will sign on Monday, and it
will help, hopefully, address that over the long term. 

As we know, the supply chain issues are global, and we’re seeing them —
you know, countries around the world impacted by the global supply chain
issues. 

So — but what he’s doing here and what he’s been quite focused on is
really attacking the issue at ports and the congestion at ports, which
we know is a big way that goods are coming in and where goods are
moved. 

So, we announced — I think it was last week or earlier this week; it’s
all running together — that within 45 days we’ll be launching $240
million in grants to improve ports.  And in the weeks and months that
follow, billions of dollars of additional money will be flowing to
improve our critical port infrastructure. 

We’ve also seen big, dramatic improvements at a number of these ports,
where they are quite crowded because the increase in demand and in goods
that are moving has increased by about 20 percent.  But because of the
steps that have been taken, in terms of moving empty containers, in
terms of putting in place, you know, requirements or consequences for
congestion, that that has dramatically — we’ve already seen improvements
in that. 

So, the President announced this major ports plan.  We’re going to get
these — this funding out.  He’s really focusing on the areas where we
have the largest amount of traffic that’s coming into the country, which
certainly makes sense.  And that’s a part of what we can do more
immediately.

Q    Thanks, Jen.

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.

Q    Following up on Weijia’s first question about workforce imbalances,
you said that it’s a worker’s market and that some industries need to
create more competitive packages, that it’s a good thing people have
more choices.  Is that your way of saying that the White House doesn’t
view this as a problem at all?

MS. PSAKI:  I think I also said in response to Weijia’s question that
there are some industries where we’re seeing labor shortages; there are
a couple of reasons for that.  But some of the people — the workers —
and we’ve seen this statistically in a lot of surveys — people — many
people across the country feel this is a good time to change jobs —
right? — to look for a more competitive job.  What I’m saying is:
Ultimately, that’s a good thing.  It is challenging in certain
industries when they do have labor shortages. 

Some industries, in terms of some short-term ind- — industries that have
short-term workers or seasonal workers, COVID is an issue there and
continuing to address COVID.  In our view, putting in place requirements
to provide more certainty, that’s an issue. 

Another issue is childcare, something we’re working to attack and go
after aggressively so that we can lower the cost of childcare and make
sure people have a range of options to bring more women into the
workforce.  So, there’s a range of issues; I’m not saying it’s one
thing. 

Certainly, we have concern about any industry that has a shortage of
workers, but also, I don’t think we should undervalue the fact that many
workers feel this is a time to look for a better job with greater pay
and more benefits.

Q    And then following up on the questions about gas prices again —
just kind of taking a step back, there’s some Republicans who have taken
this moment where they’ve seen gas prices spike to criticize sort of the
administration, big picture.  Right?  Canceling the Keystone Pipeline,
halting leases for — new drilling leases on federal lands, saying that,
sort of, the administration’s policies writ large have contributed to
the rise in gas prices.  What’s your response now to that?

MS. PSAKI:  Our response is that, one, we haven’t — we haven’t cancelled
existing.  There are existing leases that are continuing.  And just to
be clear, I know you know —

Q    Sorry.  Not new leases.

MS. PSAKI:  Not new leases. 

Q    You’re right.

MS. PSAKI:  But just to be clear — and I know that’s been a criticism —
so that’s why I said that — and not an accurate one. 

Look, our view is that the rise in gas prices over the long term makes
it an even stronger case for doubling down our investment and our focus
on clean energy options so that we are not relying on the fluctuations
and OPEC and their willingness to put more supply and meet the demands
in the market.  That’s our view. 

We feel that — but we also feel that there are a number of actors here,
including price gouging, that we have concerns and we’ve seen out there
— we feel we’ve seen; we’ve asked the FTC to look into the need for OPEC
to release more — that are the larger issues here and that’s why we’ve
been focused on those options.

Q    Jen — 

MS. PSAKI:  Let me just keep going around.  Go ahead.  Go ahead.

Q    Thanks.  Just following up on this — and I kind of want to go at
this inflation question a bit differently. 

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    I mean, it seems like the White House is making a lot of promises
on inflation.  But there are some concerns that the White House or a
President doesn’t have any — a lot power over inflation.  And even when
you talk about energy prices, in particular, like gasoline — you’re
talking about the FTC doing investigations — that’s a common tactic.  It
usually doesn’t turn out very much.  Tapping the SPR, that’s a
short-term thing; it’s not a long-term thing. 

So, I guess my question is: For the White House, you’re making these
promises — how do you deliver, especially on things like gasoline, food
prices?  Yes, you can, you know, deal with childcare costs, but these
kind of bread-and-butter issues, how do you actually deliver on that?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the — some of the biggest costs — the reason I touched
on those is: Some of the biggest costs for households and Americans —
and the way they feel inflation is not typically looking at a graph,
right?  They’re looking at the costs and how things are impacting them —
are things like housing and childcare and healthcare.

Q    But also, gasoline is a very big cost.

MS. PSAKI:  Correct.  But those are big, big costs on people’s
households.  And that’s why I addressed and raised those issues. 

I’d also note that every outside economist — most — a vast majority, I
guess I should say — predicts that inflation will come down next year. 
That is what outside experts are predicting. 

So, what we’re really talking about is how we cut costs in the short
term.  I’ve outlined a number of ways we would cut costs. 

I would note that we don’t have partnership from — with — from most
Republicans on that.  We hear a lot of screaming about inflation.  We
don’t hear a lot of solution agreements or willingness to participate in
a solution, and that’s really — or a discussion of a solution.  And
that’s really what we’re looking for at this point in time. 

So, I noted that the way that we can, and how outside economists are
projecting we can address inflationary issues, is by continuing to push
this agenda forward — pass the agenda — because it will help spur
economic growth, it will help spur productivity, and also because it’s
fully paid for.  And that’s why outside economist Larry Summers,
Moody’s, Mark Zandi don’t think it will have a negative inflationary
impact.

Q    On a separate issue: On November 16th, there are about 200 acting
positions in the federal government that will kind of lose their
authority under the Federal Vacancies Act.  Like, what is the White
House planning to do about that?  You know, is there any — are there
plans in place about those acting positions, acting roles?

MS. PSAKI:  We’d certainly love to get more people confirmed, as you
know.  I will check and see if there’s anything we can outline further
for you.

Go ahead.

Q    Just a quick follow-up on Dr. Califf.  Obviously, it was — so, when
Senator Manchin released his statement yesterday, he talked about his
ties to the pharmaceutical industry and then subsequently the industry’s
role in the opioid pandem- — or epidemic.  So, I’m wondering if the
White House is concerned that this could be a tough vote for Democrats
who come from states where the opioid epidemic is severe, such as New
Hampshire and Nevada.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say that, one, the President has been very
clear on his view on the role of the pharmaceutical industry in the
opioid epidemic.  He has also been an advocate for lowering the cost of
prescription drugs by allowing Medicare to negotiate prescription drug
costs, something we know the pharmaceutical industry does not support. 

So, I think the President is hardly in the pocket of the pharmaceutical
industry.  I think they would — they would agree with that component. 
That is true of the vast, vast majority of Democrats out there as well. 

And what the President — the reason he nominated Dr. Califf is because
he feels he is qualified, he has the experience, he’s ready to take on
this job the day he’s confirmed, and that’s probably why — the reason
why he was supported and passed with overwhelming support of Democrats
and Republicans just five years ago. 

Q    Jen, can I ask you a question on Ethiopia?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    Thank you and welcome back.

MS. PSAKI:  Thank you.

Q    Missed you the most.  (Laughter.)  And thank you for taking
question across the room —

Q    Who is behind you?

MS. PSAKI:  Oh, it’s our regional reporter.  We’ll get to him in a
second. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you for taking question across the room.  Maybe the
(inaudible) is see if we can limit the questions to two; that would be
great for everyone to have an opportunity.

Ethiopia seems to be on the brink of a civil war.  The U.S. State
Department is urging Americans to leave the country and even providing
loan for those who cannot afford to leave Ethiopia now. 

The U.S., the EU, and the U.N. are urging Ethiopian leaders to embrace
peace but we do not seem to be near any peace at the moment.  Is there
anything else the White House can do to avoid another Afghanistan-like
exit?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would first say — and you may or may not have seen
this — but this morning, the Treasury and State Departments announced
the designation of six targets associated with the Eritrean government
in response to the growing humanitarian and human rights crisis and
expanding military conflict in Ethiopia pursuant to the President’s
executive order in September. 

And I know you’ve been asking when we would take some action pursuant to
that executive order, and so we took some action this morning. 

I would also note that we are briefly delaying plans to roll out
sanctions targeting elements aligned with the TPLF and Ethiopian
military to allow time and space to see if these AU-led talks can make
progress.  If they do not seize the opportunity and the parties continue
escalating the war, we will move forward with these sanctions.  But we
are currently leaving space for these talks to continue.

Just one follow-up and then I got to go to him, and then there’s a
Cabinet meeting. 

Go ahead.

Q    It’s the President’s birthday on Saturday.  Is there anything that
he’ll be doing?  He’s 79 years old.  How does he keep fit?  Does he
exercise? 

MS. PSAKI:  (Laughs.)

Q    We see him cycling.  Does he do anything else?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  He certainly does enjoy a good ride on his bike and does
keep fit, eats healthy, except for the occasional ice cream.  Who among
us doesn’t love ice cream? 

And again, as someone asked earlier, you know, the President will be
receiving a physical at some point soon —

Q    Before the end of the year?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  — and we will release those details to you.

Yes. 

Q    Thank you.

MS. PSAKI:  And we will release those details to you as soon as that
happens. 

All right.  Hello, thank you for joining us.  We have here Rick Barrett
from the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel.

*Q    Hi, Jen.  Thanks for taking my question today.*

MS. PSAKI:  Oh, I don’t know if we can hear you very well.  Maybe we can
—

(Reporter in *italics* can be heard over livestream feed but not in the
Briefing Room.)

*Q    Oh, can you hear me better now?*

MS. PSAKI:  — fix some audio issues.  Let’s see if we can fix the audio
issues because I just have to go in a minute.  Let’s try again.  Can —
can we try talking again — we can see if we can hear you? 

*Q    Yeah, Jen.  Is that any better now?*

Q    No.

MS. PSAKI:  Oh, no.

*Q    No?*

Q    Well, Jen, can I ask you one?  I’ll —

MS. PSAKI:  All right.  He’s going to come back next Friday. 

Okay, last one.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  I wanted to ask you a quick follow-up.  You
mentioned a second ago that the White House was offering technical
assistance to members of Congress when it comes to human rights
legislation.  What techn- — what provisions were you talking about
specifically?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I was answering a question.  I don’t remember who
asked it.  That was — oh, it was Brian — right? — who asked about our
concern about human rights abuses in Xinjiang, something we have taken a
lot of steps on. 

As you know, and I think you’ve asked about, there’s legislation.  It’s
pretty common for the White House to work with Congress on either
technical assistance or other assistance.  We want to make sure any bill
is implementable.

Q    A provision that would have banned science funding for entities
that were implicated in the Uyghur genocide was stripped out of the
reconciliation package last week.  Is that something that the President
was disappointed to see?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any other reaction.  Obviously, we’re working
closely with Congress.  We share the concern about the human rights
abuses.  We are going to continue to take action as the President’s
record shows.

Okay, thanks, everyone.

Q    Jen, you thanked the vaccine.  Do you have anything to say to
celebrities who have promoted — like Aaron Rodgers — who promoted
alternative — dubious alternatives to vaccines?

MS. PSAKI:  You know how we feel about misinformation: We’re against
it. 

Thanks, everyone.

2:24 P.M. EST
