---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-11-09'
modified_time: 2021-11-09 18:14:19-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/11/09/press-briefing-by-principal-deputy-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-commerce-secretary-gina-raimondo/
published_time: 2021-11-09 18:15:00-05:00
title: "Press Briefing by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and\
  \ Commerce Secretary Gina\_Raimondo"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:15 P.M. EST

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everybody. 

Q    Good afternoon!  (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m like, “Geez, I’m all by myself up here.” 
(Laughter.)  Okay.

So, we have another special guest joining us today, Commerce Secretary
Gina Raimondo, who is here to highlight how the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Deal will help close the digital divide in America for
more than 30 million Americans who do not have access to reliable,
high-speed Internet, particularly in minority and rural communities.

As you all know, the Secretary is a member of the President Jo- —
President’s Jobs Cabinet, who was deeply involved in negotiations on the
Hill that culminated in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal, a
once-in-a-generation investment in our nation’s infrastructure and
competitiveness.

Today, the Secretary will discuss the role of the Department of Commerce
in implementing this bill to build up broadband infrastructure.  This
will deliver for the American people by teaching digital skills, getting
kids the devices they need to succeed, and improving overall
accessibility and affordability.

And after she is done giving her remarks, I will — we’ll take Q&A.  And
I’ll make sure to guide that and get people in the front and get people
in the back.

Secretary.  All yours.

SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  Good afternoon, everybody.

Q    Good afternoon.

SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  Well, first of all, thank you for inviting me here
today.  It’s a pleasure to be with all of you.

I suppose before I talk about broadband, I just want to take a moment to
recognize what an incredible accomplishment it was last week to get the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Bill accomplished.

I can tell you, prior to this job, I was governor of Rhode Island for
six years, and every year, we thought — we were told an infrastructure
bill was “around the corner”; “It’s going to come, Governor.  The
infrastructure money is coming.”  But, of course, it never did.

And President Biden delivered.  President Biden stepped up; he led. 
None of this could have been done without his leadership.  He was so
personally engaged, working across the aisle to compromise, to get
results, to deliver for the American people.  And that’s what happened.

And I don’t think we can underestimate the impact of this.  The
Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act will help Americans and deliver
for Americans.

As it relates to the Commerce Department, it is going to enable us at
the Commerce Department to fund key priorities that will have very
tangible, positive impacts for American workers and businesses.

Just to tick off a few things: It’s substantial funding for NOAA to
increase climate resiliency and restore and improve coastal habitats. 
It is, very excitingly, permanent authorization for the Minority
Business Development Agency and $1.6 billion to that agency.  MBDA,
which resides in the Commerce Department, is the only federal agency
solely focused on promoting the growth, development, and resiliency of
minority-owned businesses.  So it’s — it’s pretty incredible.

But today I’m going to focus particularly on broadband, as Karine said. 
President Biden has set a very ambitious goal for his administration
that we must connect all Americans — all Americans, regardless of where
they live — to high-speed, affordable Internet.  And thanks to the
passage of the bill, we will be able to accomplish just that.

The Infrastructure Investment Act allocates $65 billion to expand
broadband in communities all across America to create low-cost options
and subsidize the cost of service for those who need it.  Of that $65
billion, about $45 billion will be coming to the Commerce Department at
NTIA to administer that program.

I will say this is an area that I am particularly passionate about,
having been a governor during the pandemic and being with people who
didn’t have broadband — children who couldn’t go to school, people who
couldn’t go see a doctor or a therapist.  It is heartbreaking and it
showed, in a very real and human way, how broad- — how essential
broadband is.  And the fact of the matter is: We have to close the
digital divide.  Period. 

And this infrastructure bill will allow us to do that.  And the $48
billion coming to the Commerce Department will allow us to do that.

Beyond the physical infrastructure — laying fiber — affordability is
just as important.  Affordability is just as important as access.  It
does a family no good if there’s broadband in their community but they
can’t afford it.  Closing the digital divide means both providing the
broadband and making sure it’s affordable. 

So, the investments in this bill will help ensure every American can
access affordable, high-speed Internet, which means requiring funding
recipients to offer a low-cost affordable plan – everyone who gets a
penny of this money is required to offer a low-cost, affordable plan;
provide federal funding for broadband services to low-income families;
requiring providers to be transparent about pricing to help families do
comparison shopping for services where they have competitive options.

I will confess this is going to be a massive undertaking for the
Department of Commerce, but we’re up for it.  We’ve been planning for
months, and we’re up for it.

We plan to work in close collaboration with states, counties, cities,
community-based organizations, and the private sector in partnership to
develop grant programs which will ensure that we roll this out in an
efficient manner.

Broadband is the gateway to economic opportunity.  And so, in order to
open that gateway, we’re putting equity at the center of everything we
do.

I will say: To truly transform our economy into one that works for all
Americans and one that will make our country more competitive on the
world stage, we have to make investments in a way that is equitable and
just. 

And we view this lens across all of the work we do at the Commerce
Department, and it will be particularly front and center with the
broadband work that we will be doing.

It will not be easy.  This will be technically difficult.  This will
requi- — it’s an implementation challenge.  But it is necessary.  It is
necessary.

And I believe — I know that implementing this in partnership with our
partners on the ground, we will be able to close the digital divide,
close the innovation divide, and achieve the President’s goal of making
sure that every American, regardless of where they live or the color of
their skin or their income, has access to broadband.

And I will say: 30, 40, 50 years from now, we will look back on this as
the turning point, as a critical turning point.  Because now that we’re
moving even more toward a digital economy and a data economy and a tech
economy, nobody can be left behind.  And that means everybody has
broadband.  And due to the President’s leadership, we’re going to be
able to deliver on that.

So, with that, I will turn it over to you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you.  Thank you. 

Go ahead, Weijia.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Thank you, Secretary, for being here.  Can you
walk us through the logistics of how the money is going to be
allocated?  From what I understand, at least $100 million will go to
states.

And then, is it totally up to the states to determine what projects to
launch?  Or will there be federal oversight?  But basically, I’m trying
to understand how the money is going to get funneled through and how the
remaining money is going to be allocated.

SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  Yes.  Thank you.  So, in terms of the practicality
of it, each state will receive $100 million, as you said.  The remaining
money will be allocated based on need, based on how many underserved
households there are in that state.

So, the whole name of the game here is to focus on the underserved and
the unserved and on affordability.  We have to make sure that we don’t
spend this money overbuilding.  So — which means we’ll have to work very
closely with the FCC and using their maps to make sure that we focus the
money where broadband doesn’t exist now.

So, we plan — everyone gets $100 million.  Beyond that, it’ll be based
upon unserved, based upon need.

We’re going to give out a grant, per state.  And each state will then
give grants to sub-grantees on the ground. 

We are, as I just said, very focused on equity and making sure there’s
affordability and ubiquity, which means we have to be flexible.  Like in
a state like Rhode Island, where I’m from, there’s no “rural Rhode
Island.”  So — you know, it’s a city — it’s an urban place.  So, the
needs in a place like Rhode Island will be more around affordability,
inner-city access. 

Contrast that with New Mexico — completely different topography.  You
know, 50 percent of people on Tribal lands don’t have broadband.  We
need to account for the flexibility there, which is why it’s going to be
a state-by-state.

There will be a tremendous amount of federal oversight and
transparency.  Every state has to put their plan online for everyone to
see.  And we are going to have very strict criteria to make sure that we
achieve the goals of affordability and access.

Q    And when do you think the first expansion projects will get
underway? 

SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  I’m sorry, say it again.

Q    When will the projects get underway?  When do you think states will
physically start to implement?

SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  Yeah, so, you know, I will say, first, we have to
have the law, and then it’ll take us some time to get set up — you know,
some number of months. 

So, I mean, it is — it’s hard to say.  I would say, you know, well into
next year.

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m trying to pick people I haven’t called on. 

Q    Secretary, I’ll step in.  With this new —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hold on a second. 

Q    (Cross-talk.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yamiche.  Go ahead, Yamiche.

Q    Thank you —

Q    Secretary, a question for you — 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hold on a second, sir. 

Q    Can you guarantee people living in Internet “dead zones” —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sir —

Yamiche, go ahead. 

Q    This is about Internet “dead zones” — 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  Go ahead, Yamiche. 

Q    Secretary Raimondo, thank you so much for taking my question.  The
first question I have is:  Can you talk a bit about how quickly
Americans will feel the impacts of this and as well as if there are some
more longer-term goals that maybe are 10, 20 years down the line?  Can
you just talk a little bit about the timing of this?

SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  So, I say, first, there — you know, we are already
implementing.  You know, in the Rescue package, Commerce received some
money related to broadband, and we’re already putting that out now. 
There’s a Tribal initiative.  There’s a rural initiative.  USDA — it has
that; we’re working with them.  So, some Americans will start to see
relief, you know, this year — soon.

As I just said over here, the rest of this, I think it will take us some
number of months to start getting the money out the door.  It’ll be
staged in.  We want to get relief out there as fast as possible but in a
quality way. 

So, some of the affordability metrics, you know, and providing
subsidies, that can happen more quickly.  Laying fiber across America,
that will take time.  But we’ll be creating jobs at every step of the
way. 

Q    And could I ask you one other quick question just about — can you
talk a little bit about the equity portion?  Are there percentages or
numbers you want to hit?  Maybe you won’t speak to them publicly here,
but I’m wondering how the — how you’re going to measure success. 

SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  Every single American has access to high-speed,
affordable broadband, which means truly affordable.

Q    Does that include people living in —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Kristen.  Kristen, go ahead. 

Q    — Internet “dead zones”?  Internet “dead zones”? 

Q    Thank you, Secretary.  Appreciate your being here.  Obviously, as a
former governor, you know the importance of the coordination with
governors and the various states.  Can you talk a little bit about the
outreach so far?  And are you taking the lead on that, in terms of being
in touch with these various governors as they implement these changes?

SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  Yes, yes.  So, we’ve all — I should tell you, we’ve
been preparing for this.  We are figuring out already how we’re going to
staff it within the Department of Commerce; you know, how we’re going to
hold — you know, make sure we have accountability.  I’ve already had
several convenings with governors.  I’ve been speaking with governors,
with mayors, with Tribal Leaders.  And we will — now that this is
official, we’re going to significantly ramp up that engagement.

Q    And just to follow up very quickly, as you talked about, you need
to target rural areas and then more urban areas.  How do you determine
which areas you’re addressing first?  Is it an all hands-on-deck
approach?  How can we expect to see the rollout happen?

SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  We are asking each state to give us a plan.  So, we
are mandat- — you know, we are saying to them, “Show us a plan that
guarantees every single person in your state has access to high-speed,
affordable Internet.”  And then we’re going to evaluate that plan,
adjust it, provide technical assistance to make sure at the end of the
day we hit the goal.

Q    And just to push you on the timeline a little bit: Some of the
physical infrastructure projects are estimated to take six months to a
year.  Is that about the same timeline that you’re tracking for this?

SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  Look, some — it is really hard to say.  We have to
be flexible.

Laying fiber in a place with the mountainous, difficult topography, that
could take years. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You in the back, here.  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  Thank you, Karine.  And thank you, Secretary Raimondo. 
I want to ask you about implementation; it seems to be the focus of a
lot of our questions.  One year from yesterday, the midterm elections
will take place.  Can you guarantee that people all around the country
will see that implementation take place before the midterm elections? 
And what type of projects are you looking at, in terms of
implementation, between now and then?

SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  So, certainly Americans will feel and see in their
communities much of the progress that we’ll — that the Biden
administration is overseeing — I mean, from the Rescue package to the
Infrastructure package.  It is not the case — I think every community
will see activity and action.  Some communities will start to see, you
know, people working laying fiber.

But I also think it’s important to be realistic, and you have to be
honest with people, which is to say we want to get this right.  You
know, it’s more important to get it right than to rush. 

So, I think people will see their state putting together a plan. 
They’ll see us starting to move out on that plan.  But, you know, not
everybody is going to have broadband a year from now.

Q    A year after President Obama signed the Recovery Act, he
acknowledged that this idea of shovel-ready jobs is not reasonable; it
doesn’t exist.  Would you agree with that statement, in terms of what
President Obama said after the passage and his signature on the Recovery
Act back in 2009?

SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  It depen- — look, there’s all different kinds of
projects.  There are many projects that are shovel ready; I can tell you
that from being governor. 

You know, in my state there are many projects that are shovel-ready,
need money to be added. 

There are others — and broadband is an example — that require more
planning, that require thoughtful technical planning. 

So, the whole point of the Infrastructure package is to deliver for
Americans.  I promise you this: A year from now, many, many people will
be working in high-quality jobs because of this package. 

But I also promise you that the President wants us to get it right.  And
if it takes a little longer to lay the — you know, lay the groundwork
for fiber and broadband, then we’re going to do that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Jacqui.

Q    Thank you, Karine. 

Q    What’s your message to people who live in Internet “dead zones,”
ma’am?

Q    Madam Secretary, thank for you taking my question. 

SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  I can’t hear you.  I’m sorry.

Q    I wanted to ask —

Q    (Inaudible) question?

Q    I wanted to ask — thank you — about the deadline that your
department had imposed to get voluntary data from semiconductor
manufacturers and other companies.  Did your department receive all of
the information that it was looking for from these CEOs? 

And then also, what’s your reaction to China appearing to be angry about
TSMC’s compliance with your request?  They called it “extortion of
confidential information from chip firms” and talked about concerns that
U.S. could use this information to sanction Beijing.  What’s your
reaction to that? 

SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  Yeah, so the deadline was yesterday.  So, it’s — we
haven’t yet had the opportunity to go through all the submissions.  I
will tell you, over the past couple of weeks, I have spoken to the CEOs
of a number of semiconductor companies — including TSMC; asked them for
their compliance; and they all said that they would be complying and
sending us the information that we’re asking for. 

It is laughable to suggest that it’s coercion, because it is voluntary. 
We’re asking them to cooperate with us.  And the truth is that this is
what —

Look, President Biden has said to us on his team, “Use every tool that
we have to deliver relief for the American people around supply
chains.”  And so, that’s what we’re doing.  This is a tool in the
Commerce’s toolbox, and we’re using it — and, I think, to great effect. 

And every CEO I’ve talked to, including TSMC, has said it’s a good
idea.  It will increase transparency in the supply chain, which will cut
down on bottlenecks.  And that’s why they’re complying — their own
choice.

Q    Does China’s reaction make you think that the U.S. should have a
more clear strategy toward possibly defending Taiwan, given their
response to this?  You’ve called the semiconductor shortage a “national
security crisis.”  They’re, obviously, being very responsive to the
White House probe for more information, and they’re hedging on that. 
What do you think about how we should approach Taiwan — defending
Taiwan?

SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  I think that — I think what I’ve said, which is
that the lack of domestic production in America of semiconductors poses
not only an economic threat, a national security threat.  And we need
Congress — the House — to pass the CHIPS Act or USICA as quickly as
possible so that we can get to the business of making more chips in
America. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And we’re going to take two more.

Q    And are pushing for that —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    — vote to come up soon? 

SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  Yes, tomorrow would be great. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, we’ll just take two more so we can let her go. 

Go ahead.  You in the back.  The gentleman who — in the middle, yeah.

Q    Thank you.  You’ve mentioned in a couple of answers the jobs
created from this.  I’m curious: Is there a workforce right now that is
able to fulfill this broadband expansion?  How it — I mean, do you —
would you have to train people how to do this? 

SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  Such a good question.  Such a good question.  So, I
would say: yes and no.  But we — in working with Congress on this
portion of the bill, we specifically said, “Keep it flexible so we could
use some of the money for workforce training.”

And to the question of equity, that — the folks that we train ought to
look like America.  Right? 

Like — and to the question of: What will Americans see?  What they’re
going to see soon is people in their community — men, women, people of
color, white people — laying fiber. 

And, today, we don’t have enough trained people.  No, we don’t.  But
some of this money will be used for workforce training so that we can
train folks and, in the process of doing that, diversify, you know, the
ranks of electricians and technicians and folks who are, you know,
deploying the fiber in America. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Your turn.

Q    I want to ask you about broadband, but just first: Your Commerce
Department made a really consequential decision to add NSO Group to its
entity list.  And could you talk a little bit about what — was there a
specific breach that led to that?  Was there evidence that their
software is being used to monitor U.S. citizens?  What was it that led
you to make that decision?

SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  Yeah.  Usually we don’t comment on the details.  I
will simply say it went through the same process — interagency process
that all of these decisions go through.  We came to a determination that
it was necessary for national security in order to impose that.

Q    Okay.  And then on the broadband question: Congress exempted the
Infrastructure Bill — this $42 billion pot of money that you have from
the Administrative Procedure Act, which requires a number of things in
terms of public notice —

SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  I’m having bad flashbacks to law school. 
(Laughter.)  Administrative law. 

Q    Well, it’s really important for journalists because we use things
like the Freedom of Information Act to get information on how government
is spending money that might be going to private-sector companies.

So, since we don’t have that, how do you expect us to hold you
accountable for how this money is being spent?

SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  Yeah, yeah.  So, I’ll confess I haven’t gone that
deeply into the weeds of that particular provision.  But I will say
this: As I said here, we are deeply committed to transparency.  The way
to build public trust is transparency. 

As a result, every single state plan is going to have to be put online. 
So, you can comb through every detail of every plan to see where every
penny goes.  And I think that’s really important.

Q    Thank you so much.  Thank you. 

Q    Secretary, do you have a message for people living in Internet dead
zones?  Can you guarantee there’ll be — they’ll get access to
broadband? 

SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  Thank you, guys.

Q    It’s a real simple question. 

Q    Thank you.

Q    Thank you very much.

SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  I hope you get out to enjoy the weather.

Q    Yeah, it’s beautiful.

Q    So no comment on —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you so much for your time. 

Q    — people living in Internet dead zones, right?  Okay. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  It’s going to be an interesting briefing.

I have a few things for all of you at the top.

So, today, the Biden-Harris administration is announcing a set of
concrete steps to accelerate investments in our ports, waterways, and
freight networks.   These goals and timelines will mobilize federal
agencies, get money out of the door for high-impact projects faster, and
lay the foundation for successful implementation of the historic
investments included in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal for our
supply chains, jobs, growth, and competitiveness.

This action plan will increase federal flexibilities for port grants;
accelerate port infrastructure grant awards; identify project locations
for coastal navigation, inland water — waterway, and land ports of
entry; and launch the first round of expanded port infrastructure
grants.

Outdated infrastructure has real costs for families, as we all know, for
our economy, and for our competitiveness.  We’re seeing that right now,
even as we move record goods through our ports, with supply chain
bottlenecks forming that lead to higher prices and <s>lowe</s>r
\[slower\] deliveries for American families.

Even as we take immediate action, we have a chance to make lasting fixes
through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal.  The Bipartisan
Infrastructure Deal includes a total of $17 billion to improve
infrastructure at coastal ports, inland ports and waterways, and land
ports of entry along the border. 

This is the single-largest federal investment in our ports in U.S.
history.  And these investments will improve the efficiency,
sustainability, and resiliency of these hubs of commerce.

As you all know, the President will be visiting the Port of Baltimore
tomorrow, where he will further discuss the administration’s Port Action
Plan and the historic investment in ports in the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Deal.

Today, our U.S. Surgeon General, Dr. Vivek Murthy, released a “Community
Toolkit for Addressing Health Misinformation,” continuing his
administration’s work to combat health misinformation during the
pandemic and beyond.

As you all know, earlier this year, Dr. Murthy released a Surgeon
General’s Advisory, warning people about the urgent threat of health
misinformation.  The toolkit released today builds on his effort
offering practical guidance for trusted community leaders — like
healthcare professionals, school administrators, teachers, and faith
leaders — to understand, identify, and stop the spread of
misinformation.

This is particularly timely: Yesterday, Kaiser Family Foundation
released its Vaccine Monitor findings outlining that belief in
pandemic-related misinformation is widespread, with 78 percent of adults
saying that they have heard at least one of eight different false
statements about COVID-19 that they either believe to be true or are
unsure if it is true or false.

As we continue our effort to vaccinate more Americans, including
children, it’s mission critical Americans have access to accurate
information so they can make health decisions based on facts. 

Last week, for the fourth time, Republican members of the Senate Small
Business Committee blocked a vote and refused to show up to a hearing on
Dilawar Syed, a qualified, uncontroversial nominee, to be the Deputy
Administrator of the Small Business Administration.

This is a position important for helping small businesses across the
country.  And Dilawar has had a successful business career and is
endorsed by more than 200 groups and individuals, including the Chamber
of Commerce.  If confirmed, he would also be the highest-ranking Muslim
in this administration.  But Republicans, whose justification for
opposing his nomination keeps shifting as argument after argument falls
flat, continue to block a vote on his nomination. 

If for some reason they don’t believe he should be confirmed, they
should just say so and vote no.  Instead, they are obstructing a vote
from even taking place.  As the SBA works to help small businesses build
back from the devastation caused by this pandemic, we call on these
Republican senators to do their job and show up and allow a vote on this
qualified nominee.

And that’s all I have.  Go ahead, Alex. 

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Two quick ones on infrastructure and then one on
COP26.  To start, obviously, we’re all pretty interested in the timing
for this bill.  And the President said yesterday, in his WKRC interview,
that Americans could see some of the funds go out, quote, “literally in
a matter of weeks.”  What exactly could we expect to see happen that
quickly?  And is there a risk that he and other administration actors
are overpromising at this point, when, you know, the Secretary just
mentioned that it could take months for a lot of these programs to go
forward?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I think — I think there’s what you call “shovel
ready” and “shovel worthy.”  These are things that you will hear us talk
about a lot.  And the Secretary actually did say there are projects that
are shovel ready and ready to go, and that is actually a real thing. 

One of the things that the President talked about last night — he
identified, like, the Brent Spence Bridge as a major example of a
project he expects to get funding.  Right?  He — the ideal \[sic\] will
also help — the deal will also help transit expansion projects,
including Valley Metro Northwest Phase II extension in Phoenix, Arizona,
and Met Council Gold Line Extension in St. Paul, Minnesota. 

So, you know, we’re — we’re going to be working to pinpoint areas of the
greatest need where these investments will make the big differences in
the daily lives of families and create jobs. 

So, we’ll have more to share in the near future, but there — you know,
there are projects that are ready to go, and we’re going to identify
that.  And we’ll have more to share as the days come. 

Q    And then following up, actually, on Trevor’s comments on oversight,
you all have talked about how important preventing waste and fraud and
abuse are to the President.  So, can you speak about what specifics the
administration is putting in place to prevent that?  And how involved
will the President be?  Is he looking at deputizing like a similar role
to the “COVID Czar” or potentially doing what President Obama did with
him and having the Vice President oversee implementation?  Are any of
those things on the table?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, those are all great questions.  As soon as, you
know, we sign the bill, we should — I know you’re asking me about
timing, which will happen soon.  As the President said on Saturday, he
wants to make sure that the people who worked very hard on both sides of
the aisle are there for the bill signing. 

So as soon as we get that done, we’ll — we will share more.  We’ll share
more about the implementation.  And you’re right, we want to make sure
there is accountability.  That is something that’s going to be
incredibly critical and important to the administration.

And, as you can imagine, this is something that’s so important to the
President.  And so, he’ll, you know, be getting regular updates as we
move forward and be very engaged on this.

Q    And then, on COP26, how involved is the President sort of remaining
in these talks as they go forward?  And is he optimistic there will
ultimately be a deal?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I’ll say this: The President is definitely very
engaged.  We have White House officials who are there currently at
COP26.  Secretary Pete Buttigieg, that’s where he basically left after
leaving here, speaking with all of you.

And so, again, we’re very engaged.  We have White House official
staffers there as well who’ve been in and out of COP26.  So, yeah, we’re
just going to continue to have those conversations and we are
optimistic.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  I know that the President is not going to sign the
bill until next week, likely when members of Congress can join him.  But
why is there not a more urgent effort to have him and members of his
staff and Cabinet out on the road selling and explaining the various
components of the infrastructure bill and Build Back Better?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I — I will say this: The President is doing
local media, as we — as Alex was just asking me about Cincinnati, and
that is a way that’s really important for — to hear the President’s
voice, to talking directly to the American people.  We’ll see more of
that.

The President is going to be going to Baltimore tomorrow.  And we’ll
continue to see the Secretaries that we had — we’ve listed who are going
to be out there really selling this bill, as you say.

But let me just add a few things.  So, it’s going to be the  — the
Cabinet is Secretary Pete Buttigieg, Transportation; Energy Secretary
Jennifer Granholm; Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo, who was just here,
clearly; Interior Secretary Deb Haaland; and EPA <s>Secretary</s>
\[Administrator\] Michael Regan, who’s actually at COP26 right now; as
well as Cabinet members, administration officials who will play a major
role implementing this agenda.  And we’ll — you’ll see them out there
over the next coming days and continue. 

I mean, those — that’s one of the reasons we had Secretary Buttigieg
here, that’s one of the reasons we had Secretary Raimondo: because you
all are writing about this and people are watching, and we want to make
sure that they hear directly from us.

Q    Understood.  And I know that there is going to be an effort to get
people out into the various —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yep.

Q    — communities across the country, but you do have some of your
fellow Democrats who say, “We want the President to be more vocal.  We
want him to be out there and explaining this and explaining the various
components.”  Because you are talking about —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — these big pieces of legislation, and you still have the second
piece of it, which hasn’t passed yet.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re working very hard on, and we’re very optimistic,
as the President says.

Q    Is it a missed opportunity, though, to not —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean —

Q    — have him and other top officials out in a more robust way right
now or in the past week?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But the President is out tomorrow.  He’s going to be
in Baltimore.  He’s going to be talking about this.

Q    But that’s one event this week.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  And he’ll continue to do more.  And I would — I
would actually argue that he has been out there.  Any time that, you
know, I’ve traveled with him, many of you have been part of the pool
where he talks about both the infrastructure bill and he’s talked about
the Build Back Better Act.  And he’s been to multiple states doing that
over the past several months.  Look, that’s going to continue. 

But I think what he wants to make sure is that we get this signed,
having all the parties — both on the Republican side and the Democratic
side, who were very, very instrumental in getting this done — and then
we’ll continue — you know, we’ll continue making sure that we’re selling
this, talking to the American people.

And you’re right, this is a complex piece of administ- — a piece of —
not administration — piece of legislation, but they’re also very
popular.  We know — right? — that the American public wants
infrastructure; they — it is very popular.  They want to see the
modernization of that hit-hard infrastructure.  So we’re going to
continue to push forward.

Q    And one more, if I could. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Absolutely.

Q    And Secretary Raimondo was asked about this, but I’m curious for
your take.  Some of what was announced today and what Secretary Raimondo
was talking about is an effort to create jobs as well, but you are
dealing with worker shortages right now.  So, how do you deal with the
worker shortages given your ultimate goal of creating jobs?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, so — are you talking about the Port Action Plan
that we —

Q    Yes.  Yes.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  So, let me — I just want to say a couple of
things about that.  So — and what it’s going to do in the short term,
which is critical and important.

So, you know, while we’re moving record amounts of goods through our
ports and to shelves, we understand the frustration that Americans feel
when backlogs lead to higher prices or delayed goods.  So, today’s
announcement builds on the steps we’ve already taken to help address the
supply chain challenges we’ve seen globally because of the pandemic. 
So, I just wanted to make sure that was clear. 

And that is part — that is kind of part of what the President has
already done, which is partnering with — partnering with the ports of
LA, Long Beach, along with leading retailers and shippers like FedEx and
UPS, to move goods in and out of those ports 24/7.

So, within weeks, the Port of Savannah — the third-busiest port in the
country — will have five pop-up sites in Georgia and North Carolina that
will help ease congestion on the shipyard.  So, within 45 days, we’ll be
launching $240 million in grants to improve ports.  And in the weeks and
months that follow, billions of dollars in additional money will be
flowing to improve our critical port infrastructure. 

And bolstering this work is historic levels of investment.  We’ve
secured through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal, which includes, as I
mentioned, $17 billion for ports and tens of billions of dollars more
for roads, bridges, rail, and other links in the supply chain. 

Combined, these steps are going to create good-paying jobs, fix our
supply chains <s>to generate</s> \[for generations\] to come and lower
prices for working families.  And so that’s really important — the
good-paying jobs — when we talk about, you know, that — the labor
shortage.  That’s — the President has talked about this: the importance
of making sure that we’re paying people wages that are competitive so
that they’re able to — you know, to come back into the workforce.  So
that’s mission critical there as well.

Q    Thank you.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  During that interview yesterday with the
Cincinnati TV station, the President apologized for being late.  He said
it was due to “little foreign policy issues.”  What was he referring to?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you can imagine, you know, we’re not going to
read into, you know, every aspect of the President’s day.  He meets
regularly with his National Security Council and advisors.  Some
meetings go — you know, go right on time, and some meetings go a little
longer.  But I’m not going to read anything specific to that or anything
to share on that.

Q    Got it.  Okay.  And do you expect him to be doing more of these
local TV interviews as part of his sales pitch for infrastructure?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes, we do.  I don’t have anything to preview.  The
one in — the one that he did last night with Cincinnati was the first,
but we’re hoping to get him out there more, as we’ve been talking about,
so the American people can hear it directly from the President of the
United States.

Q    Okay.  And just one more on the funding for infrastructure.  And I
apologize because maybe it is just me —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, it’s okay.

Q    — but I still don’t really understand how all the money is going to
be allocated.  For the broadband piece, the Secretary made very clear
states are going to get a finite amount of money, they’ll distribute it,
and the rest will be allocated based on need.  For all the rest of the
money, how will it be distributed?  Does it go to states first?  And
will the federal government determine what projects that they will be
assigned to?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t have the specifics for you right now, but
I can tell you the agencies that’ll be involved on the specific
components, right? 

So, Department of Transportation on how this will improve our — will be
in charge of how this improve our ports, rails, bridges, and our supply
chain, right?  That’s — that’s kind of obvious there. 

The Department of Interior is going to be on strengthening the climate
resilience and the impact of Native communities. 

We have the Department of Energy, which is going — it’s going to be
focusing on repairing our electric grid.

Department of Commerce on getting high-speed Internet to every American,
as we just heard from the Secretary herself.

You have the Environmental Protection Agency, and they’re going to be
replacing lead pipes and addressing pollution. 

So those are kind of how it’s going to be break- — broken down into
agencies.  The specifics on that, I don’t have to share with you today,
but I promise we are — the Secretary talked about this just now, which
is transparency is going to be key here.  And so we’re going to make
sure that the American public and all of you know how we’re going to
move forward on implementing this.

Q    Thank you.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  As the President promotes this infrastructure
bill, we know that Leader Schumer wanted a vote in the Senate on the
much larger social spending bill by Thanksgiving; that’s what he’s
hoping for.

Are there any details you can provide about any outreach the President
will be doing to Democrats this week?  I know they’re away and out of
town on recess, but any outreach that he’s doing to those key moderates,
like Senator Joe Manchin and Kyrsten Sinema?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, so I don’t have anything to read out for you
today on any calls that he’s made or any scheduled meetings or anything
in that nature.  But as you can imagine, the White House — White House
officials, my colleagues are constantly in contact with members and also
staff. 

And as you know, last Friday, they voted on a rule in the House to make
sure that the Build Back Better Act was voted on the week of November
15th. 

So we’re — as the President said himself yesterday, in the last couple
of days, he’s very optimistic on making — on getting that done and will
continue to talk to Leader Schumer, will continue to have those
conversations on the Senate side as well, to make sure that this gets
delivered.

Q    Does he see that as a feasible timeline with moderates wanting to
see more information from the CBO?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, he sees this as an urgency, right?  And we’ve
said this before: Like, members understand how important it is to get
this out, to get this done.  We got the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal —
this once-in-a-generation investment, very historic.  And now we’re
going to make sure that we get the Build Back Better Act done.

Q    And one more, just really quickly, on COVID.  Florida Governor Ron
DeSantis is vowing to fight against the President’s vaccine mandates for
private businesses.  He outlined today a few bills that he would like,
which would include optouts for that vaccine mandate.  And he said,
quote, “We need to stop bossing people around.”

Does the White House have any response to this or any concern that this
could move a state like Florida in the wrong direction?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, you know, I’ll say this: You know, as I said
yesterday, DOJ will be defending these kind of indi- — these lawsuits —
these individual lawsuits. 

You know, we’re confident in our authority to protect American workers. 
As this — this virus is killing 1,100 — about — approximately 1,100
Americans a day.  This is an obligation that the Department of Labor has
to protect workers who face grave danger.  And it’s — it’s derived from
a law passed by Congress that’s been around for more than 50 years. 

So, this is an authority that the Secretary of Department of Labor has. 
This is — when you — when you think about grave danger, when you think
about 1,100 people dying a day, that is — that is — that is, I think,
you know, an authority that he can use to make sure that people feel
safe in their workplace and that they don’t get sick. 

So, you know, what we continue to advocate with from here is to push
businesses to move forward with their policies now.  These are policies
that are protecting workforces and avoiding disruptions related to
employees getting sick with COVID, as I just mentioned; expanding the
workforce; and saving lives.  That’s the business that we’re in. 

That’s why we put together, this President put — moved forward with this
comprehensive vaccination effort very early on in his administration: to
make sure that we get to a place that we can get out of this pandemic. 

And, you know, the question is really — that I have is: Why are these
legislators, these Republicans, getting in the way of that; getting in
the way of saving lives; getting in the way of us making sure that the
economy is working as well, and getting out of this pandemic?  And so
that’s the question for them. 

Go ahead.

Q    So, after Congress has passed the infrastructure bill, how much can
American — the American people expect that inflation will be reduced as
a result of that over the next 12 months, say?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  I don’t have a specific number for you.  I’m
happy to — to, you know — to talk to our economics team and get
something more granular there.

But as we’ve heard from experts — whether it is an economist expert or
the 17 Nobel laureate economists — have said that this bill — the Build
Back Better Act and Bipartisan Infrastructure — will ease inflation. 

So, that’s really important.  That’s something that we — you know, when
we talk to — when we hear members are afraid of going big, we say,
“Well, this is going to actually help us in the long run,” especially as
we see — with prices going up, we see the inflation continuing to be out
there.  And so, that is really an important message that we have. 

I don’t have, like I said, a granular number for you.  But we know this
from economists who have said that these two bills will help do that.

Q    Okay.  Another topic: election integrity.  A couple of my
colleagues wrote a piece documenting nearly a dozen cases where people
have violently intimidated or threatened U.S. election officials.  There
was one example where a man told election officials in Vermont that he
would put a pistol in their mouths and pull the trigger.  None of these
cases that we documented — in none of them were any of the people
arrested, charged, or prosecuted. 

Are we living in a country where there’s impunity around these kinds of
issues?  And what level of confidence do you have in the Department of
Justice to actually police these issues?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I — we have all the confidence in the Department
of Justice.  On these particular issues, I — clearly, I can’t speak to
them here, so I would refer you to the Department of Justice on any
specifics there. 

But we have complete confidence in the Department of Justice.

Go ahead, Kaitlan. 

Q    Thanks so much.  Yesterday, some Senate Democrats sent the
President a letter on high gas prices and how to combat those, including
suggesting banning crude oil exports.  Is President Biden considering
banning those oil expert — exports?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Which oil — the oil exports from?

Q    The Senate Democrats wrote a letter asking the President to ban
crude oil exports.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, got it.  The crude — got it.

So, the administration is closely — is closely and directly monitoring
the situation.  As we’ve said before, we’ve communicated with FTC —
right? — to crack down on illegal pricing and are engaging with
countries and entities around the OPE- — OPEC Plus on increasing
supply. 

We’re looking at all the tools in our arsenal.  We’re very concerned
about the impact of high energy prices on consumers, especially as we
enter the colder months.  And so, we’re continuing, like I said, to
monitor the situation.  And we’re going to do everything that we can
from here to address.

Q    So is that something that President Biden is considering?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I can’t — I don’t have anything specific for you.  I
can just tell you what we’ve been doing here, which is calling on OPEC
to increase their supply.

We’ve been looking at, you know, the — monitoring the situation. 

I mean, one of the reasons why the President said no to paying for a
Bipartisan Infrastructure Bill with a gas tax is because of this. 

And so, we’re going to continue to just keep an eye on this.  And like I
said, we’re going — you know, we have tools in our toolbelts that we can
potentially address this with.

Q    So, the only other tool that we’ve heard mentioned, though, from
the administration is maybe tapping the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.  We
haven’t really heard anything else specific that the President is
considering.  Does that — is that because he feels that his hands are
tied when it comes to what he can actually do to try to combat high gas
prices?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I wouldn’t read it — read it that way.  We just
don’t have anything right now to announce. 

But like I said, we’re monitoring this.  And we’re — we’re working
through what is it that — how we can actually address this.

Q    And one logistical question: Is there a summit happening next week
between the United States, Mexico, and Canada here at the White House?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any information on that.  I’m happy to
check with the National Security Council.

Q    Okay.  Thank you. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, no problem.

Go ahead. 

Q    Thanks, Karine.  With respect to the Line 5 pipeline replacement,
is one of the possible outcomes from whatever happens after the study a
reduced output?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me — I — I’m going to use this opportunity to
have some clarification here.  So, I think there was some confusion
yesterday about the Line 5, so I just want to clarify again.

So, Peter’s question yesterday was about the current Line 5 — your
colleague.  And on the current pipeline, as you know, the State of
Michigan is objecting to the continued use of its easement for the
current pipeline. 

Additionally, Canada has decided to invoke the dispute resolution
provision of the 1977 Transit Pipelines Treaty on the current pipeline.

We expect that both the U.S. and Canada will engage constructively in
those negotiations.  Canada is a close ally — a key partner in energy
trade as well as efforts to address the climate crisis and protect the
environment. 

These negotiations and discussions between the two countries shouldn’t
be viewed as anything more than that and certainly not an indicator that
the U.S. government is considering shutdown.  That is something that
we’re not going to do.

As it relates to the current pipeline: In addition to those
negotiations, the current pipeline is subject to litigation between
Enbridge and the State of Michigan.  And those parties can speak more to
the process.

So, what I — what I think confused some folks here is that there are —
there are, as a result, a consent decree — as a result, there is a
suggested potential replacement for a portion of the Line 5. 

The Army Corps of Engineers announced an environmental impact study of
that potential replacement in June, which is what I was talking about
yesterday.  And that’s the study I mentioned. 

And so, that was announced in June and is about the potential
replacement, not the current line — which is what Peter had asked
yesterday.

So, again, nothing new to share on the current line.  We expect the U.S.
and Canada to engage constructively on it.

I don’t have anything else to share about that.

Q    But — but knowing that the current pipeline needs to be replaced
and that there is this study ongoing, would a possible outcome from that
study be a choice that limits output? 

And also, what’s the timeline for that study?  I had seen some reporting
that a decision could come after the reconciliation vote, and that could
be as soon as next week.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have a timeline on the study.  Again, this is
the Army Corps of Engineers who are taking this under.  I don’t have
anything more to share.

Q    And I want to ask you another story that’s just breaking from our
Justice Department reporter.  Two sources are telling Fox that National
Security Advisor Jake Sullivan is the foreign policy advisor mentioned
in the former Clinton lawyer — Michael Sussmann’s indictment. 

I understand that this just came across while you’re at the podium —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  Yeah.

Q    — so you haven’t probably had a chance to read into that, but what
is the White House comment on that? 

And is there any conflict here — given that there has been news around
the indictment, is there any conflict here that would preclude Sullivan
from being able to carry out his duties?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  As you just said, Jacqui, I’m just now hearing this,
so I don’t have a comment for you at this moment.  I don’t know anything
about what you’re — you’re just mentioning, so I’d have to talk to our
team.

Q    Okay.  There — and there has been news around the dossier though,
over the last couple of weeks, and sort of this feeling that it’s
falling apart after the revelations that the Clinton-tied lawyer had
lied to the FBI.

Now knowing what we know about the dossier, is there any concern that
there was a lot of focus or too much focus on that during the
President’s campaign?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, Jacqui, I refer you to the Department of Justice. 
I am not going to comment on that from here, from the podium.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  What kind of outreach has the White House done,
specifically to the six House progressives who voted against the
infrastructure deal?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any outreach to speak to at this moment. 
As — as I’ve said many times before, we are in constant communication
with members on the Hill.  But I don’t have anything to share at this
moment that’s specific.

Q    And also, a Republican member of Congress today shared a video on
Twitter in which she appeared to attack — to be shown attacking
Congresswoman Ocasio-Cortez and the President.  Twitter has put a
disclaimer on his tweet now.  Does the White House have a position on
how social media companies should be — should be moderating this type of
content?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’ll say this: You know, there is absolutely no
place for — of any kind of — no place for any violence of any sort in
this political system.  And, you know, I don’t want to go any further
than that.  I leave it to the social media platform on how they’re going
to move forward on that.

But there is no place for the — for any type of violence or that type of
language in the political system.  And it should not be happening, and
we should be condemning it.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  A question on another topic.  But first, on
infrastructure: Obviously, the administration has had months as we’re
watching — we were watching this bill go through the process of making
its way through Congress.  Why don’t we have a concrete list of projects
that will be pursued first?  And why don’t have a clear timeline on when
those would — will be implemented?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’ll have something soon.  I mean, this is something
that, clearly, as you said, we’ve been working on for a long time.  And
there was a process, right?  There was a legislative process that was
happening. 

And now we’re in a place where we’re going to sign — the President is
going to sign this legislation soon into law.  And once that is done, we
will have — we will lay out our plan.  We will be transparent.

That’s one of the reasons why we’re bringing the Secretaries here for
the different components of the bill to talk to all of you, to take your
questions on how they’re — how they’re thinking about this, how they’re
going to be implementing this to the American public. 

And we’ll have more — we’ll have more to share.

Q    Okay.  And then, we were told much earlier this year that the
President would be getting his annual physical later this year.  It’s
obviously later this year.  The year is almost up.  So, when will he be
getting that physical?  And will we get the full results of that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I was just thinking — right? — it is later this year. 
It’s November.  I don’t — (laughter) — the year is flying by. 

I don’t have anything for you.  As Jen has said and we have said, that
is going to happen.  And once it does, we will be transparent about it.

Q    But it will for sure be done before the end of the year?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — that’s — I think that’s what we have said in the
past.  We would get this done — we’ll make sure to get this done and
share it with all of you when it gets done — when it happens.

Go ahead.  Go ahead, Tam.  
  
Q    I have a seasonal question that I apologize for in advance.  But
will the President be pardoning turkeys this year?  (Laughter.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, wow.  
  
Q    A lot of people have asked me; I am now asking you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, it is a — it is a regular tradition.  So, I’m
assuming that will be happening.  I don’t have any news or any schedule
to share with you on that particular pardoning of the turkey event, but
I’m sure that we’ll have something soon.  
  
Q    Okay, on a much more —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But thank you for — thank you for the question. 
(Laughs.)  
  
Q    Very serious stuff.  But, actually, on a more serious note —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — parents will be getting their second-to-last Child Tax Credit
payment — expanded tax credit payment — later this month.  What message
does the White House have for them? 

Many families have come to count on this.  It’s obviously part of BBB,
but there’s no — there are no guarantees.  And this is sort of a cliff
that’s hanging out there.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, that’s a very good question because that Child Tax
Credit has really benefited families — giving families that tax cut,
that middle-class tax cut that’s so critical.

It’s cut poverty by 50 percent — childhood poverty — children poverty by
50 percent.  So, it’s been — it’s been incredibly important.

But this is why the President is going to continue to fight for the
Build Back Better plan.  This is why he’s going to continue to talk to
members on the Hill to make sure that this has happened.

But he is optimistic.  We talked about this rule that was voted on — for
— last Friday — for November 15th to make sure that the Build Back
Better Act is voted on in the House that week.  And so, he’s very
optimistic.

But you’re right: This Build Back Better Act is about — its
pro-families, right?  It’s pro-people.  And it gives people that
breathing room that they so need, that they haven’t had in many, many
years.  And there — we haven’t seen that investment in people.

So, the President is going to continue to work for the Child Tax
Credit.  He’s going to continue to fight for the paid leave — all of the
things that are in this — in this bill.  We think about childcare,
eldercare, making sure that — you know, making sure that prescription
drugs are affordable and not taking a huge chunk out of your — out of
your paycheck.

So, all of these things that’s part of the Build Back Better Act, he’s
going to continue to fight for it.  And that’s the message. 

And there’s a reason — right? — that he put it — he put the Child Tax
Credit in the American Rescue Plan — another historical piece of
legislation — because he was trying to meet the moment of what the
American family was going through during this pandemic.  
  
Q    I’m told we have to wrap.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, okay.  I’ll take — I’ll take one last question.

Q    Two quick questions.  As of yesterday morning, the President said
he hadn’t spoken to the governor-elect of Virginia, Glenn Youngkin.  Has
he tried calling him again?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t — I don’t have anything more to read out from
what we have — what I said at the podium last week.  I don’t have
anything more.  
  
Q    And, also, obviously, when a President goes on something like a
sales tour of his infrastructure plan, where he goes matters and sends a
message.  So, can you talk about why specifically the Port of Baltimore
was picked versus a lot of the other ports, like Savannah —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — or Los Angeles?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, he’ll speak to that tomorrow.  So, I don’t want to
get ahead of the President.  But he’ll have a — he’ll lay that out for
all of you as to why he’s there.

But, as you can imagine, it’s very important to the supply chain and all
the work that he’s doing to make sure that we deal with the issue that
we’re having currently.

Q    Do you have an update on Ethiopia?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s all I have for you guys. 

Thank you.

Q    Thank you, Karine.

Q    You forgot the back.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I called on the — I called on the back.  We had
Raimondo take pictures from — take questions from the back, guys.

2:11 P.M. EST
