---
date: '2025-03-20'
modified_time: 2025-03-20 17:36:04-04:00
published_time: 2025-03-20 17:36:03-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/03/immediate-measures-to-increase-american-mineral-production/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Immediate Measures to Increase American Mineral Production
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including section 301 of title 3,
United States Code, it is hereby ordered:

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section</span>
<span style="text-decoration: underline">1</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Purpose</span>.  The United
States possesses vast mineral resources that can create jobs, fuel
prosperity, and significantly reduce our reliance on foreign nations. 
Transportation, infrastructure, defense capabilities, and the next
generation of technology rely upon a secure, predictable, and affordable
supply of minerals.  The United States was once the world’s largest
producer of lucrative minerals, but overbearing Federal regulation has
eroded our Nation’s mineral production.  Our national and economic
security are now acutely threatened by our reliance upon hostile foreign
powers’ mineral production.  It is imperative for our national security
that the United States take immediate action to facilitate domestic
mineral production to the maximum possible extent. 

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">2</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Definitions</span>.  For the
purposes of this order:

\(a\)  “Mineral” means a critical mineral, as defined by 30 U.S.C.
1606(a)(3), as well as uranium, copper, potash, gold, and any other
element, compound or material as determined by the Chair of the National
Energy Dominance Council (NEDC).

\(b\)  “Mineral production” means the mining, processing, refining, and
smelting of minerals, and the production of processed critical minerals
and other derivative products.

(c)  The term “processed minerals” refers to minerals that have
undergone the activities that occur after mineral ore is extracted from
a mine up through its conversion into a metal, metal powder, or a master
alloy.  These activities specifically occur beginning from the point at
which ores are converted into oxide concentrates, separated into oxides,
and converted into metals, metal powders, and master alloys. 

(d)  The term “derivative products” includes all goods that incorporate
processed minerals as inputs.  These goods include semi-finished goods
(such as semiconductor wafers, anodes, and cathodes) as well as final
products (such as permanent magnets, motors, electric vehicles,
batteries, smartphones, microprocessors, radar systems, wind turbines
and their components, and advanced optical devices).

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">3</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Priority Projects</span>*.*
 (a)  Within 10 days of the date of this order, the head of each
executive department and agency (agency) involved in the permitting of
mineral production in the United States shall provide to the Chair of
the NEDC a list of all mineral production projects for which a plan of
operations, a permit application, or other application for approval has
been submitted to such agency.  Within 10 days of the submission of such
lists, the head of each such agency shall, in coordination with the
Chair of the NEDC, identify priority projects that can be immediately
approved or for which permits can be immediately issued, and take all
necessary or appropriate actions within the agency’s authority to
expedite and issue the relevant permits or approvals.

\(b\)  Within 15 days of the date of this order, the Chair of the NEDC,
in consultation with the heads of relevant agencies, shall submit to the
Executive Director of the Permitting Council mineral production projects
to be considered as transparency projects on the Permitting Dashboard
established under section 41003 of title 41 of the Fixing America’s
Surface Transportation Act, Public Law 114-94, 129 Stat. 1748.  Within
15 days of receiving the submission, the Executive Director shall
publish any projects selected and establish schedules for expedited
review.

\(c\)  The Chair of the NEDC, in consultation with relevant agencies,
shall issue a request for information to solicit industry feedback on
regulatory bottlenecks and other recommended strategies for expediting
domestic mineral production.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">4</span>. 
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Mining Act of 1872</span>*.*
 Within 30 days of the date of this order, the Chair of the NEDC and the
Director of the Office of Legislative Affairs shall jointly prepare and
submit recommendations to the President for the Congress to clarify the
treatment of waste rock, tailings, and mine waste disposal under the
Mining Act of 1872.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">5</span>. 
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Land Use for Mineral
Projects</span>*.*  (a)  Within 10 days of the date of this order, the
Secretary of the Interior shall identify and provide the Assistant to
the President for Economic Policy and the Assistant to the President for
National Security Affairs with a list of all Federal lands known to hold
mineral deposits and reserves.  The Secretary of the Interior shall
prioritize mineral production and mining related purposes as the primary
land uses in these areas, consistent with applicable law.  Land use
plans under the Federal Land Policy and Management Act shall provide for
mineral production and ancillary uses, and be amended or revised as
necessary, to support the intent of this order.

(b)  Within 30 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Defense,
the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Agriculture, and the
Secretary of Energy shall identify as many sites as possible on Federal
land managed by their respective agencies that may be suitable for
leasing or development pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2667, 42 U.S.C. 7256, or
other applicable authorities, for the construction and operation of
private commercial mineral production enterprises and provide such list
to the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, the Assistant to
the President for National Security Affairs, and the Chair of the NEDC.
 The Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary
of Agriculture, and the Secretary of Energy shall prioritize including
sites on such lists on which mineral production projects could be fully
permitted and operational as soon as possible and have the greatest
potential effect on robustness of the domestic mineral supply chain.

(c)  The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Energy shall enter
into extended use leases as authorized by 10 U.S.C. 2667 or by 42 U.S.C.
7256(a) respectively, or using any other authority they deem
appropriate, with private entities to advance the installation of
commercial mineral production enterprises on the lands identified
pursuant to subsection (b) of this section.  The installation of such
commercial mineral production enterprises may be accomplished through
development and construction or via modification of existing structures
to be compatible with commercial requirements.

\(d\)  Within 30 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of
Defense and the Secretary of Energy shall coordinate with the Secretary
of Agriculture, the Administrator of the Small Business Administration,
and the head of any other agency that provides or can provide loans,
capital assistance, technical assistance, and working capital to
domestic mineral production project sponsors to ensure that all private
parties who enter into lease and commercial agreements under
subsection (c) of this section can utilize as many favorable terms and
conditions as are available under public assistance programs for these
purposes, consistent with applicable law.

Sec. 6.  Accelerating Private and Public Capital Investment.  (a)  The
Secretary of Defense shall utilize the National Security Capital Forum
to facilitate the introduction of entities to pair private capital with
commercially viable domestic mineral production projects to the maximum
possible extent.

\(b\)  To address the national emergency declared pursuant to Executive
Order 14156 of January 20, 2025 (Declaring a National Energy Emergency),
I hereby waive the requirements of 50 U.S.C. 4533(a)(1) through (a)(6).
 By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including section 301 of title 3,
United States Code, I hereby delegate to the Secretary of Defense the
authority of the President conferred by section 303 of the Defense
Production Act (DPA) (50 U.S.C. 4533).  The Secretary of Defense may use
the authority under section 303 of the DPA, in consultation with the
Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Energy, the Chair of the
NEDC, and the heads of other agencies as the Secretary of Defense deems
appropriate, for the domestic production and facilitation of strategic
resources the Secretary of Defense deems necessary or appropriate to
advance domestic mineral production in the United States.  Further,
within 30 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Defense shall
add mineral production as a priority industrial capability development
area for the Industrial Base Analysis and Sustainment Program.

(c)  Agencies that are empowered to make loans, loan guarantees, grants,
equity investments, or to conclude offtake agreements to advance
national security in securing vital mineral supply chains, both
domestically and abroad, shall, to the extent permitted by law, take
steps to rescind any policies that require an applicant to complete and
submit to the agency as part of an application for such funds the
disclosures that are required by Regulation S-K part 1300. 

\(d\)  To address the national emergency declared pursuant to Executive
Order 14156, I hereby waive the requirements of 50 U.S.C.
4531(d)(1)(a)(ii), 4332(d)(1)(B), and 4533(a)(1) through (a)(6).  By the
authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of
the United States of America, including section 301 of title 3, United
States Code, I hereby delegate to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of
the United States International Development Finance Corporation (DFC)
the authority of the President conferred by sections 301, 302, and 303
of the DPA (50 U.S.C. 4531, 4532, and 4533), and the authority to
implement the DPA in 50 U.S.C. 4554, 4555, 4556, and 4560.  The CEO of
the DFC may use the authority under sections 301, 302 and 303 of the
DPA, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the
Interior, the Secretary of Energy, the Chair of the NEDC, and the heads
of other agencies as the CEO deems appropriate, for the domestic
production and facilitation of strategic resources the CEO deems
necessary or appropriate to advance mineral production.  The loan
authority delegated by this order is limited to loans that create,
maintain, protect, expand, or restore domestic mineral production. 
Loans, loan guarantees, and political risk insurance extended using the
authority delegated by this subsection shall be made in accordance with
the principles and guidelines outlined in the Office of Management and
Budget (OMB) Circular A-11 and OMB Circular A-129, in each case subject
to such exceptions as the Director of OMB grants, and the Federal Credit
Reform Act of 1990, as amended (2 U.S.C. 661 *et seq*.).  The CEO of the
DFC, in coordination with the Director of OMB, shall adopt appropriate
rules and regulations as may be necessary to implement this order in
coordination with the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy.

(e)  Within 30 days of the date of this order, the CEO of the DFC and
the Secretary of Defense shall develop and propose a plan to the
Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs for the DFC to
use Department of Defense investment authorities (including the DPA) and
the Department of Defense Office of Strategic Capital to establish a
dedicated mineral and mineral production fund for domestic investments
executed by the DFC.  Any such fund shall be implemented pursuant to
such plan only after approval by each of the Secretary of Defense, the
CEO of the DFC, and the Assistant to the President for National Security
Affairs.  Pursuant to the reimbursement authorities in the Economy Act,
the Secretary of Defense shall transfer to the DFC any appropriated
funds from the Defense Production Act Fund or from the Office of
Strategic Capital necessary to reimburse the DFC in connection with its
services performed on behalf of and in coordination with the Department
of Defense to implement subsection (d) of this section and this
subsection.  In connection with such reimbursements, the Secretary of
Defense shall direct the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) to
defer to the credit and underwriting policies of the DFC with respect to
the use of such funds by the DFC.

(f)  Within 30 days of the date of this order, the President of the
Export-Import Bank shall release recommended program guidance for the
use of mineral and mineral production financing tools authorized under
the Supply Chain Resiliency Initiative to secure United States offtake
of global raw mineral feedstock for domestic minerals processing, as
well as under the Make More in America Initiative to support domestic
mineral production.

(g)  Within 30 days of the date of this order, the Assistant Secretary
of Defense for Industrial Base Policy shall convene buyers of minerals
and work towards an announced request for bids to supply the minerals.

(h)  Within 45 days of the date of this order, the Administrator of the
Small Business Administration shall prepare and submit through the
Assistant to the President for Economic Policy recommendations for
legislation to enhance private-public capital activities to support
financings to domestic small businesses engaged in mineral production. 
The Administrator of the Small Business Administration shall further
take steps to promulgate such regulations, rules, and guidance as the
Administrator determines are necessary or appropriate for such purposes.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">7</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">General Provisions</span>*.* 
(a)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise
affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

                               DONALD J. TRUMP

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    March 20, 2025.
