---
date: '2025-03-15'
modified_time: 2025-03-15 16:34:32-04:00
published_time: 2025-03-15 15:51:56-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/03/invocation-of-the-alien-enemies-act-regarding-the-invasion-of-the-united-states-by-tren-de-aragua/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Invocation of the Alien Enemies Act Regarding the Invasion of The United States
  by Tren De Aragua
---
 
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

Tren de Aragua (TdA) is a designated Foreign Terrorist Organization with
thousands of members, many of whom have unlawfully infiltrated the
United States and are conducting irregular warfare and undertaking
hostile actions against the United States. TdA operates in conjunction
with Cártel de los Soles, the Nicolas Maduro regime-sponsored,
narco-terrorism enterprise based in Venezuela, and commits brutal
crimes, including murders, kidnappings, extortions, and human, drug, and
weapons trafficking. TdA has engaged in and continues to engage in mass
illegal migration to the United States to further its objectives of
harming United States citizens, undermining public safety, and
supporting the Maduro regime’s goal of destabilizing democratic nations
in the Americas, including the United States.  

TdA is closely aligned with, and indeed has infiltrated, the Maduro
regime, including its military and law enforcement apparatus. TdA grew
significantly while Tareck El Aissami served as governor of Aragua
between 2012 and 2017. In 2017, El Aissami was appointed as Vice
President of Venezuela. Soon thereafter, the United States Department of
the Treasury designated El Aissami as a Specially Designated Narcotics
Trafficker under the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act, 21
U.S.C. 1901 et seq. El Aissami is currently a United States fugitive
facing charges arising from his violations of United States sanctions
triggered by his Department of the Treasury designation.  

Like El Aissami, Nicolas Maduro, who claims to act as Venezuela’s
President and asserts control over the security forces and other
authorities in Venezuela, also maintains close ties to regime-sponsored
narco-terrorists. Maduro leads the regime-sponsored enterprise Cártel de
los Soles, which coordinates with and relies on TdA and other
organizations to carry out its objective of using illegal narcotics as a
weapon to “flood” the United States. In 2020, Maduro and other regime
members were charged with narcoterrorism and other crimes in connection
with this plot against America.  

Over the years, Venezuelan national and local authorities have ceded
ever-greater control over their territories to transnational criminal
organizations, including TdA. The result is a hybrid criminal state that
is perpetrating an invasion of and predatory incursion into the United
States, and which poses a substantial danger to the United States.
Indeed, in December 2024, INTERPOL Washington confirmed: “Tren de Aragua
has emerged as a significant threat to the United States as it
infiltrates migration flows from Venezuela.” Evidence irrefutably
demonstrates that TdA has invaded the United States and continues to
invade, attempt to invade, and threaten to invade the country;
perpetrated irregular warfare within the country; and used drug
trafficking as a weapon against our citizens.  

Based upon a review of TdA’s activities, and in consultation with the
Attorney General and the Secretary of the Treasury, on February 20,
2025, acting pursuant to the authority in 8 U.S.C. 1189, the Secretary
of State designated TdA as a Foreign Terrorist Organization.  

As President of the United States and Commander in Chief, it is my
solemn duty to protect the American people from the devastating effects
of this invasion. NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the
United States of America, by the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the
Alien Enemies Act, 50 U.S.C. 21 et seq., hereby proclaim and direct as
follows:  

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section</span>
<span style="text-decoration: underline">1</span>. I find and declare
that TdA is perpetrating, attempting, and threatening an invasion or
predatory incursion against the territory of the United States. TdA is
undertaking hostile actions and conducting irregular warfare against the
territory of the United States both directly and at the direction,
clandestine or otherwise, of the Maduro regime in Venezuela. I make
these findings using the full extent of my authority to conduct the
Nation’s foreign affairs under the Constitution. Based on these
findings, and by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including 50 U.S.C. 21, I proclaim
that all Venezuelan citizens 14 years of age or older who are members of
TdA, are within the United States, and are not actually naturalized or
lawful permanent residents of the United States are liable to be
apprehended, restrained, secured, and removed as Alien Enemies. I
further find and declare that all such members of TdA are, by virtue of
their membership in that organization, chargeable with actual hostility
against the United States and are therefore ineligible for the benefits
of 50 U.S.C. 22. I further find and declare that all such members of TdA
are a danger to the public peace or safety of the United States.  

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">2</span>. I direct the Attorney
General, within 60 days of the date of this proclamation, to prepare and
publish a letter under her signature declaring the policy described in
section 1 of this proclamation as the policy of the United States and
attaching this proclamation. I direct the Attorney General to transmit
this letter to the Chief Justice of the United States, the chief judge
of every circuit court of appeals, the chief judge of every district and
territorial court of the United States, each Governor of a State and
territory of the United States, and the highest-ranking judicial officer
of each State and territory of the United States.  

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">3</span>. I direct that all
Alien Enemies described in section 1 of this proclamation are subject to
immediate apprehension, detention, and removal, and further that they
shall not be permitted residence in the United States.  

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">4</span>. Pursuant to the Alien
Enemies Act, the Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland Security
shall, consistent with applicable law, apprehend, restrain, secure, and
remove every Alien Enemy described in section 1 of this proclamation.
The Secretary of Homeland Security retains discretion to apprehend and
remove any Alien Enemy under any separate authority.  

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">5</span>. All executive
departments and agencies (agencies) shall collaborate with law
enforcement officials of the United States and with appropriate State,
local, and tribal officials, to use all lawful means to apprehend,
restrain, secure, and remove Alien Enemies described in section 1 of
this proclamation.  

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">6</span>. Pursuant to my
authority under 50 U.S.C. 21 to direct the conduct to be observed on the
part of the United States toward the Alien Enemies subject to this
proclamation, to direct the manner and degree of the restraint to which
such Alien Enemies shall be subject and in what cases, to provide for
the removal of such Alien Enemies, and to establish any other
regulations which are found necessary “in the premises and for the
public safety,” I hereby direct the Attorney General and the Secretary
of Homeland Security to execute all the regulations hereinafter
contained regarding the Alien Enemies described in section 1 of this
proclamation. The Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland
Security are further directed to cause the apprehension, detention, and
removal of all members of TdA who otherwise qualify as Alien Enemies
under section 1 of this proclamation. The Attorney General and the
Secretary of Homeland Security are authorized to take all necessary
actions under the Alien Enemies Act to effectuate this proclamation,
consistent with applicable law. In doing so, and for such purpose, they
are authorized to utilize agents, agencies, and officers of the United
States Government and of the several States, territories, dependencies,
and municipalities thereof and of the District of Columbia. All such
agents, agencies, and officers are hereby granted full authority for all
acts done by them in the execution of such regulations when acting by
direction of the Attorney General or the Secretary of Homeland Security,
as the case may be.  

Pursuant to the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws
of the United States of America, including the Alien Enemies Act, 50
U.S.C. 21 et seq., I hereby declare and establish the following
regulations which I find necessary “in the premises and for the public
safety”:  

\(a\) No Alien Enemy described in section 1 of this proclamation shall
enter, attempt to enter, or be found within any territory subject to the
jurisdiction of the United States. Any such Alien Enemy who enters,
attempts to enter, or is found within such territory shall be
immediately apprehended and detained until removed from the United
States. All such Alien Enemies, wherever found within any territory
subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, are subject to summary
apprehension.  

\(b\) Alien Enemies apprehended pursuant to this proclamation shall be
subject to detention until removed from the United States in such place
of detention as may be directed by the officers responsible for the
execution of these regulations.  

\(c\) Alien Enemies shall be subject to removal to any such location as
may be directed by the officers responsible for the execution of these
regulations consistent with applicable law.  

\(d\) All property in the possession of, or traceable to, an Alien
Enemy, which is used, intended to be used, or is commonly used to
perpetrate the hostile activity and irregular warfare of TdA, along with
evidence of such hostile activity and irregular warfare, shall be
subject to seizure and forfeiture.  

The Attorney General is further granted authority, pursuant to the Alien
Enemies Act and 3 U.S.C. 301, in consultation with the Secretary of
Homeland Security, to issue any guidance necessary to effectuate the
prompt apprehension, detention, and removal of all Alien Enemies
described in section 1 of this proclamation. Any such guidance shall be
effective immediately upon issuance by the Attorney General.  

This proclamation and the directives and regulations prescribed herein
shall extend and apply to all land and water, continental or insular, in
any way within the jurisdiction of the United States.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
fourteenth day of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand
twenty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the
two hundred and forty-ninth.
