---
date: '2025-03-26'
modified_time: 2025-03-28 14:39:13-04:00
published_time: 2025-03-26 18:53:33-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/03/adjusting-imports-of-automobiles-and-autombile-parts-into-the-united-states/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Adjusting Imports of Automobiles and Automobile Parts into the United States
---
 
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
  
A PROCLAMATION

1.  On February 17, 2019, the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary)
transmitted to me a report on his investigation into the effects of
imports of passenger vehicles (sedans, sport utility vehicles, crossover
utility vehicles, minivans, and cargo vans) and light trucks
(collectively, automobiles) and certain automobile parts (engines and
engine parts, transmissions and powertrain parts, and electrical
components) (collectively, automobile parts) on the national security of
the United States under section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962,
as amended (19 U.S.C. 1862) (section 232).  Based on the facts
considered in that investigation, the Secretary found and advised me of
his opinion that automobiles and certain automobile parts are being
imported into the United States in such quantities and under such
circumstances as to threaten to impair the national security of the
United States. 

2.  In Proclamation 9888 of May 17, 2019 (Adjusting Imports of
Automobiles and Automobile Parts Into the United States), I concurred
with the Secretary’s finding in the February 17, 2019, report that
automobiles and certain automobile parts are being imported into the
United States in such quantities and under such circumstances as to
threaten to impair the national security of the United States.  I also
directed the United States Trade Representative (Trade Representative),
in consultation with other executive branch officials, to pursue
negotiation of agreements to address the threatened impairment of the
national security of the United States with respect to imported
automobiles and certain automobile parts from the European Union, Japan,
and any other country the Trade Representative deems appropriate.

3.  The Trade Representative’s negotiations did not lead to any
agreements of the type contemplated by section 232.

4.  In Proclamation 9888, I also directed the Secretary to monitor
imports of automobiles and certain automobile parts and inform me of any
circumstances that, in the Secretary’s opinion, might indicate the need
for further action under section 232 with respect to such imports.

5\. The Secretary has informed me that, since the February 17, 2019,
report, the national security concerns remain and have escalated.  The
COVID-19 pandemic exposed critical vulnerabilities and choke points in
global supply chains, undermining our ability to maintain a resilient
domestic industrial base.  In recent years, American-owned automotive
manufacturers have experienced numerous supply chain challenges,
including material and parts input shortages, labor shortages and
strikes, and electrical-component shortages.  Meanwhile, foreign
automotive industries, propelled by unfair subsidies and aggressive
industrial policies, have grown substantially.  Today, only about half
of the vehicles sold in the United States are manufactured domestically,
a decline that jeopardizes our domestic industrial base and national
security, and the United States’ share of worldwide automobile
production has remained stagnant since the February 17, 2019, report.
 The number of employees in the domestic automotive industry has also
not improved since the February 17, 2019, report. 

6.  I am also advised that agreements entered into before the issuance
of Proclamation 9888, such as the revisions to the United States-Korea
Free Trade Agreement and the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement
(USMCA), have not yielded sufficient positive outcomes.  The threat to
national security posed by imports of automobiles and certain automobile
parts remains and has increased.  Investments resulting from other
efforts, such as legislation, have also not yielded sufficient positive
outcomes to eliminate the threat to national security from such imports.

7.  After considering the current information newly provided by the
Secretary, among other things, I find that imports of automobiles and
certain automobile parts continue to threaten to impair the national
security of the United States and deem it necessary and appropriate to
impose tariffs, as defined below, to adjust imports of automobiles and
certain automobile parts so that such imports will not threaten to
impair national security.

8.  To ensure that the imposition of tariffs on automobiles and certain
automobile parts in this proclamation are not circumvented and that the
purpose of this action to eliminate the threat to the national security
of the United States by imports of automobiles and certain automobile
parts is not undermined, I also deem it necessary and appropriate to
establish processes to identify and impose tariffs on additional
automobile parts, as further described below.

9.  Section 232 provides that, in this situation, the President shall
take such other actions as the President deems necessary to adjust the
imports of the relevant article so that such imports will not threaten
to impair national security.  

10.  Section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2483),
authorizes the President to embody in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of
the United States (HTSUS) the substance of statutes affecting import
treatment, and actions thereunder, including the removal, modification,
continuance, or imposition of any rate of duty or other import
restriction.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws
of the United States of America, including section 301 of title 3,
United States Code; section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended;
and section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended, do
hereby proclaim as follows:  
(1)  Except as otherwise provided in this proclamation, all imports of
articles specified in Annex I to this proclamation or in any subsequent
annex to this proclamation, as set out in a subsequent notice in the
*Federal Register*, shall be subject to a 25 percent tariff with respect
to goods entered for consumption or withdrawn from warehouse for
consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on April 3,
2025, for automobiles, and on the date specified in the *Federal
Register* for automobile parts, but no later than May 3, 2025, and shall
continue in effect, unless such actions are expressly reduced, modified,
or terminated.  The above ad valorem tariff is in addition to any other
duties, fees, exactions, and charges applicable to such imported
automobiles and certain automobile parts articles.  
(2)  For automobiles that qualify for preferential tariff treatment
under the USMCA, importers of such automobiles may submit documentation
to the Secretary identifying the amount of U.S. content in each model
imported into the United States.  “U.S. content” refers to the value of
the automobile attributable to parts wholly obtained, produced entirely,
or substantially transformed in the United States.  Thereafter, the
Secretary may approve imports of such automobiles to be eligible to
apply the ad valorem tariff of 25 percent in clause (1) of this
proclamation exclusively to the value of the non-U.S. content of the
automobile.  The non-U.S. content of the automobile shall be calculated
by subtracting the value of the U.S. content in an automobile from the
total value of the automobile.  
(3)  If U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) determines that the
declared value of non-U.S. content of an automobile, as described in
clause (2) of this proclamation, is inaccurate due to an overstatement
of U.S. content, the 25 percent tariff shall apply to the full value of
the automobile, regardless of the actual U.S. content of the automobile.
 In addition, the 25 percent tariff shall be applied retroactively (from
April 3, 2025, to the date of the inaccurate overstatement) and
prospectively (from the date of the inaccurate overstatement to the date
the importer corrects the overstatement, as verified by CBP) to the full
value of all automobiles of the same model imported by the same
importer.  This clause does not apply to or otherwise affect any other
applicable fees or penalties.  
(4)  The ad valorem tariff of 25 percent described in clause (1) of this
proclamation shall not apply to automobile parts that qualify for
preferential treatment under the USMCA until such time that the
Secretary, in consultation with CBP, establishes a process to apply the
tariff exclusively to the value of the non-U.S. content of such
automobile parts and publishes notice in the *Federal Register*.  
(5)  For avoidance of doubt, clause (4) of this proclamation does not
apply to automobile knock-down kits or parts compilations.  Clause (4)
of this proclamation applies only to individual automobile parts as
defined by Annex I to this proclamation that otherwise meet the
requirements of clause (4) of this proclamation.  
(6)  The Secretary, in consultation with the United States International
Trade Commission and CBP, shall determine the modifications necessary to
the HTSUS to effectuate this proclamation and shall make such
modifications to the HTSUS through notice in the *Federal Register*.    
(7)  Within 90 days of the date of this proclamation, the Secretary
shall establish a process for including additional automobile parts
articles within the scope of the tariffs described in clause (1) of this
proclamation. In addition to inclusions made by the Secretary, this
process shall provide for including additional automobile parts articles
at the request of a domestic producer of an automobile or automobile
parts article, or an industry association representing one or more such
producers, where the request establishes that imports of additional
automobile parts articles have increased in a manner that threatens to
impair the national security or otherwise undermines the objectives set
forth in any proclamation issued on the basis of the Secretary’s
February 17, 2019, report or any additional information submitted to the
President under clause (3) of Proclamation 9888 or clause (9) of this
proclamation. When the Secretary receives such a request from a domestic
producer or industry association, the Secretary, after consultation with
the United States International Trade Commission and CBP, shall issue a
determination regarding whether to include the articles within 60 days
of receiving the request.  Any additional automobile parts articles that
the Secretary has determined to be included within the scope of the
tariffs described in clause (1) of this proclamation shall be so
included on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time the day after a
notice in the *Federal Register* describing the determination of the
Secretary.  The notice in the *Federal Register* shall be made as soon
as practicable but no later than 14 days after the Secretary’s
determination.  
(8) Any automobile or automobile part, except those eligible for
admission under “domestic status” as defined in 19 CFR 146.43, that is
subject to the duty imposed by this proclamation and that is admitted
into a United States foreign trade zone on or after the effective date
of this proclamation, in accordance with clause (1) of this
proclamation, must be admitted as “privileged foreign status” as defined
in 19 CFR 146.41, and will be subject upon entry for consumption to any
ad valorem rates of duty related to the classification under the
applicable HTSUS subheading.  
(9)  The Secretary shall continue to monitor imports of automobiles and
automobile parts.  The Secretary also shall, from time to time, in
consultation with any senior executive branch officials the Secretary
deems appropriate, review the status of such imports with respect to
national security.  The Secretary shall inform the President of any
circumstances that, in the Secretary’s opinion, might indicate the need
for further action by the President under section 232.  The Secretary
shall also inform the President of any circumstance that, in the
Secretary’s opinion, might indicate that the increase in duty rate
provided for in this proclamation is no longer necessary.  
(10)  No drawback shall be available with respect to the duties imposed
pursuant to this proclamation.  
(11)  The Secretary may issue regulations and guidance consistent with
this proclamation, including to address operational necessity.  
(12)  CBP may take any necessary or appropriate measures to administer
the tariffs imposed by this proclamation.  
(13)  Any provision of previous proclamations and Executive Orders that
is inconsistent with the actions taken in this proclamation is
superseded to the extent of such inconsistency.  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-sixth day of
March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.
