---
date: '2025-03-25'
modified_time: 2025-03-25 16:09:00-04:00
published_time: 2025-03-25 16:07:40-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/03/protecting-americas-bank-account-against-fraud-waste-and-abuse/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Protecting America\u2019s Bank Account Against Fraud, Waste, and Abuse"
---
 
 By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered:

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section</span>
<span style="text-decoration: underline">1</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Purpose</span>.  Promoting
financial integrity and operational efficiency are critical
responsibilities of the Federal Government.  The Federal Government
processes trillions of dollars annually in disbursements to individuals,
businesses, and organizations, and in receipts from taxes, fees, and
other payments to finance daily and long-term Government operations.
 These transactions flow into and out of the United States General Fund
(General Fund), which might be thought of as America’s bank account.  In
Fiscal Year 2024, $33.9 trillion flowed into the General Fund and $33.6
trillion flowed out of the account, including $5.87 trillion (less net
interest) in benefits, grants, loans, vendor payments, and other
disbursements. 

The Department of the Treasury is the largest financial payment manager
of the Federal Government and is responsible for safeguarding the
General Fund, but lacks sufficient controls to track transactions
flowing through the General Fund to determine if they were proper.  To
enforce sufficient controls and ensure accountability to American
taxpayers, the Department of the Treasury requires financial information
from executive departments and agencies (agencies) beyond what they
currently provide.

Financial fraud threatens the integrity of Federal programs and
undermines trust in Government.  Agencies’ past underinvestment in
technology and longstanding challenges with access to accurate data has
prevented them from more fully safeguarding taxpayer dollars against
fraud and improper payments.  The Government Accountability Office
estimates that the Federal Government loses between $233 and $521
billion annually to fraud.

In addition to being an efficient steward of taxpayer funds, the Federal
Government, on behalf of the American public, must seek to ensure that
financial information is accurate and that there is transparency with
respect to how taxpayer dollars are being used.  Today, Federal funds
are disbursed both by the Department of the Treasury and various Federal
Government entities that are authorized to issue their own disbursements
known as Non-Treasury Disbursing Offices (NTDOs).  In Fiscal Year 2024,
NTDOs were estimated to be responsible for 181 million payments totaling
over $1.5 trillion (approximately 22 percent of all Federal Government
dollars disbursed). This fragmentation of disbursing authority, together
with the proliferation of non-standard financial management systems
across the Federal Government, leads to expensive, disjointed, and
duplicative financial reporting, lack of financial traceability,
complicated financial management, opacity, increased operational risks,
and decreased ability of the Department of the Treasury to provide
centralized oversight.

This order promotes financial integrity by enabling the Department of
the Treasury to more easily conduct improper payment and fraud
prevention screening prior to disbursing funds on behalf of agencies. 
This order increases transparency and accountability by requiring
agencies to provide the Department of the Treasury with the information
needed to track transactions through the General Fund in greater
detail.  This order also promotes operational efficiency by returning
disbursing functions to the Department of the Treasury when possible and
consolidating and standardizing core Federal financial systems.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">2</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Policy</span>.  It is the
policy of the United States to defend against financial fraud and
improper payments, increase transparency and accountability around the
Federal Government’s operations and financial condition, increase
efficiency, reduce costs, and enhance the security of Federal payments.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">3</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Treasury Verification of
Agency Payments Information</span>.  (a)  The Secretary of the Treasury,
in consultation with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget
(OMB Director), shall update guidance and enhance systems to ensure that
all payments made by the Department of the Treasury on behalf of
agencies pursuant to the Secretary of the Treasury’s disbursing
authority, including 31 U.S.C. 3321, are subject to pre-certification
verification processes established by the Secretary of the Treasury and
conducted by agencies and the Department of the Treasury for the
purposes of defending against financial fraud and improper payments, to
the greatest extent permitted by law.  Such guidance shall set forth
guidelines for compliance with the Do Not Pay Working System as
described in 31 U.S.C. 3351 *et seq*., and such other payment, account,
and payee validation programs and services that the Secretary of the
Treasury and the OMB Director determine to be beneficial for reducing
financial fraud and improper payments.

(b)  In accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3354, the heads of all agencies shall
cooperate with the Secretary of the Treasury to fulfill their
obligations to determine payment or award eligibility through
pre-certification and pre-award procedures, as determined by the
Secretary of the Treasury, including pursuant to subsection (a) of this
section and section 4 of this order to prevent fraud and improper
payments.

(c)  The Secretary of the Treasury is directed to minimize
administrative barriers to accessing and using data to prevent fraud and
improper payments by exercising the authority in 31 U.S.C. 3351 *et
seq*. to waive the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a(o), in consultation
with the OMB Director, in any case or class of cases for computer
matching activities, to the extent permissible by law.

(d)  Within 90 days of the date of this order, agency heads shall review
and modify, as applicable, their relevant system of records notices
under the Privacy Act of 1974 to include a “routine use” that allows for
the disclosure of records to the Department of the Treasury for the
purposes of identifying, preventing, or recouping fraud and improper
payments, to the extent permissible by law. 

(e)  The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the OMB
Director, shall issue guidance to agency heads on the circumstances in
which agency heads, to the extent permissible by law, may provide the
Secretary of the Treasury with access to data necessary for the purposes
of detecting and preventing fraud and improper payments, as well as data
for payment information verification (and not, for example, data such as
health records).

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">4</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Implementation and Compliance
of Payment Verification</span>.  (a)  Agency heads, through designated
agency officials (Certifying Officers or COs), who are responsible for
verifying that disbursements made by the Federal Government are legal,
proper, and correct, and for performing the duties in 31 U.S.C. 3528,
shall comply with the disbursement requirements and instructions,
including pre-certification requirements, published by the Secretary of
the Treasury.

\(b\)  The Secretary of the Treasury shall consider, as appropriate,
issuing instructions to agencies to enforce the following
pre-certification criteria for disbursement requests submitted by COs
(Vouchers) before they are certified for payment by the CO:

\(i\)     Funds are available at the time the obligation is incurred.
 If an obligation is incurred when funds are not available, then the CO
shall not certify the payment.

\(ii\)    The amount of the payment and the name of the payee on the
Voucher are correct, in conformance with the Department of the
Treasury’s prescribed standard format.

(iii)   A proper Social Security Number, Taxpayer Identification Number,
Employer Identification Number, Individual Taxpayer Identification
Number, or Payee ID Number is provided for each payee on the Voucher, as
applicable.

\(iv\)    The appropriation or fund from which the payment will be made
is available for the purpose set forth in the Voucher and indicated with
the appropriate Treasury Account Symbol/Business Event Type Code.

\(v\)     Payees are not deceased individuals, to the greatest extent
permitted by law.

\(vi\)    The account number provided on the Voucher is held at a
financial institution and is open, valid, and belongs to the payee or
valid designee of payee.

\(vii\)   Contracts or agreements are referenced on the Voucher by
providing the contract number, referred to as the Procurement Instrument
Identifier, where applicable.

\(viii\)  Financial assistance awards (non-aggregate) are referenced on
the Voucher by providing the award number, referred to as the Federal
Award Identification Number, where applicable.

(ix)    For summary schedules, the payments on the Voucher are submitted
in conformance with the Department of the Treasury prescribed standard
formats for such schedules.

\(c\)  Agency heads shall submit payment files other than with respect
to same-day payments to the Secretary of the Treasury or the Secretary’s
designee with sufficient lead time prior to the date of disbursement as
determined by the Department of the Treasury and provided in the
requirements and instructions issued pursuant to subsections (a) and (b)
of this section, to allow for fraud and improper payment screening, to
the extent permissible by law.  With respect to same-day payments,
agency heads shall submit payment files to the Secretary of the Treasury
or the Secretary’s designee as much in advance as reasonably
practicable.

\(d\)  In issuing requirements and instructions pursuant to subsection
(a) of this section, the Secretary of the Treasury shall consider
whether it would be appropriate to provide that the Department of the
Treasury’s Chief Disbursing Officer return to the relevant agency for
reconciliation any payments that do not pass the pre-certification
verification processes established pursuant to section 3(a) of this
order and notify the designated CO.  

\(e\)  The Secretary of the Treasury shall include in the guidance
issued pursuant to subsection (a) of this section, or in other
regulations or guidance, a transparent process for agencies to request
exemptions from some or all of the payment verification requirements for
specific payments or categories of payments.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">5</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Core Financial System
Consolidation</span>.  (a)  Within 180 days of the date of this order,
the OMB Director shall issue guidance that directs agencies described in
31 U.S.C. 901(b) (CFO Act agencies) to consolidate their core financial
systems.

\(b\)  As soon as practicable, but not later than 180 days of the date
of this order, the OMB Director, in consultation with the Secretary of
the Treasury, shall issue guidance directing all non-CFO Act agencies to
consolidate transactional financial management services under a single
provider approved by the Department of the Treasury.

\(c\)  As soon as practicable, all heads of CFO Act agencies shall use
standard financial management solutions available through the Financial
Management Marketplace, administered by the Financial Management Quality
Service Management Office.

\(d\)  Agency heads shall ensure that core financial systems comply with
Federal accounting and financial reporting standards and relevant
regulations, orders, guidance documents, policy statements, and other
agency actions published by the Department of the Treasury from time to
time.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">6</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Reduction of NTDOs</span>. 
(a)  Within 30 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of the
Treasury shall assess whether to maintain disbursing authority that it
has delegated to agencies pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3321(b) and issue
notices to revoke such delegations, as appropriate, in accordance with
applicable law.  

\(b\)  The heads of agencies with disbursing authority under 31 U.S.C.
3321(c), including the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Homeland
Security, and the Attorney General (but excluding, for the avoidance of
doubt, the Supreme Court and other entities of the Federal Government
outside the Executive Branch) will work with the Secretary of the
Treasury to delegate the performance of their disbursing activities,
other than with respect to classified payments, to the Department of the
Treasury’s Chief Disbursing Officer in accordance with applicable law. 

\(c\)  Notwithstanding subsections (a) or (b) of this section, the
Secretary of the Treasury may continue to delegate disbursing authority
to NTDOs at other agencies when doing so would align with significant
Government priorities.  Any remaining NTDOs are required to report daily
to the Department of the Treasury’s centralized accounting and reporting
system in accordance with then-current Department of the Treasury
guidance and applicable law.

\(d\)  The Secretary of the Treasury shall develop a plan to centralize
and manage all payments previously disbursed by NTDOs, ensuring seamless
continuity of Government payments.

\(e\)  The Secretary of the Treasury, in coordination with agency heads,
shall establish a transition plan for agencies currently operating as
NTDOs, including staffing adjustments, system integrations, and legal or
regulatory modifications necessary for full consolidation.

\(f\)  The heads of agencies with disbursing authority delegated to the
agency under 33 U.S.C. 3321(b) shall decommission all internal payment
systems and use the Department of the Treasury’s disbursement systems,
except and to the extent authorized by the Department of the Treasury or
otherwise required by applicable law.

<u>Sec</u>. <span style="text-decoration: underline">7</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Reporting and Implementation
Requirements</span>.  (a)  The heads of all agencies shall submit a
compliance plan to the OMB Director within 90 days of the date of this
order detailing their strategy for:

\(i\)    transitioning disbursing authority to the Department of the
Treasury, as applicable and as contemplated by this order;

\(ii\)   updating and integrating systems with Department of the
Treasury platforms;

\(iii\)  procedures to verify payment information as contemplated by
this order; and

\(iv\)   transmitting information associated with improper payments to
the Department of the Treasury in accordance with standards and
reporting specifications established by the OMB Director in coordination
with the Secretary of the Treasury as contemplated by this order.

\(b\)  The Secretary of the Treasury shall submit an implementation
report to the President through the Assistant to the President for
Economic Policy within 180 days of the date of this order detailing
progress on the matters set forth in this order.

\(c\)  The Secretary of the Treasury and agency heads shall take all
necessary steps to protect classified information and systems, as well
as personally identifiable information and tax return information,
through the implementation of this order.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">8</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">General Provisions</span>. 
(a)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise
affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

DONALD J. TRUMP

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    March 25, 2025.
