---
date: '2025-03-19'
modified_time: 2025-03-19 10:27:14-04:00
published_time: 2025-03-19 10:20:57-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/03/test/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Achieving Efficiency Through State and Local Preparedness
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered:

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section</span>
<span style="text-decoration: underline">1</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Purpose</span>. Commonsense
approaches and investments by State and local governments across
American infrastructure will enhance national security and create a more
resilient Nation. Federal policy must rightly recognize that
preparedness is most effectively owned and managed at the State, local,
and even individual levels, supported by a competent, accessible, and
efficient Federal Government. Citizens are the immediate beneficiaries
of sound local decisions and investments designed to address risks,
including cyber attacks, wildfires, hurricanes, and space weather. When
States are empowered to make smart infrastructure choices, taxpayers
benefit.

This order empowers State, local, and individual preparedness and
injects common sense into infrastructure prioritization and strategic
investments through risk-informed decisions that make our
infrastructure, communities, and economy resilient to global and dynamic
threats and hazards.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">2</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Policy</span>. It is the policy
of the United States that State and local governments and individuals
play a more active and significant role in national resilience and
preparedness, thereby saving American lives, securing American
livelihoods, reducing taxpayer burdens through efficiency, and
unleashing our collective prosperity. In addition, it is the policy of
the United States that my Administration streamline its preparedness
operations; update relevant Government policies to reduce complexity and
better protect and serve Americans; and enable State and local
governments to better understand, plan for, and ultimately address the
needs of their citizens.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">3</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Updating Federal Policy to Save
Lives and End the Subsidization of Mismanagement</span>. (a) National
Resilience Strategy. Within 90 days of the date of this order, the
Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs (APNSA), in
coordination with the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy and
the heads of relevant executive departments and agencies (agencies),
shall publish a National Resilience Strategy that articulates the
priorities, means, and ways to advance the resilience of the Nation. The
National Resilience Strategy shall be reviewed and revised at least
every 4 years, or as appropriate.

\(b\) National Critical Infrastructure Policy. Within 180 days of the
date of this order, the APNSA, in coordination with the Director of the
Office of Science and Technology Policy and the heads of relevant
agencies, shall review all critical infrastructure policies and
recommend to the President the revisions, recissions, and replacements
necessary to achieve a more resilient posture; shift from an all-hazards
approach to a risk-informed approach; move beyond information sharing to
action; and implement the National Resilience Strategy described in
subsection (a) of this section. For purposes of this order, critical
infrastructure policies do not include any policies related to purported
“misinformation,” “disinformation,” or “malinformation,” nor so-called
“cognitive infrastructure,” which should be reevaluated consistent with
the policy set forth in Executive Order 14149 of January 20, 2025
(Restoring Freedom of Speech and Ending Federal Censorship), through a
separate process. The policies to be reviewed and recommended for
modification, as appropriate, include:

\(i\) National Security Memorandum 16 of November 10, 2022
(Strengthening the Security and Resilience of United States Food and
Agriculture);

\(ii\) National Security Memorandum 22 of April 30, 2024 (Critical
Infrastructure Security and Resilience);

\(iii\) Executive Order 14017 of February 24, 2021 (America’s Supply
Chains); and

\(iv\) Executive Order 14123 of June 14, 2024 (White House Council on
Supply Chain Resilience).

\(c\) National Continuity Policy. Within 180 days of the date of this
order, the APNSA, in coordination with the heads of relevant agencies,
shall review all national continuity policies and recommend to the
President the revisions, recissions, and replacements necessary to
modernize and streamline the approach to national continuity
capabilities, reformulate the methodology and architecture necessary to
achieve an enduring readiness posture, and implement the National
Resilience Strategy described in subsection (a) of this section. The
policies to be reviewed and recommended for modification, as
appropriate, include:

\(i\) Executive Order 13618 of July 6, 2012 (Assignment of National
Security and Emergency Preparedness Communications Functions);

\(ii\) Executive Order 13961 of December 7, 2020 (Governance and
Integration of Federal Mission Resilience);

\(iii\) National Security Memorandum 32 of January 19, 2025 (National
Continuity Policy); and

\(iv\) Executive Order 14146 of January 19, 2025 (Partial Revocation of
Executive Order 13961).

\(d\) Preparedness and Response Policies. Within 240 days of the date of
this order, the APNSA, in coordination with the heads of relevant
agencies and informed by the reports and findings of the Federal
Emergency Management Agency Council established pursuant to Executive
Order 14180 of January 24, 2025 (Council to Assess the Federal Emergency
Management Agency), shall review all national preparedness and response
policies and recommend to the President the revisions, recissions, and
replacements necessary to reformulate the process and metrics for
Federal responsibility, move away from an all-hazards approach, and
implement the National Resilience Strategy described in subsection (a)
of this section. The policies to be reviewed and recommended for
modification, as appropriate, include:

\(i\) Executive Order 12656 of November 18, 1988 (Assignment of
Emergency Preparedness Responsibilities);

\(ii\) Homeland Security Presidential Directive 5 of February 28, 2003
(Management of Domestic Incidents);

\(iii\) Presidential Policy Directive 8 of March 30, 2011 (National
Preparedness);

\(iv\) Presidential Policy Directive 22 of March 28, 2013 (National
Special Security Events); and

\(v\) Presidential Policy Directive 44 of November 7, 2016 (Enhancing
Domestic Incident Response).

\(e\) National Risk Register. Within 240 days of the date of this order,
the APNSA, in coordination with the Director of the Office of Management
and Budget and the heads of relevant agencies, shall coordinate the
development of a National Risk Register that identifies, articulates,
and quantifies natural and malign risks to our national infrastructure,
related systems, and their users.

\(i\) The quantification produced by the National Risk Register shall be
used to inform the Intelligence Community, private sector investments,
State investments, and Federal budget priorities.

\(ii\) The National Risk Register shall be reviewed and revised at least
every 4 years, or as appropriate, to evolve with the dynamic risk
landscape.

\(f\) Federal National Functions Constructs. The Federal Government
organizes national preparedness and continuity through the bureaucratic
and complicated lens of overlapping and overbroad “functions,” which
include: the National Essential Functions, Primary Mission Essential
Functions, National Critical Functions, Emergency Support Functions,
Recovery Support Functions, and Community Lifelines. Within 1 year of
the date of this order, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall propose
changes to the policies outlining this framework and any implementing
documents to ensure State and local governments and individuals have
improved communications with Federal officials and a better
understanding of the Federal role. This proposal shall be coordinated
through the process established by National Security Presidential
Memorandum 1 of January 20, 2025 (Organization of the National Security
Council and Subcommittees), or any successor processes, before being
submitted to the President through the APNSA.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">4</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">General Provisions</span>. (a)
Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

\(ii\) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

                                   DONALD J. TRUMP

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
March 18, 2025.
