---
date: '2025-03-20'
modified_time: 2025-03-21 12:17:41-04:00
published_time: 2025-03-20 20:47:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/03/stopping-waste-fraud-and-abuse-by-eliminating-information-silos/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Stopping Waste, Fraud, and Abuse by Eliminating Information Silos
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered:  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section</span>
<span style="text-decoration: underline">1</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Purpose</span>.  Removing
unnecessary barriers to Federal employees accessing Government data and
promoting inter‑agency data sharing are important steps toward
eliminating bureaucratic duplication and inefficiency while enhancing
the Government’s ability to detect overpayments and fraud.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">2</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Definitions</span>.  (a)
 “Agency” has the meaning given to it in section 3502 of title 44,
United States Code, except that such term does not include the Executive
Office of the President or any components thereof.

\(b\)  “Agency Head” means the highest-ranking official of an agency,
such as the Secretary, Administrator, or Director.  With respect to
multimember agencies, “Agency Head” means the Chairman or equivalent
official.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">3</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Eliminating Information
Silos</span>.  (a)  Agency Heads shall take all necessary steps, to the
maximum extent consistent with law, to ensure Federal officials
designated by the President or Agency Heads (or their designees) have
full and prompt access to all unclassified agency records, data,
software systems, and information technology systems — or their
equivalents if providing access to an equivalent dataset does not delay
access — for purposes of pursuing Administration priorities related to
the identification and elimination of waste, fraud, and abuse.  This
includes authorizing and facilitating both the intra- and inter-agency
sharing and consolidation of unclassified agency records.

(b)  Within 30 days of the date of this order, Agency Heads shall, to
the maximum extent consistent with law, rescind or modify all agency
guidance that serves as a barrier to the inter- or intra-agency sharing
of unclassified information specified in subsection (a) of this section.
 Agency Heads shall also review agency regulations governing
unclassified data access, including system of records notices, and,
within 30 days of the date of this order, submit a report to the Office
of Management and Budget cataloging those regulations and recommending
whether any should be eliminated or modified to achieve the goals set
forth in this order.  Regulatory modifications pursuant to this order
are exempt from Executive Order 14192.

(c)  Immediately upon execution of this order, Agency Heads shall take
all necessary steps, to the maximum extent consistent with law, to
ensure the Federal Government has unfettered access to comprehensive
data from all State programs that receive Federal funding, including, as
appropriate, data generated by those programs but maintained in
third-party databases.

(d)  Immediately upon execution of this order and without limiting the
above directives, the Secretary of Labor and the Secretary’s designees
shall receive, to the maximum extent consistent with law, unfettered
access to all unemployment data and related payment records, including
all such data and records currently available to the Department of
Labor’s Office of Inspector General.

(e)  This order supersedes any prior Executive Orders and rules or
regulations subject to direct Presidential rulemaking authority to the
extent they serve as a barrier to the inter- or intra-agency sharing of
unclassified information as specified in this order.

(f)  Agency Heads shall conduct a review of classified information
policies to determine whether they result in the classification of
materials beyond what is necessary to protect critical national security
interests and, within 45 days of the date of this order, submit a report
to the Office of Management and Budget cataloguing those classified
information policies and recommending whether any should be eliminated
or modified to achieve the goals set forth in this order.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">4</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">General Provisions</span>. 
(a)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise
affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.  
   
  
THE WHITE HOUSE,  
    March 20, 2025.
