---
date: '2025-03-11'
published_time: 2025-03-11 16:50:41-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/03/ensuring-the-enforcement-of-federal-rule-of-civil-procedure-65c/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Ensuring the Enforcement of Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 65(c)
---
 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE HEADS OF EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES

Subject:       Ensuring the Enforcement of Federal Rule of Civil
Procedure 65(c)

In recent weeks, activist organizations fueled by hundreds of millions
of dollars in donations and sometimes even Government grants have
obtained sweeping injunctions far beyond the scope of relief
contemplated by the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, functionally
inserting themselves into the executive policy making process and
therefore undermining the democratic process.

This anti-democratic takeover is orchestrated by forum-shopping
organizations that repeatedly bring meritless suits, used for
fundraising and political grandstanding, without any repercussions when
they fail.  Taxpayers are forced not only to cover the costs of their
antics when funding and hiring decisions are enjoined, but must
needlessly wait for Government policies they voted for.  Moreover, this
situation results in the Department of Justice, the Nation’s chief law
enforcement agency, dedicating substantial resources to fighting
frivolous suits instead of defending public safety.

The effective administration of justice in the Federal courts depends on
mechanisms that deter frivolous litigation, protect parties from
unwarranted costs, and streamline judicial processes.  One key mechanism
is Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 65(c) (Rule 65(c)), which mandates
that a party seeking a preliminary injunction or temporary restraining
order (injunction) provide security in an amount that the court
considers proper to cover potential costs and damages to the enjoined or
restrained party if the injunction is wrongly issued.  Consistent
enforcement of this rule is critical to ensuring that taxpayers do not
foot the bill for costs or damages caused by wrongly issued preliminary
relief by activist judges and to achieving the effective administration
of justice.

Therefore, it is the policy of the United States to demand that parties
seeking injunctions against the Federal Government must cover the costs
and damages incurred if the Government is ultimately found to have been
wrongfully enjoined or restrained.  Federal courts should hold litigants
accountable for their misrepresentations and ill-granted injunctions.

Consistent with applicable law, the heads of executive departments and
agencies (agencies), in consultation with the Attorney General, are
directed to ensure that their respective agencies properly request under
Rule 65(c) that Federal district courts require plaintiffs to post
security equal to the Federal Government’s potential costs and damages
from a wrongly issued injunction.  The scope of this directive covers
all lawsuits filed against the Federal Government seeking an injunction
where agencies can show expected monetary damages or costs from the
requested preliminary relief, unless extraordinary circumstances justify
an exception.

In requests for security under Rule 65(c), agencies shall include, among
other things, that:

(a)  Rule 65(c) mandates the court to require, in all applicable cases,
that a movant for an injunction post security in an amount that the
court considers proper to cover potential costs and damages to the
enjoined or restrained party;

(b)  the security amount the agency is requesting is based on a reasoned
assessment of the potential harm to the enjoined or restrained party;
and

(c)  failure of the party that moved for preliminary relief to comply
with Rule 65(c) results in denial or dissolution of the requested
injunctive relief.

This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

                             DONALD J. TRUMP
