---
date: '2025-03-09'
modified_time: 2025-03-10 09:52:46-04:00
published_time: 2025-03-09 09:50:20-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/03/u-s-hostage-and-wrongful-detainee-day-2025/
tags: presidential-actions
title: U.S. Hostage and Wrongful Detainee Day, 2025
---
 
By the President of the United States of America

A Proclamation

On this U.S. Hostage and Wrongful Detainee Day, we send our love,
prayers, and support to every American being held in captivity — and I
vow to you, your families, and your loved ones that we will never forget
you, we will never abandon you, and we commit to returning you safely
home and bringing your captors to justice.

As President, I have no higher obligation than to keep American citizens
free, safe, and secure.  My Administration is proudly taking decisive
action to bring Americans back home where they belong.  Since taking
office, I have secured the release of 13 Americans held captive.  Six of
those Americans imprisoned in Venezuela are now safely home with their
families and we had them released in less than 24 hours.  Two Americans
detained in Afghanistan have been liberated.  Two Americans detained in
Belarus have been returned safely back home.  A Pennsylvania teacher,
unjustly held in Russia, is back on American soil, fulfilling a promise
I made to his 95-year-old mother moments before taking the stage that
fateful day in Butler, Pennsylvania.  Additionally, two American-Israeli
citizens who endured months in Hamas captivity have been reunited with
their loved ones. 

However, there are still Americans who need to come home.  Every
American held unjustly abroad must be released and returned home.  The
United States will not tolerate the unlawful detention of our citizens. 
I will continue to bring more Americans back to their loved ones, and I
will not back down until they are home. 

Today, we solemnly stand with every American being held hostage or
wrongfully detained and their families who are enduring bitter
uncertainty.  We commit to forging a future rooted in the commonsense
principle of peace through strength.  Above all, we ask Almighty God to
keep our hostages and wrongful detainees safe; to reunite them with
their families; and to make America stronger, safer, more secure, and
more prosperous than ever before.

The Congress, by Public Law 118-31 approved December 22, 2023, has
designated March 9 of each year as “U.S. Hostage and Wrongful Detainee
Day.”

NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, do hereby proclaim March 9, 2025, as U.S. Hostage and Wrongful
Detainee Day.  On this day, as we fly the Hostage and Wrongful Detainee
flag at the White House, I call upon the people of the United States to
observe this day with relevant programs, ceremonies, and activities.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this ninth day of March,
in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.
