---
date: '2025-03-22'
published_time: 2025-03-22 00:31:01-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/03/preventing-abuses-of-the-legal-system-and-the-federal-court/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Preventing Abuses of the Legal System and the Federal Court
---
 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

THE SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY

  
SUBJECT:      Preventing Abuses of the Legal System and the Federal
Court

  
Lawyers and law firms that engage in actions that violate the laws of
the United States or rules governing attorney conduct must be
efficiently and effectively held accountable.  Accountability is
especially important when misconduct by lawyers and law firms threatens
our national security, homeland security, public safety, or election
integrity.  
  
Recent examples of grossly unethical misconduct are far too common.  For
instance, in 2016, Marc Elias, founder and chair of Elias Law Group LLP,
was deeply involved in the creation of a false “dossier” by a foreign
national designed to provide a fraudulent basis for Federal law
enforcement to investigate a Presidential candidate in order to alter
the outcome of the Presidential election.  Elias also intentionally
sought to conceal the role of his client — failed Presidential candidate
Hillary Clinton — in the dossier.   
  
The immigration system — where rampant fraud and meritless claims have
supplanted the constitutional and lawful bases upon which the President
exercises core powers under Article II of the United States Constitution
— is likewise replete with examples of unscrupulous behavior by
attorneys and law firms.  For instance, the immigration bar, and
powerful Big Law pro bono practices, frequently coach clients to conceal
their past or lie about their circumstances when asserting their asylum
claims, all in an attempt to circumvent immigration policies enacted to
protect our national security and deceive the immigration authorities
and courts into granting them undeserved relief.  Gathering the
necessary information to refute these fraudulent claims imposes an
enormous burden on the Federal Government.  And this fraud in turn
undermines the integrity of our immigration laws and the legal
profession more broadly — to say nothing of the undeniable, tragic
consequences of the resulting mass illegal immigration, whether in terms
of heinous crimes against innocent victims like Laken Riley, Jocelyn
Nungaray, or Rachel Morin, or the enormous drain on taxpayer resources
intended for Americans.   
  
Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 11 prohibits attorneys from engaging in
certain unethical conduct in Federal courts.  Attorneys must not present
legal filings “for improper purpose\[s\],” including “to harass, cause
unnecessary delay, or needlessly increase the cost of litigation.”  FRCP
11(b)(1).  Attorneys must ensure that legal arguments are “warranted by
existing law or by a nonfrivolous argument for extending, modifying, or
reversing existing law or for establishing new law.”  FRCP 11(b)(2). 
And attorneys must ensure that their statements about facts are
“reasonably based” on evidentiary support, or a belief that such
evidence actually exists.  FRCP 11(b)(3)-(b)(4).  When these commands
are violated, opposing parties are authorized to file a motion for
sanctions.  FRCP 11(c).  The text of the rule specifically addresses and
provides for sanctions for attorneys and their firms as well as for
recalcitrant parties given the solemn obligation that attorneys have to
respect the rule of law and uphold our Nation’s legal system with
integrity.  Furthermore, Rule 3.1 of the Model Rules of Professional
Conduct provides that, “A lawyer shall not bring or defend a proceeding,
or assert or controvert an issue therein, unless there is a basis in law
and fact for doing so that is not frivolous, which includes a good faith
argument for an extension, modification or reversal of existing law.”  
  
Unfortunately, far too many attorneys and law firms have long ignored
these requirements when litigating against the Federal Government or in
pursuing baseless partisan attacks.  To address these concerns, I hereby
direct the Attorney General to seek sanctions against attorneys and law
firms who engage in frivolous, unreasonable, and vexatious litigation
against the United States or in matters before executive departments and
agencies of the United States.  
  
I further direct the Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland
Security to prioritize enforcement of their respective regulations
governing attorney conduct and discipline.  *See, e.g.*, 8 C.F.R. 292.1
*et seq.*; 8 C.F.R. 1003.101 *et seq.*; 8 C.F.R. 1292.19.  
  
I further direct the Attorney General to take all appropriate action to
refer for disciplinary action any attorney whose conduct in Federal
court or before any component of the Federal Government appears to
violate professional conduct rules, including rules governing
meritorious claims and contentions, and particularly in cases that
implicate national security, homeland security, public safety, or
election integrity.  In complying with this directive, the Attorney
General shall consider the ethical duties that law partners have when
supervising junior attorneys, including imputing the ethical misconduct
of junior attorneys to partners or the law firm when appropriate.  
  
I further direct that, when the Attorney General determines that conduct
by an attorney or law firm in litigation against the Federal Government
warrants seeking sanctions or other disciplinary action, the Attorney
General shall, in consultation with any relevant senior executive
official, recommend to the President, through the Assistant to the
President for Domestic Policy, additional steps that may be taken,
including reassessment of security clearances held by the attorney or
termination of any Federal contract for which the relevant attorney or
law firm has been hired to perform services.  
  
I further direct the Attorney General, in consultation with any relevant
senior executive official, to review conduct by attorneys or their law
firms in litigation against the Federal Government over the last 8
years.  If the Attorney General identifies misconduct that may warrant
additional action, such as filing frivolous litigation or engaging in
fraudulent practices, the Attorney General is directed to recommend to
the President, through the Assistant to the President for Domestic
Policy, additional steps that may be taken, including reassessment of
security clearances held by the attorney, termination of any contract
for which the relevant attorney or law firm has been hired to perform
services, or any other appropriate actions.  
  
Law firms and individual attorneys have a great power, and obligation,
to serve the rule of law, justice, and order.  The Attorney General,
alongside the Counsel to the President, shall report to the President
periodically on improvements by firms to capture this hopeful vision.
