---
date: '2025-03-25'
modified_time: 2025-03-25 16:41:00-04:00
published_time: 2025-03-25 16:17:34-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/03/preserving-and-protecting-the-integrity-of-american-elections/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Preserving and Protecting the Integrity of American Elections
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered:   
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section</span>
<span style="text-decoration: underline">1</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Purpose and Policy</span>.
 Despite pioneering self-government, the United States now fails to
enforce basic and necessary election protections employed by modern,
developed nations, as well as those still developing.  India and Brazil,
for example, are tying voter identification to a biometric database,
while the United States largely relies on self-attestation for
citizenship.  In tabulating votes, Germany and Canada require use of
paper ballots, counted in public by local officials, which substantially
reduces the number of disputes as compared to the American patchwork of
voting methods that can lead to basic chain-of-custody problems.
 Further, while countries like Denmark and Sweden sensibly limit mail-in
voting to those unable to vote in person and do not count late-arriving
votes regardless of the date of postmark, many American elections now
feature mass voting by mail, with many officials accepting ballots
without postmarks or those received well after Election Day.   
  
Free, fair, and honest elections unmarred by fraud, errors, or suspicion
are fundamental to maintaining our constitutional Republic.  The right
of American citizens to have their votes properly counted and tabulated,
without illegal dilution, is vital to determining the rightful winner of
an election.  
Under the Constitution, State governments must safeguard American
elections in compliance with Federal laws that protect Americans’ voting
rights and guard against dilution by illegal voting, discrimination,
fraud, and other forms of malfeasance and error.  Yet the United States
has not adequately enforced Federal election requirements that, for
example, prohibit States from counting ballots received after Election
Day or prohibit non-citizens from registering to vote.  
  
Federal law establishes a uniform Election Day across the Nation for
Federal elections, 2 U.S.C. 7 and 3 U.S.C. 1.  It is the policy of my
Administration to enforce those statutes and require that votes be cast
and received by the election date established in law.  As the United
States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit recently held in
Republican National Committee v. Wetzel (2024), those statutes set “the
day by which ballots must be both cast by voters and received by state
officials.”  Yet numerous States fail to comply with those laws by
counting ballots received after Election Day.  This is like allowing
persons who arrive 3 days after Election Day, perhaps after a winner has
been declared, to vote in person at a former voting precinct, which
would be absurd.    
  
Several Federal laws, including 18 U.S.C. 1015 and 611, prohibit foreign
nationals from registering to vote or voting in Federal elections.  Yet
States fail adequately to vet voters’ citizenship, and, in recent years,
the Department of Justice has failed to prioritize and devote sufficient
resources for enforcement of these provisions.  Even worse, the prior
administration actively prevented States from removing aliens from their
voter lists.    
  
Additionally, Federal laws, such as the National Voter Registration Act
(Public Law 103-31) and the Help America Vote Act (Public Law 107-252),
require States to maintain an accurate and current Statewide list of
every legally registered voter in the State.  And the Department of
Homeland Security is required to share database information with States
upon request so they can fulfill this duty.  See 8 U.S.C. 1373(c).
 Maintaining accurate voter registration lists is a fundamental
requirement in protecting voters from having their ballots voided or
diluted by fraudulent votes.   
Federal law, 52 U.S.C. 30121, prohibits foreign nationals from
participating in Federal, State, or local elections by making any
contributions or expenditures.  But foreign nationals and
non-governmental organizations have taken advantage of loopholes in the
law’s interpretation, spending millions of dollars through conduit
contributions and ballot-initiative-related expenditures.  This type of
foreign interference in our election process undermines the franchise
and the right of American citizens to govern their Republic.    
  
Above all, elections must be honest and worthy of the public trust.
 That requires voting methods that produce a voter-verifiable paper
record allowing voters to efficiently check their votes to protect
against fraud or mistake.  Election-integrity standards must be modified
accordingly.  
It is the policy of my Administration to enforce Federal law and to
protect the integrity of our election process.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">2</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Enforcing the Citizenship
Requirement for Federal Elections</span>.  To enforce the Federal
prohibition on foreign nationals voting in Federal elections:

(a)(i) Within 30 days of the date of this order, the Election Assistance
Commission shall take appropriate action to require, in its national
mail voter registration form issued under 52 U.S.C. 20508:

\(A\)  documentary proof of United States citizenship, consistent with
52 U.S.C. 20508(b)(3); and

\(B\)  a State or local official to record on the form the type of
document that the applicant presented as documentary proof of United
States citizenship, including the date of the document’s issuance, the
date of the document’s expiration (if any), the office that issued the
document, and any unique identification number associated with the
document as required by the criteria in 52 U.S.C. 21083(a)(5)(A), while
taking appropriate measures to ensure information security.

\(ii\)  For purposes of subsection (a) of this section, “documentary
proof of United States citizenship” shall include a copy of: 

\(A\)  a United States passport; 

\(B\)  an identification document compliant with the requirements of the
REAL ID Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-13, Div. B) that indicates the
applicant is a citizen of the United States; 

\(C\)  an official military identification card that indicates the
applicant is a citizen of the United States; or 

\(D\)  a valid Federal or State government-issued photo identification
if such identification indicates that the applicant is a United States
citizen or if such identification is otherwise accompanied by proof of
United States citizenship.

\(b\)  To identify unqualified voters registered in the States:

\(i\)    the Secretary of Homeland Security shall, consistent with
applicable law, ensure that State and local officials have, without the
requirement of the payment of a fee, access to appropriate systems for
verifying the citizenship or immigration status of individuals
registering to vote or who are already registered;

\(ii\)   the Secretary of State shall take all lawful and appropriate
action to make available information from relevant databases to State
and local election officials engaged in verifying the citizenship of
individuals registering to vote or who are already registered; and 

\(iii\)  the Department of Homeland Security, in coordination with the
DOGE Administrator, shall review each State’s publicly available voter
registration list and available records concerning voter list
maintenance activities as required by 52 U.S.C. 20507, alongside Federal
immigration databases and State records requested, including through
subpoena where necessary and authorized by law, for consistency with
Federal requirements. 

\(c\)  Within 90 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of
Homeland Security shall, consistent with applicable law, provide to the
Attorney General complete information on all foreign nationals who have
indicated on any immigration form that they have registered or voted in
a Federal, State, or local election, and shall also take all appropriate
action to submit to relevant State or local election officials such
information.

\(d\)  The head of each Federal voter registration executive department
or agency (agency) under the National Voter Registration Act, 52 U.S.C.
20506(a), shall assess citizenship prior to providing a Federal voter
registration form to enrollees of public assistance programs.   

\(e\)  The Attorney General shall prioritize enforcement of 18 U.S.C.
611 and 1015(f) and similar laws that restrict non-citizens from
registering to vote or voting, including through use of:

\(i\)    databases or information maintained by the Department of
Homeland Security; 

\(ii\)   State-issued identification records and driver license
databases; and

\(iii\)  similar records relating to citizenship.

\(f\)  The Attorney General shall, consistent with applicable laws,
coordinate with State attorneys general to assist with State-level
review and prosecution of aliens unlawfully registered to vote or
casting votes.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">3</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Providing Other Assistance to
States Verifying Eligibility</span>.  To assist States in determining
whether individuals are eligible to register and vote:

\(a\)  The Commissioner of Social Security shall take all appropriate
action to make available the Social Security Number Verification
Service, the Death Master File, and any other Federal databases
containing relevant information to all State and local election
officials engaged in verifying the eligibility of individuals
registering to vote or who are already registered.  In determining and
taking such action, the Commissioner of Social Security shall ensure
compliance with applicable privacy and data security laws and
regulations. 

\(b\)  The Attorney General shall ensure compliance with the
requirements of 52 U.S.C. 20507(g).  

\(c\)  The Attorney General shall take appropriate action with respect
to States that fail to comply with the list maintenance requirements of
the National Voter Registration Act and the Help America     Vote Act
contained in 52 U.S.C. 20507 and 52 U.S.C. 21083.

\(d\)  The Secretary of Defense shall update the Federal Post Card
Application, pursuant to the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee
Voting Act, 52 U.S.C. 20301, to require:

\(i\)   documentary proof of United States citizenship, as defined by
section 2(a)(ii) of this order; and

\(ii\)  proof of eligibility to vote in elections in the State in which
the voter is attempting to vote.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">4</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Improving the Election
Assistance Commission</span>.    
(a)  The Election Assistance Commission shall, pursuant to 52 U.S.C.
21003(b)(3)and 21142(c) and consistent with applicable law, take all
appropriate action to cease providing Federal funds to States that do
not comply with the Federal laws set forth in 52 U.S.C. 21145, including
the requirement in 52 U.S.C. 20505(a)(1) that States accept and use the
national mail voter registration form issued pursuant to 52 U.S.C.
20508(a)(1), including any requirement for documentary proof of United
States citizenship adopted pursuant to section 2(a)(ii) of this order.

(b)(i) The Election Assistance Commission shall initiate appropriate
action to amend the Voluntary Voting System Guidelines 2.0 and issue
other appropriate guidance establishing standards for voting systems to
protect election integrity.  The amended guidelines and other guidance
shall provide that voting systems should not use a ballot in which a
vote is contained within a barcode or quick-response code in the vote
counting process except where necessary to accommodate individuals with
disabilities and should provide a voter-verifiable paper record to
prevent fraud or mistake. 

\(ii\)  Within 180 days of the date of this order, the Election
Assistance Commission shall take appropriate action to review and, if
appropriate, re-certify voting systems under the new standards
established under subsection (b)(i) of this section, and to rescind all
previous certifications of voting equipment based on prior standards.  

\(c\)  Following an audit of Help America Vote Act fund expenditures
conducted pursuant to 52 U.S.C. 21142, the Election Assistance
Commission shall report any discrepancies or issues with an audited
State’s certifications of compliance with Federal law to the Department
of Justice for appropriate enforcement action.

\(d\) The Secretary of Homeland Security and the Administrator of the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, consistent with applicable law,
shall in considering the provision of funding for State or local
election offices or administrators through the Homeland Security Grant
Programs, 6 U.S.C. 603 et seq., heavily prioritize compliance with the
Voluntary Voting System Guidelines 2.0 developed by the Election
Assistance Commission and completion of testing through the Voting
System Test Labs accreditation process.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">5</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Prosecuting Election
Crimes</span>.  To protect the franchise of American citizens and their
right to participate in fair and honest elections:

\(a\)  The Attorney General shall take all appropriate action to enter
into information-sharing agreements, to the maximum extent possible,
with the chief State election official or multi-member agency of each
State.  These agreements shall aim to provide the Department of Justice
with detailed information on all suspected violations of State and
Federal election laws discovered by State officials, including
information on individuals who: 

\(i\)    registered or voted despite being ineligible or who registered
multiple times; 

\(ii\)   committed election fraud;  

\(iii\)  provided false information on voter registration or other
election forms;

\(iv\)   intimidated or threatened voters or election officials; or 

\(v\)    otherwise engaged in unlawful conduct to interfere in the
election process.

\(b\)  To the extent that any States are unwilling to enter into such an
information sharing agreement or refuse to cooperate in investigations
and prosecutions of election crimes, the Attorney General shall: 

\(i\)   prioritize enforcement of Federal election integrity laws in
such States to ensure election integrity given the State’s demonstrated
unwillingness to enter into an information-sharing agreement or to
cooperate in investigations and prosecutions; and

\(ii\)  review for potential withholding of grants and other funds that
the Department awards and distributes, in the Department’s discretion,
to State and local governments for law enforcement and other purposes,
as consistent with applicable law.

\(c\)  The Attorney General shall take all appropriate action to align
the Department of Justice’s litigation positions with the purpose and
policy of this order.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">6</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Improving Security of Voting
Systems</span>.  To improve the security of all voting equipment and
systems used to cast ballots, tabulate votes, and report results:

\(a\)  The Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall
take all appropriate actions to the extent permitted by 42 U.S.C. 5195c
and all other applicable law, so long as the Department of Homeland
Security maintains the designation of election infrastructure as
critical infrastructure, as defined by 42 U.S.C. 5195c(e), to prevent
all non-citizens from being involved in the administration of any
Federal election, including by accessing election equipment, ballots, or
any other relevant materials used in the conduct of any Federal
election.

\(b\)  The Secretary of Homeland Security shall, in coordination with
the Election Assistance Commission and to the maximum extent possible,
review and report on the security of all electronic systems used in the
voter registration and voting process.  The Secretary of Homeland
Security, as the head of the designated Sector Risk Management Agency
under 6 U.S.C. 652a, in coordination with the Election Assistance
Commission, shall assess the security of all such systems to the extent
they are connected to, or integrated into, the Internet and report on
the risk of such systems being compromised through malicious software
and unauthorized intrusions into the system.    
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">7</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Compliance with Federal Law
Setting the National Election Day</span>.  To achieve full compliance
with the Federal laws that set the uniform day for appointing
Presidential electors and electing members of Congress:

\(a\)  The Attorney General shall take all necessary action to enforce 2
U.S.C. 7 and 3 U.S.C. 1 against States that violate these provisions by
including absentee or mail-in ballots received after Election Day in the
final tabulation of votes for the appointment of Presidential electors
and the election of members of the United States Senate and House of
Representatives.

\(b\)  Consistent with 52 U.S.C. 21001(b) and other applicable law, the
Election Assistance Commission shall condition any available funding to
a State on that State’s compliance with the requirement in 52 U.S.C.
21081(a)(6) that each State adopt uniform and nondiscriminatory
standards within that State that define what constitutes a vote and what
will be counted as a vote, including that, as prescribed in 2 U.S.C. 7
and 3 U.S.C. 1, there be a uniform and nondiscriminatory ballot receipt
deadline of Election Day for all methods of voting, excluding ballots
cast in accordance with 52 U.S.C. 20301 et seq., after which no
additional votes may be cast.    
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">8</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Preventing Foreign
Interference and Unlawful Use of Federal Funds</span>.  The Attorney
General, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, shall
prioritize enforcement of 52 U.S.C. 30121 and other appropriate laws to
prevent foreign nationals from contributing or donating in United States
elections.  The Attorney General shall likewise prioritize enforcement
of 31 U.S.C. 1352, which prohibits lobbying by organizations or entities
that have received any Federal funds.     
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">9</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Federal Actions to Address
Executive Order 14019</span>.  The heads of all agencies, and the
Election Assistance Commission, shall cease all agency actions
implementing Executive Order 14019 of March 7, 2021 (Promoting Access to
Voting), which was revoked by Executive Order 14148 of on January 20,
2025 (Initial Rescissions of Harmful Executive Orders and Actions), and,
within 90 days of the date of this order, submit to the President,
through the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, a report
describing compliance with this order.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.<span style="text-decoration: underline">
10</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Severability</span>.  If any
provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any
agency, person, or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of
this order and the application of its provisions to any other agencies,
persons, or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">11</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">General Provisions</span>.
 (a)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise
affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

  
DONALD J. TRUMP

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
    March 25, 2025. 
