---
date: '2025-03-07'
modified_time: 2025-03-10 13:42:02-05:00
published_time: 2025-03-07 14:40:15-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/remarks/2025/03/remarks-by-president-trump-at-the-white-house-digital-assets-summit/
tags: remarks
title: Remarks by President Trump at the White House Digital Assets Summit
---
 
State Dining Room

(March 7, 2025)

3:45 P.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much.  (Applause.)  Well, thank you very
much everyone.  Great honor to have you.  I know you’ve all been working
very hard and very successfully.  And it’s a wonderful place, the White
House. 

I want to begin — is Gianni here from World Cup?  I want to thank you
for this election, and they just had a presentation in the Oval Office,
and I thought this was such a beautiful — this is the trophy.  This is a
big deal.  The World Cup is the biggest sporting event.

And Gianni Infantino is my friend for a long time.  And during my first
term, we worked out a deal to get the World Cup.  And then, because of
lots of interesting things that happened, I ended up being president
when it showed up.  I was always disappointed I wasn’t going to make
it.  I was going to serve eight straight.  Instead, we did it the — we
did it the hard way, but maybe the more important way. 

So, I will be with you as president, Gianni.  So, maybe you could just
say a few words and show how beautiful the World Cup trophy is.  Thank
you. 

MR. INFANTINO:  (Inaudible.) 

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, sure.  Please. 

MR. INFANTINO:  This is —

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

MR. INFANTINO:  — the famous key.

THE PRESIDENT:  That’s a great key. 

MR. INFANTINO:  You want to open it, President, or shall I?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, you go ahead.  (Laughter.)  I trust you. 

MR. INFANTINO:  So, this is the new trophy of a new competition.  It’s
called the FIFA Club World Cup — the 32 best clubs in the world with the
absolute best players in the world.  And for the first time in history,
this competition takes place in United States.  Opening game on the 14th
of June —

THE PRESIDENT:  Right.

MR. INFANTINO:  — opening day in Miami.  Final on on the 13th of July,
this year, in New York/New Jersey.  But it’s not that.  The trophy is
special because it has a key and because, as you can see, if I manage to
do it — it’s a bit tricky.  (Inaudible.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Wow.

MR. INFANTINO:  So, this is trophy.  It is a trophy which represents —
and that’s why I think it’s interesting to show this trophy exactly in
this forum here, because it represents the past, but it’s also projected
to the future.  There is no other sports trophy which looks like that. 

It has engraved a history of the game of soccer — or football, as we
call it — the participating teams on the first edition, the stadiums —
beautiful stadiums in the United States — the United States of America
where this competition will take place.  So, at the same time, past,
present, and projected for the future. 

And if I may, President, say another two words and then I let you work. 
I’d like to congratulate the president and the administration for — not
only for the World Cup — the Global Cup, the World Cup, and the great
work done, but also for this initiative that you are speaking about
here.

If I may add something in this respect, I’m not an expert at all, but
FIFA, as you know, is a brand which is globally known and a very strong
brand.  The soccer economy in the world is worth around $170 billion a
year.  Seventy percent of that, Mr. President, is in Europe.  So.
imagine the potential that there is around the world, only in soccer, if
we develop it.

And so, FIFA is very, very interested, under my presidency, to develop a
FIFA coin — to do it from here, from America, and to conquer the 5
billion soccer fans in the world. 

So, if there is anyone here who is interested to team up with FIFA —
(laughter) — here we are together with the United States of America, and
we will conquer the world of soccer with the FIFA coin.

Thank you very much. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  That coin — (applause) — that coin may be
worth more than FIFA in the end.  It could be quite a coin, actually. 
(Laughter.)

Anyway, thank you, Gianni.  Great job. 

I just thought you should see this trophy, because it’s really — you
know, it’s the biggest sporting event in the world, and we have it here,
and we appreciate being selected.  Thank you very much, Gianni.  You do
a fantastic job. 

And welcome to the first-ever White House Digital Asset Summit.  I know
that many of you have been fighting for years for this, and it’s an
honor to be with you at the White House. 

I want to thank the White House AI and crypto czar, David Sacks. 
Treasury secretary — this is David right here, in case you don’t know. 
You know David.

And a man who’s doing a great job as the secretary of Treasury, Scott
Bessent, who’s right here.  Scott, thank you very much. 

Commerce secretary, Howard Lutnick — wherever you may be, Howard.

MR. SACKS:  Right there.

THE PRESIDENT:  Hi, Howard. 

SECRETARY LUTNICK:  How are you?

THE PRESIDENT:  He’s doing some interesting work right now with all
that’s going on.  He’s right in the middle of it, and doing a great
job.  Thank you. 

SBA Administrator Kelly Loeffler.  And hi, Kel. 

SEC Commissioner Hester Peirce.  Thank you, Hester.

Acting CFTC Chairman Caroline Pham. 

House Majority Whip Tom Emmer.  Hello, Tom.

REPRESENTATIVE EMMER:  Hello, Mr. President.

THE PRESIDENT:  Representative Bryan Steil, thank you.

REPRESENTATIVE STEIL:  Thank you.

THE PRESIDENT:  Bryan, thank you very much. 

Digital Assets Council Director Bo Hines.  Good, Bo.  Great job. 

And many other distinguished guests.  We have a lot of very
distinguished people around the table.  Some of them will be speaking. 

I want to thank Marco Rubio also, who’s right over there.  And we have
tremendous people very interested in this subject. 

And last year, I promised to make America the Bitcoin superpower of the
world and the crypto capital of the planet.  And we’re taking historic
action to deliver on that promise.

As you know around the table, yesterday, I signed an executive order
officially creating our Strategic Bitcoin Reserve, and this will be a
virtual Fort Knox for digital gold to be housed within the United States
Treasury.  Right?  That’s a big thing, Scott.  (Applause.)  That’s good.

The federal government is already among the largest holders of Bitcoin,
as you know — really one of the largest holders in the world, with as
many as 200,000 Bitcoin obtained via civil law and various other forms
of law and including enforcement actions.  These existing holdings will
form the foundation of the new reserve. 

Unfortunately, in recent years, the U.S. government has foolishly sold
tens of thousands of additional Bitcoin that were worth billions and
billions of dollars had they not sold them.  But they did sell them,
mostly during the Biden administration, and not a good thing to have
done.

From this day on, America will follow the rule that every Bitcoin knows
very well, never sell your Bitcoin.  That’s a little phrase that they
have.  I don’t know if that’s right or not.  Who the hell knows, right? 
(Laughter and applause.)

Who knows?  Who knows?  But so far, it’s been right, and let’s keep it
that way.

The Treasury and Commerce departments will also explore new pathways to
accumulate additional Bitcoin holdings for the reserve, provided it’s
done at no cost to the taxpayers.  We don’t want any cost to the
taxpayers.  

In addition, my order directs federal agencies to conduct an inventory
of all crypto assets currently held by the U.S. government and determine
how they can be transferred easily to the Treasury.  

Non-Bitcoin digital assets will be held at a new U.S. digital assets
stockpile where they will be managed properly. 

My administration also is working to end the federal bureaucracy’s war
on crypto, which was really going on pretty wildly during Biden, until
the election came about.  About five months before the election, he
became a big fan because he heard how many people were in favor of it
and how many people love it and respect it.  But I guess it didn’t work
out too well for him.  People understood what was going on. 

And paved the way for groundbreaking innovations in institutional
finance.

Under the Bitcoin administration, regulators strongarmed banks.  I mean,
they really did.  They strongarmed banks into closing the accounts of
crypto businesses and entrepreneurs, effectively blocking some money
transfers to and from exchanges, and they weaponized government against
the entire industry. 

But I know that feeling also.  (Laughter.)  Maybe better than you do. 
(Laughter.) 

All of that will soon be over.  And we are ending Operation Choke Point
2.0.  (Applause.)

PARTICIPANT:  Hear, hear!

THE PRESIDENT:  No, some people really suffered.  It was ridiculous what
they were doing.  But in the end, they came around, but they came around
for the wrong reasons.  They came around only because they wanted votes
and they saw that tens of millions of people are — you know, were
against them because of what they were doing. 

I also want to express my strong support for the efforts of lawmakers in
Congress as they work on bills to provide regulatory certainty for
dollar-backed stablecoins and the digital assets market.  They’re
working very hard on that.  This is a tremendous opportunity for
economic growth and innovation in our financial sector and will really
go a long way.  I think there’s going to be a tremendous — we feel like
pioneers, in a way — a tremendous method of growth.

And things are very much tied, and we want to keep it that way — the
U.S. dollar — long into the future.  We’re going to keep it that way. 

I hope lawmakers will send that legislation to my desk before August
recess, if they can.  And they’re very much working with you.  And you
know a lot of them, and a lot of them were committed right from the very
beginning.  

So, I just want to congratulate you all for being at the White House
today.  And a man who knows more about Bitcoin and AI and just about
everything else than anybody — David Sacks.  And I’d like to have you
say a few words, David.

MR. SACKS:  Thank you, Mr. President.  We’re all here today because of
your leadership, your vision, and your generosity.  And I really want to
thank you for that. 

I — we’re also here because of your desire to make America great and to
introduce a golden age in America, including for digital assets.  And
we’re here because of your love of — of innovators or, as you might say,
high-IQ people.  

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, high-IQ people.  (Laughter.)

MR. SACKS:  We know you lo- — love high-IQ people. 

THE PRESIDENT:  We like them.

MR. SACKS:  And we have — we have about 30 of them here in the room
today.  These are the top people in the — in the digital asset
industry. 

And I — and one other thing that I think that you love is — is legal
fairness.  This is an industry that was subjected to prosecution and
persecution for the last four years, horrible lawfare, and nobody knows
what that feels like better than you do.  So, we really appreciate the
fact that you understand legal fairness and that you’re always willing
to fight for the right — for the right thing, for legal fairness.  You
never back down.  You stand defiant, even in the face of an assassin’s
bullet.  

It’s an inspiration to everyone in this room, I think.

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.

MR. SACKS:  So, it’s an honor — (applause). 

THE PRESIDENT:  That’s very nice.  Thank you.  Thank you.

MR. SACKS:  So, I just want to say, it’s — it’s an honor to work for
you.  It’s an honor to — to work for a president who — who works every
day to get so much done on behalf of the American people.  

Your administration is moving at tech speed.  It’s really amazing.  It’s
actually faster than any startup that I’ve been a part of.  (Laughter.) 
Is — your administration moves even faster.  

So, I just want to say thank you for having me be a part of it.  I’ve
enjoyed every minute of it, I love working for you, and thank you again
for this opportunity. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, David, very much.  Appreciate it. 

MR. SACKS:  And — (applause). 

THE PRESIDENT:  Scott.

MR. SACKS:  And now I just want to pass the ball to Secretary Bessent to
say something.

THE PRESIDENT:  Scott.

SECRETARY BESSENT:  David.

So, the — today, when President Trump has signed the executive order to
Establish the Strategic Bitcoin Reserve and Stockpile, we’re going to
position the United States as a leader among nations in the digital
asset strategy.  It’s important for the United States to recognize this
fact and get ahead of the other nations in the digital age. 

We applaud the president’s direction to use the digital assets already
in possession of the nation, and we are going to establish this Bitcoin
reserve.  We will use this authority to augment the assets side of the
United States balance sheet.  

As I’ve said many times, President Trump is creating assets for the
American people, while most past presidents have created debt.  And a
large part of this asset program can be in digital assets.  

We are going to end the regulatory weaponization against digital
assets.  The Biden administration’s actions did nothing other than
publish and — punish innovators, and that all of you have made it here
today is really a testament to your fortitude.  

Much of Treasury’s responsibility in this order relates to the tax code
and determinations around risk waivings.  And I’m here to assure you
that we are going to work with the controller of the currency, the IRS,
and we’re going to resend and amend all applicable previous guidance. 

And we are going to put a lot of thought into the stablecoin regime. 
And as President Trump has directed, we are going to keep the U.S. the
dominant reserve currency in the world, and we will use stablecoins to
do that.  

Thank you.  (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Scott. 

Howard.

SECRETARY LUTNICK:  Technology is at the foundation of the Trump
presidency.  He understands technology, he embraces technology, and he’s
going to use technology to drive America forward.  The blockchain and
Bitcoin technology are a key part of that thinking and embracing that. 
And here today shows how much a leader the Trump administration and our
president is.  He understands it.  He embraces it. 

As you said, you’re a pioneer in this place, and this is where we’re
going.  We’re using the blockchain.  We’re using Bitcoin.  We are going
to use digital assets to pound forward, and Donald Trump is leading the
way.  

Can’t be more proud of you today. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much.  Thank you, Howard.  (Applause.)

Kelly, go ahead, please. 

ADMINISTRATOR LOEFFLER:  Thank you, Mr. President.  This is truly a
historic day.  And as a crypto founder, I couldn’t be more proud to be
part of your administration.  You’re moving at the speed of tech, for
sure.  

And I will just say, it’s gr- — a great day to have the war on not just
crypto, but the war on innovation done.  And under your administration,
we are truly going to enter under the gold — into the golden age.  

And I’ll just say, as the administrator of the SBA: Small business is a
tremendous network that crypto can be deployed against, and so the SBA
is open to crypto.  So, I look forward to working with all of the
leaders in this room to advance your efforts here.  

Thank you.  (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Kelly.  Thank you very much. 

Tom, please.

  
     REPRESENTATIVE EMMER:  Well, Mr. President, I want to say thank
you.  I want to thank you for the amazing team that you put together.  I
want to thank you for David. 

I mean this — this kind of a meeting — no one in this room could have
envisioned this just a couple years ago.  You are the one that has the
vision.  You’re the one that did — said we are going to do 21st century
finance right here in the United States of America. 

I’ve been doing this for nine years.  It is amazing how far we’ve come,
and that’s a credit to you, Mr. President, and your leadership.  And God
bless you for doing this, because it’s going to make a huge difference
with everything else you’re doing.  

And, by the way, Americans love it.  They’re going crazy.  Thank you,
sir.

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Tom.  Thank you very much.  (Applause.) 
Thank you.  Thank you very much.

Anybody else?

MR. SACKS:  (Inaudible.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Go ahead, please.

MR. SACKS:  Does anyone want to say a couple of words?  Cameron or
Tyler, do you want to —

MR. ARMSTRONG: I’ll say —

THE PRESIDENT:  You’re very shy in front of the cameras.

MR. SACKS:  Actually, Cam- — Cameron, I — I think you said something
earlier that I thought was really profound.  You said that a year ago
you thought it would be more likely that you’d end up in jail than at
the White House.  Do you — not to put you on the spot, because you
didn’t do anything wrong, but that was the environment a year ago. 
(Laughter.) 

THE PRESIDENT:  Hi, fellas.

MR. SACKS:  But do you guys want to say something, either one of you?

MR. CAMERON WINKLEVOSS:  Sure.  That was actually Tyler who said that. 
(Laughter.)  But — but —

MR. SACKS:  Sorry.  I still — I still get mixed up.

MR. CAMERON WINKLEVOSS:  But yeah, we never thought that we’d be — get
attacked the way we did in our backyard after trying to do the right
thing for so many years and always trying to raise the bar with respect
to regulation.  So, it’s truly wonderful to see how things have changed
and how the pendulum has swung back in the way that it has. 

And we’ve always felt that the U.S. should lead in Bitcoin and crypto
and it’s ours to sort of lead and win. 

And it’s just wonderful what President Trump has been doing with this,
and we look forward to working together. 

And thanks for inviting us, David, and setting this up.

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Thank you both. 

Please. 

MR. TYLER WINKLEVOSS:  I was just going to say thank you, Mr.
President.  Cameron takes credit for a lot of my things I say, so it’s
not the first time.  (Laughter.)

But the U.S. won the Internet, and the U.S. should win crypto.  So,
thank you for your leadership on this.

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you both very much. 

High-IQ individuals around this table.  That’s what I always say, we
need high IQ. 

So, thank you very much.  Would anybody like to say anything?

MR. ARMSTRONG:  Sure.

THE PRESIDENT:  Please.

MR. SACKS:  Okay.  We’ll come around. 

MR. NAZAROV:  I just want to express my deep gratitude for the
seriousness with which you’re approaching our industry and how you’re
actually helping guide it in the right direction. 

I work with many central banks in other countries.  And when I was
working there, I was wondering why I, as an American citizen, can’t help
the United States financial system reach this higher level that the
world is on course towards generally.  

THE PRESIDENT:  Right.

MR. NAZAROV:  And so, I’m very grateful that finally there’s been a new
level of kind of common sense and — and adoption of — of these ideas. 
Me and the other people in this room do believe that the crypto,
blockchain, Web3 infrastructure is the next iteration of the financial
system, and I think that the U.S. should have its leadership position
continue in that new financial system. 

And I’m — I’m very, very happy to see people like David Sacks, Secretary
Bessent, Secretary Lutnick taking this very seriously with their time,
and very grateful to them too.  So, I’m — I’m just overjoyed to see
this, and I think it is a big part of how the U.S. can continue its role
in the global financial system.  So, thank you.

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much.  I thought it was very important
that we stay in the front of this one.  This is a big one. 

And as you know, China is pushing forward and very strongly as usual,
but we’re way in the lead — as we are in AI and other things — and we
want to stay there.  So, I thought this was very important.

And we have some brilliant people sitting around this table, and it’s an
honor to have you involved, but we want to stay at the forefront of
everything. 

And this is a very important day in your lives.  I know you worked —
some of you — very long, long before people really understood what was
happening.  And so, I congratulate you.  But this is a big day.  Being
in the White House is a big deal, and you have great support. 

Thank you all very much.  Thank you very much.  (Applause.) 

Thank you.  Please.  Thank you very much.  Thank you, media.  Thank
you.  Please. 

                        END            4:06 P.M. EST
