---
date: '2025-03-03'
modified_time: 2025-03-03 20:25:33-05:00
published_time: 2025-03-03 20:25:32-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/remarks/2025/03/remarks-by-president-trump-on-investment-announcement/
tags: remarks
title: Remarks by President Trump on Investment Announcement
---
 
Roosevelt Room

2:38 P.M. EST  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, everybody.  Thank you very much.

     Thank you very much.  This is a very big day for a lot of reasons,
but this gentleman is a very unique man.  I think I can say, in the
world of chips, certainly, but in the world pretty much of business,
nobody has done what he’s done.  For those of you that are into that
world, you would say, “Wow, he’s a legend.”  But he is a legend.  And
it’s an honor to be with you.  Very great honor.  Thank you very much.

     MR. WEI:  Thank you, Mr. President.

     THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much.

     Welcoming, from TSMC — which is the biggest there is, at a level
that you can’t even calculate, frankly — C.C. Wei, to the White House
for a very historic announcement.  This is a tremendous thing for our
country and, hopefully, for his company. 

     We’re also pleased to be joined by Commerce Secretary Howard
Lutnick and White House AI and crypto czar, David Sacks, another two
very highly respected people.  It’s great to have you guys involved. 
And, David, thank you very much for coming on.

     David is sort of the king of intellect in that world.  We have some
good people.  
     Today, Taiwan Semiconductor is announcing that they will be
investing at least $100 billion dollars in new capital in the United
States over the next short period of time to build state-of-the-art
semiconductor manufacturing facilities.  I think, mostly, it’s going to
be in Arizona, which is what I understand, which is a great state.  I
like it because I won it.  But I won most of them — (laughs) —
actually.  So — but I did.  We won it, and we won it big.

     The most powerful AI chips in the world will be made right here in
America, and it’ll be a big percentage of the chips made by his
company.  But, as you know, they’re based mostly in Taiwan.  And they’re
far and away the biggest.  There’s nobody even close. 

     This $100 billion in new investment will go into building five
cutting-edge fabrication facilities in the great state that we just
discussed, Arizona, and will create thousands of jobs — many thousands
of jobs, and they’re high-paying jobs.  
     In total, today’s announcement brings Taiwan Semiconductor
investments to about $165 billion — they’ve started already — among the
largest new foreign direct investments in United States.

     Apple, as you know, made a big announcement last week of $500
billion, and we have some others that have announced.   
  
     We have many that want to announce.  But I don’t have time to do
all of these announcements, I tell you.  But, for you, I’m doing the
announcement.

     MR. WEI:  Thank you.

     THE PRESIDENT:  This will create hundreds of billions of dollars in
economic activity and boost America’s dominance in artificial
intelligence and beyond. 

     Semiconductors are the backbone of the 21st century economy — and,
really, without the semiconductors, there is no economy — powering
everything from AI to automobiles to advanced manufacturing.  And we
must be able to build the chips and semiconductors that we need right
here, in American factories, with American skill and American labor. 
And that’s exactly what we’re doing.

     As you know, Taiwan pretty much has a monopoly on that market.  And
I think “pretty much” is not a term that’s even appropriate.  They do
have a monopoly.  And this is a tremendous move by the most powerful
company in the world. 

     It’s a matter of economic security.  It’s also a matter of national
security for us.  And, at the same time, Mr. Wei will be able to
diversify and have his tremendous presence in another place and a very
safe place.  And I want to thank Taiwan Semiconductor for doing the
announcement.  

     And I’d like to ask Mr. Wei to say a few words, if you might.

     And I’d also like to ask Howard and David — you can say a couple of
words.  But maybe you should go first because, right now, he’s the most
important man in the room.  I’m sorry, fellas.

     Please.

     Thank you very much.  Thank you.  Great honor.  

     MR. WEI:  Thank you, Mr. President.

     THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.

     MR. WEI:  I’m a — I’m a little bit nervous, so I have to pull out
my piece of paper.

     Mr. President, Secretary Lutnick — and, David, I didn’t know that —
your title, but — okay.

     First, I want to thank — say thank you to Mr. President to give me
this opportunity to announce our big project in the U.S.   
  
TSMC is the world’s largest chip manufacturing, founded by Dr. Morris
Chang in 1987.  It’s now at the forefront of semiconductor technology,
supporting AI advancement and industry growth. 

     In fact, I would like to wind back the time that in 2020 we have to
thank President Trump’s vision and his support.  So, TSMC start the
journey of establishing the advanced chip manufacturing in Arizona.  And
now, let me proudly say, now the vision become reality.  

     In Phoenix, Arizona, with 3,000 employees, we are producing the
most advanced chip made on U.S. soil with the success of our first fab. 

     So, we are now very happy to announce we are going to invest
additional 100 billion U.S. dollar in addition to our current
65-billion-U.S.-dollars investment in Arizona.  We are going to build
three more new fab — be- — after we promised the three fabs already, and
another two very advanced packaging fab, and, most important, an R&D
center, also in Arizona. 

     For this, all the investment — $165 billion — is going to create
thousand of the high-paid job, as the president just announced.  And we
are, most important — actually, we are going to produce many AI chips. 
We are going to produce many chips to support AI’s progress and to
support the smartphone’s progress.   
And, again, with that, I want to thank President Trump again for his
support.  In addition, I also want to thank my customers in the U.S.,
such as Apple, Nvidia, AMD, Qualcomm, Broadcom.  They all support TSMC’s
manufacturing in the U.S.  Without their support, we probably cannot
make it true.   
  
So, again, I want to thank them.  Also, I’d like to thank the TSMC’s
employee.  Without their effort, we just cannot make it today.   
  
That’s all I want to say.  And thank you.   
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  That’s great.  (Applause.)  Thank you very
much.   
  
Howard, please.  David.  
  
SECRETARY LUTNICK:  Sure.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.   
  
SECRETARY LUTNICK:  So, I’m thrilled to be here today, because President
Trump has made it a fundamental objective to bring semiconductor chip
manufacturing home to America.   
  
Under the Biden administration, TSMC received a $6 billion grant, and
that encouraged them to build $65 billion.  So, America gave TSMC 10
percent of the money to build here.  And now you’re seeing the power of
Donald Trump’s presidency, because TSMC, the greatest manufacturer of
chips in the world, is coming to America with $100 billion investment. 
And, of course, that is backed by the fact that they can come here
because they can avoid paying tariffs.   
  
So, the idea is: Come to America.  Build greatness in America.  Build
for the American customers — the Apple, Nvidia, that whole list that
Chairman Wei gave — in order to bring production to America.   
So, we’re really, really excited.  This continues the most incredible
path you’ve ever seen, in these first weeks and months of the Trump
administration, of incredible manufacturing coming to America.  The keys
that the president has called out are coming here.  They’re coming here
in huge size because they want to be in the greatest market in the
world, and they want to avoid the tariffs that, if they’re not here,
they’d have to suffer.   
  
So, I want to congratulate C.C. Wei for bringing in this incredible $100
billion investment, but it’s on the shoulders of our president, Donald
Trump, which is why he’s coming.   
  
So, thank you.    
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  
  
David.    
  
MR. SACKS:  Thank you, sir.  Well, the products that TSMC makes are
literally the most important products in the world.  I mean, these
advanced chips power everything.  They power AI.  They power your
phone.  They power your cars.  And without them, the whole modern
economy would stop, but they’re not made in the United States.   
  
So, for TSMC to move here is a huge, huge development, and we owe that
to President Trump’s leadership on the economy and Secretary Lutnick as
well.  And, C.C., thank you for — for coming here.   
  
Thank you.  Yeah.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, David.   
  
So, thank you very much.  A big percentage of chips with this investment
will be made now — a big percentage.  Worldwide, we had very little. 
Almost none.  We used to have a lot with Intel.  But we had very
little.  And we’ll be at close to 40 percent of the market with this
transaction and a couple of others that we’re doing.  That’s a
tremendous leap — like, a leap that nobody would have really said was
possible.   
  
So, I just want to thank you all for being here.  If you want a couple
of questions.  
  
(Cross-talk.)  
  
Q    On the —   
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Ideally on this subject.   
  
Yes, please.   
  
Q    — specific number of jobs it will create.   He said thousands —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  They — yeah.  
  
Q    — but do you have a better —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  They — you’re probably talking about 25,000 jobs.  But
it’ll get bigger and bigger with time.  Knowing this gentleman, it’ll
get bigger and bigger.  There’ll be no stopping him.  (Laughs.)  
  
Q    Mr. President, what more —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  Brian, go ahead.  
  
Q    Right.  In addition to the jobs, you talked about national
security, and that’s one thing I think a lot of Americans —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.   
  
Q    — at home don’t understand.  Explain the national security aspect
of this.   
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, without the chips and semiconductors, nothing runs
today.  You can’t buy a car without them.  You can’t get a radio, a
television, nothing — you can’t get anything.  And we thought it was
very important — obviously, business was, but we thought even to terms
of national security, to have this large percentage of the chips,
semiconductors, and other things that they make — the most important
product, and not a product that you can really copy.  It takes years and
years.    
  
You’re on the needle of a pin is total genius.  I mean, they can put
things — I mean, something the size of the needle, the point of a pin,
they put information that is just not even believable.   
  
So, if you would —   
  
(Cross-talk.)   
  
If you would see this, it’s just really something.   
  
Yes, Brian.   
  
Q    Can I — one — one more aspect to that.  Honda —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.   
  
Q    — announced they’re coming to Indiana because of the tariffs.  Once
again —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  
  
Q    — you’re bringing additional jobs in manufacturing.  Do you want to
comment on that as well?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, Honda is coming, and I told you about Apple, that
they’re going to be starting to build massively here — $500 billion. 
And we have many other companies.  It’s going to be announced, but we
had many that have already announced.  And no, it’s going to be great. 
It’s looking — it’s looking really strong.  I don’t think this country
has ever seen anything like we’re seeing right now.   
  
Now, the tariffs, as you know, it will start a week earlier than the
reciprocal, which is going to be on — a couple of weeks earlier. 
Reciprocal tariffs start on April 2nd.  And I wanted to make it April
1st, but I didn’t want to do — I didn’t want to go April Fool’s Day —
(laughter) — because that cost me — that costs a lot of money, but —
that one day.  So, we’re going April 2nd.  
  
But very importantly, tomorrow, tariffs — 25 percent on Canada and 25
percent on Mexico, and that’ll start.  So, they’re going to have to have
a tariff.  So, what they’ll have to do is build their car plants,
frankly, and other things in the United States — in which case, they
have no tariffs.  In other words, you build — and this is exactly what
Mr. Wei is doing by building here.  Otherwise, they’ll build — if they
did them in Taiwan to send them here, they’ll have 25 percent or 30
percent or 50 percent or whatever the number may be someday.  It’ll go
only up.  But by doing it here, he has no tariffs, so he’s way ahead of
the game.   
  
And I would just say this to people in Canada or Mexico, if they’re
going to build car plants, the people that are doing them are much
better off building here, because we have the market.  We’re the market
where they sell the most.    
  
And so, I think it’s going to be very exciting.  Very exciting for the
automobile companies.  Very exciting for — I can think of any — as an
example, North Carolina, they had the great — I used to go there to buy
furniture for hotels, and it’s been wiped out.  That business all went
to other countries, and now it’s all going to come back into North
Carolina — the furniture manufacturing business.  
  
Please.    
  
Q    Mr. President —  
  
Q    Is the Ukraine minerals deal now dead, or can it be revived?  What
— what’s your —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I’ll let you know.  We’re making a speech — you
probably heard about it — tomorrow night, so I’ll let you know tomorrow
night.   
  
But, no, I don’t think so.  I think it’s — look, it’s a great deal for
us, because, you know, Biden very, very, foolishly — stupidly, frankly —
gave $300 billion and — $350 billion, more accurately — to a country to
fight and to try and do things.  And you know what happened?  We get
nothing.  We get nothing — just gave it.   
  
We could have rebuilt our entire U.S. Navy with $350 billion.  Think of
it.  Three hundred and fifty billion, we could have rebuilt our U.S.
Navy.  
  
So, he gave it away as fast as the money could be gone.  And what we’re
doing is getting that all back and a lot more than that.  And what we
need — it’s very important for this business that we’re talking about
here, with chips and semiconductors and everything else — we need rare
earths.  And the deal we have is we have the finest rare earths that you
can.   
  
Q    Sir, on Ukraine.  Sir, on Ukraine.

     Q    Are you going to press back —  
  
Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  What do you need to see from President
Zelenskyy to restart these negotiations?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I just think he should be more appreciative,
because this country has stuck with them through thick and thin.  We’ve
given them much more than Europe, and Europe should have given more than
us, because, as you know, that’s right there.  That’s the border.   
  
This country really was like the fence on the border.  It was very
important to Europe.  And I’m not knocking Europe, I’m saying they’re
just — they were a lot smarter than Joe Biden, because Joe Biden didn’t
have a clue.  He just gave money hand over a fist, and they should have
been able to equalize with us.   
  
In other words, if we gave a dollar, they should have given.  Well, we
gave $350 billion.  They probably gave 100, but on top of it all, they
get their money back, because they are doing it in the form of a loan,
and it’s a secured loan.    
  
So, when I saw that, which I’ve known about for a little while, I said,
“It’s time for us to be smart.”  At the same time, it’s great for them,
because they get us in the country taking the rare earth, which is going
to fuel this big engine, and especially the engine that we’ve, in a very
short time, created.  And we get something, and we’re in the — we’re
there.  We have a presence there.   
  
With all of that being said, I want one thing to happen: I want all of
those young people to stop being killed.  They’re being killed by the
thousands every single week.  Last week, 2,700 were killed. 
Twenty-seven hundred young — in this case, just about, all young boys
from Ukraine and from Russia.  And that’s not young people from the
United States, but it’s on a human basis.   
  
I want to see it stop.  The money is one thing, but the death.  And
they’re losing thousands of soldiers a week, and that’s not including
the people that get killed every time a town goes down or a missile goes
into a town.  
  
(Cross-talk.)  
  
We — and — and I want to see it stop.   
  
Yes.    
  
Q    Mr. President, are you considering canceling military aid to
Ukraine?  And can we get a reaction to what the Kremlin just said, that
your administration is bringing U.S. worldview in alignment with
Moscow’s?    
  
THE PRESIDENT:  So, this is a deal that should have never happened. 
This is a deal that would have never happened, and it didn’t happen —
for four years, it didn’t happen.  It was never even close to
happening.  If I were president, would not have happened.  And October
7th would have — would not have happened in Israel.  And inflation
wouldn’t have happened.   
  
And Afghanistan, disastrous — the way they withdrew — not the fact that
they withdrew but the way they withdrew — would have never happened. 
And we would have had Bagram right now instead of China having it.  It
was one hour away from where China makes their nuclear weapons.  We
would have kept Bagram — one of the biggest air bases in the world.   
  
All of these things happened, and it’s a shame.  But it is what it is,
and now we’re here.  I want to see it end fast.  I don’t want to see
this go on for years and years.  
  
Now, President Zelenskyy supposedly made a statement today in AP — I’m
not a big fan of AP, so maybe it was an incorrect statement — but he
said he thinks the war is going to go on for a long time, and he better
not be right about that.  That’s all I’ll say.  
  
Q    Mr. President, is there any —

     Q    Could this project — could this minimize the impact of the
U.S. with chips should China decide to isolate Taiwan or China decide to
take Taiwan?   
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, it’s a very interesting point.  It’s a great
question, actually.  But this would certainly — I can’t say “minimize.” 
That would be a catastrophic event, obviously.  But it will at least
give us a position where we have — in this very, very important
business, we would have a very big part of it in the United States.  So,
it would have a big impact if something should happen with Taiwan.  
  
Q    And with Russia sanctions, are you looking at relieving Russian
sanctions if there is a peace deal?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, we’re going to make deals with everybody to get
this war, including Europe and European nations.  And they’ve acted very
well.  You know, they’re good people.  I know; most of them are friends
of mine — the heads of state, the heads of the various countries, prime
ministers from the different — I got four prime ministers and five
presidents called me over the last two days, and they want to work it
out.  They want to get it worked out.    
  
And I think they’re also — you know, they’re talking money, but the
money is less important than the deaths.  We’re talking thousands of
young people a week.  And people would say why do I care about Ukraine,
young people; why do I care about — and not all young, but they’re
pretty young.  You know, Ukraine is running a little bit low, and
they’re getting older.  They’re recruiting older people.  It’s a very,
very sad thing that’s happening over there, and we want to get it
finished.  We want to stop the death.   
  
(Cross-talk.)  
  
Q    Mr. President, on the tariffs.  Is there any room left for Canada
and Mexico to make a deal before midnight?  And should we expect those
Chinese tariffs, the extra 10 percent to take effect tomorrow?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  No room left for Mexico or for Canada.  No, the tariffs,
you know, they’re all set.  They go into effect tomorrow.  
  
Q    Mr. President, just a follow-up on my colleague’s question. 
Hearing —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  And just so you understand, vast amounts of fentanyl
have poured into our country from Mexico and, as you know, also from
China, where it goes to Mexico and goes to Canada.  And China also had
an additional 10, so it’s 10 plus 10.    
  
And it comes in from Canada, and it comes in from Mexico, and that’s a
very important thing to say.  
  
Yeah, please.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Have you decided if you’re going to suspend military aid to
Ukraine?  Have you made that decision?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I haven’t even talked about that right now.  I
mean, right now, we’ll see what happens.  A lot of things are happening
right now, as we speak — I mean, literally as we speak.  I could give
you an answer and go back to my office — the beautiful Oval Office.  I
could go back into the Oval Office and find out that the answer is
obsolete.  
  
     It’s like his business.  It’s obsolete.  You come up with a new
chip, and it’s obsolete about two minutes later, right?  But that’s
what’s good about his business.  That’s why he’s the only one that’s
successful in it.  But —   
  
     Q    And on tariffs, sir.  
  
     Q    Mr. President, just to follow up my colleague’s question from
Russia is saying that your foreign policy is largely in line with their
vision.  Should that be concerning to Americans?   
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Said what?  
  
Q    Should that be concerning to Americans?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Read the statement.  
  
Q    That Russia — Russia says that your administration’s foreign policy
is, quote, “largely in line” with their vision.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I tell you what, I think it takes two to tango,
and you’re going to have to make a deal with Russia, and you’re going to
have to make a deal with Ukraine.  You’re going to have to have the
ascent, and you’re going to have to have the consent from the European
nations, because I think that’s important, and from us.   
  
I think everybody has to get into a room, so to speak, and we have to
make a deal.  And the deal could be made very fast.  It should not be
that hard a deal to make.  It could be made very fast.   
  
Now, maybe somebody doesn’t want to make a deal, and if somebody doesn’t
want to make a deal, I think that person won’t be around very long. 
That person will not be listened to very long.  Because I believe that
Russia wants to make a deal.  I believe, certainly, the people of
Ukraine want to make a deal.  They’ve suffered more than anybody else. 
We talk about suffering — they’ve suffered.  
  
But if you think about it, under President Bush, they got Georgia,
right?  Russia got Georgia.  Under President Obama, they got a nice, big
submarine base, a nice big chunk of land where they have their
submarines.  You know that, right?  Crimea.  Under President Trump, they
got nothing.  And under President O-Biden, they tried to get the whole
thing.  They tried to get the whole big Ukraine, the whole thing.  If I
didn’t get in here, they would’ve gotten the whole thing.    
  
So, I can only say — you can go back to Bush, you go back to Obama, and
go back to Biden — they took a lot.  The only one they didn’t get — you
know what I gave them?  I gave them anti-tank missiles.  That’s what I
gave them.  I gave them sanctions on Russia — on Russia.  I gave them
Javelins.  You know the Javelins?  You know when they took out all those
tanks?  
  
You know, the tanks were heading to Kyiv by the hundreds, and they were
unstoppable, and I gave them Javelins.   
  
So, you know, I really — Putin is the one that will tell you this has
not been so good for them.  The fact is that I just want fairness.  I
want fairness.   
  
But think of it.  I gave Russia nothing except grief.  I gave them
nothing.  I gave them sanctions and Javelins.  That’s what I gave
them.   
  
Obama gave them sheets.  And you heard that statement before.  It’s a
very famous — Trump gave them Javelins, and Obama gave them sheets.  And
then they say how close I am to Russia.   
  
Let me tell you, we have to make a deal, because there are a lot of
people being killed that shouldn’t be killed.  But remember, Trump gave
them nothing, and the other presidents gave them a lot.  They gave them
everything.  
  
Q    Mr. President, on trade.  You met with president — Argentine
President Javier Milei at CPAC.  He wants to sign a free trade agreement
—  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Right.   
  
Q    — with the United States.  Is that something that you would
consider, even with Argentina, or any other country?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I’ll consider anything.  And Argentina — I think he’s
great, by the way.  I think he’s a great leader.  He’s doing a great
job.  He’s doing a fantastic job.  Brought it back from oblivion.   
  
Yeah, we’ll look at things.  We’re looking at the UK with things.  It
doesn’t have to be tariffs.  But tariffs are easy, they’re fast, they’re
efficient, and they bring fairness.   
  
For instance, when people kill their dollar, their equivalent of the
dollar, whatever — whether it’s the yuan or the yen in Japan or the yuan
in China — when they drop them down, that gives us — that puts us at a
very unfair disadvantage.  So, all I have to do is say, “Howard, we’re
going to have to raise the tariffs a little bit.”  
  
Because I’ve called President Xi, I’ve called the leaders of Japan to
say, “You can’t continue to reduce and break down your currency.  You
can’t do it, because it’s unfair to us.”  It’s very hard for us to make
tractors — Caterpillar — here, when Japan, China, and other places are
killing their currency, meaning driving it down.   
  
So, all of these things add up, and the way you solve it very easily is
with tariffs.  Because when they do that, instead of having to make
phone calls every day, like I used to do with certain leaders —
President Xi, a little bit — a lot of phone calls talking about the fact
that they’re lowering their yuan.  They’re lowering it down.  And that
makes it very, very hard for us.   
  
So, this way, I just say, “Look, let them do that, and we make up for it
with the tariffs.”  But —  
  
Q    Will you be speaking with Mexican President Claudia Sheinbaum about
tariffs today?   
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, sure, I will.  I have a lot of respect for her.  I
have a lot of respect for her.   
  
(Cross-talk.)   
  
Q    After the 10 percent tariff take ef- —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.   
  
Q    — takes effect, it’ll be 20 percent on China now.  How high are you
willing to go against China?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I can’t say.  It depends on what they do with
their currency.  It depends on what they do in terms of a retaliation
with some kind of an economic retaliation, which I don’t think they’re
going to retaliate too much.    
  
Hey, look, the United States has been taken advantage of for 40 years. 
The United States has been a laughing stock for years and years.  That’s
why this gentleman has built in Taiwan, instead of building here.  It
would have been better if he built here.    
  
If we had a president that knew what they were doing — and we had a lot
of them very bad on trade.  Look, I’m a huge fan of Ronald Reagan, but
he was bad on trade.  Very bad on trade.  He allowed a lot of people, a
lot of businesses, to be taken.  So, I say that with due respect,
because I — he was so great on other things, but he was bad on trade.   
  
We are setting records right now — records like nobody has ever seen
before.  When you have companies like this coming in and almost 40
percent of their company, in one signature, is going to be devoted to
what he does, which is one of the most important — important businesses
in the world, that’s an unbelievable thing.  When Apple now is going to
start building all of their plants here, all because of what we’ve done
in terms of — it’s not because he likes me or they like me.  They don’t
probably like me at all.  I don’t know.  I think he likes me a little
bit, at least.  (Laughter.)  
  
MR. WEI:  No, I like you.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  But you know what?  It’s the incentive we’ve created or
the negative incentive.  I mean, it’s going to be very costly for people
to take advantage of this country.  They can’t come in and steal our
money and steal our jobs and take our factories and take our businesses
and expect not to be punished, and they’re being punished by tariffs. 

It’s a very powerful weapon that politicians haven’t used because they
were either dishonest, stupid, or paid off in some other form.  And now
we’re using them.  
  
Q    Have you spoken with President Xi?  
  
Q    Agriculture —   
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Say it.   
  
Q    Have you spoken with President Xi about this this term?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I don’t want to tell you that.   
  
Q    On those incentives, sir.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, everybody.   
  
(Cross-talk.)   
  
Thank you.  Thank you very much.

                             END                3:07 P.M. EST
