---
date: '2025-03-09'
modified_time: 2025-03-10 14:21:37-04:00
published_time: 2025-03-09 14:20:01-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/remarks/2025/03/press-gaggle-by-president-trump/
tags: remarks
title: Press Gaggle by President Trump
---
 
Aboard Air Force One

En Route Joint Base Andrews

(March 9, 2025)

7:08 P.M. EST

     THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, everybody.

Q    Hi, Mr. President.

Q    Hello.

THE PRESIDENT:  How are you?  Very good.  Wow, it’s a lot of people. 
That’s a lot of people.  Any questions?

Q    Sir, on Russia.  Have you made a final decision about what
sanctions or tariffs you might impose on Russia and when that might be?

THE PRESIDENT:  We’re looking at a lot of things.  We have big meetings
coming up, as you know, in Saudi Arabia.  That’s going to include
Russia.  It’ll be Ukraine.  We’ll see if we can get something done.  I’d
like to get something done.  

A lot of people died this week, as you know, in Ukraine. Not only
Ukrainians, but Russians.  So, I think everybody wants to see it get
done.  We’re going to make a lot of progress, I believe, this week.

Q    Mr. President, is Putin disrespecting you by attacking Ukraine when
you’re trying to make peace there?

THE PRESIDENT:  Who?  Who?

Q    Is President Putin disrespecting you by attacking Ukraine when
you’re trying to make peace there? 

THE PRESIDENT:  What did he do?

Q    Well, he’s attacked Ukraine.

THE PRESIDENT:  Is he disrespecting me? 

Q    Yeah.

THE PRESIDENT:  Who are you with?

Q    I’m Michael Birnbaum, with the Washington Post.

THE PRESIDENT:  You’ve lost a lot of credibility. 

Go ahead.  What else? 

Q    What do you say to Americans who have seen their retirements
accounts fall in recent day and are getting very nervous about these
tariff conversations? 

THE PRESIDENT:  Oh, I think the tariffs are going to be the greatest
thing we’ve ever done as a country.  It’s going to make our country rich
again. 

We have many companies — as you know, auto companies are opening up
plants now.  We’ve had four or five announced already, but many more are
coming.  And we’re basically going to take back the money — a lot of the
money that we’ve given away over many decades.  

We’ve lost our jobs.  We’ve lost our factories.  We’ve lost 90,000
factories since the beginning of NAFTA.  It’s not that long ago.  Ninety
thousand factories.  Think of that.  And we’re going to get them back. 
And they’re coming back, and they’re coming back in records.  

Look at what happened with the big chip company — the biggest in the
world — by far, the most powerful chip company in the world, from
Taiwan.  And they’re going in with $200 billion of money, and they’re
going to build something that’s going to give us 35, 40 percent of the
chip market in one — just in one company. 

No, it’s going to bring it back, and I think it’s going to make to bring
us to a level that we’ve never had before.

Q    Is there going to be a government shutdown this week?

Q    Mr. President, many of your supporters are concerned about
conservative — that they’re — your supporters are attacking SCOTUS
Justice Amy Coney Barrett.  You put her on the bench.  She — they’re
saying she’s a DEI hire.  Do you regret putting her on the bench?  

THE PRESIDENT:  Look, she’s a very good woman.  She’s very smart.  And I
don’t know about people attacking her.  I really don’t know.  I think
she’s a very good woman, and she’s very smart. 

Q    Is there going to be a government shutdown at the end of this week?

THE PRESIDENT:  It could happen.  I mean, the Democrats want that.  They
want to destroy the country.  So, I can’t tell you, but it could
happen.  It shouldn’t have happened, and it probably won’t.  I think the
CR is going to get passed.  We’ll see.  But it could happen.  You never
know. 

The Democrats are out of control.  You saw that the other night during
the speech when they wouldn’t stand up for two of the young ladies were
killed by illegal aliens, one with the cancer — the young man with the
cancer.  And all you want to do is stand up and applaud the man and the
boy, the young boy.  And nobody has ever seen anything like that. 
They’re out of control.  They’ve lost their minds. 

Q    Mr. President, are you alarmed by escalatory rhetoric —

Q    Sir, do you think there’s going to be a deal on TikTok?

Q    — from the Chinese in response to your tariffs, and are you
planning to meet with Xi Jinping about trade anytime soon?

THE PRESIDENT:  No, they took that rhetoric back, as you know.  They
were very tough.  And I said, “Whoa, what’s that all about?”  And that
rhetoric was taken back.  You know that, right? 

Q    My question to you is are you —

THE PRESIDENT:  I mean, but if you know that, why would you ask that
question?

Q    Are you planning to meet with Xi Jinping anytime soon?

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, at some point I will.  I have a very good
relationship with President Xi.  Very good.  And at some point, I’ll be
meeting with him.

Q    Sir, do you think there’s going to be a deal on TikTok soon?

THE PRESIDENT:  There could be.  We’re dealing with four different
groups, and a lot of people want it, and it’s up to me.  So, there could
be.

Q    What are you leaning towards?

THE PRESIDENT:  All four are good.

Q    Mr. President —

Q    Mr. President —

Q    — you have said there’s no feud between your Cabinet members and
Elon Musk.  You even had dinner with him last night and Secretary
Rubio.  However, tensions are high between your Cabinet and Mr. Musk. 
How are you going to simmer down tensions?  Does Mr. Musk need to back
off a little bit?

THE PRESIDENT:  I don’t think the tensions are high.  Look, Elon is a
very special person, and these Cabinet people are special people.  You
know, these are very successful people, or they wouldn’t have gotten —
you know, they’ve attained the highest heights of government.  And I
think they have fantastic relationship to Elon. 

And DOGE has been incredible.  You know, hundreds of billions of dollars
of waste and fraud and abuse has been already found.  And that doesn’t
mean they don’t have a little bit of an argument here and there about
something or maybe personnel arguments.  

There’s not too many contract arguments.  You know, contracts have been
found.  This is much more than just personnel.  And we found hundreds of
billions of dollars of fraudulent contracts — or very wasteful, but I
think fraud.  I think it’s fraud.  

Q    There was just another plane crash in Pennsylvania.

THE PRESIDENT: I actually think they — I think, really, the Cabinet —
for the most part, I think they get along really well with Elon.

Q    There was just another plane crash in Pennsylvania.  Today,
Secretary Duffy’s big concern is his department is being gutted.  He’s
been, you know, dealing with these crashes ever since he was sworn in. 
Does he have a legitimate concern with Elon Musk —

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, that has nothing to do with the department.  That
was a small plane, and that would have happened whether you had a big
department or a small department, as you understand. 

It’s just they’re in — they have spates like this.  You know, they have
times when things happen a little bit more often than normal.  And then
it goes back, and you go many years without having a problem. 

I’ll tell you, I think the Southwest pilot did a fantastic job last week
when he lifted that plane off there, because if he put the brakes on,
that wouldn’t have been good.  And I think the license should be maybe
revoked for the plane that got in the way — from the pilot — revoked for
the plane that got its way.  But the way he immediately stepped on the
gas and lifted up, as opposed to, you know, thinking for about three
seconds when it would have been too late.  The Southwest pilot, or
pilots, they did a great job.

Q    Russia, China, and Iran are doing military exercises together. 
Does that concern you?

THE PRESIDENT:  No, not at all.  Not at all.

Q    Why not?

THE PRESIDENT:  Because we’re stronger than all of them.  We have more
power than all of them. 

I rebuilt the military.  Unfortunately, Biden did nothing with it, but I
rebuilt the military.  But we don’t want to even talk about that. 

I think if you look at what’s happening, and if you see what we’ve done,
and if you see where we’ve come — and let’s see what happens with the
whole Russia-Ukraine thing.  I think you’re going to have, eventually —
and maybe not in the distant future, you’re going to have some pretty
good results coming out of Saudi Arabia this week.

Q    Are you going to resume aid to Ukraine if they sign the minerals
deal with you?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I think they will sign the minerals deal.  But we
want them to — I want them to want peace.  Right now.

Q    How do they show that?  How do they show that?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, right now, they haven’t shown it to the extent
that they should.  I think, right now, they haven’t, but I think they
will be, and I think it’s going to become evident over the next two or
three days.  I think eventually, look, we have to have peace.  

And I’m doing this — money is one thing.  We’re going to lose — we spent
$350 billion on this.  But the big thing: human life.  Thousands of
people — this week — thousands of young soldiers died this week. 
Hundreds of people died in cities in Ukraine.  And we got to get it
stopped. 

It would have never happened if I was president.  And it didn’t happen. 
This was not going to happen. 

By the way, October 7th wouldn’t have happened.  Inflation wouldn’t have
happened.  The Afghanistan — the way they — not that they left, but the
way that they left.  It looked so bad.  Probably the most embarrassing
day in the history of our country.  That wouldn’t have happened.  A lot
of things wouldn’t have happened, but it is what it is. 

I think we’re going to have a good time.  I think we’re going to have a
good result in Saudi Arabia — meaning they’re hosting the various talks,
and we have a lot of good people going out there.  And I think Ukraine
is going to do well, and I think Russia is going to do well.  I think
some very big things could happen this week.  I hope so. 

So, 2,000 people — at least 2,000 young soldiers have died this week,
and this is almost on a constant basis.  A couple of thousand soldiers a
week.  It’s a killing field, and we got to stop it.  And if I can stop
it, I’ll be very happy.

Q    Would you consider — would you consider —

(Cross-talk.)

Q    Would you consider lifting the intel pause on Ukraine?  What does
Ukraine have to do?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, we just about have.  I mean, we really just about
have.  And we want to do anything we can to get Ukraine to be serious
about getting something done. 

You know, I say they don’t have the cards.  Nobody really has the
cards.  Russia doesn’t have the cards.  They don’t.

What you have to do is you have to make a deal, and you have to stop the
killing.  It’s a senseless war, and we’re going to get it stopped.

Q    You hesitated when Maria Bartiromo —

(Cross-talk.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Where are we?  Are we just about —

MS. LEAVITT:  Yes, sir, we’re landing.

Q    We’re close.  We’re close.

MS. LEAVITT:  They’re trying to land the plane.

THE PRESIDENT:  We’re just about ready to land.

     Q    Are you worried about a recession? 

THE PRESIDENT:  No.

Q    Maria Bartiromo asked you, and — and you kind of hesitated.

     THE PRESIDENT:  I’ll tell you what, of course you hesitate.  Who
knows? 

All I know is this: We’re going to take in hundreds of billions of
dollars in tariffs, and we’re going to become so rich, you’re not going
to know where to spend all that money.  I’m telling you, you just
watch.  We’re going to have jobs.  We’re going to have open factories. 
It’s going to be great. 

And the plane is landing. 

MS. LEAVITT:  We’ve got to go.  Thanks, guys.

THE PRESIDENT:  And thank you for a lot of good questions.  Okay?

Thank you very much, everybody.  Thank you.

END                7:18 P.M. EST
