---
date: '2022-12-21'
published_time: 2022-12-21 12:11:37-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/legislation/2022/12/21/press-release-bills-signed-h-r-310-h-r-2220-h-r-2930-h-r-3462-h-r-7535-s-314-s-4834/
tags: legislation
title: "Press Release: Bills Signed: H.R. 310, H.R. 2220, H.R. 2930, H.R. 3462, H.R.\
  \ 7535, S. 314, S.\_4834"
---
 
On Wednesday, December 21, 2022, the President signed into law:

H.R. 310, which posthumously awards the Congressional Gold Medal,
collectively, to Glen Doherty, Tyrone Woods, J. Christopher Stevens, and
Sean Smith, in recognition of their contributions to the Nation.  
  
Thank you to Representative Stephen Lynch, Senator Edward Markey, and
many other for their leadership.

H.R. 2220, which requires that any bargain-price option to purchase
property at less than fair market value contained in a Federal lease
agreement be provided for in subsequent acts of Congress;  
  
Thank you to Representatives Guest, Webster, and Pence, Senators
Lankford and Peters, and many others for their leadership.

H.R. 2930, the “Safeguard Tribal Objects of Patrimony Act of 2021,”
which enhances protections and provides for the return of certain Native
American cultural items and archaeological resources;  
  
Thank you to Representative Leger Fernandez and the late Representative
Young, Senators Heinrich and Lujan, and many others for their
leadership.

H.R. 3462, the “SBA Cyber Awareness Act,” which requires the Small
Business Administration (SBA) to submit an annual report regarding the
cybersecurity of the SBA;  
  
Thank you for Representatives Crow and Kim, and Senators Rubio, Risch,
and Cassidy, and many others for your leadership.

H.R. 7535, the “Quantum Computing Cybersecurity Preparedness Act,” which
encourages the Federal Government to adopt technology that is protected
from decryption by quantum computing;  
  
Thank you to Representatives Khanna, Mace, Connolly, Raskin, and Emmer,
and Senators Hassan, Portman, Rosen, Tillis, Young and Heinrich, and
many others for their leadership.

S. 314, the “Klamath Tribe Judgment Fund Repeal Act,” which repeals the
Klamath Tribe Judgment Fund Act;

Thank you to Senators Jeff Merkley and Ron Wyden, and many others for
their leadership.

S. 4834, the “Providing Resources, Officers, and Technology to Eradicate
Cyber Threats to Our Children Act of 2022” or the “PROTECT Our Children
Act of 2022,” which reauthorizes appropriations for the National
Internet Crimes Against Children Task Force Program through fiscal year
2024.  
  
Thank you to Senators Cornyn, Blumenthal, Tillis, Durbin, Kennedy,
Leahy, Cruz, Klobuchar, Grassley, and Feinstein, and Representatives
Wasserman Schultz, Chabot, Kuster, and Reschenthaler for their
leadership.

\###
