---
date: '2022-12-20'
published_time: 2022-12-20 11:49:19-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/legislation/2022/12/20/bills-signed-h-r-6722-h-r-6863-h-r-7903-h-r-7925-s-3825-s-4017-s-4052-s-5060/
tags: legislation
title: "Bills Signed: H.R. 6722, H.R. 6863, H.R. 7903, H.R. 7925, S. 3825, S. 4017,\
  \ S. 4052, S.\_5060"
---
 
On Tuesday, December 20, 2022, the President signed into law:  
  
H.R. 6722, which designates the Department of Veterans Affairs
community-based outpatient clinic in French Camp, California, as the
Richard A. Pittman VA Clinic;

Thank you to Representatives McNerney and Harder, Senators Feinstein and
Padilla, and the California delegation for their leadership. 

H.R. 6863, which designates the medical center of the Department of
Veterans Affairs in Memphis, Tennessee, as the Lt. Col. Luke Weathers,
Jr. VA Medical Center;

Thank you to Representative Steve Cohen, and Senators Blackburn and
Hagerty for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 7903, which designates the Department of Veterans Affairs
community-based outpatient clinic located in Canton, Michigan, as the
Major General Oliver W. Dillard VA Clinic;

Thank you to Representatives Stevens and Dingell, Senators Peters and
Stabenow, and the Michigan delegation for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 7925, which designates the Department of Veterans Affairs
community-based outpatient clinic located in Palm Desert, California, as
the Sy Kaplan VA Clinic;

Thank you to Representative Raul Ruiz, Senators Feinstein and Padilla,
and the California delegation for their leadership.  
  
S. 3825, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 3903 Melear Drive in Arlington, Texas, as the Ron
Wright Post Office Building;

Thank you to Senator Cornyn, Cruz, Representative Ellzey and the entire
Texas delegation for their leadership.  
  
S. 4017, which designates the United States courthouse located at 111
South Highland Avenue in Jackson, Tennessee, as the James D. Todd United
States Courthouse;

Thank you to Senators Blackburn and Hagerty, Representative Kustoff, and
the entire Tennessee delegation for their leadership.  
  
S. 4052, the “Early Hearing Detection and Intervention Act of 2022,”
which reauthorizes hearing loss programs for newborns, infants, and
young children; and

Thank you to Senators Portman, Hassan, Cassidy, Hickenlooper, and Brown,
and Representatives Guthrie and Matsui for their leadership.  
  
S. 5060, the “Paul D. Wellstone Building Act of 2022,” which
redesignates the Federal building located at 212 Third Avenue South in
Minneapolis, Minnesota, as the Paul D. Wellstone Federal Building.

Thank you to Senators Klobuchar, Grassley and Smith and many others for
their leadership.
