---
date: '2022-12-27'
modified_time: 2022-12-28 14:16:04-05:00
published_time: 2022-12-27 13:42:42-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/legislation/2022/12/27/bills-signed/
tags: legislation
title: Bills Signed
---
 
On Tuesday, December 27, 2022, the President signed into law:  
  
H.R. 203, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 4020 Broadway Street in Houston, Texas, as the Benny
C. Martinez Post Office Building;  
  
Thank you to Representative Sylvia Garcia, Senators Cornyn and Cruz, and
the entire Texas delegation for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 441, the “Don Young Alaska Native Health Care Land Transfers Act of
2022” which directs conveyance of certain parcels of land for the
purpose of expanding social and healthcare services;  
  
Thank you to the late Representative Don Young for his leadership  
  
H.R. 478, the “Blackwater Trading Post Land Transfer Act,” which directs
that certain land be taken into trust for the benefit of the Gila River
Indian Community;  
  
Thank you to Representative Tom O’Halleran, and Senators Sinema and
Kelly, for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 681, which makes Rebecca Trimble eligible for adjustment of status
to that of lawful permanent resident;  
  
Thank you to the late Representative Don Young, and Senators Murkowski
and Sullivan, and their leadership.  
  
H.R 785, which makes Maria Isabel Bueso Barrera, Alberto Bueso Mendoza,
and Karla Maria Barrera De Bueso eligible for adjustment of status to
that of lawful permanent resident;  
  
Thank you to Representative Mark DeSaulnier for his leadership.  
  
H.R. 1095, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 101 South Willowbrook Avenue in Compton, California,
as the PFC James Anderson, Jr., Post Office Building;

Thank you to Representative Nanette Barragan, Senators Feinstein and
Padilla, and the California delegation for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 2472, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 82422 Cadiz Jewett Road in Cadiz, Ohio, as the John
Armor Bingham Post Office;  
  
Thank you to Representative Bill Johnson, Senators Brown and Portman,
and the Ohio delegation for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 2473, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 275 Penn Avenue in Salem, Ohio, as the Howard Arthur
Tibbs Post Office;  
  
Thank you to Representative Bill Johnson, Senators Brown and Portman,
and the Ohio delegation for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 2724, which requires the Department of Veterans Affairs to provide
for peer support specialists for claimants who are survivors of military
sexual trauma;  
  
Thank you to former Representative Delgado, Representative Mace,
Senators Cortez Masto, Blumenthal and Boozman, and many others for their
leadership.  
  
H.R. 3285, the “21st Century President Act,” which removes gendered
language from Federal law relating to threats against the President and
the President’s spouse;  
  
Thank you to Representatives Pocan, Cicilline, Deutch, Doggett,
Espaillat, Jackson Lee, Khanna, Andy Levin, Lowenthal, Delegate Norton,
Pappas, Raskin, Schakowsky, Speier, Taylor and Welch, and many others
for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 4250, the “War Crimes Rewards Expansion Act,” which expands the
Department of State War Crimes Rewards Program to authorize rewards for
providing information regarding foreign nationals accused of war crimes
under the laws and statutes of the United States and other nations;  
  
Thank you to Representatives Foxx, Raskin, Van Taylor, and many others
for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 4622, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 226 North Main Street in Roseville, Ohio, as the
Ronald E. Rosser Post Office;

Thank you to Representative Troy Balderson, Senators Brown and Portman,
and the Ohio delegation for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 4881, the “Old Pascua Community Land Acquisition Act,” which
directs that certain land be taken into trust for the benefit of the
Pascua Yaqui Tribe;  
  
Thank you to Representatives Grijalva, Leger Fernandez, Gosar,
Schweikert, and Lesko, and Senators Sinema and Kelly, for their
leadership.  
  
H.R. 4899, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 10 Broadway Street West, in Akeley, Minnesota, as the
Neal Kenneth Todd Post Office;  
  
Thank you to Representative Pete Stauber, Senators Klobuchar and Smith,
and the Minnesota delegation for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 5271, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 2245 Rosa L Parks Boulevard in Nashville, Tennessee,
as the Thelma Harper Post Office Building;  
  
Thank you to Representative Jim Cooper, Senators Blackburn and Hagerty,
and the Tennessee delegation for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 5349, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 1550 State Road S–38–211 in Orangeburg, South
Carolina, as the J.I. Washington Post Office Building;  
  
Thank you to Majority Whip Clyburn, Senators Graham and Tim Scott, and
the South Carolina delegation for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 5650, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 16605 East Avenue of the Fountains in Fountain Hills,
Arizona, as the Dr. C.T. Wright Post Office Building;  
  
Thank you to Representative David Schweikert, Senators Sinema and Kelly,
and the Arizona delegation for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 5659, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 1961 North C Street in Oxnard, California, as the
John R. Hatcher III Post Office Building;  
  
Thank you to Representative Julia Brownley, Senators Feinstein and
Padilla, and the California delegation for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 5794, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 850 Walnut Street in McKeesport, Pennsylvania, as the
First Sergeant Leonard A. Funk, Jr. Post Office Building;  
  
Thank you to Representative Mike Doyle, Senators Casey and Toomey, and
the Pennsylvania delegation for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 5865, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 4110 Bluebonnet Drive in Stafford, Texas, as the
Leonard Scarcella Post Office Building;  
  
Thank you to Representative Al Green, Senators Cornyn and Cruz, and the
Texas delegation for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 5900, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 2016 East 1st Street in Los Angeles, California, as
the Marine Corps Reserve PVT Jacob Cruz Post Office;  
  
Thank you to Representative Jimmy Gomez, Senators Feinstein and Padilla,
and the California delegation for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 5943, which designates the outpatient clinic of the Department of
Veterans Affairs in Greenville, South Carolina, as the Lance Corporal
Dana Cornell Darnell VA Clinic;

Thank you to Representative Timmons, Senator Graham, and the South
Carolina delegation for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 5952, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 123 East Main Street, in Vergas, Minnesota, as the
Jon Glawe Post Office;  
  
Thank you to Representatives Fischbach and McHenry, Senators Klobuchar
and Smith, and the Minnesota delegation for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 5961, which makes numerous technical revisions in Title 5, United
States Code, Government Organizations and Employees, as necessary to
keep the Title in the Code current and improve the clarity of enacted
statute;  
  
Thank you to Representative Joe Neguse for his leadership.  
  
H.R. 5973, the ” Great Lakes Fish and Wildlife Restoration
Reauthorization Act of 2022,” which reauthorizes the Great Lake Fish and
Wildlife Restoration Act through fiscal year 2028;  
  
Thank you to Representatives Dingell, LaHood, Tonko, and Joyce, Senators
Klobuchar, Portman, Stabenow and Young, and many others for their
leadership.  
  
H.R. 6042, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 213 William Hilton Parkway in Hilton Head Island,
South Carolina, as the Caesar H. Wright Jr. Post Office Building;  
  
Thank you to Representative Nancy Mace, Senators Graham and Tim Scott,
and the South Carolina delegation for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 6064, which amends the method by which the Department of Veterans
Affairs determines the effects of a closure or disapproval of an
educational institution on individuals who do not transfer credits from
such an institution;  
  
Thank you to Representatives Nehls, Bost, Luria, Bergman, Ellzey,
Miller-Meeks, and many others for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 6080, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 5420 Kavanaugh Boulevard in Little Rock, Arkansas, as
the Ronald A. Robinson Post Office;  
  
Thank you to Representative French Hill, Senators Boozman and Cotton,
and the Arkansas delegation for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 6218, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 317 Blattner Drive in Avon, Minnesota, as the W.O.C.
Kort Miller Plantenberg Post Office;  
  
Thank you to Representative Tom Emmer, Senators Klobuchar and Smith, and
the Minnesota delegation for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 6220, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 100 3rd Avenue Northwest in Perham, Minnesota, as the
Charles P. Nord Post Office;  
  
Thank you to Representative Michelle Fischbach, Senators Klobuchar and
Smith, and the Minnesota delegation for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 6221, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 155 Main Avenue West in Winsted, Minnesota, as the
James A. Rogers Jr. Post Office;  
  
Thank you to Representative Michelle Fischbach, Senators Klobuchar and
Smith, and the Minnesota delegation for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 6267, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 15 Chestnut Street in Suffern, New York, as the
Sergeant Gerald T. “Jerry” Donnellan Post Office;  
  
Thank you to Representative Mondaire Jones, Senators Schumer and
Gillibrand, and the New York delegation for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 6386, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 450 West Schaumburg Road in Schaumburg, Illinois, as
the Veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan Memorial Post Office Building;  
  
Thank you to Representative Raja Krishnamoorthi, Senators Durbin and
Duckworth, and the Illinois delegation for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 6427, the “Red River National Wildlife Refuge Boundary Modification
Act,” which authorizes modification of the boundary of the Red River
National Wildlife Refuge;  
  
Thank you to Representative Mike Johnson, and Senators Cassidy, Boozman,
and Kennedy, for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 6604, the “Veterans Eligible to Transfer School (VETS) Credit Act,”
which amends the method by which VA determines the effects of a closure
or disapproval of an educational institution on individuals who do not
transfer credits from such an institution;  
  
Thank you to Representative Vern Buchanan for his leadership.  
  
H.R. 6630, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 1400 N Kraemer Blvd. in Placentia, California, as the
PFC Jang Ho Kim Post Office Building;  
  
Thank you to Representative Young Kim, Senators Feinstein and Padilla,
and the California delegation for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 6917, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 301 East Congress Parkway in Crystal Lake, Illinois,
as the Ryan J. Cummings Post Office Building;  
  
Thank you to Representative Sean Casten, Senators Durbin and Duckworth,
and the Illinois delegation for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 6961, the which amends certain aspects of hearings before the Board
of Veterans’ Appeals regarding disability compensation claims involving
military sexual trauma;  
  
Thank you to Representatives Mrvan, Underwood, Trone, Pappas, and Mike
Levin for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 7181, the “Human Trafficking Prevention Act of 2022,” which
promotes posting of contact information for the National Human
Trafficking Hotline;  
  
Thank you to Representatives Jeffries, Issa, Mace, McBath, and Mike
Johnson, Senators Hassan, Risch, Rosen and Rubio, and many others for
their leadership.  
  
H.R. 7299, the “Strengthening VA Cybersecurity Act of 2022 or the SVAC
Act of 2022,” which requires the Department of Veterans Affairs to
obtain an independent cybersecurity assessment of its information
systems and effectiveness of its information security program and
management system;  
  
Thank you to Representatives Mrvan, Mace, Garbarino, Susie Lee,
Roybal-Allard, and Slotkin, and Delegate Norton, for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 7335, the “MST Claims Coordination Act,” which directs
the improvement of coordination between the Veterans Health
Administration and the Veterans Benefits Administration with respect to
claims for compensation arising from military sexual trauma, and for
other purposes;  
  
Thank you to Representatives Luria and Miller-Meeks for their
leadership.  
  
H.R. 7514, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 345 South Main Street in Butler, Pennsylvania, as the
Andrew Gomer Williams Post Office Building;  
  
Thank you to Representative Mike Kelly, Senators Casey and Toomey, and
the Pennsylvania delegation for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 7518, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 23200 John R Road in Hazel Park, Michigan, as the Roy
E. Dickens Post Office;  
  
Thank you to Representative Andy Levin, Senators Feinstein and Padilla,
and the Michigan delegation for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 7519, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 2050 South Boulevard in Bloomfield Township,
Michigan, as the Dr. Ezra S. Parke Post Office Building;  
  
Thank you to Representative Andy Levin, Senators Stabenow and Peters,
and the Michigan delegation for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 7638, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 6000 South Florida Avenue in Lakeland, Florida, as
the U.S. Marine Corporal Ronald R. Payne Jr. Post Office;  
  
Thank you to Representative Scott Franklin, Senators Rubio and Rick
Scott, and the Florida delegation for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 7735, the “Improving Access to the VA Home Loan Benefit Act of
2022,” which requires the Department of Veterans Affairs to amend
certain of its guidance and regulations related to appraisals used in
its home loan program;  
  
Thank you to Representatives Bost, Reschenthaler, and Manning, and
Senators Sullivan and Rosen, for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 8025, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 100 South 1st Street in Minneapolis, Minnesota, as
the Martin Olav Sabo Post Office;  
  
Thank you to Representative Ilhan Omar, Senators Klobuchar and Smith,
and the Minnesota delegation for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 8026, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 825 West 65th Street in Minneapolis, Minnesota, as
the Charles W. Lindberg Post Office;  
  
Thank you to Representative Ilhan Omar, Senators Klobuchar and Smith,
and the Minnesota delegation for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 8203, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 651 Business Interstate Highway 35 North Suite 420 in
New Braunfels, Texas, as the Bob Krueger Post Office;  
  
Thank you to Representative Lloyd Doggett, Senators Cornyn and Cruz, and
the Texas delegation for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 8226, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 236 Concord Exchange North in South Saint Paul,
Minnesota, as the Officer Leo Pavlak Post Office Building;  
  
Thank you to Representative Angie Craig, Senators Klobuchar and Smith,
and the Minnesota delegation for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 8260, the “Faster Payments to Veterans’ Survivors Act of 2022,”
which shortens the timeframe for the designation of benefits under
certain Department of Veterans Affairs life insurance programs and
clarify the treatment of undisbursed Department of Veterans Affairs life
insurance benefits;  
  
Thank you to Representatives Pappas and Mace, and Senators Brown and
Boozman, for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 9308, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 6401 El Cajon Boulevard in San Diego, California, as
the Susan A. Davis Post Office;  
  
Feinstein and Padilla, and the California delegation for their
leadership.  
  
S. 7, the ” VAWA Technical Amendment Act of 2022,” which amends the
Violence Against Women Act of 1994 to authorize the Justice Department
to award grants to tribal coalitions to address violence against Native
Hawaiian women;  
  
Thank you to Senator Mazie Hirono for her leadership.  
  
S. 558, the “Flood Level Observation, Operations, and Decision Support
Act” or the “FLOODS Act,” which establishes a National Integrated Flood
Information System within the Department of Commerce’s National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA); requires NOAA to improve flash
flood watches and warnings to improve the communication of future flood
risks; and establishes an Interagency Committee on Water Management and
Infrastructure;  
  
Thank you to Senators Wicker, Peters, Ernst and Booker, Representative
Sherrill, and many others for their leadership.  
  
S. 789, the “Repealing Existing Substandard Provisions Encouraging
Conciliation with Tribes Act” or the “RESPECT Act,” which repeals
certain obsolete laws relating to Native Americans;  
  
Thank you to Senators Rounds, Smith, Lankford, Sinema, Lujan, and
Cramer, Representatives O’Halleran, Dusty Johnson, and Cole, and many
others for their leadership.  
  
S. 1466, “Saline Lake Ecosystems in the Great Basin States Program Act
of 2022,” which directs the Secretary of the Interior to establish a
Saline Lake Ecosystems in the Great Basin States Assessment and
Monitoring Program to assess and monitor saline lake ecosystems;  
  
Thank you to Senators Merkley, Rosen, and Romney, and Representatives
Blake Moore and Huffman, and many others for their leadership.  
  
S. 1687, the “Small Business Cyber Training Act of 2022,” which requires
the Small Business Administration to establish a cyber counseling
certification program to certify the employees of lead small business
development centers in providing cyber planning assistance to small
businesses;

Thank you to Senators Rubio, Shaheen, Hassan, Risch, and Cassidy,
Representatives Garbarino, Evans, Chabot, and Houlahan, and many others
for their leadership.  
  
S. 2607, the “Iran Hostages Congressional Gold Medal Act,” which
provides for the award of a single Congressional Gold Medal to 53 former
hostages of the Iran Hostage Crisis, in recognition of their bravery and
endurance throughout their captivity;  
  
Thank you to Senators Padilla and Rubio, Representative Suozzi, and many
others for their leadership.  
  
S. 2899, the “Prison Camera Reform Act of 2021,” which requires the
Bureau of Prisons to establish a plan to maintain and upgrade their
security camera, radio, and public address systems to ensure the health
and safety of staff and inmates, and documentation of video evidence of
misconduct;  
  
Thank you to Senators Ossoff, Durbin, and Grassley, Representatives
Keller, McBath and Trone, and many others for their leadership.  
  
S. 2991, the “Countering Human Trafficking Act of 2021,” which
authorizes the Department of Homeland Security’s Center for Countering
Human Trafficking, which coordinates the Department’s efforts to combat
human trafficking and the importation of goods produced with forced
labor;  
  
Thank you to Senators Peters, Portman, Hassan, and Kelly,
Representatives Bennie Thompson and John Katko, and many others for
their leadership.  
  
S. 3846, the “Justice and Mental Health Collaboration Reauthorization
Act of 2022,” which authorizes the Department of Justice to award grants
under the Justice and Mental Health Collaboration Program for training
relating to diversion programming and implementation, suicide prevention
services, and case management services;  
  
Thank you to Senators Cornyn and Klobuchar, Representatives Bobby Scott,
Chabot, Jackson Lee, and Emmer, and many others for their leadership.  
  
S. 3905, the “Preventing Organizational Conflicts of Interest in Federal
Acquisition Act,” which requires the Federal Acquisition Regulatory
Council to update the Federal Acquisition Regulation to update and
expand coverage on organizational conflicts of interest;  
  
Thank you to Senators Peters and Grassley, and Representatives Maloney
and Slotkin, for their leadership.  
  
S. 4003, the “Law Enforcement De-Escalation Training Act of 2022,” which
authorizes the Justice Department to award grants for training on
alternatives to use of force, de-escalation, and responding to mental
and behavioral health and suicidal crises;  
  
Thank you to Senators Cornyn and Whitehouse, Representatives Issa,
Trone, and Chabot and many others for their leadership  
  
S. 5229, which directs the Committee of Congress on the Library to
remove the bust of Roger Brooke Taney in the Old Supreme Court Chamber
of the Capitol and to obtain a bust of Thurgood Marshall for
installation in the Capitol or on the Capitol Grounds; and  
  
Thank you to Senators Cardin, Van Hollen, Klobuchar, and Booker,
Representatives Hoyer, Lee, and Clyburn, and many others for their
leadership.  
  
S. 5230, the “Help Find the Missing Act,” which authorizes the
Department of Justice to maintain the National Missing and Unidentified
Persons System (NamUs); expands NamUs reporting requirements; and
facilitates data sharing between NamUs; and the National Crime
Information Center database.  
  
Thank you to Senators Murphy, Cornyn, Hoeven, Blumenthal, and Tillis,
and Representative Hayes, for their leadership.

\###
