---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2022-02-19'
modified_time: 2022-02-19 11:32:28-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/02/19/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-and-president-zelenskyy-before-bilateral-meeting/
published_time: 2022-02-19 11:32:27-05:00
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris and President Zelenskyy Before Bilateral\_\
  Meeting"
---
 
*Commerzbank Filiale München  
Munich, Germany*

2:12 P.M. CEST  
  
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  I’m looking forward to our conversation. As you
know, this is a decisive moment in our world’s history. And this is an
important meeting for that and many other reasons.

I look forward, in this discussion, to hearing directly from you about
the situation on the ground in Ukraine.  I look forward to, in this way,
also hearing from you about what your concerns are and also sharing with
you information that we may have in a way that we will continue to work
together.

This is also a chance for me to reiterate the position of the United
States as it relates to Ukraine.  As I have said earlier today to our
allies around the world, the United States take seriously the importance
of the integrity and the territorial integrity of Ukraine and your
sovereignty.  And the United States stands with Ukraine in this regard.

If Russia further invades your country, as I mentioned earlier today, we
will impose swift and severe economic sanctions.  We have been clear
about that.  We are also clear that we would prefer that this would be
resolved in a diplomatic way, and we have remained open to a diplomatic
path to resolution. 

However, if Russia takes aggressive action against Ukraine, we are
prepared to implement and to do that work in a unified way with our
allies around the world.

Any threats to your country, we take seriously, and we have rallied our
Allies and our partners to speak with one voice.  And those voices have
been reflected throughout the course of these last couple of days and
before.  So I look forward to our conversation.  And thank you.  
  
PRESIDENT ZELENSKYY:  (As interpreted.)  Thank you very much, Madam Vice
President.  And thank you for this meeting.  This is our first meeting,
and I’m very grateful to you and to our team for having this opportunity
to talk to you about the situation which is happening around our
borders; about the risks and how to resolve this matter and, I do agree
with you, in a peaceful and diplomatic manner, as we have been doing all
eight years in a row.

We do clearly understand what is going on.  This is our land, and the
only thing we want is to have peace, bring the peace back to our
country.

And in this case, we are very grateful to the United States, to you
personally, to our strategic partners, and President Biden.  We have had
many meetings with the congressmen and Senate members.  And we are
grateful for the bipartisan support of the United States.

Today, we do need specific steps, specific support.  We are getting
support from you in supporting our defense capacity, our army.  This is
something we are prepared to discuss and continue this dialogue because
this is something that we are very interested in.

When I say “we,” I mean not only Ukraine, because our strong army is
protecting Europe and we all want to be one unified body, one world
which looks into the peaceful future.

As regards to the sanction policy, we are grateful to you for your
understanding that sanctions may bring about peaceful resolution of this
matter.  And I would like to share with you that what — how we see this,
what we think the needs are, and what we think can work.

In any case, we believe in our own strengths and force, the support of
our partners, our army.  And thank you very much again for this meeting.

VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Thank you.

END                 2:16 P.M. CEST
