---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2022-02-18'
modified_time: 2022-02-18 10:09:18-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/02/18/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-and-nato-secretary-general-jens-stoltenberg-before-bilateral-meeting/
published_time: 2022-02-18 10:09:00-05:00
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris and NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg\
  \ Before Bilateral\_Meeting"
---
 
*Commerzbank Filiale München*

*Munich, Germany*

1:22 P.M. CEST  
  
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Mr. Secretary General, thank you for all of the
work that you have been doing over the course of eight years in your
role of leadership.   
  
As I mentioned to you earlier, this is the first meeting that I’m taking
in Munich, and that is intentional.  The President and I feel very
strongly, as does our country, that our Alliance and our relationship
and commitment to NATO is enduring, that it is being highlighted without
any question over the course of the last several months.  
  
We believe that the relationship has only strengthened.  And as we go
forward, we believe that it will continue to be one of the most critical
relationships that we have.   
  
I also want to thank you for the commitment that you have made
throughout your career to the importance of the transatlantic Alliance —
understanding its history and understanding its role in terms of
international norms and rules, what we must do to ensure security, also
with the interests of mutual prosperity.   
  
Right now, we are obviously dealing with the concern about what is
happening in Ukraine.  As a member of NATO, we feel very strongly and
will always be committed to the principle of territorial integrity and
sovereignty.   
  
I am here to ensure that through our discussions and the discussions I
will have with other of our Allies, that we continue, as these hours and
days progress, to stay in close contact.  
  
We understand this is a dynamic moment in time.  And so, the work that
we are doing on a daily basis and sometimes on an hourly basis — to
strengthen the relationship; to check in, in terms of our strategic
imperative — is critically important.  And that is one of the reasons
that I am here.  
  
So, I thank you again for all that you do and all that you have done. 
We remain, of course, open to and desirous of diplomacy as it relates to
the dialogue and the discussions we have had with Russia.   
  
But we are also committed if Russia takes aggressive action to ensuring
there will be severe consequence in terms of the economic sanctions we
have discussed. And we know the Alliance is strong in that regard.   
  
And again, I thank you for your leadership as a partner in that effort. 

SECRETARY GENERAL STOLTENBERG:  Thank you so much, Madam Vice
President.  It’s really a great pleasure to meet you and to be able to
sit down and to address some of the very serious and security challenges
we face together. 

And NATO remains the cornerstone for our security — the security of
Europe and for North America.  And therefore, I’m extremely grateful for
your personal commitment to our Alliance, to the transatlantic bond, and
also the very strong and staunch commitment to NATO from the
Biden-Harris administration not only in words, but also in deeds. 

We see it on the ground in Europe now.  On Friday, I went to Romania and
met U.S. troops there.  And they always impress me with their
professionalism, their dedication.  And, of course, to have U.S. troops
— more U.S. troops in Europe now, in this critical time for our
security, really demonstrates the North American and the U.S. commitment
to our shared security. 

I also welcome the fact that European Allies are stepping up, also
increasing their presence in the eastern part of the Alliance and also
investing more in defense.

So, the reality is that North America and Europe are doing more together
now than have done for many years. 

VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Yes.

SECRETARY GENERAL STOLTENBERG:  That’s important to deal with the
aggressive actions of Russia, but also to address a more competitive
world, the security consequences of the rise of China.  We have to stand
together in North America and Europe. 

So, yeah, thank you for your leadership, your commitment, and I look
forward to our meeting.  Thank you so much.

VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Thank you.

END                  1:26 P.M. CEST
