---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2022-02-02'
modified_time: 2022-02-02 12:28:59-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/02/02/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-on-president-bidens-plans-to-reignite-the-cancer-moonshot/
published_time: 2022-02-02 12:28:58-05:00
title: "Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials on President\_Biden\u2019\
  s Plans to Reignite the Cancer\_Moonshot"
---
 
 Via Teleconference

6:32 P.M. EST

     MR. MUNOZ:  Hey, everybody.  Thank you for joining tonight’s call
on how the President plans to reignite the Cancer Moonshot to end cancer
as we know it.   
  
     As a reminder, this call will be attributable to “senior
administration officials” and be embargoed until tomorrow a.m. — at 5:00
a.m.  
  
     Joining us on tonight’s call is \[senior administration
official\].  Also joining us is \[senior administration official\].  We
have some remarks at the top from both of them, and we’ll have time for
questions at the end.  And we ask that you keep questions relevant to
the Cancer Moonshot.  
  
     And with that, I will turn it to \[senior administration
official\].  
  
     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you so much.  Welcome,
everybody.  I’m \[redacted\].  I’m joined by \[senior administration
official, who \[redacted\].  \[Redacted\] and will have lots to say, and
we’ll both speak back and forth on the effort.  
  
     So, today, we’re going to preview this announcement that the
President will be making tomorrow.  You’ve got the factsheet.  And just
to confirm, we’ll be speaking on background, and the news is under
embargo until 5:00 a.m. Eastern tomorrow.   
  
     So, just to set the stage, you will all recall that as Vice
President, in 2016, Joe Biden led the Cancer Moonshot with the mission
of accelerating the rate of progress against cancer.  And the cancer
community and the patient community and medical researchers responded
with tremendous energy and ingenuity.  And there’s been a lot of
progress that has come since then.  
  
     And because of that and because of the amazing possibilities ahead,
tomorrow, in remarks here at the White House, President Biden is going
to reignite the Cancer Moonshot.  
  
     So, \[senior administration official\]?  
  
     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, I’ll give a little bit of a
preview of what the event will look like.  It will take place in the
East Room of the White House.  The First Lady and the Vice President
will also give remarks.  And we will lay out, as \[senior administration
official\] said, the President’s plan, this administration’s plan around
the Cancer Moonshot.  
  
     In attendance in the room will be about 100 members of the cancer
community, from patients and survivors, their caregivers and families,
advocacy organizations, research organizations and individual
researchers, and those from the healthcare community, representatives
from industry, members of Congress, members of the Cabinet, and
beyond.  
  
     So we’ll have a big event, really setting the stage for this
announcement.  
  
     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, why is the President
reigniting the Cancer Moonshot?  Well, because a lot has changed that
makes it possible to set really ambitious goals right now.  
  
The Cancer Moonshot was launched five years ago, and lots has happened. 
In addition, I have to say that the scientific advances that we saw from
the COVID-19 pandemic, from the response to it, also points to things
that are possible today.  
  
So, for all those reasons, the President is going to set some very
ambitious goals: Number one, to reduce the death rate from cancer by at
least 50 percent over the next 25 years — I’ll put that in context in a
moment of what that means — and to really substantially improve the
experience of people and their families living and surviving with
cancer.  And by doing these things and more — two, as the President
likes to say and will say: to end cancer as we know it today.  
  
     Now, the President and the First Lady are also going to announce,
very importantly, a call to action on cancer screening to jumpstart
progress on screenings that were missed as a result of the pandemic, and
help ensure that everybody equitably benefits from the tools that we
already have to prevent and detect and diagnose cancer, which are
extremely valuable and we need to get everybody to be able to take full
advantage of those.  
  
     So, let me — let me review, just very briefly, how we got here,
what’s come before.  And then I will turn it a little bit, after
\[senior administration official\] leaves (inaudible), to what exactly
we mean by “end cancer as we know it.”  
  
     So — but let’s go back.  You know, 50 years ago, the National
Cancer Institu- — the National Cancer Act was passed.  And, you know,
for the first 25 years or so, you really didn’t see much change in the
death rate from cancer — this age-adjusted death rate that gets
measured.  It was pretty flat for a long time.  And then we began to see
a decrease.  
  
And over the last 20 or so years, the age-adjusted death rate from
cancer has fallen by about 25 percent.  And that is really remarkable. 
It had been flat, and now it fell by 25 percent, which means many more
people are surviving cancer, living longer after being diagnosed with
cancer.   
  
And it wasn’t one thing; it was progress on multiple fronts.  It
includes:

-   Treatments that target specific mutations; it used to be all the
    cancer drugs were just cellular poisons.  But, specifically,
    targeted mutation drugs became developed about 20 or so years ago.
-   Therapies that use our immune system to detect and kill cancer
    cells; this was a new idea that really came into full force within
    the last 10 years or so.
-   Cancer vaccines, like the HPV vaccine, that go to the heart of
    protecting you against those cancers — at least seven of them — that
    are caused by a specific virus.
-   And then, new tools, like low-dose CT scans and more refined uses
    of colonoscopies, and pretty impressive progress against tobacco use
    through public health campaigns.

All these things together led to this decrease and led to the point that
we see even more on the horizon, and the President is prepared to set
pretty exciting and ambitious goals.  
  
     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  And we want to kind of place
tomorrow’s announcement in what the administration has already done. 
This is not the first time that the administration has policies or
budgets were focused on cancer.   
  
In the last year, the Biden-Harris Administration has maintained our
commitment to ending cancer as we know it.  For example, in the
President’s first budget, he sustained strong funding for biomedical and
health research with increased funding for the National Institutes of
Health and the National Cancer Institute, and full funding for the 21st
Century Cures Act, including the funding for cancer research at the NCI,
named the Beau Biden Cancer Moonshot Initiative.  
  
     The President also proposed a bold, new vision for biomedical and
health research in the Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health, or
ARPA-H.  Its goal is to improve the U.S. government’s capabilities to
speed research that can improve human health, to improve our ability to
prevent, detect, and treat a range of diseases including cancer,
Alzheimer’s disease, and other.  
  
     President Biden committed to a bilateral effort in the spring of
last year with the United Kingdom to take on the challenges of cancer
together.  This has already resulted in a November 2021 U.S.-UK Cancer
Scientific Meeting of leadership, patient advocates, and oncology
research experts which produced recommendations for how the two nations
can work together in partnership to make even more urgent progress on
cancer.  
  
     First Lady Jill Biden’s advocacy for cancer education and
prevention began decades ago, in 1993, when four of her friends were
diagnosed with breast cancer. 

     Following that year, she launched the Biden Breast Health
Initiative to educate Delaware high school girls about the importance of
cancer prevention. 

     As First Lady, she continues her work emphasizing early detection
efforts and the patient, family, and caregiver experience with cancer. 

     She will also stress the importance of cancer screenings,
especially those delayed or put off due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and
will urge government partners, the business community, and non-profit
sectors to help make screenings more accessible and available to all.   
  
     So we just really wanted to reiterate the Biden-Harris
administration has prioritized this from the beginning, in addition to
prioritizing strengthening healthcare for the American people in a
number of other ways, by lowering healthcare costs and expanding
coverage.  
  
     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, let me turn to what the
President is going to lay out as goals and to what they mean.  
  
So, President Biden tomorrow is going to set national goals for the
Cancer Moonshot, as I said, by working together over the next 25 years
to cut today’s age-adjusted death rate from cancer by at least 50
percent from where we are today, and to improve the experience of people
and their families living with and surviving cancer.  And again, taken
together with these and other actions, it would drive us to ending
cancer as we know it.   
  
     Well, how do we know cancer?  To explain what we mean by that, we
have to ask, “How do we know cancer today?”  Well, I’m going to give you
seven ways we know cancer today that we think we can make really
substantial progress in changing pretty dramatically.   
  
     Number one, you know, we know cancer is a disease where we have too
few effective ways to prevent it.  There are some: Don’t smoke, for
example.  But we don’t have lots of effective ways right now to prevent
cancer.   
  
     Number two, this is a disease where we just usually diagnose it too
late.  Early diagnosis is so important.  But way too often, we diagnose
it too late.   
  
     Number three, it’s a disease where we know too little about why
treatments work well for some patients and fail to work for other
patients.   
  
     Number four, we still have too many cancer types for which we still
lack good strategies for developing treatments.   
  
     Number five, we still have stark inequities in diagnosis, access to
treatments and clinical trials, and inequities in patient outcomes based
on race, on region, on resources.   
  
     Number six, a disease where we leave most patients and families to
have to navigate the disease and its aftermath on their own.   
  
     And number seven, we know cancer today is a disease where we just
don’t learn from most patients’ experiences.   
  
     These are seven concrete ways in which we know cancer today.  And
every one of them, there is a lot to do to change.  Some of them are
about science; there’s new scientific opportunities that are possible. 
Some of them are about policy.  And some of them are just about being
absolutely determined to work some of these problems until they get
solved.   
  
     So, let me elaborate on some of these seven ways which we cancer. 
I said we have few effective ways to prevent it.  Well, there’s
everything from expanding screening for inherited cancer risk, figuring
out who’s inherited a cancer gene.  We do that in some cases, but it’s
not really broadly done.   
  
     But at a scientific end, we can also take lessons from the mRNA
vaccines that were developed against the COVID-19 — the virus that
causes COVID-19 — by asking, “Can we make mRNA vaccines that teach your
immune system to recognize the distinctive mutations that occur in
cancer cells?”  
  
     There’s a lot of thinking right now that things like that could
cause your body to be able to recognize and attack those early cancer
cells before there’s even any tumor to see and could decrease the
overall incidence.   
  
     We diagnose too late.  What can you do about that?  Well, there’s a
lot of — a lot of work going on right now about ideas like maybe an
annual blood test to detect dozens of cancers simultaneously based on
free-floating DNA in the blood.  You know, ideas like that will take a
lot of work.  They’re going to have to be clinically tested to prove
that they really save lives and they’re going to have to be affordable
enough to roll out to the American people.  But there is real, concrete
work to do that could lead to prevention, that can lead to early
diagnosis,  
  
     You know, stark inequities.  We really have to target prevention
and early detection to those who need it most and those who just can’t
take advantage of it usually, for lots of reasons.  There are all sorts
of reasons that people can’t, say, participate in clinical trials if it
means having to go to a major academic medical center.  But, well, you
even learned from the pandemic that clinical trials can happen out in
community hospitals, and telehealth and local sample collection can make
a big difference.   
  
     And there are people who can’t take advantage of diagnosis and
treatment because just the out-of-pocket costs can be a real barrier —
just transportation, time off from work, childcare.   
  
     So taking on those inequities which affect — you know, which are
associated with higher mortality rates in different populations — in the
Black population for certain cancers, in rural populations for certain
cancers.   
  
     You know, I said where we know too little about why they work in
some patients and not others — there are ways now to figure out, if we
really apply our tools, which treatments work for which patients, but
we’ve got to collect that data and we’ve got to share those data.   
  
     Strategies for developing treatments against some kinds of cancers
— the President is very committed to his proposal of an ARPA-H agency at
the NIH to take on bold, transformative projects for hard problems like
this.   
  
     I mentioned patients and their families having to navigate cancer
on their own.  We need to consider navigation services — equitable
navigation services, navigation services that meet the needs of patients
— as really part of cancer care.  They’re very important.   
  
     And then last of all, failing to learn from most patients’
experiences.  I got to say — and I know this personally and the
President knows it even better: Most patients want their experiences to
be of value to future patients.  Most — not every one of them — but most
of them want to share that information, and we got to make sure patients
have the right and the ability to contribute their information and data
to help others if they choose to do that.   
  
     I could go into details on that, and we will in the coming weeks,
and we’re going to gather the community together to flesh this out far
better than the ideas we’ve already put down.  But we are convinced that
under each of these seven headings, there is a lot that can be done. 
And by reigniting the Moonshot, it’s going to bring people together —
patients, advocates, researchers, physicians, companies, and many, many
others — to really make sure that we make each of these things no longer
the barriers that they are today.   
  
     So, \[senior administration official\], let’s talk about some of
the actions that will take place.   
  
     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, thanks, \[senior
administration official\].  So, \[senior administration official\] just
laid out some of the promise and opportunity in these areas that we’re
defining under ending cancer as we know it.  And what we’re really
talking about, from the administration side, is mobilizing the entire
government behind this effort as a presidential priority.   
  
     Under the Biden-Harris administration, the Cancer Moonshot
specifically will reestablish White House leadership with a focused
White House Cancer Moonshot Coordinator in the Office of the President. 
This will demonstrate the President and First Lady’s personal commitment
to making progress and to really leverage this whole-of-government
approach and national response that the challenge of cancer demands.   
  
     We will form a Cancer Cabinet, which will be convened by the White
House, bringing together departments and agencies across government to
deliver — to address cancer on multiple fronts.  This includes, for
example, the Departments of Health and Human Services, Veterans Affairs,
Defense, Energy, the Department of Agriculture, EPA, and many others,
including the Office of the Vice President, Office of the First Lady,
and Office of Science and Technology Policy, and Domestic Policy Council
here at the White House.   
  
     The President and First Lady will issue a call to action on cancer
screening and early detection.  As \[senior administration official\]
touched on, we need to get back on track after more than nine and a half
million missed cancer screenings in the United States as a result of the
COVID-19 pandemic.   
  
     With regular recommended screenings, we can often catch cancer when
there may be even more effective treatment options or prevent it from
developing by removing precancerous tissue.   
  
     To help ensure equitable access to screening and prevention, we
will promote at-home screening where it’s possible, especially with
tools for colon cancer and HPV, with mobile screening and communities
without easy access to a clinic, through the community health networks
that have been so important and have built and strengthened during the
COVID-19 pandemic, and other ways to really bring screening and early
detection to people where they are.  
  
     Also as a part of this screening call to action, NCI will organize
— the National Cancer Institute, NCI — will organize the collective
efforts of their cancer centers and other networks, such as their
Community Oncology Research Network, to offer new access points to
compensate for these millions of delayed cancer screening and with a
focus on reaching the individuals most at risk.  
  
     Federal agencies will develop a focused program — as \[senior
administration official\] said, the promise in studying multi-cancer
detection tests, and really understanding the promise for patients and
in extending life there.  We’ll develop a focused program to
expeditiously study and evaluate multi-cancer detection tests, like
we’ve done for COVID-19 diagnostics.   
  
     The Department of Health and Human Services will accelerate efforts
to nearly eliminate cervical cancer through cervical cancer screening
and HPV vaccinations — again, with a particular focus on reaching those
communities outside of the reach currently and most at risk.   
  
     And the President’s Cancer Panel, tomorrow, will release a report
entitled “Closing Gaps in Cancer Screening,” laying out recommendations
focused on connecting people, community, and systems to increase equity
and access.  
  
     So, that’s on the call to action on cancer screening and early
detection.   
  
     Additionally, among the specific commitments from this
administration on the Cancer Moonshot, we will host a White House Cancer
Moonshot Summit, bringing together agency leadership; patient
organizations; biopharmaceutical companies; the research, public health,
and healthcare communities; and others to highlight innovation and
progress and new commitments towards ending cancer as we know it.  
  
     We will build on an already existing White House Coun- — White
House Cancer Roundtable Series that we’ve hosted over the last six
months.  And we’ll expand the topics to the seven pillars that \[senior
administration official\] outlined for us, and include additional
communities and perspectives to make sure that this mission and this
agenda is being built by those most impacted by this disease and with
the most experience and knowledge to help us identify priorities.   
  
     And finally, the President will call for an all-hands-on-deck
approach, calling on the private sector, foundations, academic
institutions, healthcare providers, and all Americans to take on the
mission of reducing the deadly impact of cancer and improving patient
experiences in the diagnosis, treatment, and survival of cancer.   
  
     As I said, progress will be informed by people directly
experiencing this disease — cancer patients, caregivers, and families —
and contributed by all parts of the oncology community and beyond.   
  
     Tomorrow, we’ll be launching a website where people can engage and
interact with the Cancer Moonshot.  
  
     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  So, I will wrap up so we
can take questions.  But let me just say: You’ve heard what the
President is going to lay out tomorrow.  You know that for the President
and the First Lady, it’s very personal.  Both will speak tomorrow.   
  
     It’s also personal for the Vice President.  The Vice President’s
mother, as I’m sure many of you know, was a breast cancer researcher. 
She taught at public universities, worked at a national laboratory,
published research papers, and collaborated with NIH and scientists
around the world.  And in 2008, after a lifetime of researching cancer,
she was diagnosed with colon cancer and died of the disease the
following year.   
  
     And I could say it’s personal for me and it’s personal for \[senior
administration official\] and, I don’t know, even on a call with 65
journalists, I’m going to say I bet it’s personal for the majority of
you too — that all of us come to this less in our official jobs than as
people whose lives have been touched by cancer.  So, that’s why the
administration is lifting up cancer with such a bold goal.  
  
     And we’re happy to take your questions now.  And then I know we’re
only to be able to take a handful of questions, but if you have specific
questions after the President’s remarks tomorrow or want to request an
interview, we’re happy to do that.  But the way to do it would be to
email us at Press@OSTP.EOP.Gov.  And we’ll be glad to talk more about
it.   
  
     So, with that, let’s turn back to the White House Communications
staff to figure out how we’re going to take questions.  
  
     Q    Hi, thank you for doing this call.  I have a couple of
questions.  First, when President Obama announced the Cancer Moonshot in
2016, his goal was to make a decade’s worth of advancements in five
years.  And I’m wondering: Has that goal been achieved, and do you think
the new goal is more ambitious?   
  
     And then secondly, on money, Congress authorized $1.8 billion over
seven years in 2016 and about $400 million is left.  So, is there any
new money over and above that behind this Cancer Moonshot?  
  
     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you so much for those
questions.   
  
     So, look, I think the Cancer Moonshot that was launched in 2016 was
tremendously successful.  We’ve seen all sorts of new possibilities be
created — those kinds of research advances.  I would say it’s fair to
say that we saw a decade’s worth of research advances occur in those
past five years.   
  
     And it’s precisely because of that that I think we can talk about
setting goals like actually decreasing death rates from cancer over the
next 25 years.   
  
     It’s clear now that all sorts of possibilities, like I was talking
about — vaccines — prophylactic preventative vaccines against cancer —
not something we could have thought of five years ago.  And now, you can
sit down and write out a plan for how you’d do it and how you might do a
clinical trial to observe that you are really preventing.  It’s not
easy, but you can do that today.  
  
     You can — five years ago, it was not plausible to think about doing
these annual blood tests that might screen for cancer.  There’s a lot of
work that’s become possible; now we actually have to do it.  We got to
reduce this to practice and get it out there.   
  
     I think the same is true for many of these other areas where we’ve
gotten a really clear understanding of the need to share data and ways
to do it that are effective.  I think the issues around equity are
really clear and urgent right now.   
  
     So, I think that did its work.  And it would not have been
possible, not have been plausible to have set out these kinds of goals
of decreasing the death rate by 50 percent and taking on these specific
categories before, and it is possible now.   
  
     So, yeah.  And I am very confident that there will be robust
funding going forward because, I got to say, in these times of
disagreements, there’s certainly one thing on which we all agree on
across party, across everything, which is the effect of cancer on their
lives.  I know of nothing that unites us more and that is more
bipartisan.   
  
     So, Sheryl, thank you so much for that really great question.  
  
     MR. MUNOZ:  Thanks.  Next, let’s try Josh one more time.   
  
     All right.  \[Senior administration official\], the questions that
Josh had are if there are any new funding commitments to be announced,
and what the start date for the 50 percent reduction over 25 years is.  
  
     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, we’re not going to have a
funding commitment tomorrow.  I think we’re going to announce what the
plan is, because it’s pretty important to bring together the Cancer
Cabinet, bring together the community.  
  
     We’ve laid out a set of ideas.  I want to make sure that we have
got everybody at the table contributing those ideas and a plan.   
  
     But so, that’s the answer there.  But again, I am very confident
there’s robust support for it.  But I’m also very certain that we want
to start this by listening and expanding the circle for ideas on these
important seven pillars and more.   
  
     And when does that start?  It starts about now.  I don’t know — you
know, I guess this year, let’s say, for the 25; we’ll start with 2022
and measure 25 years from now.  I think that’s probably precise enough. 
We don’t — it won’t get down to the day, but they measure this in
years.  Let’s see where we are at the end of this year, and that’s a
target for us to really decrease from.   
  
     And I believe that’s possible.  We cut it by 25 percent — research
and patient-driven solutions and medicine cut it by 25 percent.  I think
this will make a huge difference if we can achieve this.  And it is
going to be a shared bipartisan effort over time.  
  
     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  And one thing to add, \[senior
administration official\]: Setting the goal 25 years out doesn’t mean
that we can’t start measuring our progress soon.  So, taking the death
rate by cancer down 50 percent in 25 years is going to take work now,
and we’re going to start to see the results in that year-over-year
decrease that we have to keep at the level it is now and even accelerate
it.  So, it’s not pushing the measurement out; it’s just setting a
really ambitious goal in the future that we can work really hard now
towards making progress on.   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  That’s a really — it’s a really great
point.  The curve is not going to be a cliff in the 24th year.  Let’s be
really clear: It’s going to be steady decline over this period —
targeting that.   
  
So, you know, we’re all going to be looking at that accountably and
saying, “Are we making the quantitative progress to land there?”  So,
even though Josh has had trouble connecting, you know, verbally, I
appreciate the question being delivered in absentia.  So, thank you,
Josh, for the great question.  
  
     Q    Hey, thanks, Kevin.  And thank you, \[senior administration
officials\], for doing the call.  So, President Obama and Vice President
Biden — in 2015, they both used the word “cure” and the phrase “cure
cancer” when they rolled out the original Cancer Moonshot.  And
then-candidate Biden, I think, was criticized for doing the same in 2019
and 2020.   
  
     I don’t think I’ve heard either of you use that word or that phrase
in this call.  And I’m wondering whether it’s fair to read into that as
kind of a — you know, taking a more measured approach using existing
interventions and technologies as opposed to making pledges, promises
about really remarkable scientific progress that we all hope for but is
hard to guarantee.  
  
     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, no, I wouldn’t read that
into it, because I think the words “cure cancer” needs to be understood
in the following way: When they talked then about curing cancer, they
recognized that the way we decreased the death rate in cancer is we have
to start curing cancers for some patients.  We have immunotherapies
right now that it’s fair to say are cures; we do not have a recurrence
in 5 years, in 10 years.  You know, you never want to use the word
“cure,” but those are cures.   
  
We are going to bite off piece by piece — I don’t think they said,
“We’re going to cure all cancer all at once.”  But you cure cancer by
curing them one at a time, a patient at the time, a hundred patients at
a time.   
  
So, I think the idea of — and we’re not using the words “cure cancer”
because it could be misunderstood by some people as just “get a cure for
cancer.”  But, Lev, as you know, there’s 200 types of cancer we need to
get therapies for and therapies that extend life long enough to turn
into cures for.  But we’ve focused on this very measurable thing of
decreasing that death rate 50 percent.   
  
But, no, I would not think that he’s walking back the words; I think
we’re speaking with a precision.  But along that way, the 50 percent is
going to be a lot of cures along the way.   
  
And so, anyway, that’s — that’s it.  No walking back, but using words
carefully and precisely so that we can hold ourselves accountable.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  And I think, as you heard \[senior
administration official\] detail how we got to where we are, some of the
big things — some of the big advancements that delivered a change in the
death rate by cancer weren’t on the treatment side; they were on the
prevention side, on the early detection side.  So, by opening up the
frame and talking about “ending cancer as we know it,” it gives us the
leverage and the place to really make progress in those areas.   
  
Because I know having a treatment for cancer — I was dia- — if I was
diagnosed with cancer, I’d want to know there was a treatment.  But even
better is not ending up being diagnosed with that cancer in the first
place.   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Right.  If we end up with vaccines that
can help prevent cancers from ever occurring in the first place — I
guess \[senior administration official\] is right, that’s not curing
anything, but, boy, it would have a huge impact.  So, I think we’re just
trying to use words carefully because we want to be open to the whole
portfolio of approaches.   
  
It’s a great question, Lev.  I appreciate your clarifying that.  
  
Q    Hi, thanks for taking my question.  You had mentioned ARPA-H and I
think had said “in NIH.”  Is that decided that that’s where that agency
would be — inside the NIH instead of its own independent agency?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, when the President first
described ARPA-H in the spring as part of — well, I mean, he’s described
it in speeches.  But in the speeches and in the budget, he has requested
that and proposed that to be a new kind of division within the NIH —
something independent and autonomous, something that has different
authorities and different cultures and things like that, but connected
to and part of the broader NIH community there.   
  
So, yes, that’s how the President has proposed it for sure.   
  
Thanks.  Thank you, Rachel, for the question.  
  
Q    Hi, thanks for taking my question.  \[Senior administration
official\], for the new goals you just announced, do you expect the
Cancer Cabinet — to charge it with the agenda?  Or will NCI continue to
provide central leadership for these efforts — for the Moonshot — as the
institute has been since 2016?  And if so, are there efforts in the
works to request funds to support these goals?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, the answer is both.  Some of these
things, squarely are in the remit of the NCI, but there’ll be other
things.  Some of the things that need to be done, other agencies have a
critical role in.  If we’re going to be deploying — oh, let’s say,
vaccines that can prevent cervical cancer, and head and neck cancer,
these HPV vaccines, that’s going to be other agencies that will be
playing that — the CDC, for example.   
  
Some of these questions about, “How do we make sure everybody has access
to clinical trials and they can be reimbursed for their out-of-pocket
costs and other things?”  That might involve CMS.   
  
So, I think NCI could not be more central.  But the idea that this is
just limited to cancer research, rather than all of the agencies — and
not just the agencies in HHS.  I think VA, DOD, DOE all have
contributions to make.   
  
So, there will obviously be huge work at NCI, but we’re pulling together
a Cancer Cabinet to make sure that we get the benefit of all the levers
that might be pulled.  
  
\[Senior administration official\], do you want to?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.  I think it’s important to
emphasize that \[senior administration official\] had just added VA and
DOD.  And not only do they have important research programs and research
goals, but they also run health systems.  And so, they’re very much a
part of the work here, as they were in 2016.   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.  I mean, the VA has health
information systems that we’ve learned tremendous amounts from.  There
are medical records from which you can learn a tremendous amount.  I’ll
just note, I saw a study on multiple sclerosis.  It just underscores
that we can learn a lot in a lot of places, and we want no stone
unturned in this effort.   
  
Thank you, Matt, for the question.  Really good question.  
  
Q    Hey, guys, thanks for doing this call.  Can you guys go into a
little more detail about how you see the First Lady’s role?  Obviously,
for the vaccine efforts, she’s traveled around the country.  Do you see
her doing that, sort of, same kind of work?  And will she be, sort of,
the face of a piece of this initiative?  Thank you.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes, the First Lady has — is very much
a part of this.  She’s a part of the event tomorrow.  And as you
mentioned, she has been out there with public health messages since the
start of the administration.  She has spent some time in the last year
doing work specifically on cancer, especially around cancer screening
and early detection.  And we expect — not only in that area, but we
expect her to have some leadership role there with more to come.    
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, I think she is excited and
committed to this, and brings a tremendous amount to it.   
  
So, Nikki, thank you for that question.   
  
And I know we’ve run out of time for questions, but I’m really grateful
for everybody who’s here tonight.  I’m excited about it.  And we will be
able to follow up with you at Press@OSTP.EOP.Gov after the President’s
speech, because, you know, this embargo lifts at 5:00; the President
will speak tomorrow.  And afterwards, I’m sure there’ll be lots of great
opportunities for follow up.   
  
Thank you for coming.  Thank you for caring about this.   
  
7:12 P.M. EST
