---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2022-02-17'
modified_time: 2022-02-17 14:35:20-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/02/17/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-bipartisan-infrastructure-law-and-great-lakes-restoration/
published_time: 2022-02-17 15:00:00-05:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and Great\
  \ Lakes\_Restoration"
---
 
The Shipyards  
Lorain, Ohio

12:15 P.M. EST  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Thank you, thank you, thank you.  Thank
you.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  They’re all for Marcy.  God love you,
kiddo.  You’re the best.  
  
Before I begin, I want to just point out I was having a –just sitting
and talking for a second with the Director of HUD and a former
congresswoman just on the other side of this district.  And she said
something that reminded me of what I miss as well.  She said, “It’s so
good to be home in Ohio.”  No, I really mean it.  
  
And I said, “You’re probably the only one here that understands that
every time I get a chance, I go home to Delaware.”  (Laughter.)  You
think I’m joking.  I’m not.  I represented Delaware for 36 years as a
United States senator.  
  
And just like most congressional districts, the good news is the bad
news: Everybody knows you.  (Laughs.)  
  
But it’s great to — it’s great hearing you say that.  It’s great hearing
you say that.  
  
Well, Administrator Regan — I talked him into coming out of what they
consider God’s country down in the North Carolina area.  And he came up
and took on this job.   
  
And — and as I said, and a proud daughter of Ohio, Secretary of Housing
and Urban Affairs Marcy — Marcia Fudge, who’s represented the district
as well.  
  
And Mitch Landrieu, who is leading the implementation of our
infrastructure — where are you, Mitch?  They don’t know anybody from New
Orleans down here.  He used to be the mayor of New Orleans.  And I
called him — mayors know how to get things done, as the Mayor will tell
you here.  And I called him, asking if will he be the hands-on guy to
actually implement the law — implement it, get it done, and let people
know how they can access it.  
  
And Brenda — Brenda <s>Malloy</s> \[Mallory\], Chair of our Council
<s>of Economic</s> \[on Environmental\] Quality.  Brenda, where are
you?  There you are.  Thank you, Brenda.  We rode up together on the
aircraft together, and it’s great to have you as well.  
  
I also asked to say hello from someone who you know in Lorain but
couldn’t be here today.  A tremendous fighter and Ohio — for Ohio
workers and a guy who could easily be standing where I’m standing right
now: Sherrod Brown.  (Applause.)  He —  Sherrod Brown, working in the
Senate and keeping an eye on those other team — that other team to see
what’s going on.  
  
It’s good to see you, Congresswoman Shontel Brown.  Where are you,
Shontel?  I said — there you go.  Right in front there. 
Congratulations.  And it’s great to — great to have you here.  
  
And, of course, Marcy — Marcy Kaptur.  Marcy has not only made history
as the longest-serving woman in the history of the House of
Representatives, every day she’s making a difference.  She never, ever
slows up.  And she’s helping this region compete, thrive, and come
back.     
  
You know, that’s what I want to talk a little about today — (coughs) —
excuse me: the historic investment we’re making to restore the Great
Lakes, strengthen the region’s economy, provide clean drinking water,
clean up our communities, and create good-paying jobs.   
  
A year ago, when I spoke at a joint session of the Congress, I was
coming off the podium — the platform — and Marcy came up to me and, with
all the press in the gallery looking down, handed me a note — a
letter.  
  
And the commentators and reporters were so damn curious.  “What did she
hand you?  What’s in that note?”  And I said, “I can’t tell you.”  No, I
—  
  
But — well, if you know Marcy, you know what that letter was about: the
Great Lakes.  The Great Lakes.  
  
She described the treasure — the treasure the Great Lakes are.  They
connect eight states, two nations.  They provide more drinking water
than any set of lakes in the world, that more than 40 million people
benefit from that.  They support more than 1,300,000 jobs in
manufacturing, tourism, transportation, warehousing, farming, and
fishing.  And they’re essential to shipping goods made in the Midwest,
all across the country, and around the world.  
  
Generations of families have depended on them being boating — on the
boating and fishing and hunting and swimming that they provide for
everyone in this region and those who come and visit.  
  
They are home to countless natural and cultural wonders that — that
should be conserved for all to enjoy today, tomorrow, and for
generations to come.  
  
     And Marcy — by the way, I saw her today.  She said, “I got another
letter for you.”  I don’t what the hell — (laughter) —  
  
     Marcy, I promise you, I’m working like hell.  (Laughter.)  But I’ll
read it, I promise.  Whatever you say, I’ll do.  
  
But Marcy’s letter said — and this is why I want — why I bring it up.
 She said, and I quote, “\[The Great Lakes\] undergrid \[undergird\]
life, work, and recreation for millions of people…”  
  
And we need them — we need to invest in them if we want a brighter, more
prosperous future for the region.  
  
Well, they are.  They are.  And we are going to.  We’re investing like
never, ever in history.   
  
Back in 1987, an independent commission identified 43 places called
“areas of concern” along the Great Lakes.  They’re areas where
pollution, as — as the EPA director said, where pollution from industry,
runoff from agriculture, poor wastewater treatment put the Great Lakes
and everyone who depends on them at risk.  
  
Twenty-six of these areas are in the United States side of the border. 
Twelve of them are in Canada.  And five are shared between the United
States and Canada.  
  
And our mutual nations made a commitment to clean them up, to be good
partners, to protect these shared treasures.  
  
And for decades, there was a lot of talk, a lot of plans, but very
little progress.  It was slow.   
  
That changes today.  
  
Today, we’re announcing an investment of $1 billion — $1 billion —
(applause) — from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Bill.  It’s going to
allow the most significant restoration of the Great Lakes in the history
of the Great Lakes.   
  
We’re going to accelerate cleanup of sites across six states in the
Great Lakes Basin — from Duluth, Minnesota, to Milwaukee, Wisconsin;
Gary, Indiana, to Buffalo, New York, and everywhere in between.  
  
And we know these sites were dangerously polluted for decades.  
  
We’re committed to clean them up.  Three decades ago, we made this
commitment.  
  
And, yes, we’ve gotten a couple of them done, like right here, like the
— one of my old hangouts as well.  I went to Syracuse University.  I was
a lifeguard on Lake Oswego.  I — and I — and I know the Oswego River up
in New York.  That was another one that’s been taken care of.  
  
Now we’re talking about cleaning up the Cuyahoga River behind the
Cuyahoga Gorge Dam and in the process — and it passes through
Cleveland.  
  
The — the — I always mispronounce it — the Wa- — Wa- — <s>Mauwamee</s>
\[Maumee\] River.  Right?  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Maumee.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Maumee River in Toledo.  I can say “Toledo.”  (Laughter
and applause.)  
  
Restoring the shoreline around the Detroit River in Michigan, the St.
Louis River in Minnesota and Wisconsin, the Grand Calumet River in
Indiana, and so much more.  
  
Dredging polluted sediment; restoring wetlands and habitats; making the
water safer for swimming and fishing and drinking; providing habitats
for wildlife and wildfowl.    
  
And the study found that every dollar we spend  
cleaning up the Great Lakes generates between three and four dollars in
economic benefit.  That’s a fact.  And it’s a really good investment. 
These are not the only investments in making — that we’re making in the
Great Lakes.  
  
Last month, we announced over $500 million to upgrade the Soo Locks in
Michigan, which connect Lake Superior and the Great Lakes.  
  
Seven thousand vessels and 90 percent of our country’s iron ore moves
through these locks every single year.  That ore makes nearly all the
high-strength steel that goes into U.S.-made cars and appliances.  
  
Replacing and modernizing the locks will not only create good jobs doing
that, it’s going to strengthen our supply chains and get goods moving
faster and reduce cost.  
  
This is not the totality of what we’re going to do, but it’s an example
of what I’ve said from day one: We’re rebuilding America.  We’re going
to invest in America and build a better America than we found.  
  
And for the better part of the 20th century, we used to lead the world
by a significant margin because we invested in ourselves.  We invested
in our infrastructure, our roads, our highways, bridges, ports, airports
— the arteries of the nation that allow commerce to function smoothly
and move swiftly.  
  
And we invested in our people and in opportunity.  We were among the
first nation to provide universal high school at the turn of the 20th
century.  
  
We invested to win the Space Race that facilitates — that — in
facilities like the Lewis Research Center in Cleveland, which is now
named for my buddy John Glenn.  God rest his soul.  
  
And we led the world in research and development that led to the
creation of the Internet.  
  
But somewhere along the way, we took our eye off the ball.  We took our
eye off the ball.  
  
Our infrastructure used to be rated number one in the world.  Today,
according to the World Economic Forum, we rank number 13 in the world. 
China and the rest of the world is catching up and passing us.

But now, with our infrastructure law, we’re reinvesting in our economy
and in our — and in our people, reclaiming our leadership, and creating
millions of jobs for building a better America.  That’s what we’re going
to do.  
  
But as we rebuild America, we’re buying American and betting on American
workers.   
  
This Buy American law makes the most significant investment in roads and
bridges and highways in nearly 70 years through the — through the
infrastructure law, fixing as many as 1,300 bridges and nearly 5,000
miles of highway right here in Ohio that are in poor condition.   
  
I’d note, parenthetically, I was — not long ago, I went to visit a place
in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, where a bridge that was well over 100 feet
off the ground, going over a gorge, completely collapsed at 6:30 in the
morning.  Thank God it was only three vehicles on it and no one died. 
But had it been during rush hour, kids in school buses — there would
have been numerous people that would have been killed or maimed.    
  
American workers building these roads and bridges with American-made
steel is how we’re going to do it.   
  
Jobs making high-speed Internet affordable and available to the 14
percent of households in the state of Ohio that don’t have the
Internet.   
  
We also know that Ohio has the second most lead pipes  
in the country.  You have 60- — 650,000 lead pipes here in the state of
Ohio.   
  
We’re going to start undoing the legacy of lead which has poisoned too
many of the region’s children.  That means replacing 100 percent of the
lead water pipes and service lines and addressing what they call PFAS —
a dangerous forever chemical that are a threat to the drinking water
here in Ohio and other parts of America.   
  
Every American and every child should be able to turn on a faucet and
know that the water they’re drinking is clean and safe.  We’re also
going to create thousands of good-paying jobs in the process with union
plumbers and pipefitters.  
  
For generations, the industries that built and defined America — steel,
cars, tires, paint — all of them grew and thrived right here in Ohio.   
  
Right here on the backs — the banks of the Black River, workers built
and launched 900 vessels.  Freighters, tugboats, tankers, minesweepers,
cruisers built right here were part of our “Arsenal of Democracy” in
World War Two.  
  
Making it in America is what this region was built on — making it in
America.  This region built America.  It’s not hyperbole.  I’m not just
saying that because I’m here.  It’s a fact.  The Midwest built America,
and we’re building it again.  (Applause.)   
  
Again, I’ve — you’ve heard me say this often.  You know, if Wall Street
is a good — there are a lot of good people on Wall Street.  They do good
things — a lot of them — not all, but a lot of them.  And guess what? 
The fact of the matter is Wall Street didn’t build America.  Ordinary,
middle-class people built America, and manufacturing and unions built
the middle class.  (Applause.)  
  
So, we’re bringing manufacturing jobs back, taking supply chains back
home from abroad so we have better jobs and lower prices.  
  
And now, instead of losing manufacturing jobs, since I came to office,
with the help of the congressional delegation down here, we have added
375,000 manufacturing jobs in one year.  (Applause.)  
  
In 2021, we saw the highest increase in un- — in un- — in <s>union</s>
\[U.S.\] manufacturing jobs in nearly 30 years.  
  
A couple of weeks ago, the CEO of Intel joined me and Senator Brown and
Senator Portman.   
  
And, by the way, I grew up in a Senate that really was bipartisan. 
Senator Portman played an important role in this legislation.  
  
And so, at the White House, we — they came to see me and the head of the
org- — the Intel came.  They wanted to annou- — he wanted to announce at
the White House — $20 million investment — $20 billion investment in a
semiconductor campus outside of Columbus, Ohio.  
  
Now, semi-conductors are badly needed — those computer chips — to
manufacture automobiles, appliances, cell phones, and so much more.  We
invented them, but we don’t make them anymore and — relative to the rest
of the world.   
  
It’s going to create 10,000 jobs — 10,000 jobs.  (Applause.)  And, by
the way, 7,000 jobs constructing this massive facility and 3,000 jobs
running the facility, making an average salary at that facility of
$135,000 a year — blue-collar workers.  (Applause.)  Pretty good
money.  
  
Manufacturing essential products that are stamped “Made in America.”  
  
And there’s more.  Just a couple of weeks ago, General Motors announced
a $7 billion investment in Michigan to manufacture electric vehicles,
creating 4,000 new quality jobs.  That’s on top of the announcement —
did I say Ford?  That was General Motors.  And Ford made last year an
$11 billion investment in electric vehicles, creating 11,000 new jobs.  
  
Three weeks ago, in Western Pennsylvania, after I went to look at that
bridge, the Union Pacific Railroad announced the largest purchase of
American-made battery-electric locomotives in history.  In history.  
  
And because of the infrastructure law, it also delivers 7 billion — $7.5
billion to build a national network of 500,000  
electric vehicle charging stations all across America and along  
our new highways.  And I might add, built by the I- — installed by the
IBEW.  
  
Last week, a company called Tritium announced a new manufacturing
facility in Lebanon, Tennessee, to build 30,000 electric vehicle
charging stations per year using American iron and American steel and
American workers, creating 500 new permanent jobs in Tennessee.  
  
We’re seeing a drumbeat of good-paying jobs unlike anything we’ve seen
in our history.  
  
But not only that.  With these announcements, we’re also showing that
growing the economy and creating jobs can go hand-in-hand with
protecting the environment, not decimating it, meeting the moment on
climate change, like our program to clean up abandoned mines and cap and
plug orphaned oil and gas wells sweeping and spewing methane into the
air.  
  
Thousands of those wells and mines are right here in the Ohio River
Valley, here in the Ohio — get — and they’re going to get paid the same
amount capping them as it would cost to dig them and create those.  And
they’re, again, good union jobs.  
  
And as good as these jobs are, folks digging those wells are proud what
they’re about to do, because now they’re going to cap them.   
  
The Infrastructure Law also helps us invest in a cleaner, stronger, more
resilient electric grid, with 100 percent clean electric energy being
generated by the year 2035.  
  
And some of those utility poles and transformers are going to be
installed by machines that are right here at a place like Skylift.  
  
You know, all of this is doing — going to do is create more good-paying
jobs and make more — make us more globally competitive and help us fight
climate change and get to net zero, to get to —  
  
Look, there’s so much more to say.  I’m inclined to go on, but I’ve kept
you too long.   
  
Let me close with this: If you’ve done — what you’ve done here in Lorain
shows what’s possible.  You’ve reclaimed your waterfront; cleaned your
drinking water; restored wetlands, which will help protect against
storms and flooding from extreme weather and the spring thaw; and set
the stage for jobs and businesses of the future.  
  
You know, tomorrow would’ve been the birthday of Lorain — one of
Lorain’s most famous daughters: Toni Morrison — Nobel Prize winner,
Pulitzer Prize winner.  (Applause.)  
  
And, I might add, my wife was an English teacher and professor in
college.  The First Lady’s absolute — one of her favorite authors.  
  
I remember her going over to Princeton to interview Toni Morrison for a
— a paper she was doing for one of her doctorates — her doctorate.  Not
one — she has a couple: a masters and one doctorate.   
  
Toni Morrison was also the mother-in-law of the chair of my economic —
Council of my Economic Advisers — Council of Economic Advisers, Dr.
Cecilia Rouse.  
  
Toni passed away a couple of years ago.  The reason I mention her is not
because of her relationships to the administration, but her words that
she told us to live by.  
  
She once wrote, quote, “We got more yesterday\[s\] than anybody.  We
need some kind of tomorrow.”  “We need some kind of tomorrow.”  
  
Places like Lorain have a lot of proud yesterdays.  Now you’re going to
have some brighter tomorrows and because of all of you.  
  
May God bless you all.  May God protect our troops.  And the reason they
tell me I’ve got to head out — I hadn’t planned on going immediately —
is because the weather going back to Washington.  And there’s a little
thing going on in Europe right now.   (Laughter.)    
  
And so — so may God bless you all, as I said.  And may God protect our
troops.  Thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
12:35 P.M. EST
