---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2022-02-03'
modified_time: 2022-02-03 16:42:32-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/02/03/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-gun-violence-prevention-task-force-meeting/
published_time: 2022-02-03 16:42:31-05:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at a Gun Violence Prevention Task Force\_Meeting"
---
 
One Police Plaza  
New York, New York

1:32 P.M. EST  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  Okay.  Well, General Garland; Governor; Mr. Mayor;
Representative Jeffers \[sic\] — Jeffries, excuse me; Representative
Velázquez — they rode up on the flight with me — and other members of
Congress that are here: Thank you.   
  
     And I just want to thank Mayor Adams and Commissioner Sewell and
the law — all the law enforcements here today for — not having me, for
what you do every single day.  
  
It’s — and let me start by saying Detective Wilbert Mora and Jason
Rivera are the “who” and “what” law enforcement ought to be.  And the —
Senator Gillibrand and I have talked about that on the way up as well.  
  
     I’ve spoken to their families, and — and their loss for the city is
also a loss for the nation.  You know, the future is cut short by a man
with a stolen Glock with 40 rounds — a magazine with 40 rounds.  And
it’s really a weapon of war.   
  
One of the things I was proudest of years ago, when I was in the Senate
— I was able to get these weapons and the size of magazines outlawed. 
That got changed.  It got overruled.  But I don’t see any rationale to
why there should be such a weapon able to be purchased.  It doesn’t
violate anybody’s Second Amendment rights to deny that.   
  
But anyway, their futures were cut short by a man with a stolen Glock
and that 40-round magazine.   
  
And I tell you, I want to thank the man back to my left — I think he’s
sitting right there — for taking on.  Stand up. (Applause.)  
  
Now, if you’ll excuse a — as we used to say in the Senate, “a point of
personal privilege,” I — when everything — when the economy died in
Scranton, Pennsylvania, and I moved down to Delaware with my dad and my
mom and the family, I moved to a little town called Claymont, Delaware. 
And it was a steel town just across the border from Pennsylvania, right
up in that arc.   
  
And I went to — I spent 12 years going to school there.  Or actually,
not 12; I started in third grade.  At any rate, I went to a school — a
little Catholic school called Holy Rosary, across from a small police
department and a fire hall.  And everybody that I grew up with either
became a cop, a firefighter, or a priest.  I wasn’t qualified for any of
them, so here I am.  (Laughter.)   
  
But I admire the hell out of all of you.  I really do.  It’s not — I’m
not being solicitous.  I mean it sincerely.  
  
And to the many parents, spouses, brothers, sisters who have to bury a
piece of their soul in the deep earth, it’s really tough stuff.  It’s
hard as hell — you all know it — to lose a colleague, to lose a son, a
daughter, a husband, wife.  
  
And I want to thank — if — there are not many here, but I want to thank
all the spouses of every one of you or your significant other, because
every time you pin that shield on and walk out the door, they’re worried
whether they’re going to get that phone call — get that phone call.  And
too many have gotten the phone call lately.   
  
And every day in this country, 316 people are shot, 106 are killed.  And
six NYPD officers have been victims of gun violence so far, just this
year — the same in the town north of me, Philadelphia; and my much
smaller town of Wilmington, Delaware; and Washington, D.C.   
  
Sixty-four children injured by gun violence so far this year, twenty-six
killed.  It’s enough.  Enough is enough.   
  
Because we know we can do things about this but for the resistance we’re
getting from some sectors of the government and the Congress and the
state legislatures and the organizational structures out there.  
  
You know, Mayor Adams, you and I agree: The answer is not to abandon our
streets.  That’s not the answer.  The answer is to come together, the
police and communities, building trust and making us all safer.   
  
The answer is not to defund the police, it’s to give you the tools, the
training, the funding to be partners, to be protectors.  And the
community needs you — and know the community.  You know — (applause) —
police — policing that treats everyone with respect and dignity.   
  
That’s why I called on the Congress to pass a budget later this year
that provides cities, like New York and others, with an additional $300
million for community policing, you know, where the police interact with
the community, get to know the community, build trust in the
community.   
  
And I’ve noticed, in my experience — when I wrote the first crime bill,
I noticed that, you know, I don’t hear many communities — no matter what
their color or their background — saying, “I don’t want more protection
in my community.”  I don’t know, I haven’t found one of those yet.   
  
And so, I’ve asked the Congress to provide $200 million to invest in
community violence intervention programs as well — they work; they work
— where community members with credibility work directly with people
that are most likely to commit crimes or be victims of gun crimes.  And
they work.   
  
For example, in 2017, the program I’m going to see this afternoon, which
sends people to the community — in the community to interrupt violence,
to mediate conflicts, to de-escalate — succeed in preventing single — a
single shooting from occurring in this largest public housing
development last year.  No shooting for a full year because they engaged
directly with the community.   
  
You know, I know this is a priority for Senator Schumer, what you all
are doing here.  If I hear one more call from him that we need more
money for housing and more money for cops — I don’t know, I’m going to
send him back to you all.  (Laughter.)

     But all kidding aside, this is a — this is a half a billion dollars
of proven strategies, and we know it will reduce crime. 

     Congress needs to do its job to pass the budget.  Every one of
these folks here from Congress are all supportive. 

     But, you know, it’s time to fund communities, community police, and
the people who are going to protect them. 

     Look, as I said, we’re not about defunding; we’re about funding and
providing the additional services you need beyond someone with a gun
strapped to their shoulder or to their hip.

     We need more social workers.  We need mental health workers.  We
need more people who when you’re called on these scenes and someone is
about to jump off a roof, there’s not just someone standing there with a
— with a weapon; it’s someone who also knows how to talk to people —
talk them down.  We can’t expect you to do every single, solitary thing
that needs to be done to keep a community safe.  It’s time to fund
community policing to protect and serve the community.   
  
And so, I’m also calling for increased funding for the Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms, and the U.S. Marshals offices.  I’m
confident that if we fund these programs, we’ll see a reduction in
violence. 

     In the next year’s budget, I’m also going to try to double down on
this investment.  I think I got a lot of partners here in New York that
are going to help.

     Mayor Adams, you say that gun violence is a sea fed by many
rivers.  Well, you know, I put forward a plan to dam up some of those
streams.  
  
You know, you can count on me to be a partner in that effort.  And I
have the U.S. Attorney — United States Attorney General here with me
today.  And we put together a comprehensive strategy to combat gun crime
in cities like New York, Philadelphia, Atlanta, and many other cities —
San Francisco. 

     First, we want to crack down on the flow of firearms used to commit
violence.  That includes taking on and shutting down rogue gun dealers
at — and it’s about doing background checks, as well as outright selling
of that — making sure the people who are not allowed to have a gun,
don’t get the gun in the first place. 

     And again, for any of the press in here, the press listening: This
doesn’t violate anybody’s Second Amendment right.  There’s no violation
of a Second Amendment right. 

     We talk like there’s no amendment that’s absolute.  When the
amendment was passed, it didn’t say anybody can own a gun and any kind
of gun and any kind of weapon.  You couldn’t buy a cannon in — when the
— this — this amendment was passed.  And so, no reason why you should be
able to buy certain assault weapons.  But that’s another issue. 

     And look, one of the things that we focused on, the Attorney
General and I — and we’re getting to the point where I think we’re going
to be able to have a real impact on it — includes going after ghost
guns.

     Ghost guns are the guns everyone in this room knows that can be
purchased in parts, assembled at home, no serial number, and can’t be
traced.  And they’re as deadly as any other weapon out there.  But the
fact is: They are out there. 

     And, you know, this spring, the Justice Department — this spring,
the Justice Department will issue a final rule to regulate these
so-called “ghost guns.” 

     But there’s more we can do.  Across the country, police departments
reported sharp increases in the number of ghost guns found at crime
scenes.  That’s why, today, the department is launching an intes- — an
intensified National Ghost Gun Enforcement Initiative to determine and
deter criminals from using those weapons to cover their tracks. 

     If you commit a crime to the ghost gun, not only are state and
local prosecutors going to come after you, but expect federal charges
and federal prosecution as well. 

     We’ve also created a strike force to crack down on illegal gun
trafficking across state lines.  As the mayor said, as he pointed out,
guns that are used to kill people in New York City, they aren’t made in
New York City, they aren’t sold in New York City.  They are sold in
other places.

     Today, the Attorney General directed all U.S. attorneys in the
United States to prioritize combating gun trafficking across state lines
and city boundaries. 

     The Justice Department is sending additional prosecutorial
resources to help shut down what’s referred to, as you all know, as the
“Iron Pipeline” that funnels guns from shops in states like Georgia to
crime scenes in Baltimore and Philadelphia and New York and so many
other places.  
  
Governor, you worked with the mayor and the NYPD and nine other states
to create an Interstate Task Force on Illegal Guns.  That’s the kind of
leadership that’s going to solve the problem.  And I’m eager to hear
more about that progress.  
  
And, folks, the second thing I want to point out is I want to help every
major city follow New York’s lead to put together partnerships like this
one you put together that meet on a daily basis.  
  
Every day, here in New York City, like this meeting today, federal,
state, and local enforcement meet to share intelligence about arrests,
shootings from the day before, and work to take those shooters off the
streets as quickly as possible.  
  
Just look around: This is what a partnership looks like, and this is
what you put together.  And it’s an important partnership.  And we need
more cities adopting the same model.   
  
That’s why, today, the Attorney General is also directing U.S. attorneys
to work with state and local law enforcement to strength — to strengthen
partnerships like this one and to get repeat gun violence offenders off
the street and behind bars.  
  
You know, I want more cities and states to use some of the $350 billion
we sent to them on the American Rescue Plan to fight crime, to keep our
communities safe by hiring more police officers for community policing
and paying police overtime, and purchasing gun-fighting technologies,
like technologies that hears, locates gunshots so there can be immediate
response because you know exactly where it came from.  
  
The third thing our plan calls for: investing in critical services that
reduce crime and violence; community violence intervention programs,
like the one I’m going to see after this meeting; summer school;
afterschool programs for teens.   
  
As the saying goes and the teachers have taught me, “An idle mind is a
devil’s workshop.”  We got to have things for these kids to do, jobs for
young adults, more school counselors and nurses, more mental health
required in school, and mental health/substance abuse treatment as
well.  
  
Fourthly, with someone — when someone finishes their time in prison, all
our experience tells us you just can’t continue to give them 25 bucks
and a bus ticket.  They’ll end up under the same bridge you arrested
them in the first place from.   
  
And so I don’t want — I don’t want them ending up back in prison or
being there because they’ve committed another crime.  We need to be able
to train for and get a job, find stable housing, reenter society, and
have a second chance at a better life.  
  
My Department of Labor is funding programs that help formerly
incarcerated individuals, including young adults, receive the education
and training they need and then connect them to quality jobs.  
  
I’ll keep doing everything in my power to make sure that communities are
safer.  But Congress needs to do its part too: pass universal background
checks, ban assault weapons and high-capacity magazines, close
loopholes, and keep out of the hands of domestic abusers — weapons,
repeal the liability shield for gun manufacturers.   
  
Imagine had we had a liability — they’re the only industry in America
that is exempted from being able to be sued by the public.  The only
one.  Imagine had that been the way with cigarette manufacturers.  Where
the hell would we — where the heck would we be?  We’d be in tough
shape.   
  
Why gun manufacturers?  Because of the power of their lobbying ability. 
It’s got to end.  End.  They’ve got to be held responsible for the
things that they do that are irresponsible.   
  
And, folks, you know, it’s the only industry in America, as I said,
that’s exempt from being sued.  And I think — I find it to be
outrageous.  
  
And, folks, these laws, if we’re able to pass them, are going to save
lives, and more — and equally importantly, help you protect one another
and protect yourself, put law enforcement in a more — a safer
circumstance.  
  
We have an opportunity to come together and fulfill the first
responsibility of government and our democracy: to keep each other
safe.  
  
So, I want to thank you all.  There’s much more to say, but I probably
already said too much, because a lot of people are going to speak.  But
let’s get this done.  Let’s get this done.  
  
And God bless the men and women who put their lives on the line every
single day to keep our communities safe.   
  
Now I’m going to turn it over, with your permission, to the Attorney
General — Attorney General Garland.  General?  
  
1:47 P.M. EST
