---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2022-02-15'
modified_time: 2022-02-15 19:15:02-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/02/15/remarks-by-president-biden-providing-an-update-on-russia-and-ukraine/
published_time: 2022-02-15 18:07:43-05:00
title: Remarks by President Biden Providing an Update on Russia and Ukraine
---
 
*East Room*

3:29 P.M. EST  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon.  Today, I’d like to provide an update on
the crisis involving Russia and Ukraine.  
  
From the beginning of this crisis, I have been absolutely clear and
consistent: The United States is prepared no matter what happens.   
  
We are ready with diplomacy — to be engaged in diplomacy with Russia and
our Allies and partners to improve stability and security in Europe as a
whole.   
  
And we are ready to respond decisively to a Russian attack on Ukraine,
which is still very much a possibility.  
  
Through all of the events of the last few weeks and months, this has
been our approach.  And it remains our approach now.  
  
So, today I want to speak to the American people about the situation on
the ground, the steps we’ve taken, the actions we’re prepared to take,
and what’s at stake for us and the world, and how this may impact on us
here at home.  
  
For weeks now, together with our Allies and partners, my administration
has engaged in non-stop diplomacy.  
  
This weekend I spoke again with President Putin to make clear that we
are ready to keep pursuing high-level diplomacy to reach written
understandings among Russia, the United States, and the nations of
Europe to address legitimate security concerns if that’s what — his
wish.  Their security concerns and ours.  
  
President Putin and I agreed that our teams should continue to engage
toward this end along with our European Allies and partners.  
  
Yesterday, the Russian government publicly proposed to continue the
diplomacy.  I agree.  We should give the diplomacy every chance to
succeed.  I believe there are real ways to address our respective
security concerns.  
  
The United States has put on the table concrete ideas to establish a
security environment in Europe.  
  
We’re proposing new arms control measures, new transparency measures,
new strategic stability measures.  These measures would apply to all
parties — NATO and Russia alike.  
  
And we’re willing to make practical, results-oriented steps that can
advance our common security.  We will not sacrifice basic principles,
though.  
  
Nations have a right to sovereignty and territorial integrity.  They
have the freedom to set their own course and choose with whom they will
associate.  
  
But that still leaves plenty of room for diplomacy and for
de-escalation.  That’s the best way forward for all parties, in our
view.  And we’ll continue our diplomatic efforts in close consultation
with our Allies and our partners.  
  
As long as there is hope of a diplomatic resolution that prevents the
use of force and avoids the incredible human suffering that would
follow, we will pursue it.  
  
The Russian Defense Ministry reported today that some military units are
leaving their positions near Ukraine.  
  
That would be good, but we have not yet verified that.  We have not yet
verified that Russian military units are returning to their home bases. 
Indeed, our analysts indicate that they remain very much in a
threatening position.  And the fact remains: Right now, Russia has more
than 150,000 troops encircling Ukraine in Belarus and along Ukraine’s
border.  
  
An invasion remains distinctly possible.  That’s why I’ve asked several
times that all Americans in Ukraine leave now before it’s too late to
leave safely.  It is why we have temporarily relocated our embassy from
Kyiv to Lviv in western Ukraine, approaching the Polish border.   
  
And we’ve been transparent with the American people and with the world
about Russia’s plans and the seriousness of the situation so that
everyone can see for themselves what is happening.  We have shared what
we know and what we are doing about it.  
  
Let me be equally clear about what we are not doing:  
  
The United States and NATO are not a threat to Russia.  Ukraine is not
threatening Russia.   
  
Neither the U.S. nor NATO have missiles in Ukraine.  We do not — do not
have plans to put them there as well.  
  
We’re not targeting the people of Russia.  We do not seek to destabilize
Russia.  
  
To the citizens of Russia: You are not our enemy.  And I do not believe
you want a bloody, destructive war against Ukraine — a country and a
people with whom you share such deep ties of family, history, and
culture.  
  
Seventy-seven years ago, our people fought and sacrificed side by side
to end the worst war in history.  
  
World War Two was a war of necessity.  But if Russia attacks Ukraine, it
would be a war of choice, or a war without cause or reason.  
  
I say these things not to provoke but to speak the truth — because the
truth matters; accountability matters.  
  
If Russia does invade in the days or weeks ahead, the human cost for
Ukraine will be immense, and the strategic cost for Russia will also be
immense.  
  
If Russia attacks Ukraine, it’ll be met with overwhelming international
condemnation.  The world will not forget that Russia chose needless
death and destruction.  
  
Invading Ukraine will prove to be a self-inflicted wound.  
  
The United States and our Allies and partners will respond decisively. 
The West is united and galvanized.  
  
Today, our NATO Allies and the Alliance is as unified and determined as
it has ever been.   And the source of our unbreakable strength continues
to be the power, resilience, and universal appeal of our shared
democratic values.  
  
Because this is about more than just Russia and Ukraine.  It’s about
standing for what we believe in, for the future we want for our world,
for liberty — for liberty, the right of countless countries to choose
their own destiny, and the right of people to determine their own
futures, for the principle that a country can’t change its neighbor’s
borders by force.  That’s our vision.  And toward that end, I’m
confident that vision, that freedom will prevail.  
  
If Russia proceeds, we will rally the world to oppose its aggression.  
  
The United States and our Allies and partners around the world are ready
to impose powerful sanctions on \[and\] export controls, including
actions that did not — we did not pursue when Russia invaded Crimea and
eastern Ukraine in 2014.  We will put intense pressure on their largest
and most significant financial institutions and key industries.  
  
These measures are ready to go as soon and if Russia moves.  We’ll
impose long-term consequences that will undermine Russia’s ability to
compete economically and strategically.  
  
And when it comes to Nord Stream 2, the pipeline that would bring
natural gas from Russia to Germany, if Russia further invades Ukraine,
it will not happen.  
  
While I will not send American servicemen to fight Russia in Ukraine, we
have supplied the Ukrainian military with equipment to help them defend
themselves.  We have provided training and advice and intelligence for
the same purpose.   
  
And make no mistake: The United States will defend every inch of NATO
territory with the full force of American power.  An attack against one
NATO country is an attack against all of us.  And the United States
commitment to Article 5 is sacrosanct.   
  
Already, in response to Russia’s build-up of troops, I have sent
additional U.S. forces to bolster NATO’s eastern flank.  
  
Several of our Allies have also announced they’ll add forces and
capabilities to ensure deterrence and defense along NATO’s eastern
flank.  
  
We will also continue to conduct military exercises with our Allies and
partners to enhance defensive readiness.   
  
And if Russia invades, we will take further steps to reinforce our
presence in NATO, reassure for our Allies, and deter further
aggression.  
  
This is a cause that unites Republicans and Democrats.  And I want to
thank the leaders and members of Congress of both parties who have
forcefully spoken out in defense of our most basic, most bipartisan,
most American principles.  
  
I will not pretend this will be painless.  There could be impact on our
energy prices, so we are taking active steps to alleviate the pressure
on our own energy markets and offset rising prices.  
  
We’re coordinating with major enersy \[sic\] — energy consumers and
producers.  We’re prepared to deploy all the tools and authority at our
disposal to provide relief at the gas pump.   
  
And I will work with Congress on additional measures to help protect
consumers and address the impact of prices at the pump.  
  
We are not seeking direct confrontation with Russia, though I have been
clear that if Russia targets Americans in Ukraine, we will respond
forcefully.  
  
And if Russia attacks the United States or our Allies through asymmetric
means, like disruptive cyberattacks against our companies or critical
infrastructure, we are prepared to respond.   
  
We’re moving in lockstep with our NATO Allies and partners to deepen our
collective defense against threats in cyberspace.  
  
Two paths are still open.  For the sake of the historic responsibility
Russia and the United States share for global stability, for the sake of
our common future — to choose diplomacy.  
  
But let there be no doubt: If Russia commits this breach by invading
Ukraine, responsible nations around the world will not hesitate to
respond.   
  
If we do not stand for freedom where it is at risk today, we’ll surely
pay a steeper price tomorrow.   
  
Thank you.  I’ll keep you informed.  
  
END                3:50 P.M. EST
