---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2022-02-22'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/02/22/remarks-by-president-biden-announcing-response-to-russian-actions-in-ukraine/
published_time: 2022-02-22 16:27:14-05:00
title: Remarks by President Biden Announcing Response to Russian Actions in Ukraine
---
 
East Room

2:22 P.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  Trying to make up your mind, huh?  (Laughter.)

Well, good afternoon.  Yesterday, Vladimir Putin recognized two regions
of Ukraine as independent states and he bizarrely asserted that these
regions are no longer part of Ukraine and their sovereign territory.  To
put it simply, Russia just announced that it is carving out a big chunk
of Ukraine. 

Last night, Putin authorized Russian forces to deploy into the region —
these regions.  Today, he asserted that these regions are — actually
extend deeper than the two areas he recognized, claiming large areas
currently under the jurisdiction of the Ukraine government. 

He’s setting up a rationale to take more territory by force, in my
view.  And if we listen to his speech last night — and many of you did,
I know — he’s — he’s setting up a rationale to go much further.

This is the beginning of a Russian invasion of Ukraine, as he indicated
and asked permission to be able to do from his Duma. 

So, let’s begin to — so, I’m going to begin to impose sanctions in
response, far beyond the steps we and our Allies and partners
implemented in 2014.  And if Russia goes further with this invasion, we
stand prepared to go further as — with sanction.

Who in the Lord’s name does Putin think gives him the right to declare
new so-called countries on territory that belonged to his neighbors? 
This is a flagrant violation of international law, and it demands a firm
response from the international community. 

Over the last few months, we have coordinated closely with our NATO
Allies and partners in Europe and around the world to prepare that
response.  We’ve said all along and I’ve told Putin to his face a mon- —
a month a- — more than a month ago that we would act together and the
moment Russia moved against Ukraine. 

Russia has now undeniably moved against Ukraine by declaring these
independent states. 

So, today, I’m announcing the first tranche of sanctions to impose costs
on Russia in response to their actions yesterday.  These have been
closely coordinated with our Allies and partners, and we’ll continue to
escalate sanctions if Russia escalates. 

We’re implementing full blocking sanctions on two large Russian
financial institutions: V.E.B. and their military bank. 

We’re implementing comprehensive sanctions on Russian sovereign debt. 
That means we’ve cut off Russia’s government from Western financing.  It
can no longer raise money from the West and cannot trade in its new debt
on our markets or European markets either.

Starting <s>tomorrow</s> \[today\] and continuing in the days ahead, we
will also impose sanctions on Russia’s elites and their family members. 
They share in the corrupt gains of the Kremlin policies and should share
in the pain as well. 

And because of Russia’s actions, we’ve worked with Germany to ensure
Nord Stream 2 will not — as I promised — will not move forward.

As Russia contemplates its next move, we have our next move prepared as
well.  Russia will pay an even steeper price if it continues its
aggression, including additional sanctions.

The United States will continue to provide defensive assistance to
Ukraine in the meantime.  And we’ll continue to reinforce and reassure
our NATO Allies. 

Today, in response to Russia’s admission that it will not withdraw its
forces from Belarus, I have authorized additional movements of U.S.
forces and equipment already stationed in Europe to strengthen our
Baltic Allies — Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania.

Let me be clear: These are totally defensive moves on our part.  We have
no intention of fighting Russia.  We want to send an unmistakable
message, though, that the United States, together with our Allies, will
defend every inch of NATO territory and abide by the commitments we made
to NATO.

We still believe that Russia is poised to go much further in launching a
massive military attack against Ukraine.  I hope I’m wrong about that —
hope we’re wrong about that.  But Russia has only escalated its threat
against the rest of Ukrainian territory, including major cities and
including the capital city of Kyiv.

There are — there are still well over 150,000 Russian troops surrounding
Ukraine.  And as I said, Russian forces remain positioned in Belarus to
attack Ukraine from the north, including war planes and offensive
missile systems.

Russia has moved troops closer to Ukraine’s border with Russia. 
Russia’s naval vessels are maneuvering in the Black Sea to Ukraine’s
south, including amphibious assault ships, missile cruisers, and
submarines. 

Russia has moved supplies of blood and medical equipment into position
on their border.  You don’t need blood unless you plan on starting a
war. 

And over the last few days, we’ve seen much of the playbook that
Secretary Blinken laid out last week at the United Nations Security
Council come to pass: a major increase in military provocations and
false-flag events along the line of contact in the Donbas; dramatically
staged, conveniently on-camera meeting of Putin’s Security Council to
grandstand for the Russian public; and now political provocation of
recognizing sovereign Ukrainian territory as so-called independent
republics in clear violation, again, of international law. 

President Putin has sought authorization from the Russian parliament to
use military force outside of Russian territory.  And this set the stage
for further pretexts and further provocations by Russia to try to
justify further military action.

None of us — none of us should be fooled.  None of us will be fooled. 
There is no justification. 

Further Russian assault into Ukraine remains a severe threat in the days
ahead.  And if Russia proceeds, it is Russia, and Russia alone, that
bears the responsibility. 

As we respond, my administration is using every tool at our disposal to
protect American businesses and consumers from rising prices at the
pump.  As I said last week, defending freedom will have costs for us as
well, here at home.  We need to be honest about that. 

But as we will do — but as we do this, I’m going to take robust action
and make sure the pain of our sanctions is targeted at the Russian
economy, not ours.

We are closely monitoring energy supplies for any disruption.  We’re
executing a plan in coordination with major oil-producing consumers and
producers toward a collective investment to secure stability and global
energy supplies. 

This will be — this will blunt gas prices.  I want to limit the pain the
American people are feeling at the gas pump.  This is critical to me. 

In the last few days, I have been in constant contact with European
leaders, including with Ukrainian President Zelenskyy.  Vice President
Harris met in person with leaders in Germany over the weekend at the
Munich Conference, including President Zelenskyy. 

At every step, we have shown that the United States and our Allies and
partners are working in unison — which he hasn’t been counting on — Mr.
Putin.  We’re united in our support of Ukraine.  We’re united in our
opposition to Russian aggression.  And we’re united in our resolve to
defend our NATO Alliance.  And we’re united in our understanding of the
urgency and seriousness of the threat Russia is making to global peace
and stability. 

Yesterday, the world heard clearly the full extent of Vladimir Putin’s
twisted rewrite of history, going back more than a century, as he waxed
eloquently, noting that — well, I’m not going to go into it, but nothing
in Putin’s lengthy remarks indicated any interest in pursuing real
dialogue on European security in the year 2022. 

He directly attacked Ukraine’s right to exist.  He indirectly threatened
territory formerly held by Russia, including nations that today are
thriving democracies and members of NATO.  He explicitly threatened war
unless his extreme demands were met. 

And there is no question that Russia is the aggressor.  So we’re
clear-eyed about the challenges we’re facing. 

Nonetheless, there is still time to avert the worst-case scenario that
will bring untold suffering to millions of people if they move as
suggested. 

The United States and our Allies and partners remain open to diplomacy
if it is serious.  When all is said and done, we’re going to judge
Russia by its actions, not its words.

And whatever Russia does next, we’re ready to respond with unity,
clarity, and conviction. 

We’ll probably have more to say about this as we — if it moves on.  I’m
hoping diplomacy is still available. 

Thank you all very much.

2:32 P.M. EST
