---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2022-02-18'
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/02/18/remarks-by-president-biden-providing-an-update-on-russia-and-ukraine-2/
published_time: 2022-02-18 19:05:04-05:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden Providing an Update on Russia and\_Ukraine"
---
 
Roosevelt Room

4:54 P.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon.  Today, I made two vital calls, as I’ve
been making for some months now — two vital calls that — on the
situation in Russia and Ukraine. 

The first was to a bipartisan group of members of Congress who are
currently representing the United States, along with Vice President
Harris at the Munich Security Conference. 

The second was the latest in a series of calls over the past many months
with the heads of state of our NATO Allies and the European Union to
bring them up to date on what the United States thinks is the current
state of affairs, and what’s likely to happen in Ukraine in the coming
days, to ensure that we continue to remain in lockstep — that is the
European Union and NATO.

Despite Russia’s efforts to divide us at home and abroad, I can affirm
that has not happened.  The overwhelming message of both — on both calls
was one of unity, determination, and resolve.  I shared with all of
those on the calls what we know about a rapidly escalating crisis in
Ukraine.

Over the last few days, we’ve seen reports of a major uptick in
violations of the ceasefire by Russian-backed fighters attempting to
provoke Ukraine in the Donbas.  For example, a shelling of a Ukrainian
kindergarten yesterday, which Russia has falsely asserted was carried
out by Ukraine.  We also continue to see more and more disinformation
being pushed out by — to the Russian public, including the
Russian-backed separatists, claiming that Ukraine is planning to launch
a massive offensive attack in the Donbas.

Well, look, there is simply no evidence of these assertions, and it and
devies \[sic\] — it defies basic logic to believe the Ukrainians would
choose this moment, with well over 150,000 troops arrayed on its
borders, to escalate a year-long conflict.

Russia state media also continues to make phony allegations of a
genocide taking place in the Donbas and push fabricated claims warning
about Ukraine’s attack on Russia without any evidence.  That’s just what
I’m sure Ukraine is thinking of doing — attacking Russia.

All these are consistent with the playbook the Russians have used
before: to set up a false justification to act against Ukraine.  This is
also in line with the pretext scenarios that the United States and our
Allies and partners have been warning about for weeks.

Throughout these tense moments, the Ukrainian forces have shown great
judgment and, I might add, restraint.  They’ve refused to allow the
Russians to bait them into war. 

But the fact remains: Russian troops currently have Ukraine surrounded —
from Belarus, along the Russian border with Ukraine, to the Black Sea in
the south — and all of its border.

You know, look, we have reason to believe the Russian forces are
planning to and intend to attack Ukraine in the coming week — in the
coming days.  We believe that they will target Ukraine’s capital, Kyiv,
a city of 2.8 million innocent people. 

We’re calling out Russia’s plans loudly and repeatedly, not because we
want a conflict, but because we’re doing everything in our power to
remove any reason that Russia may give to justify invading Ukraine and
prevent them from moving.

Make no mistake: If Russia pursues its plans, it will be responsible for
a catastrophic and needless war of choice.  The United States and our
Allies are prepared to defend every inch of NATO territory from any
threat to our collective security as well.

We also will not send troops in to fight in Ukraine, but we will
continue to support the Ukrainian people. 

This past year, the United States provided a record amount of security
assistance to Ukraine to bolster its defensive — $650 million, from
Javelin missiles to ammunition.

And we also previously provided $500 million in Ukrai- — in humanitarian
aid and economic support for Ukraine.  And earlier this week, we also
announced an additional sovereign loan guarantee of up to $1 billion to
strengthen Ukraine’s economic resilience.

But the bottom line is this: The United States and our Allies and
partners will support the Ukrainian people.  We will hold Russia
accountable for its actions.  The West is united and resolved.  We’re
ready to impose severe sanctions on Russia if it further invades
Ukraine.

But I say again: Russia can still choose diplomacy.  It is not too late
to de-escalate and return to the negotiating table.

Last night, Russia agreed that Secretary of State Blinken and Foreign
Minister Lavrov should meet on Feb- — on February 24th — February 24th
in Europe.

But if Russia takes military action before that date, it will be clear
that they have slammed the door shut on diplomacy.  They will have —
they will have chosen war, and they will pay a steep price for doing so
— not only from the sanctions that we and our allies will impose on
Russia, but the moral outrage that the rest of the world will visit upon
them. 

You know, there are many issues that divide our nation and our world,
but standing up to Russian aggression is not one of them.  The American
people are united.  Europe is united.  The transatlantic community is
united.  Our political parties in this country are united.  The entire
free world is united.

Russia has a choice between war and all the suffering it will bring or
diplomacy that will make a future safer for everyone.

Now I’m happy to take a few questions.  Nancy from Bloomberg. 

Q    Thank you so much, sir.  Do you think that it is wise for President
Zelenskyy to leave Ukraine if an invasion is as imminent as the U.S.
says it is?

THE PRESIDENT:  That’s a judgment for him to make and a determination as
to whether or not.

I’ve spoken with Zelenskyy a dozen times — maybe more, I don’t know. 
And — and it’s — and in the pursuit of a diplomatic solution, it may not
be fal- — it may be the wise choice.  But it’s his decision.

Q    And do you have any indication about whether President Putin has
made a decision on whether to invade?  Do you feel confident that he —
that he hasn’t made that decision already?

THE PRESIDENT:  As of this moment, I’m convinced he’s made the
decision.  We have reason to believe that.

Q    There seems to be a unanimity, a spirit to do — between the United
States and Europe to do some sanctions — comprehensive sanctions.  But
are — is everyone on board with the exact same sanctions that you want
to do?

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  There will be some slight differences, but none —
there will be more add-ons than subtractions.

Q    And President Putin is going to oversee some nuclear drills this
weekend.  How do you see that happening?  What’s your reaction to that,
sir?  Thank you.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I don’t think he is remotely contemplating nuclear
— using nuclear weapons.  But I do think it’s — I think he is focused on
trying to convince the world that he has the ability to change the
dynamics in Europe in a way that he cannot. 

But I don’t — how much of it is a cover for just saying, “We’re just
doing exercises” and there’s more than that, I just can’t — it’s hard to
read his mind.

(Cross-talk.)

Q    To be clear — to be clear, you are convinced —

THE PRESIDENT:  I’ll — I’ll take some.

Q    — you are convinced — you are convinced that President Putin is
going to invade Ukraine?  Is that what you just said a few moments ago?

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes, I did.  Yes. 

Q    So, is diplomacy off the table then?

THE PRESIDENT:  No.  There’s always — until he does, diplomacy is always
a possibility. 

Q    What reason do you have to believe he is considering that option at
all?

THE PRESIDENT:  We have a significant intelligence capability.  Thank
you very much. 

5:03 P.M. EST
