---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2022-02-18'
modified_time: 2022-02-18 12:08:38-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/02/18/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-president-levits-of-latvia-president-nauseda-of-lithuania-and-prime-minister-kallas-of-estonia-before-multilateral-meeting/
published_time: 2022-02-18 12:08:37-05:00
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris, President Levits of Latvia, President Naus\u0117\
  da Of Lithuania, and Prime Minister Kallas of Estonia Before Multilateral\_Meeting"
---
 
*Commerzbank Filiale München  
Munich, Germany*

2:55 P.M. CEST  
  
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Good afternoon, everyone.  I am here in Munich
because it is a top priority for President Biden and myself that we are
continuously engaged with and working with our Allies and partners
around the world, and that we work always on strengthening those
relationships.  And certainly, the last several months have been
evidence of the work we have done collectively, all of us, in that
pursuit.

A lot of attention is obviously being given today and the last couple of
months to the issue of Russia and its aggression on the Ukrainian
border.   
  
And the focus for us in working together is to further coordinate — in
terms of the work that we have been doing, the dedication of resources,
and, certainly, the dedication of priority — to address that issue and
what may be the ramifications; to do this work at the highest levels of
our governments, understanding that our work together and our unity is a
sign of the strength of our nations individually and collectively.

I’m here to also talk with our friends and our Allies and our partners
so that we can continue to strategize, understanding this is a dynamic
situation and will require us to be in constant contact around, again,
our priorities, whatever challenges may exist, but also the work that we
will continue to do to strengthen and coordinate our resources.

Today, we will discuss a number of issues that surround our shared
concerns about Russia’s activities and the responses that we are
prepared to make. 

Our work together has been and will continue to be about strengthening
our ability to deter activity in terms of aggressive activity by Russia
as it relates to Ukraine; and about our collective defense and, again,
the resources and the commitment that we have to our shared and
collective defense.

I’m looking forward to the conversation and that being the basis of the
work that we will continue to do to further reinforce our Alliance.

We have made clear and will continue to make clear that as we are
willing and able and committed to the deterrence and the defense issue
on this matter, we are also concerned and prioritize the importance of
diplomacy.

We understand and we have made clear that we remain open to diplomacy. 
The onus is on Russia at this point to demonstrate that it is serious in
that regard.

I recognize the threats at this moment, historically and going forward,
to our friends — Latvia, Lithuania, and Estonia.  We stand with you.  I
am here personally to say that.  We stand with you on this and many
other issues in the spirit of our Alliance and our mutual interests and
priorities.  And we stand together, all of us, as NATO Allies. 

The United States remains committed to Article 5.  And our position has
always been and will continue to be that Article 5 is ironclad.  And the
spirit behind it — an attack on one is an attack on all — remains our
perspective.

I do believe, I think we all know, our greatest strength is our unity. 
This is a moment that has made that clear: that our unity is evidence
and is a measure of our strength.

And with that, I look forward to our conversation.  And I thank you all
for the work you do.  Thank you.

And with that, I would like to turn to President Levits of Latvi- —
Latvia.

PRESIDENT LEVITS:  Thank you, Madam Vice President.  First of — first of
all, I would like to thank you for this conversation and the possibility
— occasion to exchange our views on the actual situation in Europe.

And I would like, also, to thank the United States for the engagement in
Europe, for the security in our region, and for the deployment of
additional military personnel and military equipment in our region in
order to strengthen the eastern flank of NATO.

I would like to say that the aggression of Russia — and this is a
Russian case, not a Ukrainian case — aggression of Russia against
Ukraine is not only against Ukraine, but also against Europe, against
the democracy, against the West et al. 

Because Russia is challenged by democracy, it is difficult for Russia to
see that there could be a democratic Ukraine because it could have some
repercussions in Russia.

I would say that our task is to avoid the hot phase of the
confrontation.  And it is only possible if the answer of the West is
united and very strong, and so that the cost-benefit calculation for
Russia is negative and clearly negative.

And what does this mean?  I think this answer is our response consists
of four elements.  The first element is sanctions — very, very serious
sanctions.  And President Biden said already to President Putin this
already a few times.

This is the second: military and economically and financial support of
Ukraine so that Ukrainians can defend themselves.  Also, this is a
second element — very important.

The third element is the strengthening of the military defense capacity
in the eastern flank, especially in Baltics, especially in Poland.  And
the co- — bilateral cooperation with U.S. in this respect is already
going on, but we should strengthen that.

And the fourth element is a dialogue.  It’s a dialogue in order to keeps
the channel for Russia open to go back to, I would say, normal
international behavior. 

So — and all the four elements together, this should be a very strong
answer to Russia so that we can say that avoiding of the hot phase of
confrontation depends from us — from the West, from NATO.  
  
Thank you.  
  
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  President Nausėda from Lithuania.  
  
PRESIDENT NAUSĖDA:  Thank you very much.  Your Excellency, your Vice
President, my colleagues: This is wonderful opportunity to meet you here
in Munich and, of course, discuss those issues which are critically
important for the security of our countries and also the security of the
whole region.   
  
You see here at the table the keen supporters of transatlantic bond,
because the Baltics states understand probably so good that very
effective security architecture could be built only with the
contribution of United States.  
  
You know that we have just celebrated the fifth anniversary of
establishment of Enhanced Forward Presence in Lithuania.  So, this is a
good reason to say thank you for every Ally of NATO.  
  
And now we are challenged by the events in Ukraine, but we should not
take those events along the border with Ukraine only individually as a
security problem of Ukraine.  Of course, it means the security problem
of the whole region.  
  
And I like to say that there is no security of Ukraine without talking
and discussion of security of the region.  So, security for Ukraine
means security for Baltic States; security of Ukraine means the security
of Europe.   
  
So today, the ghost of war is lingering in Europe.  Unfortunately, we
have to admit it.  And we see provocation of possible military conflict
in Ukraine.  But in my eyes, I see that probably Russia keeping both
alternatives open.  While one al- — one alternative is to keep tension
without the military conflict, the second alternative is open military
intervention into Ukraine.   
  
I think everything is our — in our hands in order to prevent this.  And
the best formula — peace formula — in my eyes is deterrence.  The more
we are united, the more we have firm stance on what is happening in
Ukraine, the better we will send the signals to Russia not to start what
they intend to do.   
  
And in this regard, I would say that it is critically important for the
security of our region to see more presence of United States troops. 
So, this is the reason why we really ask for permanent presence of
United States troops in Lithuania.  You know that we have these troops
now on a rotational basis.  And probably, this is very good time moment
to talk about even more, higher, strong engagement into the security of
our region.   
  
So, Madam Vice President, thank you for this opportunity.  I hope that
we will have more details to discuss during our conversation.  Thank
you.  
  
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Thank you.  And Prime Minister Kallas, Eston- —
Estonia.  
  
PRIME MINISTER KALLAS:  Yes, thank you.  Great to — we are very grateful
for this meeting and also all the meetings that we have had with the
U.S. administration.  It means a great deal to us.   
  
And, first of all, I would also like to stress what my Latvian colleague
already said: It’s — it’s about democracy, really.  Why Russia is doing
this is that he doesn’t want democracy to prevail in Ukraine.  And — and
so, it is very important that we prevent this from happening.   
  
We stay united, as you stressed as well.  This is extremely important. 
And I’m — I’m super happy that we have been united all this — all this
process.  We are saying the same thing — all the Allies, independent,
whether it’s a big one or a small one, which is very important.   
  
And being a small country, like all the Baltic countries really are, we
have all lost our independence to Russia once, and we don’t want it to
happen again.   
  
And therefore, we — we really think that this is — this is very
important that we understand what is at stake here.  And also, being a
small country, it is very important.  And we are very grateful that a
big Ally like U.S. constantly consults with us; you know, gives us
information; keeps us posted.  This means — this means a great deal to
us that we are, you know, equal Allies.   
  
And I know it takes a lot of effort from your side, because there are
lots of Allies to be in contact with, but — but I can speak for all of
us: We are very grateful for this.   
  
And we also feel that you are listening to our worries, which is — which
is not that, you know, make a tick in the box that you have consulted,
but actually we feel that you also hear us.   
  
Our support to Ukraine is unwavering.  And Ukraine needs all the
political but also military support we can give.  And of course, we as
Allies decide the practical help regarding, you know, Ukraine — each
country separately — but — but I think the message must be very
clear.   
  
And — and also, what — what my colleagues already said: The rapidly
deteriorating security situation also reflects or influences our
region.  And it demands a stronger military presence in Europe.  And
also, Russian troops and — and missiles in Belarus have also
deteriorated the situation in the Baltic countries.   
  
If — if you look at the map, we are like a peninsula in terms of NATO. 
And therefore, we welcome the decisions already made by U.S.
administration to deploy additional forces in Europe.  And we also hope
that you increase the presence in the Baltic countries.   
  
Thank you.  
  
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Thank you.  
  
END                 3:08 P.M. CEST
