---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2022-02-03'
modified_time: 2022-02-03 13:07:18-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/02/03/remarks-by-president-biden-on-a-successful-counterterrorism-operation/
published_time: 2022-02-03 13:07:17-05:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on a Successful Counterterrorism\_Operation"
---
 
Roosevelt Room

10:21 A.M. EST  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Good morning.  Last night, operating on my orders,
United States military forces successfully removed a major terrorist
threat to the world: the global leader of ISIS, known as Hajji Abdullah.

He took over as the leader of ISIS in 2019 after the United States
counterterrorism operation killed al-Baghdadi.

Since then, ISIS has directed terrorist operations targeting Americans,
our Allies and our partners, and countless civilians in the Middle East,
Africa, and in South Asia.

Hajji Abdullah oversaw the spread of ISIS-affiliated terrorist groups
around the world after savaging communities and murdering innocents.

He was responsible for the recent brutal attack on a prison in northeast
Syria holding ISIS fighters, which was swiftly addressed by our brave
partners in the Syrian Democratic Forces.

He was the driving force behind the genocide of the Yazidi people in
northwestern Iraq in 2014.

 We all remember the gut-wrenching stories: mass slaughters that wiped
out entire villages, thousands of women and young girls sold into
slavery, rape used as a weapon of war.

And thanks to the bravery of our troops, this horrible terrorist leader
is no more.

Our forces carried out the operation with their signature preparation
and precision, and I directed the Department of Defense to take every
precaution possible to minimize civilian casualties.

Knowing that this terrorist had chosen to surround himself with
families, including children, we made a choice to pursue a special
forces raid, at a much greater risk than our — to our own people, rather
than targeting him with an air strike.  We made this choice to minimize
civilian casualties.

Our team is still compiling their report, but we do know that as our
troops approached to capture the terrorist, in a final act of desperate
cowardice, he — with no regard to the lives of his own family or others
in the building, he chose to blow himself up — not just with a vest, but
to blow up that third floor rather than face justice for the crimes he
has committed, taking several members of his family with him just as his
predecessor did.

I’m grateful for the immense courage and skill and determination of our
U.S. forces who skillfully executed this incredibly challenging mission.

The members of our military are the solid-steel backbone of this nation,
ready to fly into danger at a moment’s notice to keep our country and
the American people safe, as well as our Allies.

And I’m also grateful to the families of our service members.  You serve
right alongside your — these soldiers and sailors, Marines, special
forces — the loved ones, giving them the strength and support they need
to do what they do.

To our service members and their families: We are forever grateful for
the — what you do for us, and we owe you a debt.  Thank you.

We’re also aided by the essential partnership of the Syrian Democratic
Forces. 

I want to commend our dedicated intelligence community, the Department
of Defense, and members of our national security team throughout the
government whose meticulous and tireless work over the course of many
months ensured that this mission succeeded.

This operation is testament to America’s reach and capability to take
out terrorist threats no matter where they try to hide anywhere in the
world.

I’m determined to protect the American people from terrorist threats,
and I will take decisive action to protect this country.

 And we’ll continue working with our close allies and partners — the
Syrian Democratic Forces; the Iraqi Security Forces, including the
Kurdish Peshmerga; and the more than 80 members of the global coalition
— to keep pressure on ISIS, to protect our homeland.

We remain vigilant.  We remain prepared.

Last night’s operation took a major terrorist leader off the
battlefield.  And it sent a strong message to terrorists around the
world: We will come after you and find you.

Once again, today, we continue our unceasing effort to keep the American
people safe and to strengthen the security of our Allies and partners
around the world.

I want to thank you all.  And may God bless you.  And may God protect
our troops.

I’m heading off to New York right now; I’m late.  And I thank you for
your time.  Appreciate it.

10:26 A.M. EST     
