---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2022-02-23'
modified_time: 2022-02-23 21:57:32-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/02/23/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-before-a-meeting-with-the-national-black-caucus-of-state-legislators/
published_time: 2022-02-23 21:57:29-05:00
title: Remarks by Vice President Harris Before a Meeting with the National Black Caucus
  of State Legislators
---
 
*Vice President’s Ceremonial Office  
*Eisenhower Executive Office**

5:00 P.M. EST  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I’m meeting this afternoon with the National Black
Caucus of State Legislators.  I have met with them before.  They are
extraordinary leaders in their states and national leaders.  And we have
many important topics to discuss.   
  
But before I address what we will discuss this afternoon, I want to
thank President Billy Mitchell for your leadership, and President-Elect
Laura Hall.  It is my great honor to be with you and to do the work that
I know we will continue to do together.  
  
As I said when I addressed your annual leadership council, you all are
on the ground doing extraordinary work during very difficult times, in
particular over the last two years, and you continue to persevere and to
show us what we are capable of when we know what is possible.  
  
I do want to take a moment to address two key issues that I know are at
top of mind for — for many people: That’s the issue of Ukraine and also
the Supreme Court.   
  
On the issue of Ukraine, as we know, we have imposed significant costs
in response to Russia’s reinvasion of Ukraine.  And we are working
closely with our Allies and our partners in that regard.  
  
The threat of a full-scale attack on Ukraine remains.  And so we will
remain vigilant in watching what is happening there and in close
coordination with our Allies and our partners around the world.   
  
If Russia goes further, we will impose more costs, which will continue
to be swift and severe.  
  
On the issue of the Supreme Court of the United States, the President of
the United States will announce soon a most eminently qualified,
extraordinary lawyer and jurist who will have a record of excellence and
who will happen to be a Black woman to be the next justice on the United
States Supreme Court.  And she will be, without any question —
(applause) — without any question, she will be the first, but not the
last.  
  
So, with that, let me say to this august group of leaders that I fully
appreciate — the President sends his greetings — for all the work that
you do every day.  
  
One of the areas that I know you are focused on and have been is the
issue of voting rights.  And so that’s a subject that I’ll address
briefly, and then we can discuss about in more detail.   
  
As we know, we are, at this moment, faced with probably an unprecedented
fight to preserve and protect the right for all people who are eligible
to vote to be able to vote unencumbered.   
  
We are also looking at an unprecedented assault on the freedom to vote
in our country.  In many of your states, we have seen legislation that
has been passed or is attempted to be passed that will have as its, I
believe, direct intention the goal of making it more difficult for
people to vote — with the hope and expectation that when it is more
difficult for people to vote, people won’t vote.  
  
So, it is our collective responsibility to do everything we can to
ensure that those laws are not passed and that we speak using the full
voice given to us through the bully pulpit we have to let folks know
that they have a right and that we will fight for that right for all
eligible voters to be able to vote.  
  
We, of course, here in Washington, D.C., have fought –through our
administration and along with many of the leaders here — to pass the
John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act and the Freedom to Vote Act.   
  
Sadly and unfortunately, there were not the majority of legislators who
had the ability to pass that legislation present to weigh in.  But we
are not going to give up, because we fully realize that if we are to
comprehensively address this issue, we need federal legislation.  
  
That being said, there is still work to do at the state level, and that
is where your leadership kicks in, in a very fundamental and a very
important way.   
  
And so, I look forward to our conversation and the work we will do
together.   
  
I will tell you as a point of privilege, last night I was speaking with
the president of the National Baptist Association, the convention,
Reverend Jerry Young.  And Reverend Young said to me, “Well, you know,
I’ve got a saying.”  He said — and I told him that I was going to share
with you what he said.  And his saying is, “No vote, no voice, your
choice.”  (Laughter.)  
  
And that is a message that he is sharing through the National Baptist
Convention and through his role of leadership.  And I shared with him
that — that some of us may echo that — that same message.    
  
But with that, I want to thank again the National Black Caucus of State
Legislators for your work, for this visit, and for the work we will
continue to do together.    
  
So, thank you and welcome.  Thank you.  Thank you.  
  
5:06 P.M. EST
