---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2022-02-03'
modified_time: 2022-02-02 19:32:33-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/02/03/president-biden-announces-more-actions-to-reduce-gun-crime-and-calls-on-congress-to-fund-community-policing-and-community-violence-intervention/
published_time: 2022-02-03 05:00:00-05:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces More Actions to Reduce Gun Crime And Calls on Congress\
  \ to Fund Community Policing and Community Violence\_Intervention"
---
 
 

Today, the Biden Administration is announcing additional actions to
reduce gun crime and make communities safer. This plan builds on the
steps the President has taken since the beginning of his Administration
to stop the flow of guns being used in crimes, bolster federal, state,
and local law enforcement, invest in community-based programs that
prevent, interrupt, and reduce violence, expand opportunity, lower
recidivism, and increase funding for community policing.  
  
The President is committed to serving as a strong partner for
communities on the frontlines of the fight against crime. That’s why his
American Rescue Plan gives cities and states historic levels of funding
that they can use to put more cops on the beat, and invest in
community-based violence prevention and intervention programs.  
  
President Biden also recognizes the important role that federal law
enforcement plays in supporting their local partners – especially in
stopping the interstate flow of guns used in crimes, like the gun that
was used in the tragic recent fatal shooting of two NYPD officers. The
Department of Justice has launched five gun trafficking strike forces,
including one in New York City, and it has implemented a nationwide
[strategy to combat violent
crime](https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/attorney-general-merrick-b-garland-announces-new-effort-reduce-violent-crime),
which has focused over the past year in taking violent criminals and
thousands of crime guns off the streets.  
  
Stronger law enforcement is critical in stopping gun crime, but it’s
made more effective when we make real investments in making our
communities stronger and in addressing the causes of crime before it
spills over into violence. That’s why President Biden’s comprehensive
approach makes sure cities and states have the funding, training, and
know-how they need to invest in proven tactics including community
policing, street outreach by credible messengers, hospital-based
intervention, and youth programming. And it’s bolstered by additional
funding to create economic opportunity with job training, expand
after-school activities, and provide stable housing and other
stabilizing supports necessary to reduce recidivism and help formerly
incarcerated individuals reenter their communities. That’s also why the
President continues to urge Congress to act on his $300 million budget
request to more than double the size of the Department of Justice’s COPS
community policing grant program.  
  
Taken together, this strategy steps up and focuses law enforcement
efforts on violent offenders, stems the trafficking of illegal guns, and
makes real investments in communities to intervene in and prevent gun
violence. The President knows a complex and devastating challenge like
the surge of gun crime we’ve seen over the last two years requires an
ambitious, evidence-based response that uses every tool at our disposal,
and that’s exactly what his plan does.  
  
**The President’s Comprehensive Strategy to Reduce Gun Crime**  
  
Last June, President Biden announced a [five-part, comprehensive
strategy](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/23/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-comprehensive-strategy-to-prevent-and-respond-to-gun-crime-and-ensure-public-safety/)
to tackle the persistent spike in gun crime cities across the country
have experienced since the start of the pandemic. The President’s
strategy:

-   Stems the flow of firearms used to commit violence,
-   Supports local law enforcement with federal tools and resources to
    address violent crime,
-   Invests in evidence-based community violence interventions,
-   Expands summer programming, employment opportunities, and other
    services and supports for teenagers and young adults, and
-   Helps formerly incarcerated individuals successfully reenter their
    communities.

**New Actions to Implement the President’s Comprehensive Strategy**  
  
*Surging Efforts to Enforce Our Gun Laws and Keep Guns out of Dangerous
Hands*  
  
Today, the U.S. Department of Justice announced a set of important new
actions to stem the flow of firearms used to commit violence and support
local law enforcement partners in efforts to combat gun crime. The
Justice Department will:

-   Prioritize combating violent crime by directing every U.S.
    Attorney’s Office nationwide to increase resources dedicated to
    district-specific violent crime strategies. The Justice Department
    will work with state and local law enforcement to address the most
    significant drivers of violence in each district, including to get
    repeat gun violence offenders off of our streets.  New York City’s
    Gun Violence Strategic Partnership – which the President and
    Attorney General will visit today with Mayor Eric Adams – is one
    model of the strategies Justice will help expand nationwide.
-   Crack down on the “Iron Pipeline” – the illegal flow of guns sold in
    the south, transported up the East Coast, and found at crime scenes
    in cities from Baltimore to New York City – and other firearms
    trafficking by adding personnel and other resources to strengthen
    the Justice Department’s multijurisdictional task forces that target
    interstate firearms trafficking.
-   Launch a National Ghost Gun Enforcement Initiative, which will train
    a national cadre of prosecutors and disseminate investigation and
    prosecution tools to help bring cases against those who use ghost
    guns to commit crimes.   
-   Pursue unlawful gun sellers that put firearms in the wrong hands by
    taking steps such as prioritizing federal prosecutions of those who
    criminally sell or transfer firearms that are used in violent
    crimes, including unlicensed dealers who sell guns to criminals
    without the required background checks. 

Read more about the Justice Department’s new actions
[here](https://www.justice.gov/file/1468221/download).  
  
*Providing States and Cities with the Resources They Need to Reduce Gun
Crime*  
  
Today, the President is reaffirming his call for Congress to reach a
bipartisan agreement on FY22 appropriations that include half a billion
dollars in new funding for proven strategies we know will reduce gun
crime: a $300 million increase to expand accountable community policing
through the COPS Hiring Program and $200 million for evidence-based
community violence interventions. Facing a spike in gun crime that has
persisted since the start of the pandemic, cities across the country
cannot wait any longer for Congress to provide the resources the
President requested as part of his FY22 Budget to save lives.  
  
**Building on Progress: One Year of Action to Reduce Gun Violence**  
  
Below are a few highlights of the Administration’s work to implement the
President’s comprehensive gun crime reduction strategy over the past
seven months. You can read a full wrap-up of the Administration’s first
year of gun violence prevention work
[here](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ope/briefing-room/2021/12/14/2021-efforts-to-reduce-gun-violence/).  
  
1. Stemming the flow of firearms used to commit violence. In June 2021,
the Justice Department announced a new policy to underscore zero
tolerance for certain willful violations of the law by federally
licensed firearms dealers that put public safety at risk. In July, the
Justice Department launched five new law enforcement strike forces
focused on addressing significant firearms trafficking corridors that
have diverted guns to New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, the Bay Area, and
Washington, D.C. Those strike forces have already opened more than 540
investigations and taken custody of almost 3,100 crime guns. Last year,
the Justice Department’s Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and
Explosives (ATF) issued a proposed rule to help curb the proliferation
of “ghost guns,” which are unserialized, privately made firearms that
are increasingly being recovered at crime scenes and have been
identified by law enforcement officials as a serious threat to public
safety.  ATF is analyzing public comments in response to the proposed
rule, the next step in the regulatory process.  
  
2. Supporting local law enforcement with federal tools and resources to
address violent crime. The Biden Administration made historic levels of
funding from the American Rescue Plan – $350 billion in state and local
funding – available for law enforcement purposes such as hiring more
officers, investing in retention strategies, and paying overtime to
advancing community policing strategies in communities experiencing an
increase in gun violence associated with the pandemic. Funds were also
made available for prosecuting gun traffickers, rogue dealers, and other
parties contributing to the supply of crime guns, as well as
collaborative federal/state/local efforts to identify and address gun
trafficking channels. Cities across the country, such as Milwaukee,
Wisconsin; Albuquerque, New Mexico; Syracuse, New York; and Mobile,
Alabama, have responded to this call by committing and deploying ARP
funds to community-oriented policing and other law enforcement
strategies. In addition, as part of the Justice Department’s
[Comprehensive Strategy for Reducing Violent
Crime](https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/attorney-general-merrick-b-garland-announces-new-effort-reduce-violent-crime),
the Justice Department has supported law enforcement in local
communities in addressing gun violence. In particular, the Justice
Department has provided enforcement support from the ATF, Federal Bureau
of Investigations (FBI), Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA), and United
States Marshals Service (USMS).   
  
3. Investing in evidence-based community violence interventions. As part
of his Build Back Better agenda, President Biden proposed $5 billion in
funding for the Department of Justice and Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention (CDC) to invest in community violence interventions –
evidence-based programs that are shown to help reduce violent
crime. While working to secure this funding, the Biden Administration is
using existing resources to expand community violence interventions. For
example, the Biden Administration made certain American Rescue Plan
(ARP) funding – $350 billion in state and local funding, and $122
billion in K-12 funding – available as unprecedented resources for CVI.
Senior White House advisors also issued a
[memo](http://cdn.cnn.com/cnn/2021/images/07/12/071221.crime.memo.pdf)
to state and local officials outlining how these elected leaders not
only can – but should – use ARP funds for CVI. Cities across the
country, such as Seattle, Washington; Buffalo, New York; and Atlanta,
Georgia – have responded to this call by committing and deploying ARP
funds for CVI. In addition, [five federal agencies made changes to 26
different
programs](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/07/fact-sheet-more-details-on-the-biden-harris-administrations-investments-in-community-violence-interventions/)
to direct vital support to community violence intervention programs as
quickly as possible. In July, senior White House staff
[established](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/16/readout-of-first-meeting-of-white-house-community-violence-intervention-collaborative/)
The White House Community Violence Intervention Collaborative, a
16-jurisdiction cohort of mayors, law enforcement, CVI experts, and
philanthropic leaders committed to using American Rescue Plan funding or
other public funding to increase investment in their community violence
intervention infrastructure. The Collaborative is spending 18 months
strengthening and scaling the jurisdictions’ community violence
intervention infrastructure to reduce gun crime and promote public
safety. National experts and federal agencies are providing training and
technical assistance to help communities assess their existing public
safety ecosystem, identify gaps, and build the capacity to expand
programming that saves lives.   
  
4. Expanding summer programming, employment opportunities, and other
services and supports for teenagers and young adults. The Biden
Administration has made historic levels of funding from the American
Rescue Plan  – $350 billion in state and local funding and $122 billion
in school funding  – available for purposes such as hiring nurses,
counselors, and social workers; providing court personnel and operations
costs to return to pre-pandemic operation levels; providing and
expanding employment services, including summer jobs for young people
and programs that provide training and work experience for formerly
incarcerated persons and other individuals who live in communities most
impacted by high levels of violence; providing and expanding summer
education and enrichment programs, including summer camp; and scaling up
wraparound services, such as housing, medical and mental health care,
trauma-informed care, substance use disorder treatment, food assistance,
and job placement services, for victims of crime, young people, formerly
incarcerated persons, and individuals and households facing economic
insecurity due to the pandemic. Cities and counties across the country,
including St. Louis, Missouri; Tucson, Arizona; and Los Angeles County,
California, have responded to this call by committing and deploying ARP
funds for these purposes.  
  
5. Helping formerly incarcerated individuals successfully reenter their
communities. On June 21 the Department of Labor awarded $85.5 million to
help formerly incarcerated adults and young people in 28 communities
transition out of the criminal justice system and connect with quality
jobs. This included $60 million for Pathway Home projects serving
adults, including beginning while participants are still incarcerated
and continuing post-release, as well as $25.5 million in Young Adult
Reentry Partnership grants to organizations serving young adults 18-24
who were previously involved with the justice system or who left high
school before graduation. The President’s FY22 budget proposal calls for
an increase in these grants, to $150 million, for reentry employment
opportunities. The Treasury and Labor Departments has provided training
and technical assistance to employers to help leverage multiple federal
resources, including the [Work Opportunity Tax
Credit](https://www.dol.gov/agencies/eta/wotc) (WOTC) and the [federal
bonding program](https://bonds4jobs.com/) to encourage employment of
formerly incarcerated persons. In FY21, the Department of Justice’s
Office of Justice Programs (OJP) provided more than $110 million in
grant awards to support adults and youth returning to their communities
after confinement. The President’s FY22 budget proposal calls for a $25
million increase for Second Chance Act programs, to further invest in
diversion and substance abuse treatment programs, enhance reentry and
rehabilitation efforts, and connect people with mental health
services.  
  
In addition, the President’s House-passed Build Back Better Act includes
$1.5 billion for grants to help formerly incarcerated individuals secure
good jobs and successfully reenter their communities. The Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law will create hundreds of thousands of good-paying jobs
that formerly incarcerated individuals will be able to access. Lastly,
in his [Executive Order on Advancing Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and
Accessibility](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/06/25/executive-order-on-diversity-equity-inclusion-and-accessibility-in-the-federal-workforce/)
President Biden directed the Office of Personnel Management to evaluate
barriers to federal employment for formerly incarcerated persons and
actions to reduce these barriers, including educating and partnering
with agencies to leverage hiring authorities to bring formerly
incarcerated individuals into federal government.

\###
