---
date: '2025-06-03'
published_time: 2025-06-03 16:56:46-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/06/adjusting-imports-of-aluminum-and-steel-into-the-united-states/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Adjusting Imports of Aluminum and Steel into the United States
---
 
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
   
A PROCLAMATION

1.  On January 11, 2018, the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary)
transmitted to me a report on the Secretary’s investigation into the
effect of imports of steel mill articles (steel articles) on the
national security of the United States under section 232 of the Trade
Expansion Act of 1962, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1862) (section 232).  The
Secretary found and advised me of his opinion that steel articles are
being imported into the United States in such quantities and under such
circumstances as to threaten to impair the national security of the
United States.

  
2.  In Proclamation 9705 of March 8, 2018 (Adjusting Imports of Steel
Into the United States), and Proclamation 9980 of January 24, 2020
(Adjusting Imports of Derivative Aluminum Articles and Derivative Steel
Articles Into the United States), I concurred with the Secretary’s
findings that steel articles, as defined in clause 1 of Proclamation
9705, and derivative steel articles, as described in clause 3 of
Proclamation 9980, are being imported into the United States in such
quantities and under such circumstances as to threaten to impair the
national security of the United States, and I decided to adjust the
imports of those steel articles and derivative steel articles by
imposing a 25 percent *ad valorem* tariff on such articles imported from
most countries.  In Proclamation 10896 of February 10, 2025 (Adjusting
Imports of Steel Into the United States), I decided to adjust the
imports of steel articles and derivative steel articles by imposing a 25
percent *ad valorem *tariff on such articles imported from all
countries.   

3.  On January 19, 2018, the Secretary transmitted to me a report on the
Secretary’s investigation into the effect of imports of aluminum
articles on the national security of the United States under section
232.  The Secretary found and advised me of his opinion that aluminum
articles are being imported into the United States in such quantities
and under such circumstances as to threaten to impair the national
security of the United States.  

4.  In Proclamation 9704 of March 8, 2018 (Adjusting Imports of Aluminum
Into the United States), and Proclamation 9980, I concurred with the
Secretary’s findings that aluminum articles, as defined in clause 1 of
Proclamation 9704, and derivative aluminum articles, as described in
clause 3 of Proclamation 9980, are being imported into the United States
in such quantities and under such circumstances as to threaten to impair
the national security of the United States, and decided to adjust the
imports of aluminum articles and derivative aluminum articles by
imposing a 10 percent *ad valorem* tariff on such articles imported from
most countries.  In Proclamation 10895 of February 10, 2025 (Adjusting
Imports of Aluminum Into the United States), I decided to adjust the
imports of aluminum articles and derivative aluminum articles by
imposing a 25 percent *ad valorem *tariff on such articles imported from
all countries.  

5\.  In Proclamation 10896 and Proclamation 10895, I instructed the
Secretary to continue to monitor imports of steel articles and
derivative steel articles, and aluminum articles and derivative aluminum
articles, respectively, and to review the status of such imports with
respect to the national security of the United States.  The Secretary
has done so and has advised me accordingly.  

6.  After considering current information newly provided by the
Secretary, among other things, I have determined that it is necessary to
increase the previously described steel and aluminum tariffs to adjust
the imports of steel and aluminum articles and their derivative articles
so that such imports will not threaten to impair the national security.
 In my judgment, the increased tariffs will more effectively counter
foreign countries that continue to offload low-priced, excess steel and
aluminum in the United States market and thereby undercut the
competitiveness of the United States steel and aluminum industries. 
Although the previously imposed steel and aluminum tariffs have helped
provide critical price support in the United States market, they have
not yet enabled these industries to develop and maintain the rates of
capacity production utilization that are necessary for the industries’
sustained health and for projected national defense needs.  I have
determined that increasing the previously imposed tariffs will provide
greater support to these industries and reduce or eliminate the national
security threat posed by imports of steel and aluminum articles and
their derivative articles.    

7\.  Accordingly, I have determined that it is necessary and appropriate
to increase the tariff rate for imports of steel articles and derivative
steel articles, and aluminum articles and derivative aluminum articles,
from 25 percent *ad valorem* to 50 percent *ad valorem* effective as of
12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on June 4, 2025.  I have also
determined that it is necessary and appropriate to modify the way in
which the tariff measures described in Executive Order 14289 of April
29, 2025 (Addressing Certain Tariffs on Imported Articles), apply to
steel articles and derivative steel articles, and aluminum articles and
derivative aluminum articles, to ensure the effectiveness of the tariff
changes described in this proclamation and the alignment of policy
priorities between this proclamation and Executive Order 14289.  I have
further determined that it is necessary and appropriate to allow for the
implementation of the U.S.-UK Economic Prosperity Deal of May 8, 2025
(EPD), and to accordingly provide different treatment, as described
below, for imports of steel and aluminum articles, and their
derivatives, from the United Kingdom.    

8.  Section 232 authorizes the President to adjust the imports of an
article and its derivatives that are being imported into the United
States in such quantities or under such circumstances as to threaten to
impair the national security.  

9.  Section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2483),
authorizes the President to embody in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of
the United States (HTSUS) the substance of statutes affecting import
treatment, and actions thereunder, including the removal, modification,
continuance, or imposition of any rate of duty or other import
restriction.  

Now, Therefore, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws
of the United States of America, including section 232; the
International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq*.);
section 301 of title 3, United States Code; and section 604 of the Trade
Act of 1974, as amended, do hereby proclaim as follows:  
(1)  As set forth in Annexes I and II to this proclamation, as of 12:01
a.m. eastern daylight time on June 4, 2025, the tariffs proclaimed by
Proclamation 9704, as amended; Proclamation 9705, as amended;
Proclamation 9980, as amended; Proclamation 10895; and Proclamation
10896 are modified to increase the respective tariff rates from an
additional 25 percent *ad valorem* to an additional 50 percent *ad
valorem*.   
(2)  The modifications to the HTSUS made by clause 1 of this
proclamation shall be effective with respect to goods entered for
consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after
12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on June 4, 2025, and shall continue in
effect, unless such actions are expressly reduced, modified, or
terminated.  
(3)  Any imports of articles set forth in Annex II to this proclamation
that were admitted into a United States foreign trade zone under
“privileged foreign status” as defined in 19 CFR 146.41 before 12:01
a.m. eastern daylight time on June 4, 2025, shall be subject upon entry
for consumption made on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on
June 4, 2025, to the provisions of the tariff in effect at the time of
the entry for consumption.  
(4)  Any article set forth in Annex I to this proclamation, except those
eligible for admission under “domestic status” as defined in 19 CFR
146.43, that is subject to a duty imposed by this proclamation and that
is admitted into a United States foreign trade zone on or after June 4,
2025, may be admitted only under “privileged foreign status” as defined
in 19 CFR 146.41, and will be subject upon entry for consumption to
any *ad valorem* rates of duty related to the classification under the
applicable HTSUS subheading.  
(5)  Effective as of 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on June 4, 2025,
Executive Order 14289 is amended by revising section 3(a)(ii) to read
as follows:  “(ii) An article subject to tariffs pursuant to the actions
listed in section 2(d) or 2(e) of this order shall not be subject to
additional tariffs on that article pursuant to the actions listed in
section 2(b) or 2(c) of this order.”  As set forth in Annex III of this
proclamation, this amendment shall be effective with respect to goods
entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on
or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on June 4, 2025, and shall
continue in effect, unless such actions are expressly reduced, modified,
or terminated.  
(6)  Notwithstanding any prior proclamation or Executive Order, the
non-aluminum, non-steel content of all aluminum and steel articles and
derivative articles shall be subject to tariffs pursuant to Executive
Order 14257 of April 2, 2025 (Regulating Imports With a Reciprocal
Tariff To Rectify Trade Practices That Contribute to Large and
Persistent Annual United States Goods Trade Deficits), as amended, and
any other applicable tariffs.  The additional *ad valorem* duties
described in clause 1 and clause 7 of this proclamation shall apply only
to the steel content of articles in Chapter 73 of the HTSUS and only to
the aluminum content of articles in Chapter 76 of the HTSUS.  U.S.
Customs and Border Protection (CBP) shall issue authoritative guidance
mandating strict compliance with declaration requirements for steel and
aluminum content in imported articles and outlining maximum penalties
for noncompliance, including that importers who submit underreported
declarations may be subject to severe consequences, including but not
limited to significant monetary penalties, loss of import privileges,
and criminal liability, consistent with United States law.  
(7) Notwithstanding clause 1 of this proclamation, the applicable rates
of duty for articles of the United Kingdom that would otherwise be
applicable pursuant to Proclamation 9704, as amended; Proclamation 9705,
as amended; Proclamation 9980, as amended; Proclamation 10895; and
Proclamation 10896 shall remain at 25 percent *ad valorem*.  On or after
July 9, 2025, the Secretary may adjust the applicable rates of duty and
construct import quotas for steel and aluminum consistent with the terms
of the EPD, or he may increase the applicable rates of duty to 50
percent if he determines that the United Kingdom has not complied with
relevant aspects of the EPD.   
(8)  The Secretary shall continue to monitor imports of the articles and
derivative articles described in Annexes I and II to this proclamation,
and shall, from time to time, in consultation with any senior executive
branch officials the Secretary deems appropriate, review the status of
such imports with respect to the national security of the United States.
 The Secretary shall inform the President of any circumstances that, in
the Secretary’s opinion, might indicate the need for further action by
the President under section 232.  The Secretary shall also inform the
President of any circumstances that, in the Secretary’s opinion, might
indicate that the duty rate provided for in this proclamation, or any
proclamation issued pursuant thereto, is no longer necessary.  
(9)  No drawback shall be available with respect to the duties imposed
pursuant to this proclamation.  
(10)  The Secretary may issue regulations and guidance consistent with
this proclamation, including to address operational necessity.  
(11)  The Secretary, in consultation with the United States
International Trade Commission and CBP, shall determine whether any
modifications to the HTSUS are necessary to effectuate this proclamation
and may make such modifications through notice in the *Federal
Register* if needed.  
(12)  CBP may take any necessary or appropriate measures to administer
the tariffs imposed by this proclamation.  
(13)  Any provision of previous proclamations and Executive Orders that
is inconsistent with the actions taken in this proclamation is
superseded to the extent of such inconsistency.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
third day of June, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.  
  
  
  
                               DONALD J. TRUMP
