---
date: '2025-06-06'
modified_time: 2025-06-06 17:15:11-04:00
published_time: 2025-06-06 17:13:40-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/06/sustaining-select-efforts-to-strengthen-the-nations-cybersecurity-and-amending-executive-order-13694-and-executive-order-14144/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Sustaining Select Efforts to Strengthen the Nation\u2019s Cybersecurity and\
  \ Amending Executive Order 13694 and Executive Order 14144"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including the International
Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq*.), the National
Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq*.), section 212(f) of the
Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section
301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered:

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section</span>
<span style="text-decoration: underline">1</span>. 
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Amendments to Executive Order
14144</span>.  Executive Order 14144 of January 16, 2025 (Strengthening
and Promoting Innovation in the Nation’s Cybersecurity), is hereby
amended by:

(a)  striking subsections 2(a)-(b) and redesignating subsections 2(c),
2(d), and 2(e) as subsections 2(a), 2(b), and 2(c), respectively;

(b)  striking the first sentence of subsection 2(e);

(c)  striking subsections 3(a)-(b) and redesignating subsections 3(c),
3(d), and 3(e) as subsections 3(a), 3(b), and 3(c), respectively;

(d)  striking from subsection 3(c) the phrase “In Executive Order 14028,
I directed the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Homeland
Security to establish procedures to immediately share threat information
to strengthen the collective defense of Department of Defense and
civilian networks.”;

(e)  striking from subsection 3(c)(i)(A) the word “novel”;

(f)  striking subsection 4(b)(iv);

(g)  striking subsections 4(d)(ii)-(iii);

(h)  striking section 5 and redesignating sections 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, and
11 as sections 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10, respectively; and

(i)  striking from subsection 8(c) the phrase “in the areas of intrusion
detection, use of hardware roots of trust for secure booting, and
development and deployment of security patches.”.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">2</span>. 
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Further Amendments to Executive
Order 14144</span>.  Executive Order 14144 is hereby amended by:

(a)  striking section 1 and inserting, in lieu thereof, the following:

“Section 1.  Policy.  Foreign nations and criminals continue to conduct
cyber campaigns targeting the United States and Americans.  The People’s
Republic of China presents the most active and persistent cyber threat
to United States Government, private sector, and critical infrastructure
networks, but significant threats also emanate from Russia, Iran, North
Korea, and others who undermine United States cybersecurity.  These
campaigns disrupt the delivery of critical services across the Nation,
cost billions of dollars, and undermine Americans’ security and privacy.
 More must be done to improve the Nation’s cybersecurity against these
threats.  I am ordering additional actions to improve our Nation’s
cybersecurity, focusing on defending our digital infrastructure,
securing the services and capabilities most vital to the digital domain,
and building our capability to address key threats.”;

(b)  striking subsection 2(c) and inserting, in lieu thereof, the
following:

“(c)  Relevant executive departments and agencies (agencies) shall take
the following actions:

(i)    By August 1, 2025, the Secretary of Commerce, acting through the
Director of NIST, shall establish a consortium with industry at the
National Cybersecurity Center of Excellence to develop guidance,
informed by the consortium as appropriate, that demonstrates the
implementation of secure software development, security, and operations
practices based on NIST Special Publication 800–218 (*Secure Software
Development Framework* (SSDF)).

(ii)   By September 2, 2025, the Secretary of Commerce, acting through
the Director of NIST, shall update NIST Special Publication 800–53
(*Security and Privacy Controls for Information Systems and
Organizations*) to provide guidance on how to securely and reliably
deploy patches and updates.

(iii)  By December 1, 2025, the Secretary of Commerce, acting through
the Director of NIST, in consultation with the heads of such agencies as
the Director of NIST deems appropriate, shall develop and publish a
preliminary update to the SSDF.  This preliminary update shall include
practices, procedures, controls, and implementation examples regarding
the secure and reliable development and delivery of software as well as
the security of the software itself.  Within 120 days of publishing the
preliminary update, the Secretary of Commerce, acting through the
Director of NIST, shall publish a final version of the updated SSDF.”;

(c)  striking from subsection 4(b) the phrase “The security of Internet
traffic depends on data being correctly routed and delivered to the
intended recipient network.  Routing information originated and
propagated across the Internet, utilizing the Border Gateway Protocol
(BGP), is vulnerable to attack and misconfiguration.” and inserting, in
lieu thereof, the following:

“Relevant agencies shall take the following actions:”;

(d)  striking subsection 4(f) and inserting, in lieu thereof, the
following:

“(f)  A quantum computer of sufficient size and sophistication —  also
known as a cryptanalytically relevant quantum computer (CRQC) —  will be
capable of breaking much of the public-key cryptography used on digital
systems across the United States and around the world.  National
Security Memorandum 10 of May 4, 2022 (Promoting United States
Leadership in Quantum Computing While Mitigating Risks to Vulnerable
Cryptographic Systems), directed the Federal Government to prepare for a
transition to cryptographic algorithms that would not be vulnerable to a
CRQC.

(i)   By December 1, 2025, the Secretary of Homeland Security, acting
through the Director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security
Agency (CISA), and in consultation with the Director of the National
Security Agency, shall release and thereafter regularly update a list of
product categories in which products that support post-quantum
cryptography (PQC) are widely available.

(ii)  By December 1, 2025, to prepare for transition to PQC, the
Director of the National Security Agency with respect to National
Security Systems (NSS), and the Director of OMB with respect to non-NSS,
shall each issue requirements for agencies to support, as soon as
practicable, but not later than January 2, 2030, Transport Layer
Security protocol version 1.3 or a successor version.”;

(e)  striking former section 6 (newly designated section 5) and
inserting, in lieu thereof, the following:

“Sec. 5.  Promoting Security with and in Artificial Intelligence.
 Artificial intelligence (AI) has the potential to transform cyber
defense by rapidly identifying vulnerabilities, increasing the scale of
threat detection techniques, and automating cyber defense.

(a)  By November 1, 2025, the Secretary of Commerce, acting through the
Director of NIST; the Secretary of Energy; the Secretary of Homeland
Security, acting through the Under Secretary for Science and Technology;
and the Director of the National Science Foundation shall ensure that
existing datasets for cyber defense research have been made accessible
to the broader academic research community (either securely or publicly)
to the maximum extent feasible, in consideration of business
confidentiality and national security.

(b)  By November 1, 2025, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of
Homeland Security, and the Director of National Intelligence, in
coordination with appropriate officials within the Executive Office of
the President, to include officials within the Office of Science and
Technology Policy, the Office of the National Cyber Director, and the
Director of OMB, shall incorporate management of AI software
vulnerabilities and compromises into their respective agencies’ existing
processes and interagency coordination mechanisms for vulnerability
management, including through incident tracking, response, and
reporting, and by sharing indicators of compromise for AI systems.”;

(f)  striking section 7 and inserting, in lieu thereof, the following:

“Sec. 7.  Aligning Policy to Practice.  Agencies’ policies must align
investments and priorities to improve network visibility and security
controls to reduce cyber risks.  In consultation with the National Cyber
Director, agencies shall take the following actions:

(a)  Within 3 years of the date of this order, the Director of OMB shall
issue guidance, including any necessary revision to OMB Circular A–130,
to address critical risks and adapt modern practices and architectures
across Federal information systems and networks.

(b)  Within 1 year of the date of this order, the Secretary of Commerce,
acting through the Director of NIST; the Secretary of Homeland Security,
acting through the Director of CISA; and the Director of OMB shall
establish a pilot program of a rules-as- code approach for
machine-readable versions of policy and guidance that OMB, NIST, and
CISA publish and manage regarding cybersecurity.

(c)  Within 1 year of the date of this order, agency members of the FAR
Council shall, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law,
jointly take steps to amend the FAR to adopt requirements for agencies
to, by January 4, 2027, require vendors to the Federal Government of
consumer Internet-of-Things products, as defined by 47 CFR 8.203(b), to
carry United States Cyber Trust Mark labeling for those products.”; and

(g)  striking subsection 8(a) and inserting, in lieu thereof, the
following:

“(a)  Except as specifically provided for in subsection 4(f) of this
order, sections 1 through 7 of this order shall not apply to Federal
information systems that are NSS or are otherwise identified by the
Department of Defense or the Intelligence Community as debilitating
impact systems.”.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">3</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Amendments to Executive Order
13694</span>.  Executive Order 13694 of April 1, 2015 (Blocking the
Property of Certain Persons Engaging in Significant Malicious
Cyber-Enabled Activities), as amended by Executive Order 13757 of
December 28, 2016 (Taking Additional Steps to Address the National
Emergency With Respect to Significant Malicious Cyber-Enabled
Activities), Executive Order 13984 of January 19, 2021 (Taking
Additional Steps to Address the National Emergency With Respect to
Significant Malicious Cyber-Enabled Activities), and Executive Order
14144, is hereby further amended by:

(a)  striking from subsection 1(a)(ii) the phrase “any person” and
inserting in lieu thereof “any foreign person”; and

(b)  striking from subsection 1(a)(iii) the phrase “any person” and
inserting in lieu thereof “any foreign person.”.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">4</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">General Provisions</span>.
 (a)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise
affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of OMB relating to budgetary,
administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented in a manner consistent with
applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

\(d\)  The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by the
Department of Homeland Security.

                             DONALD J. TRUMP

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    June 6, 2025.
