---
date: '2025-06-13'
published_time: 2025-06-13 17:44:42-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/06/250th-anniversary-of-the-founding-of-the-united-states-army/
tags: presidential-actions
title: 250th Anniversary of the Founding of the United States Army
---
 
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
   
A PROCLAMATION

 On June 14, 1775, the sword and shield of our Republic were forged when
the Second Continental Congress voted to establish what would later
become the United States Army.  Today, our Nation proudly celebrates 250
years of our Army’s strength, service, valor, and discipline.  We honor
its heroic legacy as the guardian of our sovereignty and our fortress
against tyranny — and we pay tribute to the millions of warriors who
live by the motto:  This We’ll Defend.  

Following the first shots of the Revolutionary War at Lexington and
Concord on April 19, 1775, it became clear to the patriots that —
despite their persistent efforts for peace — war against the British was
necessary as a final recourse in defense of their freedom.  In the wake
of the Boston Massacre, the Intolerable Acts, and the enduring injustice
of taxation without representation, they established the First
Continental Congress in the fall of 1774 to formally address their
grievances.  After dozens of patriots perished at Lexington and Concord,
the Colonies reconvened — and by June 14, the delegates had decided that
there was only one path forward.  

On that spring day, in a momentous act of unity and resolve, the
Congress passed a resolution to formally establish the instrument of our
national defense in the form of the Continental Army.  “Resolved, that
six companies of expert riflemen, be immediately raised in Pennsylvania,
two in Maryland, and two in Virginia” the resolution reads.  

With the passing of that fateful resolution, the scattered militias of
the American Colonies banded together as a single force — boldly
declaring that they would never waver in defense of their liberty and
their home.  The next day, George Washington was unanimously appointed
as the Continental Army’s Commander-in-Chief.  Weeks later, on July 3,
1775, he took charge of his Army in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  “It is
hoped that all Distinctions of Colonies will be laid aside so that one
and the same Spirit may animate the whole, and the only Contest be, who
shall render, on this great and trying occasion, the most essential
service to the Great and common cause in which we are all engaged,” he
wrote.  

In the days, weeks, and years that followed, that very same Army shocked
the Redcoats at Trenton and Princeton, won their first great victory at
Saratoga, secured the cause of independence at Yorktown, preserved the
Union at Gettysburg, held the line at Chateau-Thierry, stormed the
bloody beaches of Normandy, and to this day, gallantly defends our
inheritance of freedom against every foe with unmatched tenacity,
courage, and strength.  What was first formed as a ragtag army of
farmers, frontiersmen, blacksmiths, and merchants now stands as the most
dominant military force ever born of human will — guided by the promise
to support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all
enemies, foreign and domestic.  

To ensure our Army’s storied legacy continues well into the future, as
President, I have purged the sinister ideology of “Diversity, Equity,
and Inclusion” from the ranks of our military.  I directed the
Department of Defense to update its guidance regarding transgender —
identifying medical standards to ensure our military remains the most
lethal in the world.  In a long overdue redress of injustice,
I reinstated American service members who were dismissed for refusing
the COVID vaccine, with full back pay and benefits.  Every day, I am
restoring a foreign policy of peace through strength — and as a result,
military recruitment is soaring to historic highs.  Under my leadership,
the United States military will remain the mightiest, fiercest, boldest,
and most revered in the entire world.  

On this 250th anniversary of the founding of the United States Army, we
pay tribute to every legend of liberty who sacrificed their life to keep
America safe, sovereign, and free.  As my Administration continues the
work of protecting our homeland and upholding our way of life, we
proudly summon the spirit, confidence, and resolve of the intrepid men
who won our independence on the battlefield 250 years ago — and we vow
that their legacy of courage will never perish, and that our sacred
birthright of freedom will never, ever die.  

NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim June 14, 2025, as a
day in commemoration of the 250th anniversary of the founding of the
United States Army.  This We’ll Defend.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
thirteenth day of June, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-five, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-ninth.  
   
   
   
                               DONALD J. TRUMP
