---
date: '2025-06-04'
modified_time: 2025-06-04 19:58:58-04:00
published_time: 2025-06-04 19:58:54-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/06/enhancing-national-security-by-addressing-risks-at-harvard-university/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Enhancing National Security by Addressing Risks at Harvard University
---
 
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
   
A PROCLAMATION

Admission into the United States to attend, conduct research, or teach
at our Nation’s institutions of higher education is a privilege granted
by our Government, not a guarantee.  That privilege is necessarily tied
to the host institution’s compliance and commitment to following Federal
law.  Harvard University has failed in this respect, among many others.

The Student Exchange Visa Program (SEVP) depends fundamentally on
academic institutions’ good faith, transparency, and full adherence to
the relevant regulatory frameworks.  This is for crucial
national-security reasons.  The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)
has long warned that foreign adversaries and competitors take advantage
of easy access to American higher education to, among other things,
steal technical information and products, exploit expensive research and
development to advance their own ambitions, and spread false information
for political or other reasons.  Our adversaries, including the People’s
Republic of China, try to take advantage of American higher education by
exploiting the student visa program for improper purposes and by using
visiting students to collect information at elite universities in the
United States.

Protecting our national security requires host institutions of foreign
students to provide sufficient information, when asked, to enable the
Federal Government to identify and address misconduct by those foreign
students.  In my judgment, it presents an unacceptable risk to our
Nation’s security for an academic institution to refuse to provide
sufficient information, when asked, about known instances of misconduct
and criminality committed by its foreign students.  This principle is
one reason why SEVP regulations require foreign students to obey Federal
and State criminal laws and require universities to keep records about
foreign students’ studies in the United States — including records
relating to criminal activity by foreign students and resulting
disciplinary proceedings — and furnish them to the Department of
Homeland Security (DHS) on request.

Crime rates at Harvard University — including violent crime rates — have
drastically risen in recent years.  Harvard has failed to discipline at
least some categories of conduct violations on campus.  Given these
facts, it is imperative, in my judgment, that the Federal Government be
able to assess and, if necessary, address misconduct and crimes
committed by foreign students at Harvard.

Despite the risks described above, Harvard University has refused the
recent requests of the DHS for information about foreign students’
“known illegal activity,” “known dangerous and violent activity,” “known
threats to other students or university personnel,” “known deprivation
of rights of other classmates or university personnel,” and whether
those activities “occurred on campus,” and other related data.  Harvard
provided data on misconduct by only three students, and the data it
provided was so deficient that the DHS could not evaluate whether it
should take further actions.  Harvard’s actions show that it either is
not fully reporting its disciplinary records for foreign students or is
not seriously policing its foreign students.  In my judgment, these
actions and failures directly undermine the Federal Government’s ability
to ensure that foreign nationals admitted on student or exchange visitor
visas remain in compliance with Federal law.

These concerns have compelled the Federal Government to conclude that
Harvard University is no longer a trustworthy steward of international
student and exchange visitor programs.  When a university refuses to
uphold its legal obligations, including its recordkeeping and reporting
obligations, the consequences ripple far beyond the campus.  They
jeopardize the integrity of the entire United States student and
exchange visitor visa system, compromise national security, and embolden
other institutions to similarly disregard the rule of law.

Harvard University has also developed extensive entanglements with
foreign countries, including our adversaries.  According to The Harvard
Crimson, Harvard has received more than $150 million in total
contributions from foreign governments over the last 5 years, and over
$1 billion from foreign sources.  Over the last 10 years, Harvard has
received more than $150 million from China alone.  In exchange, Harvard
has, among other things, “repeatedly hosted and trained members of a
Chinese Communist Party paramilitary organization,” according to a probe
by the House of Representatives Select Committee on the Chinese
Communist Party.  Harvard researchers have also partnered with
China-based individuals on research that could advance China’s military
modernization, according to the same probe.

Finally, Harvard University continues to flout the civil rights of its
students and faculty, triggering multiple Federal investigations. 
Harvard’s discrimination against disfavored races in admissions was so
blatant that the Supreme Court decision ending the practice nationwide
bears Harvard’s name.  Yet even after that Supreme Court decision,
Harvard and its affiliated organizations on campus continue to deny
hardworking Americans equal opportunities.  Instead of those Americans,
Harvard admits students from non-egalitarian nations, including nations
that seek the destruction of the United States and its allies, or the
extermination of entire peoples.  It is not in the interest of the
United States to further compound Harvard’s discrimination against
non-preferred races, national origins, shared ancestries, or religions
by further reducing opportunities for American students through
excessive foreign student enrollment.

Considering these facts, I have determined that it is necessary to
restrict the entry of foreign nationals who seek to enter the United
States solely or principally to participate in a course of study at
Harvard University or in an exchange visitor program hosted by Harvard
University.  Such restrictions are authorized under sections 212(f) and
215(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), 8 U.S.C. 1182(f)
and 1185(a), which authorize the President to suspend entry of any class
of aliens whose entry would be detrimental to the interests of the
United States.  I have determined that the entry of the class of foreign
nationals described above is detrimental to the interests of the United
States because, in my judgment, Harvard’s conduct has rendered it an
unsuitable destination for foreign students and researchers.  Until such
time as the university shares the information that the Federal
Government requires to safeguard national security and the American
public, it is in the national interest to deny foreign nationals access
to Harvard under the auspices of educational exchange.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws
of the United States of America, including sections 212(f) and 215(a) of
the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1182(f) and 1185(a), and section 301 of title 3,
United States Code, hereby find that, absent the measures set forth in
this proclamation, the entry into the United States of persons described
in section 1 of this proclamation would, except as provided for in
section 2 of this proclamation, be detrimental to the interests of the
United States, and that their entry should be subject to certain
restrictions, limitations, and exceptions.  I hereby proclaim as
follows:

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section</span>
<span style="text-decoration: underline">1</span>. 
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Suspension of Entry</span>. 
The entry of any alien into the United States as a nonimmigrant to
pursue a course of study at Harvard University under section
101(a)(15)(F) or section 101(a)(15)(M) of the INA, 8 U.S.C.
1101(a)(15)(F) or 1101(a)(15)(M), or to participate in an exchange
visitor program hosted by Harvard University under section 101(a)(15)(J)
of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(J), is suspended and limited, subject
to section 2 of this proclamation.  That suspension and limitation shall
expire, absent extension, 6 months after the date of this proclamation.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">2</span>. 
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Scope and Implementation of
Suspension and Limitation on Entry</span>.  (a)  The suspension and
limitation on entry pursuant to section 1 of this proclamation shall
apply to aliens who enter or attempt to enter the United States to begin
attending Harvard University through the SEVP after the date of this
proclamation.

(b)  The Secretary of State shall consider, in the Secretary’s
discretion, whether foreign nationals who currently attend Harvard
University and are in the United States pursuant to F, M, or J visas and
who otherwise meet the criteria described in section 1 of this
proclamation should have their visas revoked pursuant to section 221(i)
of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1201(i).

(c)  The suspension and limitation on entry pursuant to section 1 of
this proclamation shall not apply to any alien who enters the United
States to attend other universities through the SEVP.

(d)  The suspension and limitation on entry pursuant to section 1 of
this proclamation shall not apply to any alien whose entry would be in
the national interest, as determined by the Secretary of State, the
Secretary of Homeland Security, or their respective designees.

(e)  No later than 90 days after the date of this proclamation, the
Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall jointly
submit to the President, through the Assistant to the President for
National Security Affairs, a recommendation on whether an extension or
renewal of the suspension and limitation on entry in section 1 of this
proclamation is in the interests of the United States.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">3</span>. 
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Operational Action to Implement
this Order</span>.  The Secretary of State, the Attorney General, and
the Secretary of Homeland Security shall coordinate to take all
necessary and appropriate action to implement this proclamation.  The
Secretary of State, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Homeland
Security shall also consider using their respective authorities under
the INA to impose limitations on Harvard University’s ability to
participate in the SEVP and the Student and Exchange Visitor Information
System.  Any such actions should include an exception for any alien
whose entry would be in the national interest, as determined by the
Secretary of State, the Secretary of Homeland Security, or their
respective designees.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">4</span>. 
<span style="text-decoration: underline">General Provisions</span>.  (a)
 Nothing in this proclamation shall be construed to impair or otherwise
affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This proclamation shall be implemented consistent with applicable
law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This proclamation is not intended to, and does not, create any
right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in
equity by any party against the United States, its departments,
agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other
person.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fourth day of June,
in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                             DONALD J. TRUMP
