---
date: '2025-06-04'
published_time: 2025-06-04 19:39:42-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/06/restricting-the-entry-of-foreign-nationals-to-protect-the-united-states-from-foreign-terrorists-and-other-national-security-and-public-safety-threats/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Restricting The Entry of Foreign Nationals to Protect the United States from
  Foreign Terrorists and Other National Security and Public Safety Threats
---
 
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
   
A PROCLAMATION

During my first Administration, I restricted the entry of foreign
nationals into the United States, which successfully prevented national
security threats from reaching our borders and which the Supreme Court
upheld.  In Executive Order 14161 of January 20, 2025 (Protecting the
United States From Foreign Terrorists and Other National Security and
Public Safety Threats), I stated that it is the policy of the United
States to protect its citizens from aliens who intend to commit
terrorist attacks, threaten our national security, espouse hateful
ideology, or otherwise exploit the immigration laws for malevolent
purposes. 

I also stated that the United States must be vigilant during the
visa-issuance process to ensure that those aliens approved for admission
into the United States do not intend to harm Americans or our national
interests.  More importantly, the United States must identify such
aliens before their admission or entry into the United States.  The
United States must ensure that admitted aliens and aliens otherwise
already present in the United States do not bear hostile attitudes
toward its citizens, culture, government, institutions, or founding
principles, and do not advocate for, aid, or support designated foreign
terrorists or other threats to our national security.

I directed the Secretary of State, in coordination with the Attorney
General, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Director of
National Intelligence, to identify countries throughout the world for
which vetting and screening information is so deficient as to warrant a
full or partial suspension on the admission of nationals from those
countries pursuant to section 212(f) of the Immigration and Nationality
Act (INA), 8 U.S.C. 1182(f).  After completing that process, the
Secretary of State determined that a number of countries remain
deficient with regards to screening and vetting.  Many of these
countries have also taken advantage of the United States in their
exploitation of our visa system and their historic failure to accept
back their removable nationals. 

As President, I must act to protect the national security and national
interest of the United States and its people.  I remain committed to
engaging with those countries willing to cooperate to improve
information-sharing and identity-management procedures, and to address
both terrorism-related and public-safety risks.  Nationals of some
countries also pose significant risks of overstaying their visas in the
United States, which increases burdens on immigration and law
enforcement components of the United States, and often exacerbates other
risks related to national security and public safety.

Some of the countries with inadequacies face significant challenges to
reform efforts.  Others have made important improvements to their
protocols and procedures, and I commend them for these efforts.  But
until countries with identified inadequacies address them, members of my
Cabinet have recommended certain conditional restrictions and
limitations.  I have considered and largely accepted those
recommendations and impose the limitations set forth below on the entry
into the United States by the classes of foreign nationals identified in
sections 2 and 3 of this proclamation.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws
of the United States of America, including sections 212(f) and 215(a) of
the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1182(f) and 1185(a), and section 301 of title 3,
United States Code, hereby find that, absent the measures set forth in
this proclamation, the immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United
States of persons described in sections 2 and 3 of this proclamation
would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, and that
their entry should be subject to certain restrictions, limitations, and
exceptions.  I therefore hereby proclaim the following:

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section</span>
<span style="text-decoration: underline">1</span>. 
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Policy and Purpose</span>.  (a)
 It is the policy of the United States to protect its citizens from
terrorist attacks and other national security or public-safety threats. 
Screening and vetting protocols and procedures associated with visa
adjudications and other immigration processes play a critical role in
implementing that policy.  These protocols enhance our ability to detect
foreign nationals who may commit, aid, or support acts of terrorism, or
otherwise pose a safety threat, and they aid our efforts to prevent such
individuals from entering the United States.

\(b\)  Information-sharing and identity-management protocols and
practices of foreign governments are important for the effectiveness of
the screening and vetting protocols and procedures of the United States.
 Governments manage the identity and travel documents of their nationals
and residents. They also control the circumstances under which they
provide information about their nationals to other governments,
including information about known or suspected terrorists and
criminal-history information.  It is, therefore, the policy of the
United States to take all necessary and appropriate steps to encourage
foreign governments to improve their information-sharing and
identity-management protocols and practices and to regularly share their
identity and threat information with the immigration screening and
vetting systems of the United States.

\(c\)  Section 2(b) of Executive Order 14161 directed the Secretary of
State, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the
Director of National Intelligence, within 60 days of the date of that
order, to jointly submit to the President, through the Assistant to the
President for Homeland Security, a report identifying countries
throughout the world for which vetting and screening information is so
deficient as to warrant a full or partial suspension on the entry or
admission of nationals from those countries pursuant to section 212(f)
of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)).

\(d\)  On April 9, 2025, the Secretary of State, with the Assistant to
the President for Homeland Security, presented the report described in
subsection (c) of this section, recommending that entry restrictions and
limitations be placed on foreign nationals of several countries.  The
report identified countries for which vetting and screening information
is so deficient as to warrant a full suspension of admissions and
countries that warrant a partial suspension of admission.

\(e\)  In evaluating the recommendations from the Secretary of State and
in determining what restrictions to impose for each country, I consulted
with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, the Attorney
General, the Secretary of Homeland Security, appropriate Assistants to
the President, the Director of National Intelligence, and the Director
of the Central Intelligence Agency.  I considered foreign policy,
national security, and counterterrorism goals.  And I further considered
various factors, including each country’s screening and vetting
capabilities, information sharing policies, and country-specific risk
factors — including whether each country has a significant terrorist
presence within its territory, its visa-overstay rate, and its
cooperation with accepting back its removable nationals. 

I also considered the different risks posed by aliens admitted on
immigrant visas and those admitted on nonimmigrant visas.  Persons
admitted on immigrant visas become lawful permanent residents of the
United States.  Such persons may present national security or
public-safety concerns that may be distinct from those admitted as
nonimmigrants.  The United States affords lawful permanent residents
more enduring rights than it does to nonimmigrants.  Lawful permanent
residents are more difficult to remove than nonimmigrants, even after
national security concerns arise, which increases the costs and
aggravates the dangers of errors associated with admitting such
individuals.  And although immigrants are generally subject to more
extensive vetting than nonimmigrants, such vetting is far less reliable
when the country from which someone seeks to emigrate maintains
inadequate identity-management or information-sharing policies or
otherwise poses risks to the national security of the United States.

I reviewed these factors and assessed these goals, with a particular
focus on crafting country-specific restrictions.  This approach was
designed to encourage cooperation with the subject countries in
recognition of each country’s unique circumstances.  The restrictions
and limitations imposed by this proclamation are, in my judgment,
necessary to prevent the entry or admission of foreign nationals about
whom the United States Government lacks sufficient information to assess
the risks they pose to the United States.  The restrictions and
limitations imposed by this proclamation are necessary to garner
cooperation from foreign governments, enforce our immigration laws, and
advance other important foreign policy, national security, and
counterterrorism objectives.

\(f\)  After reviewing the report described in subsection (d) of this
section, and after accounting for the foreign policy, national security,
and counterterrorism objectives of the United States, I have determined
to fully restrict and limit the entry of nationals of the following 12
countries:  Afghanistan, Burma, Chad, Republic of the Congo, Equatorial
Guinea, Eritrea, Haiti, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, and Yemen.  These
restrictions distinguish between, but apply to both, the entry of
immigrants and nonimmigrants.

\(g\)  I have determined to partially restrict and limit the entry of
nationals of the following 7 countries:  Burundi, Cuba, Laos, Sierra
Leone, Togo, Turkmenistan, and Venezuela.  These restrictions
distinguish between, but apply to both, the entry of immigrants and
nonimmigrants. 

\(h\)  Sections 2 and 3 of this proclamation describe some of the
identity-management or information-sharing inadequacies that led me to
impose restrictions.  These inadequacies are sufficient to justify my
finding that unrestricted entry of nationals from the named countries
would be detrimental to the interests of the United States.  Publicly
disclosing additional details on which I relied in making these
determinations, however, would cause serious damage to the national
security of the United States, and many such details are classified.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">2</span>. 
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Full Suspension of Entry for
Nationals of Countries of Identified Concern</span>.  The entry into the
United States of nationals of the following countries is hereby
suspended and limited, as follows, subject to the categorical exceptions
and case-by-case waivers described in section 5 of this proclamation:

\(a\)  *Afghanistan*

\(i\)   The Taliban, a Specially Designated Global Terrorist (SDGT)
group, controls Afghanistan.  Afghanistan lacks a competent or
cooperative central authority for issuing passports or civil documents
and it does not have appropriate screening and vetting measures. 
According to the Fiscal Year 2023 Department of Homeland Security (DHS)
Entry/Exit Overstay Report (“Overstay Report”), Afghanistan had
a business/tourist (B-1/B-2) visa overstay rate of 9.70 percent and a
student (F), vocational (M), and exchange visitor (J) visa overstay rate
of 29.30 percent.

\(ii\)  The entry into the United States of nationals of Afghanistan as
immigrants and nonimmigrants is hereby fully suspended.

\(b\)  *Burma*

\(i\)   According to the Overstay Report, Burma had a B‑1/B-2 visa
overstay rate of 27.07 percent and an F, M, and J visa overstay rate of
42.17 percent.  Additionally, Burma has historically not cooperated with
the United States to accept back their removable nationals.

\(ii\)  The entry into the United States of nationals of Burma as
immigrants and nonimmigrants is hereby fully suspended.

\(c\)  *Chad*

\(i\)   According to the Overstay Report, Chad had a B‑1/B-2 visa
overstay rate of 49.54 percent and an F, M, and J visa overstay rate of
55.64 percent.  According to the Fiscal Year 2022 Overstay Report, Chad
had a B-1/B-2 visa overstay rate of 37.12 percent.  The high visa
overstay rate for 2022 and 2023 is unacceptable and indicates a blatant
disregard for United States immigration laws.  

\(ii\)  The entry into the United States of nationals of Chad as
immigrants and nonimmigrants is hereby fully suspended.

\(d\)  *Republic of the Congo*

\(i\)   According to the Overstay Report, the Republic of the Congo had
a B-1/B-2 visa overstay rate of 29.63 percent and an F, M, and J visa
overstay rate of 35.14 percent.

\(ii\)  The entry into the United States of nationals of the Republic of
the Congo as immigrants and nonimmigrants is hereby fully suspended.

\(e\)  *Equatorial Guinea*

\(i\)   According to the Overstay Report, Equatorial Guinea had a
B-1/B-2 visa overstay rate of 21.98 percent and an F, M, and J visa
overstay rate of 70.18 percent.

\(ii\)  The entry into the United States of nationals of Equatorial
Guinea as immigrants and nonimmigrants is hereby fully suspended.

\(f\)  *Eritrea*

\(i\)   The United States questions the competence of the central
authority for issuance of passports or civil documents in Eritrea.
 Criminal records are not available to the United States for Eritrean
nationals.  Eritrea has historically refused to accept back its
removable nationals.  According to the Overstay Report, Eritrea had a
B-1/B-2 visa overstay rate of 20.09 percent and an F, M, and J visa
overstay rate of 55.43 percent.

\(ii\)  The entry into the United States of nationals of Eritrea as
immigrants and nonimmigrants is hereby fully suspended.

\(g\)  *Haiti*

\(i\)   According to the Overstay Report, Haiti had a B‑1/B-2 visa
overstay rate of 31.38 percent and an F, M, and J visa overstay rate of
25.05 percent.  Additionally, hundreds of thousands of illegal Haitian
aliens flooded into the United States during the Biden Administration. 
This influx harms American communities by creating acute risks of
increased overstay rates, establishment of criminal networks, and other
national security threats.  As is widely known, Haiti lacks a central
authority with sufficient availability and dissemination of law
enforcement information necessary to ensure its nationals do not
undermine the national security of the United States. 

\(ii\)  The entry into the United States of nationals of Haiti as
immigrants and nonimmigrants is hereby fully suspended.

\(h\)  *Iran*

\(i\)   Iran is a state sponsor of terrorism.  Iran regularly fails to
cooperate with the United States Government in identifying security
risks, is the source of significant terrorism around the world, and has
historically failed to accept back its removable nationals. 

\(ii\)  The entry into the United States of nationals of Iran as
immigrants and nonimmigrants is hereby suspended.

(i)  *Libya*

(i)   There is no competent or cooperative central authority for issuing
passports or civil documents in Libya.  The historical terrorist
presence within Libya’s territory amplifies the risks posed by the entry
into the United States of its nationals.

(ii)  The entry into the United States of nationals of Libya as
immigrants and nonimmigrants is hereby fully suspended.

\(j\)  *Somalia*

\(i\)   Somalia lacks a competent or cooperative central authority for
issuing passports or civil documents and it does not have appropriate
screening and vetting measures.  Somalia stands apart from other
countries in the degree to which its government lacks command and
control of its territory, which greatly limits the effectiveness of its
national capabilities in a variety of respects.  A persistent terrorist
threat also emanates from Somalia’s territory.  The United States
Government has identified Somalia as a terrorist safe haven.  Terrorists
use regions of Somalia as safe havens from which they plan, facilitate,
and conduct their operations.  Somalia also remains a destination for
individuals attempting to join terrorist groups that threaten the
national security of the United States.  The Government of Somalia
struggles to provide governance needed to limit terrorists’ freedom of
movement.  Additionally, Somalia has historically refused to accept back
its removable nationals.

\(ii\)  The entry into the United States of nationals of Somalia as
immigrants and nonimmigrants is hereby fully suspended.

\(k\)  *Sudan*

\(i\)   Sudan lacks a competent or cooperative central authority for
issuing passports or civil documents and it does not have appropriate
screening and vetting measures.  According to the Overstay Report, Sudan
had a B-1/B-2 visa overstay rate of 26.30 percent and an F, M, and J
visa overstay rate of 28.40 percent. 

\(ii\)  The entry into the United States of nationals of Sudan as
immigrants and nonimmigrants is hereby fully suspended.

\(l\)  *Yemen*

(i)   Yemen lacks a competent or cooperative central authority for
issuing passports or civil documents and it does not have appropriate
screening and vetting measures.  The government does not have physical
control over its own territory.  Since January 20, 2025, Yemen has been
the site of active United States military operations.

\(ii\)  The entry into the United States of nationals of Yemen as
immigrants and nonimmigrants is hereby fully suspended.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">3</span>. 
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Partial Suspension of Entry for
Nationals of Countries of Identified Concern</span>.

\(a\)  *Burundi*

\(i\)    According to the Overstay Report, Burundi had a B-1/B-2 visa
overstay rate of 15.35 percent and an F, M, and J visa overstay rate of
17.52 percent. 

\(ii\)   The entry into the United States of nationals of Burundi as
immigrants, and as nonimmigrants on B-1, B-2, B-1/B-2, F, M, and J
visas, is hereby suspended.

\(iii\)  Consular officers shall reduce the validity for any other
nonimmigrant visa issued to nationals of Burundi to the extent permitted
by law.

\(b\)  *Cuba*

\(i\)    Cuba is a state sponsor of terrorism.  The Government of Cuba
does not cooperate or share sufficient law enforcement information with
the United States.  Cuba has historically refused to accept back its
removable nationals.  According to the Overstay Report, Cuba had a
B-1/B-2 visa overstay rate of 7.69 percent and an F, M, and J visa
overstay rate of 18.75 percent.

\(ii\)   The entry into the United States of nationals of Cuba as
immigrants, and as nonimmigrants on B-1, B‑2, B-1/B-2, F, M, and J
visas, is hereby suspended.

\(iii\)  Consular officers shall reduce the validity for any other
nonimmigrant visa issued to nationals of Cuba to the extent permitted by
law.

\(c\)  *Laos*

\(i\)    According to the Overstay Report, Laos had a B‑1/B-2 visa
overstay rate of 34.77 percent and an F, M, and J visa overstay rate of
6.49 percent.  Laos has historically failed to accept back its removable
nationals. 

\(ii\)   The entry into the United States of nationals of Laos as
immigrants, and as nonimmigrants on B-1, B‑2, B-1/B-2, F, M, and J
visas, is hereby suspended.

\(iii\)  Consular officers shall reduce the validity for any other
nonimmigrant visa issued to nationals of Laos to the extent permitted by
law.

\(d\)  *Sierra Leone*

\(i\)    According to the Overstay Report, Sierra Leone had a B-1/B-2
visa overstay rate of 15.43 percent and an F, M, and J visa overstay
rate of 35.83 percent.  Sierra Leone has historically failed to accept
back its removable nationals. 

\(ii\)   The entry into the United States of nationals of Sierra Leone
as immigrants, and as nonimmigrants on B-1, B-2, B-1/B-2, F, M, and J
visas is hereby suspended.

\(iii\)  Consular officers shall reduce the validity for any other
nonimmigrant visa issued to nationals of Sierra Leone to the extent
permitted by law.

\(e\)  *Togo*

\(i\)    According to the Overstay Report, Togo had a B‑1/B-2 visa
overstay rate of 19.03 percent and an F, M, and J visa overstay rate of
35.05 percent. 

\(ii\)   The entry into the United States of nationals of Togo as
immigrants, and as nonimmigrants on B-1, B‑2, B-1/B-2, F, M, and J visas
is hereby suspended.

\(iii\)  Consular officers shall reduce the validity for any other
nonimmigrant visa issued to nationals of Togo to the extent permitted by
law.

\(f\)  *Turkmenistan*

\(i\)   According to the Overstay Report, Turkmenistan had a B-1/B-2
visa overstay rate of 15.35 percent and an F, M, and J visa overstay
rate of 21.74 percent. 

\(ii\)   The entry into the United States of nationals of Turkmenistan
as immigrants, and as nonimmigrants on B-1, B-2, B-1/B-2, F, M, and J
visas is hereby suspended.

\(iii\)  Consular officers shall reduce the validity for any other
nonimmigrant visa issued to nationals of Turkmenistan to the extent
permitted by law.

\(g\)  *Venezuela*

(i)    Venezuela lacks a competent or cooperative central authority for
issuing passports or civil documents and it does not have appropriate
screening and vetting measures.  Venezuela has historically refused to
accept back its removable nationals.  According to the Overstay Report,
Venezuela had a B‑1/B-2 visa overstay rate of 9.83 percent.

\(ii\)   The entry into the United States of nationals of Venezuela as
immigrants, and as nonimmigrants on B‑1, B-2, B-1/B-2, F, M, and J visas
is hereby suspended.

\(iii\)  Consular officers shall reduce the validity for any other
nonimmigrant visa issued to nationals of Venezuela to the extent
permitted by law.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">4</span>. 
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Scope and Implementation of
Suspensions and Limitations</span>*.*  (a)  *Scope.*  Subject to the
exceptions set forth in subsection (b) of this section and any
exceptions made pursuant to subsections (c) and (d) of this section, the
suspensions of and limitations on entry pursuant to sections 2 and 3 of
this proclamation shall apply only to foreign nationals of the
designated countries who:

\(i\)   are outside the United States on the applicable effective date
of this proclamation; and

\(ii\)  do not have a valid visa on the applicable effective date of
this proclamation.

\(b\)  *Exceptions*.  The suspension of and limitation on entry pursuant
to sections 2 and 3 of this proclamation shall not apply to:

\(i\)     any lawful permanent resident of the United States;

\(ii\)    any dual national of a country designated under sections 2 and
3 of this proclamation when the individual is traveling on a passport
issued by a country not so designated;

\(iii\)   any foreign national traveling with a valid nonimmigrant visa
in the following classifications:  A-1, A-2, C-2, C-3, G-1, G-2, G-3,
G-4, NATO-1, NATO‑2, NATO-3, NATO-4, NATO-5, or NATO-6;

\(iv\)    any athlete or member of an athletic team, including coaches,
persons performing a necessary support role, and immediate relatives,
traveling for the World Cup, Olympics, or other major sporting event as
determined by the Secretary of State;

\(v\)     immediate family immigrant visas (IR-1/CR-1, IR-2/CR-2, IR-5)
with clear and convincing evidence of identity and family relationship
(e.g., DNA);

\(vi\)    adoptions (IR-3, IR-4, IH-3, IH-4);

\(vii\)   Afghan Special Immigrant Visas;

\(viii\)  Special Immigrant Visas for United States Government
employees; and

\(ix\)    immigrant visas for ethnic and religious minorities facing
persecution in Iran.

\(c\)  Exceptions to the suspension of and limitation on entry pursuant
to sections 2 and 3 of this proclamation may be made for certain
individuals for whom the Attorney General finds, in her discretion, that
the travel by the individual would advance a critical United States
national interest involving the Department of Justice, including when
individuals must be present to participate in criminal proceedings as
witnesses.  These exceptions shall be made only by the Attorney General,
or her designee, in coordination with the Secretary of State and the
Secretary of Homeland Security.

\(d\)  Exceptions to the suspension of and limitation on entry pursuant
to sections 2 and 3 of this proclamation may be made case-by-case for
individuals for whom the Secretary of State finds, in his discretion,
that the travel by the individual would serve a United States national
interest.  These exceptions shall be made by only the Secretary of State
or his designee, in coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security
or her designee.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">5</span>. 
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Adjustments to and Removal of
Suspensions and Limitations</span>.  (a)  The Secretary of State shall,
in consultation with the Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland
Security, and the Director for National Intelligence, devise a process
to assess whether any suspensions and limitations imposed by sections 2
and 3 of this proclamation should be continued, terminated, modified, or
supplemented.  Within 90 days of the date of this proclamation, and
every 180 days thereafter, the Secretary of State, in consultation with
the Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the
Director of National Intelligence, shall submit a report to the
President, through the Assistant to the President for Homeland Security,
describing his assessment and recommending whether any suspensions and
limitations imposed by sections 2 and 3 of this proclamation should be
continued, terminated, modified, or supplemented.

\(b\)  The Secretary of State, in consultation with the Attorney
General, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Director of
National Intelligence, shall immediately engage each of the countries
identified in sections 2 and 3 of this proclamation on measures that
must be taken to comply with United States screening, vetting,
immigration, and security requirements.

\(c\)  Additionally, and in light of recent events, the Secretary of
State, in consultation with the Attorney General, the Secretary of
Homeland Security, and the Director of National Intelligence, shall
provide me an update to the review of the practices and procedures of
Egypt to confirm the adequacy of its current screening and vetting
capabilities.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">6</span>. 
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Enforcement</span>.  (a)  The
Secretary of State and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall consult
with appropriate domestic and international partners, including
countries and organizations, to ensure efficient, effective, and
appropriate implementation of this proclamation.

\(b\)  In implementing this proclamation, the Secretary of State and the
Secretary of Homeland Security shall comply with all applicable laws and
regulations.

\(c\)  No immigrant or nonimmigrant visa issued before the applicable
effective date of this proclamation shall be revoked pursuant to this
proclamation.

\(d\)  This proclamation shall not apply to an individual who has been
granted asylum by the United States, to a refugee who has already been
admitted to the United States, or to an individual granted withholding
of removal or protection under the Convention Against Torture and Other
Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment of Punishment (CAT).  Nothing in
this proclamation shall be construed to limit the ability of an
individual to seek asylum, refugee status, withholding of removal, or
protection under the CAT, consistent with the laws of the United States.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">7</span>. 
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Severability</span>.  It is the
policy of the United States to enforce this proclamation to the maximum
extent possible to advance the national security, foreign policy, and
counterterrorism interests of the United States.  Accordingly:

\(a\)  if any provision of this proclamation, or the application of any
provision of this proclamation to any person or circumstance, is held to
be invalid, the remainder of this proclamation and the application of
its other provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be
affected thereby; and

\(b\)  if any provision of this proclamation, or the application of any
provision of this proclamation to any person or circumstance, is held to
be invalid because of the lack of certain procedural requirements, the
relevant executive branch officials shall implement those procedural
requirements to conform with existing law and with any applicable court
orders.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">8</span>. 
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Effective Date</span>*.*  This
proclamation is effective at 12:01 am eastern daylight time on June 9,
2025.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">9</span>. 
<span style="text-decoration: underline">General Provisions</span>.  (a)
 Nothing in this proclamation shall be construed to impair or otherwise
affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This proclamation shall be implemented consistent with applicable
law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This proclamation is not intended to, and does not, create any
right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by law or in
equity by any party against the United States, its departments,
agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other
person.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fourth day of June,
in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty‑five, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                             DONALD J. TRUMP
