---
date: '2025-06-07'
modified_time: 2025-06-07 22:01:53-04:00
published_time: 2025-06-07 22:01:52-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/06/department-of-defense-security-for-the-protection-of-department-of-homeland-security-functions/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Department of Defense Security for the Protection of Department of Homeland
  Security Functions
---
 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

               THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

               THE SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY

SUBJECT:       Department of Defense Security for the Protection of
Department of Homeland Security Functions 

Numerous incidents of violence and disorder have recently occurred and
threaten to continue in response to the enforcement of Federal law by
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and other United States
Government personnel who are performing Federal functions and supporting
the faithful execution of Federal immigration laws.  In addition,
violent protests threaten the security of and significant damage to
Federal immigration detention facilities and other Federal property.  To
the extent that protests or acts of violence directly inhibit the
execution of the laws, they constitute a form of rebellion against the
authority of the Government of the United States.

In light of these incidents and credible threats of continued violence,
by the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, I hereby call into Federal service
members and units of the National Guard under 10 U.S.C. 12406 to
temporarily protect ICE and other United States Government personnel who
are performing Federal functions, including the enforcement of Federal
law, and to protect Federal property, at locations where protests
against these functions are occurring or are likely to occur based on
current threat assessments and planned operations.  Further, I direct
and delegate actions as necessary for the Secretary of Defense to
coordinate with the Governors of the States and the National Guard
Bureau in identifying and ordering into Federal service the appropriate
members and units of the National Guard under this authority.  The
members and units of the National Guard called into Federal service
shall be at least 2,000 National Guard personnel and the duration of
duty shall be for 60 days or at the discretion of the Secretary of
Defense.  In addition, the Secretary of Defense may employ any other
members of the regular Armed Forces as necessary to augment and support
the protection of Federal functions and property in any number
determined appropriate in his discretion.

To carry out this mission, the deployed military personnel may perform
those military protective activities that the Secretary of Defense
determines are reasonably necessary to ensure the protection and safety
of Federal personnel and property  The Secretary of Defense shall
consult with the Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland Security
prior to withdrawing any personnel from any location to which they are
sent.  The Secretaries of Defense and Homeland Security may delegate to
subordinate officials of their respective Departments any of the
authorities conferred upon them by this memorandum.

                               DONALD J. TRUMP
