---
date: '2025-06-09'
modified_time: 2025-06-10 11:20:17-04:00
published_time: 2025-06-09 09:23:25-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/06/presidential-permit-authorizing-green-corridors-llc-to-construct-maintain-and-operate-commercial-elevated-guideway-border-crossing-near-laredo-texas-at-the-international-boundary-between-the-us-mexico/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Presidential Permit Authorizing Green Corridors, LLC, to Construct, Maintain,
  and Operate a Commercial Elevated Guideway Border Crossing Near Laredo, Texas, at
  the International Boundary Between the United States and Mexico
---
 
By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United
States of America (the “President”), I hereby grant permission, subject
to the conditions set forth herein, to Green Corridors, LLC (the
“Permittee”), to construct, maintain, and operate a commercial elevated
guideway crossing located on the United States border with Mexico in
Laredo, Texas, as described in the “Presidential Permit Application:
Green Corridors Intelligent Freight Transportation System” dated October
3, 2024, by the Permittee to the Secretary of State and made complete
with additional information provided by the Permittee on February 14,
2025 (collectively, the “Application”), in accordance with 33 U.S.C.
535d and associated procedures.

     The term “Border facilities” as used in this permit consists of the
elevated guideway and bridge over the Rio Grande which connects inland
terminals near Monterrey, Mexico, in the state of Nuevo Leon and near
Interstate 35, north of Laredo, Texas, its approaches, and any land,
structures, installations, or equipment appurtenant thereto located on
the United States side of the international boundary between the United
States and Mexico, located just downstream from the Laredo-Colombia
Solidarity International Bridge at the connection between Texas State
Highway 255 and the Nuevo Leon State Highway Spur 1.

     This permit is subject to the following conditions:

     Article 1.  The Border facilities herein described and all aspects
of their operation are subject to all the conditions, provisions, and
requirements of this permit and any subsequent Presidential amendment to
it.  The construction, maintenance, and operation of the Border
facilities shall be in all material respects as described in the
Application.

     Article 2.  The standards for and the manner of construction,
maintenance, and operation of the Border facilities are subject to
inspection by the representatives of appropriate Federal, State, and
local agencies.  The Permittee shall grant officers and employees of
such agencies that are duly authorized and performing their official
duties free and unrestricted access to said Border facilities.

     Article 3.  The Permittee shall comply with all applicable Federal
laws and regulations regarding the construction, maintenance, and
operation of the Border facilities.

     Article 4.  (1)  The Permittee shall take or cause to be taken all
appropriate measures to mitigate adverse impacts on or disruption of the
human environment in connection with the construction, maintenance, and
operation of the Border facilities.  Mitigation measures are those that
avoid, minimize, or compensate for adverse impacts.

     (2)  The Permittee shall hold harmless and indemnify the United
States for any claimed or adjudged liability arising out of
construction, maintenance, and operation of the Border facilities,
including environmental contamination from the release, threatened
release, or discharge of hazardous substances or hazardous waste.

     (3)  The Permittee is responsible for obtaining any required
Federal, State, and local permits, approvals, and authorizations prior
to commencing construction activities.  The Permittee shall implement
the mitigation identified in any environmental decision documents
prepared in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act and
Federal permits, including stormwater permits and permits issued in
accordance with section 402 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1342). 
The Permittee shall comply with applicable Federal, State, and local
environmental laws.

     Article 5.  The Permittee shall immediately notify the President or
his designee of any decision to transfer custody and control of the
Border facilities or any part thereof to any executive department or
agency (agency) of the United States Government.  Said notice shall
identify the transferee agency and seek the approval of the President
for the transfer of the permit.  In the event of approval by the
President of such transfer, this permit shall remain in force and
effect, and the Border facilities shall be subject to all the
conditions, permissions, and requirements of this permit and any
amendments thereof.  The Permittee may transfer ownership or control of
the Border facilities to a non-Federal entity or individual only upon
the prior express approval of such transfer by the President, which
approval may include such conditions, permissions, and requirements that
the President, in the President’s discretion, determines are appropriate
and necessary for inclusion in the permit, to be effective on the date
of transfer.

     Article 6.  The Permittee is responsible for acquiring and
maintaining any right-of-way grants or easements, permits, and other
authorizations as may become necessary or appropriate.  To ensure the
safe operation of the Border facilities, the Permittee shall maintain
them and every part of them in a condition of good repair and in
compliance with applicable law and use of best management practices.

     Article 7.  To the extent authorized by law, and consistent with
any Donation Acceptance Agreements (DAAs) already executed with the
Permittee under the Donation Acceptance Authority found in 6 U.S.C. 301a
and section 559 of title V of division F of the Consolidated
Appropriations Act, 2014 (Public Law 113-76), as amended, as continued
by 6 U.S.C. 301b, the Permittee shall provide to the Commissioner of
U.S. Customs and Border Protection (Commissioner) of the Department of
Homeland Security and the heads of any other relevant agencies, at no
cost to the United States, suitable inspection facilities,
infrastructure improvements, equipment, and maintenance, as set forth in
the DAAs.  Nothing in this permit obligates such agencies to provide a
particular level of services or staffing for such inspection facilities
or for any other aspect of the port of entry associated with the Border
facilities.

     Article 8.  Before beginning design activities, the Permittee shall
fulfill requirements associated with the following conditions, as
refined by the relevant agencies below and as consistent with applicable
law:

     (1)  Provide a plan for the approval of the Commissioner detailing
how the Permittee will fund and deliver the border facilities, staffing,
vehicles, out year refresh cost and data sharing necessary for U.S.
Customs and Border Protection to implement a design-appropriate
inspections procedure and sustain it thereafter;

     (2)  Provide a plan for the approval of the Administrator of
General Services (Administrator) and the Commissioner detailing how the
Permittee will fund the necessary operations and maintenance costs for
the Border facilities upon commencement of operations and thereafter;

     (3)  Provide a plan for the approval of the Administrator and the
Commissioner detailing how the Permittee will fund construction,
outfitting (furniture, fixtures, and equipment to include information
technology and necessary inspection technologies), technology
integration, and outyear refresh of said program elements for the Border
facilities detailed in their Application; and

     (4)  Provide a plan for, and to the satisfaction of, the Secretary
of Transportation detailing the Permittee’s design, deployment,
operation, and related topics to enable the Department of Transportation
to determine the regulatory framework that will govern the Permittee’s
operations, as well as how the Permittee will ensure the necessary
funding for appropriate Department of Transportation inspection
facilities and staffing.

Relevant agencies will coordinate with the Permittee to further refine
the above conditions, as necessary, within 1 year of permit issuance.

     Article 9.  Before initiating construction, the Permittee shall
obtain the concurrence of the United States Section of the International
Boundary and Water Commissions, United States and Mexico.

     Article 10.  The Permittee shall not initiate construction until
the Department of State has provided notification to the Permittee that
the Department of State has completed its exchange of diplomatic notes
with the Government of Mexico regarding authorization.  The Permittee
shall provide written notification to the President or his designee at
the time that the construction authorized by this permit begins, at the
time as such construction is completed, interrupted, or discontinued,
and at other times as may be requested by the President.

     Article 11.  Upon request, the Permittee shall provide appropriate
information to the President or his designee with regard to the Border
facilities.  Such requests could include requests for information
concerning current conditions, environmental compliance, mitigation, or
anticipated changes in ownership or control, construction, connection,
operation, or maintenance of the Border facilities.

     Article 12.  The Permittee shall file any applicable statements and
reports required by applicable Federal law in connection with the Border
facilities.

     Article 13.  The Permittee shall make no substantial change
inconsistent with the Application to the Border facilities, in the
location of the Border facilities, or in the operation authorized by
this permit, unless such changes have been approved by the President. 
The President may terminate, revoke, or amend this permit at any time at
his sole discretion.  The Permittee’s obligation to implement any
amendment to this permit is subject to the availability of funds.  If
the Permittee permanently closes the Green Corridors Intelligent Freight
Transportation System and it is no longer used as an international
crossing, then this permit shall terminate, and the Permittee may
manage, utilize, or dispose of the Border facilities in accordance with
applicable authorities.  This permit shall continue in full force and
effect for only so long as the Permittee continues the operations hereby
authorized.

     Article 14.  This permit shall expire 5 years from the date of its
issuance if the Permittee has not commenced construction of the Border
facilities by that date.

     Article 15.  This permit is not intended to, and does not, create
any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or
in equity by any party against the United States, its departments,
agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other
person.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this 9th day of
June, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

DONALD J. TRUMP

<span id="_msocom_1"></span>
