---
date: '2025-06-13'
modified_time: 2025-06-16 17:30:17-04:00
published_time: 2025-06-13 15:48:54-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/06/presidential-permit-authorizing-the-city-of-laredo-texas-to-expand-and-continue-to-maintain-and-operate-a-vehicular-border-crossing-at-the-laredo-colombia-solidarity-international-bridge-land-port/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Presidential Permit Authorizing the City of Laredo, Texas, to Expand and Continue
  to Maintain, and Operate a Vehicular Border Crossing at the Laredo-Colombia Solidarity
  International Bridge Land Port of Entry
---
 
By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United
States of America (the “President”), I hereby grant permission, subject
to the conditions set forth herein, to the City of Laredo, Texas (the
“Permittee”), to expand and continue to maintain and operate a vehicular
crossing at the Laredo-Colombia Solidarity International Bridge Land
Port of Entry located on the United States border with Mexico in Laredo,
Texas, as described in the “Application for a Presidential Permit
Laredo-Colombia Solidarity International Bridge Expansion” dated
November 14, 2024, by the Permittee to the Secretary of State and made
complete with additional information provided by the Permittee on
February 18, 2025 (collectively, the “Application”), in accordance with
33 U.S.C. § 535d and associated procedures.

     The term “Border facilities” as used in this permit consists of the
bridge over the Rio Grande, including two new 4-lane spans for
commercial traffic parallel and adjacent to the existing Laredo-Colombia
Solidarity International Bridge land port of entry, its approaches, and
any land, structures, installations, or equipment appurtenant thereto
located in Laredo, Texas on the United States side of the international
boundary between the United States and Mexico.

     This permit is subject to the following conditions:

     Article 1.  The Border facilities herein described and all aspects
of their operation are subject to all the conditions, provisions, and
requirements of this permit and any subsequent Presidential amendment to
it.  The construction, maintenance, and operation of the Border
facilities shall be in all material respects as described in the
Application.

     Article 2.  The standards for and the manner of construction,
maintenance, and operation of the Border facilities are subject to
inspection by the representatives of appropriate Federal, State, and
local agencies.  The Permittee shall grant officers and employees of
such agencies that are duly authorized and performing their official
duties free and unrestricted access to said Border facilities.

     Article 3.  The Permittee shall comply with all applicable Federal
laws and regulations regarding the construction, maintenance, and
operation of the Border facilities.

     Article 4.  (1)  The Permittee shall take or cause to be taken all
appropriate measures to mitigate adverse impacts on or disruption of the
human environment in connection with the construction, maintenance, and
operation of the Border facilities.  Mitigation measures are those that
avoid, minimize, or compensate for adverse impacts.

     (2)  The Permittee shall hold harmless and indemnify the United
States for any claimed or adjudged liability arising out of
construction, maintenance, and operation of the Border facilities,
including environmental contamination from the release, threatened
release, or discharge of hazardous substances or hazardous waste.

     (3)  The Permittee is responsible for obtaining any required
Federal, State, and local permits, approvals, and authorizations prior
to commencing construction activities.  The Permittee shall implement
the mitigation identified in any environmental decision documents
prepared in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act and
Federal permits, including stormwater permits and permits issued in
accordance with section 402 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342). 
The Permittee shall comply with applicable Federal, State, and local
environmental laws.

     Article 5.  The Permittee shall immediately notify the President or
his designee of any decision to transfer custody and control of the
Border facilities or any part thereof to any executive department or
agency (agency) of the United States Government.  Said notice shall
identify the transferee agency and seek the approval of the President
for the transfer of the permit.  In the event of approval by the
President of such transfer, this permit shall remain in force and
effect, and the Border facilities shall be subject to all the
conditions, permissions, and requirements of this permit and any
amendments thereof.  The Permittee may transfer ownership or control of
the Border facilities to a non-Federal entity or individual only upon
the prior express approval of such transfer by the President, which
approval may include such conditions, permissions, and requirements that
the President, in the President’s discretion, determines are appropriate
and necessary for inclusion in the permit, to be effective on the date
of transfer.

     Article 6.  The Permittee is responsible for acquiring and
maintaining any right-of-way grants or easements, permits, and other
authorizations as may become necessary or appropriate.  To ensure the
safe operation of the Border facilities, the Permittee shall maintain
them and every part of them in a condition of good repair and in
compliance with applicable law and use of best management practices.

     Article 7.  To the extent authorized by law, and consistent with
any Donation Acceptance Agreements (DAAs) already executed with the
Permittee under the Donation Acceptance Authority found in 6 U.S.C. §
301a and section 559 of title V of division F of the Consolidated
Appropriations Act, 2014 (Public Law 113-76), as amended, as continued
by 6 U.S.C. § 301b, the Permittee shall provide to the Commissioner of
U.S. Customs and Border Protection (Commissioner) of the Department of
Homeland Security and the heads of any other relevant agencies, at no
cost to the United States, suitable inspection facilities,
infrastructure improvements, equipment, and maintenance, as set forth in
the DAAs.  Nothing in this permit obligates such agencies to provide a
particular level of services or staffing for such inspection facilities
or for any other aspect of the port of entry associated with the Border
facilities.

     Article 8.  Before beginning design activities, the Permittee shall
provide a Donation Acceptance Proposal for the approval of the
Commissioner, the Administrator of General Services (Administrator), and
the Secretary of Transportation detailing the Permittee’s plans for the
construction and staffing of suitable inspection facilitates,
infrastructure improvements, equipment, and maintenance at no cost to
the Unit States upon commencement of operations utilizing the
construction expansion and thereafter.

Relevant agencies will coordinate with the Permittee to further refine
the above conditions, as necessary, within 1 year of permit issuance.

     Article 9.  Before initiating construction, the Permittee shall
obtain the concurrence of the United States Section of the International
Boundary and Water Commissions, United States and Mexico.

     Article 10.  The Permittee shall not initiate construction until
the Department of State has provided notification to the Permittee that
the Department of State has completed its exchange of diplomatic notes
with the Government of Mexico regarding authorization.  The Permittee
shall provide written notification to the President or his designee at
the time that the construction authorized by this permit begins, at the
time as such construction is completed, interrupted, or discontinued,
and at other times as may be requested by the President.

     Article 11.  Upon request, the Permittee shall provide appropriate
information to the President or his designee with regard to the Border
facilities.  Such requests could include requests for information
concerning current conditions, environmental compliance, mitigation, or
anticipated changes in ownership or control, construction, connection,
operation, or maintenance of the Border facilities.

     Article 12.  The Permittee shall file any applicable statements and
reports required by applicable Federal law in connection with the Border
facilities.

     Article 13.  The Permittee shall make no substantial change to the
Border facilities, in the location of the Border facilities, or in the
operation authorized by this permit, unless such changes have been
approved by the President.  The President may terminate, revoke, or
amend this permit at any time at his sole discretion.  The Permittee’s
obligation to implement any amendment to this permit is subject to the
availability of funds.  If the Permittee permanently closes the
Laredo-Colombia Solidarity International Bridge and it is no longer used
as an international crossing, then this permit shall terminate, and the
Permittee may manage, utilize, or dispose of the Border facilities in
accordance with applicable authorities.  This permit shall continue in
full force and effect for only so long as the Permittee continues the
operations hereby authorized.

     Article 14.  This permit shall expire 5 years from the date of its
issuance if the Permittee has not commenced construction of the Border
facilities by that date.

     Article 15.  This permit is not intended to, and does not, create
any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or
in equity by any party against the United States, its departments,
agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other
person.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirteenth day
of June, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

DONALD J. TRUMP

<span id="_msocom_1"></span>
