---
date: '2025-06-17'
published_time: 2025-06-17 17:36:20-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/06/250th-anniversary-of-the-battle-of-bunker-hill/
tags: presidential-actions
title: 250th Anniversary of the Battle of Bunker Hill
---
 
By the President of the United States of America

A Proclamation

On this day 250 years ago, a fearless band of American patriots stood
their ground against the mightiest military power of the age at the
Battle of Bunker Hill.  Outmanned, outgunned, and underestimated, these
ordinary men exemplified extraordinary courage and sent a thundering
message to Britain and the entire world that the American people would
never waver in their fight for freedom.

A new revolutionary spirit had been awakened in the American Colonies
following the Battles of Lexington and Concord in April 1775.  In the
weeks that followed, thousands of Colonial militiamen from
Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Hampshire, and Rhode Island — exhausted
and fed up with the escalating tyranny of the British Crown — left
behind their homes, farms, and families to rally to the cause of
independence.  By June, they had assembled around Boston — the center of
British power in New England — to contain nearly 5,000 Redcoats, protect
nearby towns, and prevent British forces from moving beyond the city.

After learning of British plans to seize the Charlestown peninsula to
the north of Boston, Colonial leaders acted swiftly.  On the night of
June 16, 1775, over 1,000 American militiamen, led by Colonel William
Prescott, marched to Charlestown and constructed fortifications atop
Breed’s Hill — ready to defend their homeland at any cost necessary. 
The next day, on June 17, nearly 2,200 Redcoats arrived, initiating a
direct attack to drive the Americans off the hill.  Significantly
outnumbered and low on ammunition, Colonel Prescott gave the famous
order to his fellow soldiers:  “Don’t fire until you see the whites of
their eyes!”  When the moment came and the British advanced, the
Patriots held firm.  Wave after wave, the Redcoats charged, only to be
driven back as the colonists inflicted massive casualties and held their
ground with unshakable grit and resolve.

After two failed assaults, the Redcoats launched a third charge up the
hill.  The patriots, nearly out of ammunition, met the British in brutal
hand-to-hand combat.  Though ultimately forced to retreat, the colonists
inflicted staggering losses.  More than 1,000 British soldiers were
killed or wounded, compared to 450 Americans.  Charlestown was left in
ruins, but the American spirit stood taller than ever.  Though the
British claimed the ground that history would remember as Bunker Hill,
it was the patriots who claimed the victory of morale — etched not in
territory but in valor — proving that the cause of freedom, once
awakened, is an unstoppable force.

Today, we celebrate the courage, determination, and selflessness of the
patriots who fought at Bunker Hill.  They sent a message to Britain and
the entire world that the Americans would not be ruled by fear and that
a free people, united in purpose, is the most powerful force on Earth. 
The spirit of Bunker Hill lives on in every soldier who defends this
land, in every citizen who loves their country, and in every patriot who
believes that America’s best days are still ahead.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim June 17, 2025, as a
day in commemoration of the 250th anniversary of the Battle of Bunker
Hill.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this

seventeenth day of June, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-five, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-ninth.

                               DONALD J. TRUMP
