---
date: '2025-06-30'
published_time: 2025-06-30 16:37:41-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/06/national-security-presidential-memorandum-nspm-5/
tags: presidential-actions
title: National Security Presidential Memorandum/NSPM-5
---
 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE VICE PRESIDENT

THE SECRETARY OF STATE

THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY

THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR

THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE

THE SECRETARY OF COMMERCE

THE SECRETARY OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

THE SECRETARY OF TRANSPORTATION

THE SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY

THE DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE

THE DIRECTOR OF THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

    AGENCY

THE CHAIRMAN OF THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF

THE ASSISTANT TO THE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF OF

   STAFF

THE DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND

   BUDGET

THE ASSISTANT TO THE PRESIDENT FOR NATIONAL

   SECURITY AFFAIRS

THE ASSISTANT TO THE PRESIDENT AND HOMELAND

    SECURITY ADVISOR

THE COUNSEL TO THE PRESIDENT

THE ASSISTANT TO THE PRESIDENT FOR ECONOMIC

    POLICY

THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE

THE DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE OF SCIENCE AND

   TECHNOLOGY POLICY

THE REPRESENTATIVE OF THE UNITED STATES OF

   AMERICA TO THE UNITED NATIONS

THE ADMINISTRATOR OF THE SMALL BUSINESS

   ADMINISTRATION

THE ADMINISTRATOR OF THE UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR

   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT

THE DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

   MANAGEMENT

SUBJECT:       Reissuance of and Amendments to National Security
Presidential Memorandum 5 on Strengthening the Policy of the United
States Toward Cuba

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section</span>
<span style="text-decoration: underline">1</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Purpose</span>.  The United
States recognizes the need for more freedom and democracy, improved
respect for human rights, and increased free enterprise in Cuba.  The
Cuban people have long suffered under a Communist regime that suppresses
their legitimate aspirations for freedom and prosperity and fails to
respect their essential human dignity.

My Administration’s policy will be guided by the national security and
foreign policy interests of the United States, as well as solidarity
with the Cuban people.  I will seek to promote a stable, prosperous, and
free country for the Cuban people.  To that end, we must channel funds
toward the Cuban people and away from a regime that has failed to meet
the most basic requirements of a free and just society.

In Cuba, dissidents and peaceful protesters are arbitrarily detained and
held in terrible prison conditions.  Violence and intimidation against
dissidents occur with impunity.  Families of political prisoners are
retaliated against for peacefully protesting the improper confinement of
their loved ones.  Worshippers are harassed, and free association by
civil society organizations is blocked.  The right to speak freely,
including through access to the internet, is denied, and there is no
free press.  The United States condemns these abuses.

The initial actions set forth in this memorandum, including restricting
certain financial transactions and travel, encourage the Cuban
government to address these abuses.  My Administration will continue to
evaluate its policies so as to improve human rights, encourage the rule
of law, foster free markets and free enterprise, and promote democracy
in Cuba.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">2</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Policy</span>.  It shall be
the policy of the executive branch to:

\(a\)  End economic practices that disproportionately benefit the Cuban
government or its military, intelligence, or security agencies or
personnel at the expense of the Cuban people.

\(b\)  Ensure adherence to the statutory ban on tourism to Cuba.

\(c\)  Support the economic embargo of Cuba described in section 4(7) of
the Cuban Liberty and Democratic Solidarity (LIBERTAD) Act of 1996 (the
embargo), including by opposing measures that call for an end to the
embargo at the United Nations and other international forums and through
regular reporting on whether the conditions of a transition government
exist in Cuba.

\(d\)  Amplify efforts to support the Cuban people through the expansion
of internet services, free press, free enterprise, free association, and
lawful travel.

\(e\)  Not reinstate the “Wet Foot, Dry Foot” policy, which encouraged
untold thousands of Cuban nationals to risk their lives to travel
unlawfully to the United States.

\(f\)  Ensure that engagement between the United States and Cuba
advances the interests of the United States and the Cuban people.  These
interests include:  advancing Cuban human rights; encouraging the growth
of a Cuban private sector independent of government control; enforcing
final orders of removal against Cuban nationals in the United States;
protecting the national security and public health and safety of the
United States, including through proper engagement on criminal cases and
working to ensure the return of fugitives from American justice living
in Cuba or being harbored by the Cuban government; supporting United
States agriculture and protecting plant and animal health; advancing the
understanding of the United States regarding scientific and
environmental challenges; and facilitating safe civil aviation.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">3</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Implementation</span>.  The
heads of executive departments and agencies (agencies) shall begin to
implement the policy set forth in section 2 of this memorandum as
follows:

(a)  Within 30 days of the date of this memorandum, the Secretary of the
Treasury and the Secretary of Commerce, as appropriate and in
coordination with the Secretary of State and the Secretary of
Transportation, shall initiate a process to adjust current regulations
regarding transactions with Cuba.

\(i\)    As part of the regulatory changes described in this subsection,
the Secretary of State shall identify any entities or subentities, as
appropriate, that are under the control of, or act for or on behalf of,
or for the benefit of, the Cuban military, intelligence, or security
services or personnel (such as Grupo de Administracion Empresarial S.A.
(GAESA), its affiliates, subsidiaries, and successors), and publish a
list of those identified entities and subentities with which direct or
indirect financial transactions would disproportionately benefit such
services or personnel at the expense of the Cuban people or private
enterprise in Cuba.

(ii)   Except as provided in subsection (a)(iii) of this section, the
regulatory changes described in this subsection shall prohibit direct or
indirect financial transactions with those entities or subentities on
the list published pursuant to subsection (a)(i) of this section.

\(iii\)  The regulatory changes described in this subsection shall not
prohibit transactions that the Secretary of the Treasury or the
Secretary of Commerce, in coordination with the Secretary of State,
determines are consistent with the policy set forth in section 2 of this
memorandum and:

\(A\)  concern Federal Government operations, including Naval Station
Guantanamo Bay and the United States mission in Havana;

\(B\)  support programs to build democracy in Cuba;

\(C\)  concern air and sea operations that support permissible travel,
cargo, or trade;

\(D\)  support the acquisition of visas for permissible travel;

\(E\)  support the expansion of direct telecommunications and internet
access for the Cuban people;

\(F\)  support the sale of agricultural commodities, medicines, and
medical devices sold to Cuba consistent with the Trade Sanctions Reform
and Export Enhancement Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7201 *et seq*.) and the
Cuban Democracy Act of 2002 (22 U.S.C. 6001 *et seq*.);

\(G\)  relate to sending, processing, or receiving authorized
remittances;

\(H\)  otherwise further the national security or foreign policy
interests of the United States; or

\(I\)  are required by law.

\(b\)  Within 30 days of the date of this memorandum, the Secretary of
the Treasury, in coordination with the Secretary of State, shall
initiate a process to adjust current regulations to ensure adherence to
the statutory ban on tourism to Cuba.

(i)    The amended regulations shall require that educational travel be
for legitimate educational purposes.  Except for educational travel that
was permitted by regulation in effect on January 27, 2011, all
educational travel shall be under the auspices of an organization
subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, and all such travelers
must be accompanied by a representative of the sponsoring organization.

\(ii\)   The regulations shall further require that those traveling for
the permissible purposes of non academic education or to provide support
for the Cuban people:

\(A\)  engage in a full-time schedule of activities that enhance contact
with the Cuban people, support civil society in Cuba, or promote the
Cuban people’s independence from Cuban authorities; and

\(B\)  meaningfully interact with individuals in Cuba.

\(iii\)  The regulations shall continue to provide that every person
engaging in travel to Cuba shall keep full and accurate records of all
transactions related to authorized travel, regardless of whether they
were effected pursuant to license or otherwise, and such records shall
be available for examination by the Department of the Treasury for at
least 5 years after the date they occur.

(iv)   The Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, the
Secretary of Commerce, and the Secretary of Transportation shall review
their respective agencies’ enforcement of all categories of permissible
travel within 90 days of the date the regulations described in this
subsection are finalized to ensure such enforcement accords with the
policies outlined in section 2 of this memorandum.

\(c\)  The Secretary of the Treasury shall regularly audit travel to
Cuba to ensure that travelers are complying with relevant statutes and
regulations.  The Secretary of the Treasury shall request that the
Inspector General of the Department of the Treasury inspect the actions
taken by the Department of the Treasury to implement this audit
requirement.  The Inspector General of the Department of the Treasury
shall provide a report to the President, through the Secretary of the
Treasury, summarizing the results of that inspection within 180 days of
the adjustment of current regulations described in subsection (b) of
this section and annually thereafter.

\(d\)  The Secretary of the Treasury shall adjust the Department of the
Treasury’s current regulation defining the term “prohibited officials of
the Government of Cuba” so that, for purposes of title 31, part 515 of
the Code of Federal Regulations, it includes Ministers and
Vice-Ministers; members of the Council of State and the Council of
Ministers; members and employees of the National Assembly of People’s
Power; members of any provincial assembly; local sector chiefs of the
Committees for the Defense of the Revolution; Director Generals and
sub-Director Generals and higher of all Cuban ministries and state
agencies; employees of the Ministry of the Interior (MININT); employees
of the Ministry of Defense (MINFAR); secretaries and first secretaries
of the Confederation of Labor of Cuba (CTC) and its component unions;
chief editors, editors, and deputy editors of Cuban state-run media
organizations and programs, including newspapers, television, and radio;
and members and employees of the Supreme Court (Tribuno Supremo
Nacional).

\(e\)  The Secretary of State and the Representative of the United
States of America to the United Nations shall oppose efforts at the
United Nations or (with respect to the Secretary of State) any other
international forum to lift the embargo until a transition government in
Cuba, as described in section 205 of the LIBERTAD Act, exists.

\(f\)  The Secretary of State, in coordination with the Attorney
General, shall provide a report to the President assessing whether and
to what degree the Cuban government has satisfied the requirements of a
transition government as described in section 205(a) of the LIBERTAD
Act, taking into account the additional factors listed in section 205(b)
of that Act.  This report shall include a review of human rights abuses
committed against the Cuban people, such as unlawful detentions,
arbitrary arrests, and inhumane treatment.

\(g\)  The Attorney General shall, within 90 days of the date of this
memorandum, issue a report to the President on issues related to
fugitives from American justice living in Cuba or being harbored by the
Cuban government.

\(h\)  The Secretary of State and the Administrator of the United States
Agency for International Development shall review all democracy
development programs of the Federal Government in Cuba to ensure that
they align with the criteria set forth in section 109(a) of the LIBERTAD
Act.

\(i\)  The Secretary of State shall convene a task force, composed of
relevant agencies, including the Office of Cuba Broadcasting, and
appropriate non-governmental organizations and private-sector entities,
to examine the technological challenges and opportunities for expanding
internet access in Cuba, including through Federal Government support of
programs and activities that encourage freedom of expression through
independent media and internet freedom so that the Cuban people can
enjoy the free and unregulated flow of information.

\(j\)  The Secretary of State and the Secretary of Homeland Security
shall continue to discourage dangerous, unlawful migration that puts
Cuban and American lives at risk.  The Secretary of Defense shall
continue to provide support, as necessary, to the Department of State
and the Department of Homeland Security in carrying out duties regarding
interdiction of migrants.

\(k\)  The Secretary of State, in coordination with the Secretary of the
Treasury, the Secretary of Defense, the Attorney General, the Secretary
of Commerce, and the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall annually
report to the President regarding the engagement of the United States
with Cuba to ensure that engagement is advancing the interests of the
United States.

\(l\)  All activities conducted pursuant to subsections (a) through (k)
of this section shall be carried out in a manner that furthers the
interests of the United States, including by appropriately protecting
sensitive sources, methods, and operations of the Federal Government.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">4</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Earlier Presidential
Actions</span>.  (a)  This memorandum amends sections 1 and 3 of
National Security Presidential Memorandum 5 of June 16, 2017
(Strengthening the Policy of the United States Toward Cuba) (NSPM-5),
and reissues NSPM-5 in its entirety.  It does not otherwise amend the
text or timelines reflected in the original NSPM-5 and is not intended
to direct agencies to repeat actions already implemented under that
NSPM.

\(b\)  This memorandum supersedes and replaces both National Security
Presidential Directive 52 of June 28, 2007 (U.S. Policy toward Cuba),
and Presidential Policy Directive 43 of October 14, 2016 (United
States-Cuba Normalization).

\(c\)  This memorandum does not affect either Executive Order 12807 of
May 24, 1992 (Interdiction of Illegal Aliens), or Executive Order 13276
of November 15, 2002 (Delegation of Responsibilities Concerning
Undocumented Aliens Interdicted or Intercepted in the Caribbean Region).

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">5</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">General Provisions</span>. 
(a)  Nothing in this memorandum shall be construed to impair or
otherwise affect:

\(i\)  the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with applicable
law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any
right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in
equity by any party against the United States, its departments,
agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other
person.

\(d\)  The Secretary of State is hereby authorized and directed to
publish this memorandum in the *Federal Register*.

DONALD J. TRUMP
