---
date: '2025-06-30'
published_time: 2025-06-30 16:39:47-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/06/presidential-permit-authorizing-junction-pipeline-company-llc-to-construct-connect-operate-and-maintain-pipeline-facilities-at-toole-county-montana-at-the-international-boundary-between-the-uni/
tags: presidential-actions
title: 'Presidential Permit: Authorizing Junction Pipeline Company, LLC to Construct,
  Connect, Operate, and Maintain Pipeline Facilities at Toole County, Montana, at
  the International Boundary Between the United States and Canada'
---
 
By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United
States of America (the “President”), I hereby grant this Presidential
permit, subject to the conditions herein set forth, to Junction Pipeline
Company, LLC (the “permittee”).  The permittee is a limited liability
company, organized under the laws of the State of Texas.  Permission is
hereby granted to the permittee to construct, connect, operate, and
maintain pipeline Border facilities, as described herein, at the
international border of the United States and Canada at Toole County,
Montana, for the import from Canada into the United States of crude oil
and petroleum products of every description, refined or unrefined
(inclusive of, but not limited to, naphtha, liquefied petroleum gas,
natural gas liquids, jet fuel, gasoline, kerosene, and diesel), but not
including natural gas subject to section 3 of the Natural Gas Act, as
amended (15 U.S.C. 717b).

This permit does not affect the applicability of any otherwise-relevant
laws and regulations.  As confirmed in Article 2 of this permit, the
Border facilities shall remain subject to all such laws and regulations.

The term “Facilities” as used in this permit means the portion in the
United States of the international pipeline project associated with the
permittee’s April 8, 2021, application for an amendment to its existing
permit, and any land, structures, installations, or equipment
appurtenant thereto.

The term “Border facilities” as used in this permit means those parts of
the Facilities consisting of a 30-inch diameter pipeline extending from
the international border between the United States and Canada at Toole
County, Montana, to and including the first mainline shut-off valve or
pumping station in the United States located approximately one quarter
of a mile from the international border, and any land, structures,
installations, or equipment appurtenant thereto.

This permit is subject to the following conditions:

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Article 1</span>.  The Border
facilities herein described, and all aspects of their operation, shall
be subject to all the conditions, provisions, and requirements of this
permit and any subsequent Presidential amendment to it.  The permittee
shall make no substantial change in the Border facilities, in the
location of the Border facilities, or in the operation authorized by
this permit unless the President has approved the change in an amendment
to this permit or in a new permit.  Such substantial changes do not
include, and the permittee may make, changes to the average daily
throughput capacity of the Border facilities to any volume of products
that is achievable through the Border facilities, and to the directional
flow of any such products.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Article 2</span>.  The
standards for, and the manner of, construction, connection, operation,
and maintenance of the Border facilities shall be subject to inspection
by the representatives of appropriate Federal, State, and local
agencies.  Officers and employees of such agencies who are duly
authorized and performing their official duties shall be granted free
and unrestricted access to the Border facilities by the permittee.  The
Border facilities, including the construction, connection, operation,
and maintenance of the Border facilities, shall be subject to all
applicable laws and regulations, including pipeline safety laws and
regulations issued or administered by the Pipeline and Hazardous
Materials Safety Administration of the U.S. Department of
Transportation.  The permittee shall obtain requisite permits from
relevant State and local governmental entities, and relevant Federal
agencies.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Article 3</span>.  Upon the
termination, revocation, or surrender of this permit, unless otherwise
decided by the President, the permittee, at its own expense, shall
remove the Border facilities within such time as the President may
specify.  If the permittee fails to comply with an order to remove, or
to take such other appropriate action with respect to, the Border
facilities, the President may direct an appropriate official or agency
to take possession of the Border facilities — or to remove the Border
facilities or take other action — at the expense of the permittee.  The
permittee shall have no claim for damages caused by any such possession,
removal, or other action.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Article 4</span>.  When, in the
judgment of the President, ensuring the national security of the United
States requires entering upon and taking possession of any of the Border
facilities or parts thereof, and retaining possession, management, or
control thereof for such a length of time as the President may deem
necessary, the United States shall have the right to do so, provided
that the President or his designee has given due notice to the
permittee.  The United States shall also have the right thereafter to
restore possession and control to the permittee.  In the event that the
United States exercises the rights described in this article, it shall
pay to the permittee just and fair compensation for the use of such
Border facilities, upon the basis of a reasonable profit in normal
conditions, and shall bear the cost of restoring the Border facilities
to their previous condition, less the reasonable value of any
improvements that may have been made by the United States.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Article 5</span>.  Any transfer
of ownership or control of the Border facilities, or any part thereof,
or any changes to the name of the permittee, shall be immediately
communicated in writing to the President or his designee, and shall
include information identifying any transferee.  Notwithstanding any
such transfers or changes, this permit shall remain in force subject to
all of its conditions, permissions, and requirements, and any amendments
thereto.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Article 6</span>.  (1)  The
permittee is responsible for acquiring any right-of-way grants or
easements, permits, and other authorizations as may become necessary or
appropriate.

\(2\)  The permittee shall hold harmless and indemnify the United States
from any claimed or adjudged liability arising out of construction,
connection, operation, or maintenance of the Border facilities,
including environmental contamination from the release, threatened
release, or discharge of hazardous substances or hazardous waste.

\(3\)  To ensure the safe operation of the Border facilities, the
permittee shall maintain them and every part of them in a condition of
good repair and in compliance with applicable law.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Article 7</span>.  The
permittee shall file with the President or his designee, and with
appropriate agencies, such sworn statements or reports with respect to
the Border facilities, or the permittee’s activities and operations in
connection therewith, as are now, or may hereafter, be required under
any law or regulation of the United States Government or its agencies. 
These reporting obligations do not alter the intent that this permit be
operative as a directive issued by the President alone.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Article 8</span>.  Upon
request, the permittee shall provide appropriate information to the
President or his designee with regard to the Border facilities.  Such
requests could include information concerning current conditions or
anticipated changes in ownership or control, construction, connection,
operation, or maintenance of the Border facilities.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Article 9</span>.  This permit
is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit,
substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party
against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its
officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day
of June, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                              DONALD J.
TRUMP<span id="_msocom_1"></span>
