---
date: '2025-01-02'
modified_time: 2025-01-02 18:44:15-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-02 18:45:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2025/01/02/remarks-by-president-biden-on-securing-235-judicial-confirmations/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Securing 235 Judicial Confirmations"
---
 
State Dining Room

3:34 P.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank
you.  I’m sure you’re clapping because I finally showed up.  (Laughter.)

I do apologize.  We had a very busy schedule the last — over — from New
Year’s Day on, dealing with two crises — one in Louisiana and one in Las
— in Las Vegas.  And I’ve assembled the entire Defense and intelligence
apparatus of the country in the Situation Room, and we’ve been spending
a lot of time there.  But I’m going to take another two minutes to talk
a little bit about that and then go on to the — what we’re here for.

I want to give an update on the investigations into yesterday’s
terrorist attacks in New Orleans and the truck explosion in Las Vegas. 
I’ve just come from the meeting — not “just,” it’s been — while we’ve
prepared these remarks — better part of an hour — from my Homeland
Security team.  The number of people killed in New Orleans has risen to
15, including the attacker.  Thirty-five people were injured. 

Today, the FBI briefed me that, as of now, no information — we have no
information that anyone else was involved in the attack.  They’ve
established that the attacker was the same person who planted the
explosives in those ice coolers in two nearby locations in the French
Quarter just a few hours before he rammed into the crowd with his
vehicle. 

They assessed he had a remote detonator in his vehicle to set off those
two ice chests.  So, there’s no question that — remember all the talk
about other people were involved, placed them?  They have him — they
have established he’s there and even established that he had a detonator
to explode those — those ice chests.

As I said yesterday, the attacker posted several videos just several
hours before the attack, in- — indicating his strong support for ISIS.

Federal law enforcement and the intelligence community are actively
investigating any foreign or domestic contacts or connections that could
possibly be relevant to the attack. 

And so, we’re also continuing to investigate whether or not there’s any
connection between the New Orleans attack and the explosion in Las
Vegas.  As of now — as of now, I’ve just briefed they have not found any
evidence of such a connection thus far.  I’ve directed them to keep
looking.

The individual who rented the truck to explode — that exploded in Las
Vegas also served as active duty U.S. Army.  And the FBI is working with
the Department of Defense on investigating, including the service
member’s possible motives and all those he worked with in — who served
with him — what things he’d say and do.

I directed my team to accelerate these investigations so we have answers
to our unanswered questions.  And I’m making every single resource
available to get the job done.  And we’re going to share the facts as
soon as I learn them so the American public doesn’t have to wonder. 

In the meantime, like I said last night, New Orleans is a city of
tremendous spirit.  It can’t keep it down — you really can’t.  And we
are seeing that today.  The Sugar Bowl is back on.  Kick-off is going to
take off very shortly.  If I don’t get this damn thing done, we’re going
to be in real trouble.  (Laughter.)  And the FBI in handing control to
Bourbon Street back to local officials, security of the area has been
reinforced, and it should be open for business later today.  The —
Bourbon Street. 

The people of New Orleans are sending an unmistakable message: They will
not let this attack or the attacks — attacker’s de- — his deluded
ideology overcome us.  None of us should fear it’ll — he’ll overcome
us. 

And we’re going to relentlessly pursue ISIS and other terrorist
organizations where they are, and they’ll find no safe harbor here.

I’ll continue to provide updates on New Orleans and Las Vegas as the
facts develop.

Now to the business at hand.  I can’t tell you how much I appreciate
these two men.  Not a joke.  You know, I want to — the fact of the
matter is that the Ma- — Majority Leader Schumer and Chair Durbin, they
— their leadership has been invaluable. 

You know, from my days of leading the Senate Judiciary Committee 200
years ago — (laughter) — I have made judicial nominations a priority. 
And some of you may remember, I was involved in some very contentious
Supreme Court nominations over the years.

And today, I want to recognize a major milestone.  The Senate recently
confirmed its 235th federal judge, which is the largest number of
confirmations in a single presidential term since the early ‘80s.  That
includes 1 Supreme Court justice, 45 Circuit Court of Appeal judges, 187
District Court judges, and 2 judges on the Court of International
Trade. 

And they represent the best of America.  It’s all about preserving the
Constitution.  I made two — three speeches in this campaign — in this —
my term as president.  One when I first entered, saying democracy is at
stake.  One I later made at — anyway.  I made three major speeches.  The
institutions are in jeopardy, in my view.  And some of the decisions
coming down, to me, made no constitutional sense.

They’re all highly qualified people (inaudible).  They’ve had
distinguished legal, judicial, and academic careers. 

It matters.  Judges matter.  You know, shaping the everyday lives of
Americans.  Protecting our basic freedoms.  I never thought we’d be
talking about this.  Defending constitutional liberties.  Replacing pr-
— you know, respecting the idea precedent matters — precedent matters.

These judges will be independent, they’ll be fair, and they’ll be
impartial, and they’ll respect the rule of law.  And most importantly —
I know this sounds — I never thought I’d be saying this — they’d up- —
they’ll uphold the Constitution.  They’ll uphold the Constitution.

When I ran for president, I made a promise that I’d have a bench that
looks like America that taps into the full talents of this nation.  And
I’m proud we’ve kept our commitment, with the help of these two men and
many others, bolstering confidence in judicial decision-making and
outcomes. 

We have a record number of judges with backgrounds and experiences that
have long been overlooked in the federal judiciary, like advocates for
civil rights, workers rights, immigrant rights, and so much more — the
first former public defender to sit in the Seventh Circuit Court of
Appeals. 

I’ve also continued to put forward men and women who have been
prosecutors and plaintiffs attorneys, which has been a — a distant past
in the — of — of courts. 

No matter who they are or where they come from, all these appointees —
all these appointees understand the role of a judge and are committed to
the rule of law, the institutional safeguards built on our Constitution,
that upholds the rights and guarantees of the Constitution. 

You know, I have appointed the most demographically diverse slate of
judicial nominees ever in the history of America that represents all of
America and the best of America. 

There is numerous s- — there is numerous historic firsts.  The first
Black woman on the United States Supreme Court.  I made that promise and
we kept it.  More Black women to the Courts of Appeals than every other
previous administration in American history combined — combined. 
(Applause.) 

Other historic firsts for Hispanic Americans, Asian Americans, Muslim
Americans.  The list goes on. 

Look, the point is: For the first time in a long, long time, we have a
bench that looks like and represents all of America.  All of America. 

And a special thank you again to — to Leader Schumer and Chair Durbin
for working tirelessly to move these nominees through the committee and
onto the Senate floor in a very — I think it’s not an understatement to
say — a very contentious political period in American history. 
(Laughter.)  I — but think about it.  One — one-vote majority.  I mean,
it’s amazing what they did. 

Other senators, Democrats and Republicans alike, worked with my
administration to fill vacancies in their states. 

You know, all these Republican senators, they were — they weren’t
sending me Democratic nominees.  They were sending me Republican
nominees.  But we got the — sort of back to the basics, finding basic
commitment to civil rights, civil liberties.  Whether it was your
counterpart in the leader of Republican party, in Kentucky, or wherever,
we got people who are people who understand the institutional
limitations and safeguards in the Constitution.

I don’t want to get anyone in trouble, but this includes some of my
conservative friends in Indiana, Oklahoma, South Dakota, and Texas.  But
they’re — also got appointed, and they’re not Democrats, but they’re —
understand the institutional structure of the court.

Together, these judges are going to hear cases on issues ruling from
everything as whether Americans can cast their ballot.  I mean,
literally, where they — how they can cast their ballot, when it will be
counted.  Whether workers can unionize — I thought we settled that in
1934 — and make a living wage for their families.  Whether children can
breathe clean air and drink clean water, and we mandate it by the
Congress to do so.

These judges also are a vital check on the excesses of — of other
branches of government, including Congress and the executive branch when
they overreach and run afoul of the constitutional and institutional
safeguards. 

So, let me close with this.  I’m proud — proud of the legacy that we’ll
leave for our nation as it relates to judges.  And I’m proud of the men
and women who stepped forward and heeded the call to serve.  I really
mean it.

Think about it.  If I looked at some of you and said, “I want to
nominate you.”  You said, “In this time?”  (Laughter.)  No, I’m
serious.  I — I’m being — I know this room is probably the only room
that fully would understand and comprehend that.

And, folks, I know — I know they’ll continue to uphold our nation’s
founding principles of liberty, justice, equality, and do it for decades
to come. 

As we say in my old neighborhood, it’s a big deal.  (Laughter.)  It’s a
big deal.  And — and I — bless me, Father, for I have sinned.  (The
president makes the sign of the cross.)  (Laughter.) 

But all kidding aside, I really — I’m really proud of the caliber,
capacity, willingness, and the academic backgrounds of all these men and
women who we appointed.  In fact, we appointed more women than others. 
That’s just because I’ve — was raised in a household where all the women
are smarter than all the men.  (Laughter.)

But all kidding aside, I really think we’ll be proud of these women and
men that have been appointed.  And I think we’re going to reestablish
the safeguards that were built into the Constitution.  Everybody,
everybody, everybody has an equal opportunity.  That’s what it’s all
about.

So, thank you all and all the leaders in this room for all you’ve done. 
It wouldn’t have gotten it done without you guys. Thanks for the
recommendations and all the help.  But most importantly, these two guys.

The idea that if — in the beginning, when we had that first
conversation, Chuck said, “We’re going to appoint all these judges.”  We
looked at each other like, “Are we kidding ourselves?”  Right? 
(Laughter.)  Thank you, pal.

LEADER SCHUMER:  Thank you, Mr. President.

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)

And, Dick — by the way, I’ve ruined his reputation by bragging so much
about him.  I — I was hesitant to do it during an election year because
it might hurt him.  But all kidding aside, every time we get in trouble,
I literally ask my staff — I say, “Durbin is there.”  (Laughter.) 
“Durbin is there.”

SENATOR DURBIN:  Thank you.

THE PRESIDENT:  You’re the best, pal.

SENATOR DURBIN:  Thank you. 

THE PRESIDENT:  You really are.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

Thank you all so very much.  (Applause.)

 3:46 P.M. EST
