---
date: '2025-01-04'
modified_time: 2025-01-07 14:42:00-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-04 14:41:08-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2025/01/04/remarks-by-president-biden-at-presentation-of-the-presidential-medal-of-freedom-3/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at Presentation of the Presidential Medal of\_\
  Freedom"
---
 
East Room

1:23 P.M. EST

  
THE PRESIDENT:  Please, everyone, be seated.  
  
Well, good afternoon and Happy New Year.  
  
AUDIENCE:  Happy New Year.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  As we gather in this room on January 2025, imagine March
of 1865.  President Lincoln had just delivered

his inaugural address at the Capitol.  And he returned to the White
House for a reception here in the East Room.  
  
There were many well-wishers, but he spotted someone whose opinion he
greatly valued.  President Lincoln asked him what he thought of the
speech he had just delivered to the nation by a divided Civil War.  The
man replied, “It was a sacred effort.”  “It was a sacred effort.”  That
man was Frederick Douglass.

Here we are, nearly 160 years later, in the room where Abraham Lincoln
and Frederick Douglass stood to unify the nation.

I’m joined by our incredible first lady, Jill.  We’re joined by an
incredible vice president, Kamala Harris, and second gentleman, Doug. 
Doug is a hell of lawyer, by the way.  (Laughter.)  Finally get to — get
to practice again, huh?  (Laughter.)

And for the final time as president, I have the honor of bestowing the
Medal of Freedom on — our nation’s highest civilian honor on a group of
extraordinary — truly extraordinary people who gave their sacred effort
— their sacred effort to shape the culture and the cause of America.  
  
So, let me just say to each of you, thank you, thank you, thank you for
all you’ve done to help this country.  (Applause.)  You all — you all
literally embody the nation’s creed, “*E pluribus unum”* — “out of many,
one.”

<s>Collect in a</s> \[A collective of\] people of different backgrounds,
beliefs, and talents, from the different generations and different
genders, using their remarkable gifts and unwavering passion to
strengthen our resolve as one nation under God, indivisible, with
liberty and justice for all.

It matters.  It really does matter.  
  
As cultural icons, defined statesmans, di- — excuse me — dignified
stateman, humanitarians, rock stars, sports stars, you feed the hungry,
you give hope to those — those who are hurting, and you craft the signs
and sounds of our movements and our memories.

You know, it’s amazing — your innovation, your — you inspire.  You bring
healing and joy to so many lives otherwise wouldn’t be touched.

You answer the call to serve and led others to do the same thing.  And
you defend the values of America even when they are under attack, which
they have been as of late.  Together, you leave an incredible mark — and
I mean this sincerely — this group up — you leave an incredible mark on
our country, with insight and influence that can be felt around the
globe, in major cities and remote areas alike, binding us closer as a
people and showing us that — what’s possible as a nation — there’s
nothing beyond our capacity — while representing your families, your
communities, your ancestors with pride and appreciation at the same
time.

I’d also like to take a moment to recognize those honorees who are no
longer with us — (a child speaks in the audience) — including the young
man speaking.  (Laughter.)  
  
By the way, kids rule in this house.  Okay?  (Laughter and applause.) 
Don’t worry about it.  And you all think I’m kidding.  I’m not. 
(Laughter.)  
  
Ash Carter, Ms. Fannie Lou Hamer, George Romney, Bobby Kennedy — heroes
of the highest order.  And Bobby Kennedy is one of my true political
heroes.  I love and I miss him dearly.  
  
I thank their families — all their families.  You know, as — we carry on
the sacred effort of courage and conviction that you all began.  
  
So, today, I want to congratulate you on all you’ve accomplished.  And
I’m grateful for the work you’ll inspire for generations to follow to
stay engaged, to never give up, to always keep the faith.

And in that spirit, from the People’s House, where Abraham Lincoln and
Frederick Douglass and generation of patriots before us have stood watch
over the Republic, I ask the military aide to begin the reading of the
citations for this year’s Medal of Freedom honorees.  (Applause.)  
  
MILITARY AIDE:  José Andrés.  (Applause.) 

The Presidential Medal of Freedom is awarded to José Andrés.  From his
parents’ kitchen in Spain, José Andrés arrived in America with little
money and big dreams.  Over the course of three decades, he mastered his
culinary craft with renowned restaurants that span culture and cuisine
and bring people together.  His World Central Kitchen revolutionized
humanitarian assistance by mobilizing fellow chefs and providing meals
to people left in the wake of natural disasters and war.  With his
unmatched personality and heart, José Andrés shows us that there is a
seat for everyone at the table.  (Applause.)  
  
(The Medal of Freedom is presented.)  (Applause.)    
  
Bono.  (Applause.) 

The Presidential Medal of Freedom is awarded to Bono.  As lead singer of
U2, one of the most successful rock bands in history, Bono changes the
world through his art and activism.  In an Irish tradition of poetry and
protest, rebellion and rejoicing, he has composed anthems to peace and
civil rights.  As a humanitarian, he lifts up causes from ending poverty
and disease to calling for debt relief for developing nations.  The
common beat of his life’s work is the power of freedom, a tie that also
binds Ireland and America as beloved friends.  (Applause.)  
  
(The Medal of Freedom is presented.)  (Applause.)    
  
Accepting on behalf of Ashton Baldwin Carter is Stephanie Carter. 
(Applause.) 

The Presidential Medal of Freedom is awarded to Ashton Baldwin Carter. 
A scientist turned Secretary of Defense, Ash Carter was a true patriot. 
Over four decades, in and out of the Pentagon, he was a key leader,
thinker, and strategist on critical issues ranging from nuclear
nonproliferation, counterterrorism, and our sacred obligation to equip,
care, and protect our service members and their families.  His
scientific and technological innovations made our nation safer, and his
integrity and mentorship inspired generations of Americans to serve and
protect our nation with honor and dignity.  (Applause.)

(The Medal of Freedom is presented.)  (Applause.)    
  
Hillary Rodham Clinton.  (Applause.) 

The Presidential Medal of Freedom is awarded to Hillary Rodham Clinton. 
Hillary Rodham Clinton is guided by the Methodist creed, “Do all the
good you can, in all the ways you can.”  As a lawyer, she defended the
rights of children.  As first lady, she fought for universal health care
and declared “women’s rights are human rights.”  As senator, she helped
New York rebuild after September 11, 2001.  As secretary of State, she
championed democracy worldwide.  And her nomination for president broke
barriers and inspired generations.  Through it all, her career has been
dedicated to an eternal truth: America’s ideals are sacred, and we must
always defend and live by them.  (Applause.)

(The Medal of Freedom is presented.)  (Applause.)    
  
Michael J. Fox.  (Applause.) 

The Presidential Medal of Freedom is awarded to Michael J. Fox.  Michael
J. Fox is one of the most beloved actors of our time.  With remarkable
wit and charm, he introduced iconic characters to the center of American
culture, from Alex P. Keaton to Marty McFly and more.  With undaunted
resilience and optimism, he also warms hearts and captivates audiences
as a fearless advocate for those with Parkinson’s disease, channeling
his endearing personality to advance treatments, move us closer to a
cure, and remind us of the power of American possibilities.  (Applause.)

(The Medal of Freedom is presented.)  (Applause.)    
  
Tim Gill.  (Applause.) 

The Presidential Medal of Freedom is awarded to Tim Gill.  A leading
philanthropist and civil rights leader, Tim Gill advances the cause of
equality for the LGBTQ community in America and the world.  A visionary
entrepreneur, he has helped lead the fight against HIV/AIDS, laid the
groundwork for marriage equality, and so much more.  His strong
character, unwavering resolve, and indisputable effectiveness in
fighting for love and equality for all make him a key figure in our
nation’s story of freedom.  (Applause.)

(The Medal of Freedom is presented.)  (Applause.)    
  
Jane Goodall.  (Applause.) 

The Presidential Medal of Freedom is awarded to Jane Goodall.  From
war-torn England to the jungles of Tanzania, Dr. Jane Goodall’s
childhood passion for animals led her to explore wildlife in Africa. 
Her groundbreaking discoveries of chimpanzees challenged scientific
convention, reshaped conservation methods, and redefined our
understanding of the connection between humans, animals, and the
environment we share.  Jane’s activism, vision, and message of hope have
mobilized a global movement to protect the planet.  Above all, she has
taught us that when we search for humanity in the natural world around
us, we discover it within ourselves.  (Applause.)

(The Medal of Freedom is presented.)  (Applause.)    
  
Accepting on behalf of Mrs. Fannie Lou Hamer is Doris Hamer Richardson. 
(Applause.) 

The Presidential Medal of Freedom is awarded to Mrs. Fannie Lou Hamer. 
One of the most powerful voices of the Civil Rights Movement, Mrs.
Fannie Lou Hamer spent 18 years as a sharecropper in Mississippi before
learning that Black citizens had a constitutional right to vote.  With
that newfound freedom, she sacrificed her own safety to organize and
register fellow Black voters across the South.  Brutally beaten but
undeterred, for decades she spoke truth to power to expand political
participation and economic rights for all Americans and left these words
echoing in the nation’s conscience: “Nobody’s free until everybody is
free.”  (Applause.)

(The Medal of Freedom is presented.)  (Applause.)    
  
Earvin “Magic” Johnson.  (Applause.) 

The Presidential Medal of Freedom is awarded to Earvin “Magic” Johnson. 
With unmatched vision and versatility, Earvin “Magic” Johnson drove the
Showtime era for the Los Angeles Lakers: 5-time NBA Champion, 5-time
MVP, 12-time All-Star, Olympic Gold Medalist, and the Naismith Hall of
Famer.  Under the same bright lights, his honesty about his HIV status
shattered stigma and saved lives.  The first — (applause) — the first
retired athlete to build a true business empire, he champions
underserved communities.  With a legendary will and smile, Magic Johnson
rose from the playground in Lansing, Michigan, to become one of the most
beloved athletes of our time.  (Applause.)

(The Medal of Freedom is presented.)  (Applause.)  
  
Accepting on behalf of Robert Francis Kennedy is Kerry Kennedy. 
(Applause.) 

The Presidential Medal of Freedom is awarded to Robert Francis Kennedy. 
Born into a revered family of service, Robert F. Kennedy forged a path
toward freedom that endures today.  Guided by the Constitution as his
conscience, he was a key strategist to his brother’s successful
campaigns for Senate and the presidency before serving as attorney
general, senator, and a presidential candidate himself.  With deep
empathy and resolve, powerful prose and poetry, he focused the nation’s
moral compass on the cause of civil rights, the dignity of the poor, and
the ripples of hope we can each cast as we choose not division, not
hatred, not violence or lawlessness, but love, wisdom, and compassion
toward one another.  (Applause.)

(The Medal of Freedom is presented.)  (Applause.)  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Anyone who’s not a Kennedy, stand up.  (Laughter.)  
  
MILITARY AIDE:  Ralph Lauren.  (Applause.) 

The Presidential Medal of Freedom is awarded to Ralph Lauren.  The son
of Polish immigrants and a U.S. Army veteran, Ralph Lauren transformed a
small necktie business into one of America’s most iconic brands, leaving
a lasting imprint on the world of fashion, fragrance, furniture, and
beyond.  Throughout it all, he remains a dedicated philanthropist,
including fighting to end cancer as we know it.  Classic, yet creative,
timeless yet innovative, Ralph Lauren reminds us of our distinct style
as a nation of dreamers and doers.  (Applause.)

(The Medal of Freedom is presented.)  (Applause.)  

William Sanford Nye.  (Applause.) 

The Presidential Medal of Freedom is awarded to William Sanford Nye.  A
Washington, D.C., native, Bill Nye began his career as a cutting edge
mechanical engineer in Seattle, before becoming a beloved science
educator for the nation.  Earning 19 Emmy awards for his energetic
experiments on television as “Bill Nye the Science Guy,” he also earned
the trust of millions of children and families.  By sharing the magic of
fun and science, he inspires generations of Americans to follow facts
and reason and leave the world better than we found it.  (Applause.)

(The Medal of Freedom is presented.)  (Applause.)  

Accepting on behalf of George W. Romney is Mitt Romney.  (Applause.)

The Presidential Medal of Freedom is awarded to George W. Romney.  Born
to humble beginnings as the son of Mormon missionaries, George Romney
developed a deep belief in the idea that everyone deserves a fair shot
at the American dream.  As a respected auto executive and three-term
Republican governor of Michigan, he served as secretary of Housing and
Urban Development, advanced civil rights, tackled poverty, and stood up
for everyday Americans, embodying an enduring faith in God and a love of
country.  (Applause.)

(The Medal of Freedom is presented.)  (Applause.)  

David M. Rubenstein.  (Applause.)

The Presidential Medal of Freedom is awarded to David M. Rubenstein. 
From a working-class family in Baltimore, David Rubenstein has become a
renowned leader in business, arts, and culture.  After serving our
nation on the staff of the Senate Judiciary Committee and in President
Carter’s White House, David went on to become a transformational
business leader and philanthropist, from advancing cutting-edge cancer
treatment to restoring our nation’s monuments.  His leadership reminds
us that at our best, we learn from, preserve, and share our history so
that everyone sees themselves in the story of America.  (Applause.) 

(The Medal of Freedom is presented.)  (Applause.)  

Accepting on behalf of George Soros is Alex Soros.  (Applause.)

The Presidential Medal of Freedom is awarded to George Soros.  Born into
a Jewish family in Hungary, George Soros escape Nazi occupation to build
a life of freedom for himself and countless others around the world. 
Educated in England, he settled in America as he became an investor and
philanthropist, supporting key pillars of open societies: rights and
justice, equity and equality, freedom now and in the future.  His
inspiring generosity reminds us all of our capacity and our obligation
to stand up to the abuse of power and to be guardians of democracy and
all people yearning to be free.  (Applause.)

(The Medal of Freedom is presented.)  (Applause.)  

George Stevens, Jr.  (Applause.)

The Presidential Medal of Freedom is awarded to George Stevens, Jr. 
Born into an entertainment family in Los Angeles, George Stevens, Jr.,
found his own purpose as a storyteller.  As a young aide in the Kennedy
administration, he produced hundreds of documentaries that championed
freedom and democracy.  He then created the American Film Institute and
Kennedy Center Honors, lifting up the arts and artists at the heart of
American culture.  In a career spanning seven decades, George’s
creativity, vision has helped redeem the soul of a nation founded on the
power of free expression.  (Applause.)

(The Medal of Freedom is presented.)  (Applause.)

Denzel Washington.  (Applause.)

The Presidential Medal of Freedom is awarded to Denzel Washington. 
Denzel Washington is considered one of the greatest actors of our time. 
Over four decades on screen and stage, his portrayals of iconic figures
and everyday people have earned him wide acclaim that includes two
Academy Awards, two Golden Globes, and a Tony Award so far. 
(Laughter.)  The admiration of audiences and peers is only exceeded by
that of the countless young people he inspires.  With unmatched dignity,
extraordinary talent, and unflinching faith in God and family, Denzel
Washington himself is a defining character of the American story. 
(Applause.)

(The Medal of Freedom is presented.)  (Applause.)

Anna Wintour.  (Applause.)

The Presidential Medal of Freedom is awarded to Anna Wintour.  The
daughter of a former newspaper editor, Anna Wintour has used her
creative talent, taste, and style for decades to redefine fashion
journalism in America and around the world.  Pushing creative
boundaries, she uses fashion as a mirror to reflect our culture and
helps the next generation of entrepreneurs and designers define their
vision and find their voice.  From the pages of magazines to runways and
red carpets, Anna Wintour has cemented her legacy as a global fashion,
cultural, and business icon.  (Applause.)

(The Medal of Freedom is presented.)  (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Not a bad group, huh?  (Laughter and applause.)

Folks, thank you all again.  Thank you and to your families for your
service and theirs to the nation.

Congratulations.  But let’s remember: Our sacred effort continues.  We
have to keep going.  As my mother would say, we got to keep the faith.

God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.

Please enjoy the reception.  God love you all. 

Thank you.  (Applause.)

1:54 P.M. EST
