---
date: '2025-01-10'
modified_time: 2025-01-10 20:26:44-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-10 20:26:43-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2025/01/10/remarks-by-president-biden-and-vice-president-harris-before-briefing-on-the-full-federal-response-to-the-wildfires-across-los-angeles/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and Vice President Harris Before Briefing on the\
  \ Full Federal Response to the Wildfires Across Los\_Angeles"
---
 
Oval Office

12:15 P.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  Here’s what we’re going to do.  We’re going to get a
briefing from the governor and the mayor and FEMA, and then we’re going
to lay out where we go from here.  Okay?

Ready?  Get set.  Go.

AIDE:  Ready.

THE PRESIDENT:  All right.  Vice President Harris and I are about to
receive a briefing from Governor Newsom and Mayor Bass and the FEMA
Director Criswell.  So, both of them are on the ground leading the fight
against this god-awful wildfire in Calif- — the worst in California
history. 

And there has been some progress in the last 24 hours, so I want to give
an update to where we think things are at the moment.

First, overnight, local, state, and federal firefighters were able to
partially prevent some of the largest fires from spreading to new areas:
3 percent in Pasadena has been kept from spreading, 8 percent in the
Pacific Palisades, 35 percent in Ventura, and 37 percent in Sylmar.  And
— and I — but this time yesterday, these fires were mostly spreading out
of control.

We — we’ve still got a long way to go, as we’re about to hear from the
governor and others.  And while the winds have died down for the time,
we expect they’ll remain a threat until early next week.  So, we’re
going to keep working 24/7 to support state and local officials to fully
stop these fires as soon as possible. 

Next, we’re going to make sure California has every possible resource to
fight these fires and help survivors.  As soon as the fire started, I
approved the — the Fire Management Assistance Grants, which is a fancy
phrase for saying the grants to cover the cost of firefighting federally
and the gear, equipment, and capabilities like search and rescue.

Then, I immediately approved the governor’s request of major disaster
declaration, which will pay for things like debris removal, temporary
lodging, and first responder overtime pay.  Both of these — the grants
and the declaration — usually cover 75 percent of the state’s costs. 
But yesterday, I directed the federal government to cover 100 percent of
state costs for 180 days.

I also announced FEMA has — is go- — has turned on its Critical Needs
Assistance program.  This program gives a one-time payment of $750 to
survivors so they can quickly purchase critical items, like water,
formula, gasoline, and prescription drugs.  And survivors should go to
DisasterAssistance.gov or call 1-800-621-3362.  We can’t help you if we
don’t know you need the help, so call.  DisasterAssistance.gov — I mean,
co- — contact or call 1-800-621-3362.

And I want to be clear: This is not the only aid that survivors can
request from FEMA.  More programs are going to be available through the
— that disaster declaration, but this is assistance that survivors can
get now and get it fast.

We’re also helping the state and local law enforcement personnel keep
people safe.  I’ve offered Governor Newsom additional support on — on
that front too.  For example, the Defense Department — military
personnel can help direct traffic, evacuate people where traffic lights
have been destroyed. 

Finally, I want to thank all the first responders.  And I often say,
“God made man, then he made a few firefighters.”  And these are men and
women.  The firefighters of Los Angeles are proof of that.

The scope, the scale, and the erratic movements of these fires is truly
unprecedented.  I mean, it’s truly unprecedented.  And — but day after
day, these firefighters have been pulling 24-hour shifts, rushing the
flames with har- — hurricane-force winds as well, to rescue people, to
evacuate neighborhoods, and put these fires out.

Now, I speak for the American people when I say we owe you, we’re with
you, and we’re going to make sure you get every resource you need. 

Now I want to turn it over to the vice president.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr. President.  As you’ve said, what we
have been witnessing is truly mass devastation.  And whether we are
talking about Sylmar to the Palisades to Altadena, it’s important to
know that we’re talking about neighborhoods of people who, in many cases
— I think about Altadena — these are — these homes have been in these
families for generations.  And in many of these homes, it is a
multigenerational family that lives there.

Also understand that, in a lot of these neighborhoods, the folks who
live there also work in that neighborhood, which means they’ve lost
their home and their livelihood.  So, the devastation that we are
looking at is multigenerational and is going to linger for quite some
time.

And the work, under the president’s leadership, that we are doing
through the federal government to provide aid in every way to the
governor, to the mayor, to local police and fire is critically
important, and we are doing it with a sense of urgency.

I also would mention that not only are firefighters out there working
around the clock, some of whom — sadly, more than a few who have lost
their own homes in the fire — but so too with LAPD police officers who
are working around the clock, and there are at least a dozen who have
also lost their own homes to the fire.

So, there is a real human story that is associated with the mass
devastation that we are seeing, and everything that we can do to
support, we will do.  Also understanding there are moments where we
should find optimism in the heroism of people who are taking in
strangers, taking in friends, providing shelter to evacuees — people
looking out for each other.  Regardless of where they come from or who
they voted for, they’re looking out for each other and showing the best
of the American spirit in a moment of crisis.

THE PRESIDENT:  In addition to that, I want to point out that — that
this is not going to be over even when all the fires are out. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes.

THE PRESIDENT:  It’s just going to be the beginning.  And the change in
insurance policy in California for these modest homes —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yep.

THE PRESIDENT:  — as well as these really expensive homes and
businesses.  So, the — we — we’re going to be around a long while, Gov,
to help, the federal government. 

GOVERNOR NEWSOM:  Yes.

THE PRESIDENT:  And the mayor as well.

So — but why don’t I yield to you, Governor, for any comments you have
to make.  Bring us up to date.

GOVERNOR NEWSOM:  I — I appreciate it, Mr. President and Madam Vice
President.  Let me just pick up, in the spirit of y- — of your
comments.  But first, with just deep gratitude to both of you for being
so solicitous, so supportive, hand in glove in this operation.  There’s
simply not an ask that hasn’t been met.

The major disaster declaration, Mr. President, was a game changer.  In
fact, you were able to do that within 36 hours.  I don’t know that
there’s another precedent in American history for disaster that was in
the making, was unfolding and for you to be there in real time and
prescient as well.  It turns out that we’re going to need all of that
support.  And the fact that you were able to provide 100 percent is just
tremendous relief on the (inaudible) side and other disaster relief
side. 

And I think the — the big focus now, to your point — and appreciate the
recognition of some progress last night.  The winds were favorable.  We
were able to address some of the perimeter issues.  Again, it’s been
focus about life, property, and perimeter.  But the perimeter progress
was real because we were able to get fixed-wing and helicopters up.

Last night, we had a new fire start.  Five fires that we’re actively
battling as we speak.  The two large ones you’ve highlighted, the 8 and
3 percent contained.  But we’re able to — these guys just did an amazing
job.  We had this fire, the Kenneth fire, that could have been one of
the bigger headlines today, and these guys were able to knock that
down. 

It was heroic.  I flew around it to see the dozers, the hand crews,
Rattlesnake crews in the National Guard, the mutual aid system.

Mr. President, 175 engines from across this country, from New Mexico and
Oregon and Washington State, Utah, Idaho — men and women coming out
here, regardless of their differences, in the spirit of what the vice
president said, working together in the spirit that defines the best of
all of us.  And so, just with deep gratitude to you, your team. 

We had the National Guard out last night.  We had 43 key posts that they
were — they were working — 855 National Guard men and women.  We’re
stationing additional National Guard men and women to the extent we need
it. 

We’ve searched all the assets and we drew down from all over the state
and, obviously, now increasing across the country. 

I want to also highlight, because I think it’s incredibly important: We
have 150,000 people still under mandatory evacuation orders.  These
fires are not out.  Though, today, we’re going to make a lot of progress
and continue to increase these containment numbers. 

But it is important, and I cannot impress upon you more how happy I was
to hear, Mr. President, you say DisasterAssistance.gov. 

People are now naturally calling.  There’s tremendous anxiety out there
around getting immediate assistance.  The reality of this is — is
starting to come. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

GOVERNOR NEWSOM:  The clarity is — as the, you know, smoke begins to —
to move and, in daylight, people are starting to understand the
magnitude.

I thought I never would see anything like the Tubbs Fire and then the
Camp Fire.  This is up there.  This will be one of the most destructive
fires, I mean, in terms of property damage, perhaps in the history of
the country, but certainly in terms of scale and scope — 10-plus
thousand structures already identified.  Ten people we fear have lost
their lives; likelihood of more.  The magnitude of this is pretty
profound. 

And — and in closing, you know, I appreciate, Madam Vice President, you
bringing up Altadena as well.  You know, I was there yesterday, saw a
middle school — it’s a beautiful middle school — burning down. 
Lifestyles, places, tradition, kids, families, memories, communities
completely, you know, torn — just torn asunder. 

It’s — it’s not just a home.  It’s — it’s their lives and their
livelihoods, these businesses, community centers.  I can’t tell you how
many churches burned down.

And so, you know, we had these hurricane-force winds, the likes of which
we’ve never imagined in our lifetime — 99-plus-mile-an-hour gusts,
couldn’t — you know, there was no helicopters that can go up in — in
those gusts, in those wind shears.

But we had, you know, thousands and thousands of men and women that —
that did everything in their power to hold the line.  And so, hats off
to the first responders.

And in closing, hats off to those neighbors that are stepping up, these
self-organizing communities that are coming together in the spirit of
what makes us great, the spirit of neighbor to neighbor, of being there
for each other. 

And final words: You know, I ask you, we’ve got to deal with this
misinformation.  There were hurricane-force winds —

THE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.

GOVERNOR NEWSOM:  — of mis- and disinformation, lies.  People want to
divide this country, and — and we’re going to have to address that as
well. 

And it breaks my heart, as people are suffering and struggling, that
we’re up against those hurricane force — forces as well.  And — and
that’s just a point of personal privilege that I share that with you,
because it infects real people that are out there, people I meet every
single day, people the mayor has been meeting with.  And they’re having
conversations that are not the typical conversations you’d have at this
time. 

And — and you wonder where this stuff comes from, and it’s very damaging
as well. 

But — but we’re here to get the job done, to be here for folks, to
focus, yes, on this mitigation and then, absolutely, recovery in record
time.  With your support, we’re going to be able to do that.  With
FEMA’s support, we’re going to get people back on their feet.  We’re
going to rebuild this remarkable community, and we’re going to come
back. 

I know it’s rote and cliché.  It’s just a fact.  We’re going to come
back stronger because we’re all in this together.  And — and we’re in
this together because we have a leader in the Oval Office right now, Mr.
President — Joe Biden, an American president, being there for the
American people at a time of critical need. 

And I cannot impress upon you personally, on behalf of 40 million
Americans that live in the great state of California, how proud we are
of you, the vice president, and your leadership. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, Gov, thank you.  You know, that’s why I think it’s
so important I — I — we speak plainly to the American people and let
them know what we can and can’t do.

For example, those churches that get burned down you talked about, those
public schools, the federal government will pay to rebuild those —
rebuild those.  There’s a — so, we have to let people know that there
are things that are going to be coming that we’ve declared — and there’s
disaster relief legislation and others — that are going to be
available. 

Because I think people say, “Okay.  I’m out.  But, God, what — what
happens now?  What do I…” — and — but we’re — we’re not leaving.  We’re
not leaving until we get it done. 

Karen — Mayor.

MAYOR BASS:  Yes.  Thank you, Mr. President and Madam Vice President.

I just can’t emphasize enough how important your support and involvement
has been.  And how, in the midst of such incredible devastation and —
and tragedy, that it has been comforting to know that you are — have
been accessible. 

Again, you know, the governor certainly mentioned the fact that you
moved so quickly in response to the emergency declaration, the idea of
100 percent reimbursement.  And we have made it clear to folks that that
is not the norm, but that is what leadership does in response to such a
devastating event. 

And the governor mentioned, and let me just repeat: hurricane-strength
wind without the rain.  And that has led to such amazing devastation in
terms of the Palisades fire and some of the other fires. 

I think it is important to acknowledge the successes that have been
going on, where there have been evacuation orders that have been
canceled, and people are going back to certain neighborhoods.  Fires
have been extinguished in several neighborhoods — Pacoima, Hollywood,
Studio City — where people were told they had to evacuate, and those
evacuation orders have been rescinded.

And as our first responders are out there putting their lives on the
line, as the vice president mentioned, they’ve been experiencing the
losses as well, as well as the city and the county workforces.  We have
a number of our employees who have had to evacuate.  While responding,
their families have had to evacuate, or they’ve had the loss, the
personal loss of their homes, their places to worship, their schools, or
their businesses. 

But Los Angeles, the region, we are going to recover.  We’re going to
recover, and we’re going to rebuild, and we’re going to rebuild better. 

One of the biggest challenges that is facing us — and I also know that
it is a national situation — is insurance.  And so, today, I’m here at
the County Hall of Administration.  We do two press conferences a day —
one in the county, one in the city.  And we had our state insurance
commissioner here. 

We do have a state plan, but that state plan certainly needs to be — and
he’s — he talked about introducing emergency legislation to respond to
some of the ways we need to strengthen our system. 

So, many of the homes in the area, especially in the Palisades area, had
their insurance canceled — canceled a year or so ago.  And he talked
about how he wanted to have a moratorium — he was going to use the power
of his office to have a moratorium — that said that no policies can be
canceled, even if your home was not damaged.  If you’re in the area and
everybody around you burnt down but your home was not damaged, that your
policy cannot be canceled. 

So, we have mobilized the philanthropic community.  The philanthropic
community is already setting up funds to assist.  But we are also
convening — and the city is — is taking the lead here — in the
rebuilding effort, and we’re going to expedite rebuilding. 

It brings back a lot of memories for me, in 1992, when we experienced
massive civil unrest, and we were able to get the majority of Los
Angeles rebuilt quickly by coming together and suspending — waiving
rules, you know, getting past bureaucracy. 

If you — if your home was devastated in the fire, there’s no reason for
you to have to go all the way back through the permitting process. 

So, while we are saving lives, preventing further destruction, saving
homes, saving businesses, dealing with the emergency at hand, we also
have our eyes on the future and are preparing to put forward policies,
executive directors next week that would address how we bring our city
back together and how we expedite the rebuilding.

And so, again, let me just end by saying that, you know, your leadership
— your leadership, period, over the last several years has just been
outstanding, Mr. President, Madam Vice President.  Madam Vice President,
who’s an Angeleno, we know that you know.

When I spoke with you yesterday, you mentioned that you had to
evacuate.  You weren’t going to mention yourself, but I asked you, and
you mentioned that you had to evacuate from your home here while you
were in Washington, D.C.  And I just want to commend your outstanding
leadership and let you know how the residents of Los Angeles are so
deeply grateful. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.

THE PRESIDENT:  Karen, one of the things I’ve found in my experience in
dealing with these disasters — similar, not as devastating than this —
is: People take a look at the immediate help, and they’re satisfied,
they’re happy.  But they look down the road and say, “My God, look at
downtown.  It’s gone.  Look at — how are we going to do this?” 

We’re going to need the United States Congress to follow up with
appropriations to help provide for significant help for our fellow
Americans who need this help to pay for the — these programs that we
have because a lot more is going to be c- — be happening.

And now, yield to a woman who’s an expert in all this.  She and I have
traveled more states that are — flying over fires for the last four
years, and we’ve literally observed, from the air or on the ground, more
areas burned to the ground — burned to the ground — from Arizona all the
way up to Idaho — than the entire state of Maryland.  Took it all — to
the ground. 

And so, we’ve — but we’re used to this but nothing like the
concentration that’s here.  This is profound. 

And so, we got the best person we could.

Go ahead, Deanne.

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  Thank you.  Yeah, thank you, Mr.  President,
Madam Vice President.  I mean, you and I, sir, have traveled many
different disasters, and I can say from what I’ve seen here yesterday
that this is certainly one of the most destructive that you and I have
had to — to deal with during our time here. 

I had a chance yesterday to talk with the governor and the mayor, to
hear some of their immediate concerns, but mostly to start to talk about
what this recovery is going to look like. 

I had an opportunity to get briefings from the incident command post,
both at the Palisades fire as well as the Eaton fire.

And, Madam Vice President, I had a chance to drive through Altadena and
see just what the heart of this community is by hearing from the local
officials and just witness the amount of loss that they are experiencing
and going through.  I mean, in addition to the thousands of structures
that we hear about that are — that are gone, many of those homes, an
entire small-business district — a booming business district in Altadena
that has just been burnt to the ground — churches and schools and other
public facilities that are just gone. 

And so, this is going to be a very complex recovery, but I know that
when we all come together and work together through all of our federal
partners and bringing in our — our nonprofit and our private-sector
partners, that we are going to get through this.

And your approval, sir, of the 100 percent for the debris removal and
the emergency protective measures for 180 days is really going to be a
game changer in helping to make sure that this recovery gets started off
on the right foot. 

And the major disaster declaration itself is going to do so much.  It’s
— so many people, as you heard, are evacuated, and there’s not very many
in shelters.  And so, we know that so many people are either staying
with friends and family or they’re staying in hotels. 

And with the changes that we have made to our programs over the last
year, we are going to be able to cover most of those costs, if not all
of those costs that people are incurring, whether they’re staying with
family and friends or they’re staying in hotels, to help ease some of
that burden.

And as they register for assistance — so, we’ve already got close to
10,000 people that have registered, but we know that that’s going to
continue to go up, and we’re going to send more people into the
community to make sure that they register.  They’re going to be able to
get things to help support that recovery, whether that’s moving into the
next-term and longer-term sheltering or their longer-term housing needs
to help reimburse for some of the losses and damages, even though we
know it’s not going to come close to the total devastation and the total
loss that they had. 

Working together, again, if Congress approves additional funding, and
working with our partners like the SBA, we’re going to really be able to
help all of these families with their specific needs and what they’re
going to need to do to help start this recovery journey. 

And one of the biggest things is going to be debris removal.  And, you
know, we’ve had lots of conversations with the governor’s team about
debris removal.  They have an excellent capability here within the
state, and we’re going to be able to provide technical assistance
through the Army Corps of Engineers to make sure that they’re getting
everything done in the most expeditious way possible so they can start
that recovery process. 

And I think, Mr. President and Madam Vice President, what I would just
close with is that, as you have said and as, you know, the governor —
and I’ve talked to the governor and the mayor — we are going to be here
with you.  Governor, Mayor, just know that FEMA, the entire federal
family, is going to be here with you throughout this entire recovery
journey.  We are going to work through the complicated problems
together.  We’re going to find the right federal resource to meet the
needs and to get the outcomes that you want.  And we’re going to help
every Angeleno with the — the impacts that they’ve had and help them on
this road to recovery.

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  You know —

MAYOR BASS:  Thank you.

THE PRESIDENT:  — one of the things that —

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  Thank you.

THE PRESIDENT:  — that you and I have done, Deanne, is we not only have
to build back, we have to build back better.  There are certain things
we can do to prevent things from being — if the same thing occurred —
from as much damage occurring.  And that costs money, but it also saves
money. 

There is climate —

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  Yes.

THE PRESIDENT:  — change.  There is climate change.  This is part of
it.  And we have to deal with it. 

And the other thing is that, you know, when I was with you, Gov, and we
were looking around the state, it looked to me, as I traveled — when I
was out with you in — in California,

it — what it reminded me of — it reminded me of — more of a war scene
where you had certain targets that were bombarded, where artillery was —
just blew them up with no — with — with no rhyme or reason.  In other
words, you’d have this fire going crazy and burning everything down and
three houses being fine —

GOVERNOR NEWSOM:  Yeah.

THE PRESIDENT:  — noth- — nothing is happening.

Or neighborhoods that were still green — I mean, still green, and next
to a place that — for example, you know, there was — we were just
looking at a Secret Service house that was out there.  You know, all the
vehicles were melted — melt — melt — yet that house next door still has
green shrubbery on it, and, you know, it — the house is fine.  There’s
only, I think, four or five houses in that 200 — you know, it’s in — in
the Pasadena area. 

But — but my generic point is, it’s almost like it’s a — it’s a battle
scene.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  But, you know, Mr. President —

GOVERNOR NEWSOM:  Yeah.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — we saw that in South Carolina, North Carolina —

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, I know.  That’s the point.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — Georgia, and Florida with hurricanes. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, same thing.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  This is also the nature of, to your point, this
changing climate, these extreme weather conditions, not only are they —
they volatile and devastating, but there — there is no method
necessarily to how — to the impact in terms of the predictability of
where it might land, if we’re talking about a hurricane or — or a
wildfire.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, for example, we —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And so, resilience and adaptation becomes more
important.

THE PRESIDENT:  You know, we found, Gov, that in these other areas, like
the hurricanes from North Carolina to Florida, where you saw entire
highways devastated —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

THE PRESIDENT:  — coming off the side of the mountains, dropping into —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, we got to build back the highway a different way
— 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.

THE PRESIDENT:  — to make it stronger. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.

THE PRESIDENT:  We’re — so, we — we’re going to have to deal with this,
and we can make it — I know if anybody — any of your constituents are
listening and saying, “My, God, don’t tell me about ‘better,’ just tell
me when about getting back.”  But, you know, we can not only build it
back, we can build it back better, God willing.

GOVERNOR NEWSOM:  A hundred percent.  No, it’s — it is remarkable, and
it’s — yeah, to your point, particularly as — as the smoke is clearing,
you see that, you know, very indelibly and visually here in this fire. 
These — these newly constructed homes more likely to have survived —
those with — with different materials, those with the latest home
hardening investments. 

And that wou- — the — the chapter, verse, the lesson, the master class
in this was the Camp Fire.  Remember, we lost 85 lives —

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

GOVERNOR NEWSOM:  — 18,000 structures up there in Paradise, California,
and those structures that did survive — and so, we’ve changed our
building codes.  We — we began to adapt to this new reality. 

And I just say this to the deniers out there: You may not believe in
science, but you have to believe your own eyes.

You know, Mother Nature is — it’s been said by others — it’s just, you
know, the chemistry, biology, and physics — she bats last; she bats a
thousand. 

There’s been no rain.  It’s January — January in Southern California. 
So, what is “time of year”?  None projected in the next many days. 
There’s been a modest amount since last May here in Southern
California.  The hots are getting hotter; dries, drier; wets a lot
wetter with these atmospheric rivers.

And on that, Mr. President, this is an area that we need to focus right
now, and that’s the likelihood that we may see some intense rain and a
lot —

THE PRESIDENT:  Exactly.

GOVERNOR NEWSOM:  — of debris flow —

THE PRESIDENT:  Exactly. 

GOVERNOR NEWSOM:  — and issues around massive flooding, which often is
more deadly than the fires themselves.

THE PRESIDENT:  That’s what —

MAYOR BASS:  And we —

THE PRESIDENT:  — happened in North Carolina.  When — when we talked
about the hurricane, you saw the entire rivers fill and —

Anyway, there’s a lot we can do though.

MAYOR BASS:  You know, I — I do remember when we used to have a fire
season.  Do you remember that, Governor?  You —

GOVERNOR NEWSOM:  No.  (Laughs.)

MAYOR BASS:  — used to have a fire season, right?  In your — in your
entire term, that has not been the case. 

This is January.  (Laughs.)  Fire season used to be at the end of
summer.  So, you know, ab- — absolutely correct.

And then we know that that was the reason for such massive, massive
devastation. 

But, again, you know, sending out your Deanne Criswell — Criswell.  It
was wonderful to meet you yesterday.  Everybody was very excited to know
that you were going to be here and to know that FEMA was going to be a
resource that they can access right away. 

Continuing that is really what is needed right now.  And I want to thank
you once again.

THE PRESIDENT:  The vice president and I have initiated every federal
agency, from the Department of Defense on — every federal agency — to be
part of this. 

And the other thing is, look, you know, I think you get a bad rap.  I
know you’re getting a bad rap about “these fire hydrants don’t have
enough water in them.”  Give me a break.  Give me a break. 

What this is all about is the utilities, understandably — what they did
is they cut off power because they’re worried about these high-tension
lines coming down and causing more fires in the wind.  Right?  When they
do that, guess what?  They shut off the power that controls the ability
to pump the water.

And so, now they’re put- — they’re getting generators now.  I mean, this
is complicated stuff. 

You’re going to have a lot of demagogues out there trying to take
advantage of it, but you’re doing the right thing.  We’re going to get
it done, God willing. 

And I say to the people of Southern California, “God bless you.  Stay
strong.  Stay strong.  We’re not going anywhere.  We’re not going
anywhere.”

MAYOR BASS:  Thank you.  Thank you very much.

GOVERNOR NEWSOM:  Thank you, Mr. President, for everything.

THE PRESIDENT:  And you know, all kidding aside, you both have my phone
number, so —

MAYOR BASS:  Yes, we do.

THE PRESIDENT:  No — no, I’m for real.  Anything that comes up, if you
have any ideas.

And — and if you didn’t, I’ve got a California vice president, man.

GOVERNOR NEWSOM:  Yeah, that’s — that helps too.

THE PRESIDENT:  She’s wildly focused on this.

MAYOR BASS:  The access to both of you is a tremendous benefit.

GOVERNOR NEWSOM:  Yeah.

THE PRESIDENT:  All right.  Well, thank you very much.  Keep in touch,
okay?

MAYOR BASS:  Okay.

GOVERNOR NEWSOM:  Thank you for everything. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.

MAYOR BASS:  Bye-bye.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Take care, guys.

AIDE:  Thanks, press.  Thanks, press.  Let’s go.  Thanks guys.  Thank
you, press. 

(Cross-talk.)

AIDE:  All right.  Thanks, folks.

(Cross-talk.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Whoa.  Hey, I’m going to be talking a little later this
afternoon about a number of things you’re asking about, from Russian
energy to what’s — what’s going on in terms of the economy, but — but
focused on this issue now.  And let’s focus on this, and we’ll be back
on the rest of it. 

So, about this, you can ask me questions. 

Q    Can I just ask you about — you mentioned yesterday that you’re
about to leave office.  Are you coordinating with the incoming
administration about this federal response?

THE PRESIDENT:  We are making — everything they know — every single
thing we’re doing about the re- — what — the response, my hope is that
they will have — at least acknowledge we have some significant
experience in this.  We’ve done really well on it, and I’m praying that
they continue to focus. 

Q    Mr. President, have you been told that the loss of life is likely
to increase significantly in California?

THE PRESIDENT:  It is likely it will increase.  Whether it’s
significantly or not, we don’t know yet.  There’s still a lot of people
who are unaccounted for.  We don’t know where they are.  I think this
toll is likely to go up.  Whether it’s significant or not — pray God
it’s not — but it could be. 

Q    How concerned are you about looting, Mr. President, in this?

THE PRESIDENT:  (Inaudible.)

Q    How concerned are you about looting and incidents of looting in Los
Angeles —

THE PRESIDENT:  We are concerned.  That’s why I provided more police
officers and more military.  Look, the DOD is in full (inaudible) with
this.  They’re providing everything from security through the military,
the National Guard; supplementing the National Guard.  Because we are —
there’s clear evidence that there’s looting.  There’s clear evidence
that people are going into these surviv- — even places where they’re not
— they’re evacuated, and it’s not all rubble, and people are going in
and they’re looting. 

And so, that’s going to — that — we know that will continue, unless we
make sure we — we’re providing the help to prevent it from happening. 

Q    Mr. President, what will you be seeking from Congress?  Is the
supplemental for this, specifically, or is it broader for FEMA?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I think — I think whether I’m going to be here to
suggest it, and I have 10 days left — we have 10 days left, but we’re
briefing the opposition — “the opposition” — the incoming administration
on what they’re going to have to do. 

Look, we have an awful lot of experience in this, unfortunately. 
Climate change has been real.  It’s been real for the last four years of
our administration.  We’ve seen devastating impacts of consequences of
the changes. 

And it’s just like — you know, there are — it’s going to take more
funding.  I mean, look, you’re the most informed people in the country. 
I’m not being facetious.  You cover this every single minute.  You’ve
seen what these downtowns look like.  I mean, they look like bombing. 
They look like they actually have been blown up — entire sections of the
cities blown up.  Just to remove the debris — just to remove the debris
is an incredibly expensive undertaking. 

We’re going to do it for them.  We’re going to get it done.  We’re going
to pay for it, but we’ve got to be prepared to pay for it.  And — and
when we do, we’ve got to build back better than we did before. 

So, thank you. 

AIDE:  Thank you, press.

(Cross-talk.)

THE PRESIDENT:  One l- — one — one last question.  There was one last
question: Do I have any estimates of cost?

I could tell you, based on my experience, what I think the cost would
be, but I’m not going to do that because we don’t know.  We want to make
sure when we — we get the cost estimate, it’s real.  We’ve thought it
through.  We get — we got the engineers and the scientists in to give us
the best assessment of what’s happening. 

And one of the things that is going to have to change, and it’s been —
I’ve been a — been broken record on this for the last three years: We’ve
got to change the way in which we transmit energy.  And these
high-tension wires that are the things that cause — some — remember we
had someone from the other team about, “Well, we just ought to sweep the
floor of the — the forest floor so we have no fires.”  Come on, man. 

You know, we — the idea is if we had these wires underground, it’s a
hell of lot safer.  We wouldn’t have as many fires as we have now or in
the future, but it costs a hell of a lot of money to put it
underground. 

So, we’re working out all those issues to determine what would be needed
— when I say “build back better” — to build back in a way that
diminishes the prospect that the change in weather and the environment
is going to continue to cause such devastation. 

We can protect against much of it, but it’s going to cost a lot of money
to do it. 

Thank you.

12:50 P.M.  EST
