---
date: '2025-01-10'
published_time: 2025-01-10 13:22:16-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2025/01/10/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-memorial-service-for-former-president-jimmy-carter/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at a Memorial Service for Former President Jimmy\_\
  Carter"
---
 
Washington National Cathedral  
Washington, D.C.

11:31 A.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  Leaders of the clergy.  Distinguished guests.  Most
importantly, the Carter family. 

In April 2021, Jill and I visited Jimmy and Rosalynn on a warm spring
day down in Plains, Georgia.  We wanted to see them.

Rosalynn met us at the front door with her signature smile.  Together,
we entered a home that they had shared for almost 77 years of marriage —
an unassuming red-brick ranch home that reflects their modesty more than
any trappings of power. 

We walked in the living room, where Jimmy greeted us like family.  That
day, just the four of us sat in the living room and shared memories that
spanned almost six decades.  A deep friendship that started in 1974. 

I was a 31-year-old senator, and I was the first senator outside of
Georgia — maybe the first senator — to endorse his candidacy for
president.  It was an endorsement based on what I believe is Jimmy
Carter’s enduring attribute: character.  Character.  Character. 

Because of that — character, I believe, is destiny — destiny in our
lives and, quite frankly, destiny in the life of the nation. 

It’s an accumulation of a million things built on character that leads
to a good life and a decent country — a life of purpose, a life of
meaning. 

Now, how do we find that good life?  What does it look like?  What does
it take to build character?  Do the ends justify the means?

Jimmy Carter’s friendship taught me — and, through his life, taught me
that strength of character is more than title or the power we hold. 
It’s the strength to understand that everyone should be treated with
dignity, respect — that everyone — and I mean everyone deserves an even
shot — not a guarantee, but just a shot.

You know, we have an obligation to give hate no safe harbor and to stand
up to what my dad used to say is the greatest sin of all: the abuse of
power. 

Now, it’s not about being perfect because none of us are perfect.  We’re
all fallible.  But it’s about asking ourselves: Are we striving to do
things — the right things?  What values — what are the values that
animate our spirit?  Do we operate from fear or hope, ego or
generosity?  Do we show grace?  Do we keep the faith when it’s most
tested? 

For keeping the faith with the best of humankind and the best of America
is a story, in my view, from my perspective, of Jimmy Carter’s life.  A
story of a man — to state the obvious, you’ve heard today some great,
great eulogies — who came from a house without running water or
electricity and rose to the pinnacle of power.  A story of a man who was
at once driven and devoted to making real the words of his Savior and
the ideals of this nation.  A story of a man who never let the tides of
politics divert him from his mission to serve and shape the world.

The man had character.  Jimmy held a deep Christian faith in God and
that his candidacy spoke and wrote about.  Faith as a substance of
things hoped for and evidence of the things not seen.  Faith founded on
commandments of Scripture: Love the Lord thy God with all thy heart and
all thy mind and all thy soul and love thy neighbor as thyself.  Easy to
say, but very, very difficult to do.

In his life — in this life, any walk of faith can be difficult.  It can
be lonely.  But it requires action to be the doers of the world. 

But in that commandment lies the essence, in my view, found in the
Gospel, found in many faith traditions, and found in the very idea of
America.  Because the very journey of our nation is a walk of sheer
faith to do the work, to be the country we say we are, to be the country
we say we want to be.  A nation where all are created equal in the image
of God and deserve to be treated equally throughout our lives.

We’ve never fully lived up to that idea of America.  But we’ve never
walked away from it either, because of patriots like Jimmy Carter. 

Throughout his life, he showed us what it means to be a practitioner of
good works and a good and faithful servant of God and of the people. 

And today, many think he was from a bygone era.  But in reality, he saw
well into the future. 

A white Southern Baptist who led on civil rights.

A decorated Navy veteran who brokered peace.

A brilliant nuclear engineer who led on nuclear nonproliferation.

A hardworking farmer who championed conservation and clean energy.

And a president who redefined the relationship with the vice president.

Jimmy and I often talked about our dear friend Walter Mondale, whom we
all miss very much.  Together, they formed a model partnership of
collaboration and trust, as both were men of character.

And as we all know, Jimmy Carter also established a model
post-presidency by making a powerful difference as a private citizen in
America and, I might add, as you all know, around the world.

Through it all, he showed us how character and faith start with
ourselves and then flows to others.  At our best, we share the better
parts of ourselves: joy, solidarity, love, commitment — not for reward
but in reverence for the incredible gift of life we’ve all been granted.

To make every minute of our time here on Earth count, that’s the
definition of a good life — a life Jimmy Carter lived during his 100
years.

To young people, to anyone in search of meaning and purpose, study the
power of Jimmy Carter’s example.

I miss him, but I take solace in knowing that he and his beloved
Rosalynn are reunited again.

And to the entire Carter family, thank you — and I mean this sincerely —
for sharing them both with America and the world.  We love you all. 

Jill and I will cherish our visits with them, including that last one in
their home.  We saw Jimmy as he always was: at peace, with a life fully
lived.  A good life of purpose and meaning, of character, driven by
destiny and filled with the power of faith, hope, and love.  I’ll say it
again: faith, hope and love.

As he returned to Plains, Georgia, for his final resting place, we can
say goodbye.  In the words of the prophet Micah, who Jimmy so admired
until his final breath, Jimmy Carter did justly, loved mercy, walked
humbly.

May God bless a great American and a dear friend and a good man.  May he
rise up — be raised up on eagle’s wings and bear you on the breath of
dawn and make you to shine like the sun and hold you in the palm of his
hand. 

God bless you, Jimmy Carter.

11:42 A.M. EST
