---
date: '2025-01-03'
modified_time: 2025-01-06 12:26:12-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-03 23:40:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2025/01/03/remarks-by-president-biden-at-medal-of-honor-ceremony/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at Medal of Honor\_Ceremony"
---
 
East Room

5:18 P.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT: Please be seated. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, as
commander in chief, this is the most solemn occasion that I participate
in in my four years every time we do this event.

Secretary Austin, Secretary Wormuth, Chairman Brown — General, it’s good
to see you — Representative Case, Castro, Ryan, and Takano, and, most
importantly, veterans, service members, and previous Medal of Honor
recipients: Today is the final time as commander in chief and I’m deeply
privileged to honor seven American — seven American heroes. And that’s
not hyperbole. These are genuine to their core heroes.

Heroes of different ranks, different positions, and even different
generations. But heroes who all went above and beyond the call of duty.
Heroes who all deserve our nation’s highest and oldest military
recognition: the Medal of Honor.

First Private Bruno Orig. A proud son of Hawaii, Bruno joined the Army
when he was just 19 years old. Less than one year later, he was
completing a mission in Korea. Bruno saw his fellow soldiers were
wounded and stranded under enemy fire. Without hesitation, he ran out to
rescue them, giving his own life to save the lives of his
brothers-in-arms. That’s valor. That’s the definition of valor.

Private First Class — you know, I think it’s incredible when I think of
the men and women who have done — who have gotten this award — but
Private First Class Wataru Nakamura. After an attack on Pearl Harbor, he
was forced to live in an internment camp, like so many other
Japanese-Americans — like my good friend Danny Inouye, who was a hero
himself — put in an internment camp.

But still, he signed up to serve our nation during World War II and the
Korean War. During his last mission in May of 1951, single-handedly, he
defended his unit from enemy attack, fighting until he was killed by a
grenade.

Corporal Fred McGee. A Midwesterner, a steelworker, and a gunner in one
of the first integrated Army units of the Korean War. Fred embodied the
very best of our country. In June 1952, his unit was attacked. They took
casualties. They were ordered to fall back. But Fred refused — refused
to leave until he helped every wounded soldier evacuate.

Private First Class Charlie Johnson. Growing up, in the words of one of
Charlie’s high school classmate, “He was a heck of a football player.”
Well, back in 1952, Charlie signed up to serve in Korea, trading his
jersey for a uniform. During one battle, he gave his life to defend a
bunker full of his wounded soldiers. His valor saved 10 men, including
an old high school classmate.

General Richard Ca- — excuse me — excuse me — Cavazos. A young first
lieutenant in Korea, Richard led his men through a difficult and deadly
mission in enemy territory. Eventually, he was ordered to retreat, but
he stayed. He stayed, rescuing wounded soldiers one by one until every
one of them was evacuated. Richard went on to serve for three decades in
the Army, becoming the first — the country’s first Hispanic four-star
general.

And Captain Hugh Nelson. A Citadel graduate, helicopter pilot, and a
proud young father. He was just 28 years old when he and his crew were
shot down in Vietnam. Hugh freed his men who were trapped in the
wreckage. Then, as the enemy began to attack, he used his body as a
shield to protect them. It cost him dearly. It cost him his life. Hugh’s
commanding officer called it the “ultimate act of self-sacrifice,” which
it was.

And finally, Private First Class Ken David, who is here with us today.
Nearly 55 years ago, in Vietnam, his company was ambushed by the enemy.
Ken’s lieutenant was killed instantly. Then, Ken himself was hit in the
back by shrapnel. But he couldn’t and wouldn’t give up. Instead, he
shouted and fired his weapon attacking — to attract attention to him,
away from others and away from the wounded men. Imagine that courage.
“Come get me. Come get me. Don’t get those folks.” That’s selflessness.

Ken, I want to say to you that I wish I could say to every man we’re
honoring today: You’re a hero. A genuine hero. A flat-out, straight-up
American hero. And we owe you and the families owe you.

Let me close with this. I said ear- — as I said earlier, these are my
final days as commander in chief. It’s been the greatest honor of my
life to be entrusted with the greatest fighting force in the history of
the world. They’re the finest military in the history of the world. And
every day — every day their integrity, their patriotism, and their
courage.

And to learn the stories of Americans like Bruno and Wataru and Fred and
Charlie and Richard and Hugh, Ken. Americans who have not only fought
for our nation but embodied the very best our nation has to offer.

Let me also say this. Today, we award these individuals the Medal of
Honor. But we can’t stop there. Together, as a nation, it’s up to us to
give this medal meaning. To keep fighting — to keep fighting for one
another, for each other; to keep defending everything these heroes
fought for and many of them died for — the ideals of America, the
freedoms we cherish, the democracy that has made our progress possible.

And remember, we are the only nation in the world built on an idea.
Every other nation is built based on geography, ethnicity, or religion.
But we are the only nation based on an idea.

The idea is that we hold these truths evident — sel- — to be
self-evident. All men and women are created equal and deserve to be
treated equally throughout their entire lives. We haven’t always lived
up to it, but we’ve never, ever, ever walked away from it.

Today, we must say clearly: We never, ever, ever will.

Now it’s my great an- — honor to ask Lieutenant Colonel Anthony Lichi —
excuse me — Lichi the Medal of Honor — to read the Medal of Honor
citations.

And thank you all for being here. And God bless you. And may God also
protect our troops who are still engaged. Thank you. (Applause.)

MILITARY AIDE: Loretta Orig, accepting on behalf of her brother, Private
Bruno Orig.

Attention to orders. The president of the United States of America,
authorized by Act of Congress March 3rd, 1863, has posthumously awarded,
in the name of Congress, the Medal of Honor to Private Bruno R. Orig,
United States Army, for conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity at the
risk of his life above and beyond the call of duty.

Private Bruno R. Orig distinguished himself by acts of gallantry and
intrepidity above and beyond the call of duty while serving with Company
G 23rd Infantry Regiment, Second Infantry Division in the vicinity of
Chipyong-ni, Korea, on February 15th, 1951.

While returning from a wire-laying mission, Private Orig observed a
number of his comrades who had been wounded in a fierce enemy attack
that was still in progress. With complete disregard for his own safety,
Private Orig went to the aid of these men and remained in an exposed
position in order to administer first aid to them. With the assistance
of several comrades from the company command post, Private Orig began
removing the wounded to a place of safety. While returning from one of
these trips, Private Orig noticed that all except one man of a machine
gun crew had been wounded.

Without hesitation, he volunteered to man the weapon. Remaining in this
position, Private Orig placed such effective fire on the enemy that a
withdrawing friendly platoon was able to move back without a single
casualty. Private Orig continued to inflict heavy casualties on the
enemy until the company positions were overrun.

Later that day, when the lost ground was recaptured, Private Orig was
found dead beside his weapon, and the area in front of his gun was
littered with enemy dead. Private Orig’s extraordinary heroism and
selflessness above and beyond the call of duty were in keeping with the
highest traditions of military service and reflect great credit upon
himself, his unit, and the United States Army.

(The Medal of Honor is presented.) (Applause.)

Gary Takashima, accepting, on behalf of his uncle, Private First Class
Wataru Nakamura.

Attention to orders. The president of the United States of America,
authorized by Act of Congress March 3rd, 1863, has posthumously awarded,
in the name of Congress, the Medal of Honor to Private First Class
Wataru Nakamura, United States Army, for conspicuous gallantry and
intrepidity at the risk of his life above and beyond the call of duty.

Private First Class Wataru Nakamura distinguished himself by acts of
gallantry and intrepidity above and beyond the call of duty while
serving with Company I, 38th Infantry Regiment, Second Infantry
Division, in the vicinity of P’ungch’on-ni, Korea, on May 18th, 1951.

At about daybreak of that date, Private First Class Nakamura volunteered
to check and repair a communications line between his platoon and the
command post. As he made his way along the line in the early morning
half-light, he was brought under fire by an enemy force that had
surrounded friendly positions and were threatening to break the company
defense lines.

Immediately, without regard for his own safety and without waiting for
help, Private First Class Nakamura rushed the enemy with fixed bayonet
engaged. Single-handedly, he attacked and destroyed a hostile machine
gun nest and drove the enemy from several of the bunkers they had
captured. When his ammunition was depleted, he withdrew under intense
enemy fire.

Then he met an ammunition party ascending the hill. Quickly briefing the
officer in charge, Private First Class Nakamura rearmed himself and,
covered by the fire of the officer and two comrades, returned to the
attack. In a fierce charge, he killed three of the enemy in one bunker
and killed and seriously wounded another in the last enemy-held bunker.

Continuing to press the attack, he fell, mortally wounded by an enemy
grenade. Private First Class Nakamura’s extraordinary heroism and
selflessness above and beyond the call of duty were in keeping with the
highest traditions of military service and reflect great credit upon
himself, his unit, and the United States Army.

(The Medal of Honor is presented.) (Applause.)

Victoria Secrest, accepting on behalf of her father, Corporal Fred
McGee.

Attention to orders. The president of the United States of America,
authorized by Act of Congress, March 3rd, 1863, has posthumously
awarded, in the name of Congress, the Medal of Honor to Corporal Fred B.
McGee, United States Army, for conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity at
the risk of his life above and beyond the call of duty.

Corporal Fred B. McGee distinguished himself by gallantry in action near
Tang-Wan-Ni, Korea, on June 16th, 1952, in an assault on enemy-fortified
positions. As gunner on a light machine gun in a weapons squad, Corporal
McGee delivered a heavy volume of supporting fire from an exposed
position, despite intense enemy machine gun and mortar fire directly on
his location.

Though forced to move his gun several times, he continued to support the
assault and give covering fire to the assault elements of his platoon.
When his squad leader was wounded, together with several other members
of his squad, he assumed command and moved the squad even farther
forward to a more exposed position in order to deliver neutralizing fire
on an enemy machine gun sweeping the other assault platoon with deadly
flanking fire.

When his machine gunner was mortally wounded, he again took over the
gun. On order, he directed his squad to withdraw and voluntarily
remained behind to help evacuate the wounded and dead.

Though wounded in the face, he heroically exposed himself by standing
straight up in intense enemy machine gun and mortar fire while
attempting to evacuate the body of the company runner. Forced to abandon
the body, he aided a wounded man to be moved to the rear and safely
through a huge volume of enemy mortar and artillery fire.

The gallantry displayed by Corporal McGee reflects great credit upon
himself and is in keeping with the highest traditions of military
service.

(The Medal of Honor is presented.) (Applause.)

Dr. Juanita Mendez, accepting on behalf of her brother, Private First
Class Charles Johnson.

(Dr. Mendez kisses the president on the cheek.) (Laughter.)

THE PRESIDENT: (Inaudible.) (Laughter.)

MILITARY AIDE: Attention to orders. The president of the United States
of America, authorized by Act of Congress, March 3rd, 1863, has
posthumously awarded in the name of Congress the Medal of Honor to
Private First Class Charles R. Johnson, United States Army, for
conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity at the risk of his life above and
beyond the call of duty.

Private First Class Charles R. Johnson distinguished himself by
conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity beyond the call of duty while
defending Outpost Harry against overwhelming odds and making the
ultimate sacrifice to save the lives of his comrades in the Republic of
Korea during the period of June 11th, 1953, to June 12th, 1953.

Private First Class Johnson was serving as a Browning automatic rifleman
with Company B, 15th Infantry Regiment, 3rd Infantry Division.

Chinese forces attacked his unit during a massive nighttime assault.
During the ensuing battle, overwhelming numbers of Chinese troops
assaulted the trenches and bunkers defended by Private First Class
Johnson and his squad.

Private First Class Johnson, wounded from a direct artillery hit on his
bunker and subsequently from a hand grenade thrown inside the bunker, at
the personal disregard for his injuries, administered first aid to those
more seriously injured.

Understanding the seriousness of the situation and being under direct
fire from the enemy, Private First Class Johnson personally dragged a
wounded soldier to the safety of a secure bunker, stopping
intermittently to aid injured soldiers and kill several enemy troops in
hand-to-hand combat.

Departing the safety of the second bunker, he conducted a search for
weapons and ammunition, and then returned to rearm everyone.

Recognizing their untenable situation and disregarding his personal
safety, he exited the bunker, placing himself between the enemy and his
injured comrades, informing them he would hold off the enemy as best as
he could. His brave and selfless efforts were directly attributed to
saving the lives of as many as 10 soldiers.

Private First Class Johnson’s extraordinary actions in close combat with
the enemy, his unyielding courage and bravery and profound concern for
his fellow soldiers are in keeping with the highest traditions of
military service and reflect great credit upon himself, his unit, and
the United States Army.

(The Medal of Honor is presented.) (Applause.)

Laura Blevins, accepting on behalf of her father, General Richard
Cavazos.

Attention to orders. The president of the United States of America,
authorized by Act of Congress, March 3rd, 1863 has posthumously awarded
in the name of Congress the Medal of Honor to First Lieutenant Richard
E. Cavazos, United States Army, for conspicuous gallantry and
intrepidity at the risk of his life above and beyond the call of duty.

First Lieutenant Richard E. Cavazos distinguished himself by acts of
gallantry and intrepidity above and beyond the call of duty while
serving as the company commander, Company E, 2nd Battalion, 65th
Infantry Regiment, 3rd Infantry Division on June 14th to 15th, 1953, in
the vicinity of Sagimak, Korea.

On the night of June 14th, First Lieutenant Cavazos led his company in a
raid on an entrenched enemy outpost, with the mission of destroying the
personnel and installation thereon.

During the initial attack, First Lieutenant Cavazos led his men through
intense enemy mortar and artillery fire.

Upon entering the trenches, fierce close combat ensued, during which
First Lieutenant Cavazos directed heavy fire on the enemy in their
positions.

When an extremely intense enemy mortar and artillery barrage hit his
position, First Lieutenant Cavazos withdrew the company and regrouped
his men.

Twice more, he led his men through intense enemy fire and assaults on
the enemy position, destroying vital enemy fortifications and personnel.

During the entire assault, First Lieutenant Cavazos gave effective
commands and words of encouragement to his men and, by his personal
example and leadership, inspired them to heroic heights of achievement.

When ordered to withdraw his company, First Lieutenant Cavazos complied,
but remained alone on the enemy outpost to search for missing men.

Although exposed to enemy fire, First Lieutenant Cavazos located five
battle casualties and evacuated each, one by one, to a point on the
reversed slope of a nearby hill where they could be safely recovered by
friendly forces.

Returning to the battlefield, he found a small group of men who had
become separated from the main assaulting force and personally led them
to safety.

When informed that there were still men missing, First Lieutenant
Cavazos again returned to the scene of the battle where he located and
led another small group of men to safety.

First Lieutenant Cavazos then made two more unassisted trips to the
battlefield searching for missing soldiers.

Not until he was personally satisfied that the battlefield was cleared
on the morning of June 15th did he allow treatment of his own combat
wounds sustained during the action.

First Lieutenant Cavazos’s conspicuous gallantry, extraordinary heroism,
and intrepidity at the risk of his life above and beyond the call of
duty are in keeping with the highest traditions of military service and
reflect great credit upon himself, his unit, and the United States Army.

(The Medal of Honor is presented.) (Applause.)

Deborah Nelson McKnight, accepting on behalf of her father, Captain Hugh
Nelson.

Attention to orders. The president of the United States of America,
authorized by Act of Congress, March 3rd, 1863, has posthumously
awarded, in the name of Congress, the Medal of Honor to Captain Hugh
Reavis Nelson Jr., United States Army, for conspicuous gallantry and
intrepidity at the risk of his life above and beyond the call of duty.

Captain Hugh R. Nelson Jr. distinguished himself by conspicuous
gallantry and intrepidity above and intrepidity above and beyond the
call of duty while serving as a member of the 114th Aviation Company
(Air Mobile Light) on June 5th, 1966, near Moc Hoa, Republic of Vietnam.

Captain Nelson was the acting aircraft commander of an armed Huey
helicopter on a search-and-destroy reconnaissance mission when it was
struck by a large volume of enemy fire that rendered the aircraft
virtually uncontrollable.

With great difficulty, Captain Nelson and the pilot were able to
crash-land the aircraft without lateral controls. At some point after
the crash, Captain Nelson exited the aircraft and went to the aid of his
wounded comrades. Proceeding to the other side of the aircraft, he found
his dazed and wounded crew chief still trapped inside. After removing
the specialist and placing him on the ground, Captain Nelson climbed
into the severely damaged helicopter to assist the door gunner, who was
still strapped inside and unable to move.

While Captain Nelson tried to free his comrade, the insurgents engaged
the aircraft with a heavy volume of automatic rifle and small-arms fire
at a range of approximately 30 feet from the aircraft. Despite the heavy
enemy fire, Nelson continued his gallant efforts, freeing the trapped
door gunner despite being hit by enemy fire. Upon removing the wounded
door gunner from the aircraft, he forced the specialist to the ground
and, without regard for his own life, used his body as a shield to cover
his comrade from the intense enemy fire. While shielding his comrade,
Captain Nelson was hit several times by enemy fire, sacrificing his own
life to save the life of his comrade.

His selfless sacrifice allowed his wounded comrade to use a smoke
grenade to signal supporting aircraft in the area that there were crash
survivors. The supporting aircraft responded immediately, preventing the
insurgents from advancing on the downed aircraft and successfully
rescuing the three wounded crew members.

Captain Nelson’s conscious decision to sacrifice his own life for that
of his comrades saved the lives of his three fellow crew members that
fateful day. Captain Nelson’s distinctive accomplishments are in keeping
with the highest traditions of military service and reflect great credit
upon himself, his unit, and the United States Army.

(The Medal of Honor is presented.) (Applause.)

Specialist Fourth Class Kenneth David.

Attention to orders. The president of the United States of America,
authorized by Act of Congress, March 3rd, 1863, has awarded, in the name
of Congress, the Medal of Honor to Private First Class Kenneth J. David,
United States Army, for conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity at the
risk of his life above and beyond the call of duty.

Private First Class Kenneth J. David distinguished himself by acts of
gallantry and intrepidity above and beyond the call of duty on May 7th,
1970, while serving as a radio-telephone operator with Company D, 1st
Battalion, 506th Infantry, 101st Airborne Division, near Fire Support
Base Maureen, Thua Thien Province, Republic of Vietnam.

On this date, Private First Class David’s company came under an intense
attack from a large hostile force. The enemy’s ferocious initial assault
mortally wounded the company’s platoon leader and resulted in numerous
other friendly casualties. Upon the initial assault and without
hesitation, Private First Class David handed his radio to his platoon
sergeant and moved forward to the defensive perimeter, unleashing a
barrage of automatic weapons fire on the enemy. From this location,
Private First Class David bitterly resisted all enemy efforts to overrun
his position. Realizing the impact of the enemy assault on the wounded,
who were being brought to the center of the perimeter, Private First
Class David, without regard for his own life, moved to a position
outside of the perimeter while continuing to engage the enemy.

Each time the enemy attempted to concentrate its fire on the wounded
inside the perimeter, Private First Class David would jump from his
position and yell to draw the enemy fire away from his injured comrades
and back to himself. Refusing to withdraw in the face of the
concentrated enemy fire now directed toward him, he continued to engage
the enemy. Although wounded by an exploding satchel charge and running
perilously low on ammunition, he tossed hand grenades toward the
attackers to effectively counter their fire. The unit’s medic, realizing
that Private First Class David had been injured, moved to his position
to provide aid, but Private First Class David assured him that he was
okay and continued to fight on.

Private First Class David’s courageous and selfless actions continued to
draw the enemy fire away from the incoming medevac helicopters, allowing
the wounded to be safely evacuated.

After allied reinforcements fought their way to his company’s position,
Private First Class David carried a wounded comrade to a sheltered
position. He then returned to the contact area and continued to engage
the enemy and provide covering fire for the wounded until the enemy
broke contact and fled, at which point he too was medically evacuated.

Private First Class David’s conspicuous gallantry, extraordinary
heroism, and intrepidity at the risk of his life above and beyond the
call of duty are in keeping with the highest traditions of military
service and reflect great credit upon himself, his unit, and the United
States Army.

(The Medal of Honor is presented.) (Applause.)

5:49 P.M. EST
