---
date: '2025-01-02'
published_time: 2025-01-02 18:57:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2025/01/02/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-latest-developments-in-new-orleans-catoctin-mountain-park-md/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the Latest Developments in New Orleans | Catoctin\
  \ Mountain Park,\_MD"
---
 
THE PRESIDENT:  Good evening.  I know I can speak for all Americans when
I say our hearts are with the people in New Orleans after the despicable
attack that occurred in the early morning hours.

To all the families of those who were killed, to all those who were
injured, to all the people in New Orleans who are grieving today, I want
you to know I grieve with you.  Our nation grieves with you.  We’re
going to stand with you as you mourn and as you heal in the weeks to
come. 

I want to thank our brave first responders and law enforcement personnel
who stopped the attacker in his tracks before he could kill or injure
even more people.

And I want to thank you to everyone at the Department of the Homeland
Security, the Department of Justice, including the FBI, for working
nonstop to investigate this heinous act.  The FBI is leading the
investigation to determine what happened, why it happened, and whether
there is any continuing threat to public safety. 

Here’s what we know so far.  The FBI has reported to me the killer was
an American citizen, born in Texas.  He served in the United States Army
on active duty for many years.  He also served in the Army Reserve until
a few years ago. 

The FBI also reported to me that mere hours before the attack, he posted
videos on social media indicating that he was inspired by ISIS,
expressing a desire to kill — a desire to kill.  The ISIS flag was found
in his vehicle, which he rented to conduct this attack.  Possible
explosives were found in the vehicle as well, and more explosives were
near — were found nearby. 

The situation is very fluid, and the investigation is at a preliminary
stage.  And the fact is that right now — excuse me — there you go — the
law enforcement and intelligence community are continuing to look for
any connections, associations, or coconspirators. 

We have nothing additional to report at this time.  The investigation is
continuing to be active, and no one should jump to conclusions.  I’ve
directed my attorney general, the FBI director, the secretary of
Homeland Security, the head of the National Counterintelli- — -terrorism
Center, and the intelligence community to work on this intensively until
we have a full and complete information.  And once we have that
information, I will share that information as soon as I — we can confirm
it. 

Additionally, we’re tracking the explosion of a Cybertruck outside the
Trump Hotel in Las Vegas.  Law enforcement and the intelligence
community are investigating this as well, including whether there’s any
possible connection with the attack in New Orleans.  Thus far, there’s
nothing to report on that score at this time.

I directed my team to make sure every resource — every resource — is
made available to federal, state, and local law enforcement to complete
the investigation in New Orleans quickly and to make sure there’s no
remaining threat to the American people. 

And we’ll — we will support the people in New Orleans as they begin the
hard work of healing. 

New Orleans is a place unlike any other place in the world.  It’s a city
full of charm and joy.  So many people around the world love New Orleans
because of its history, its culture, and, above all, its people.  So, I
know, while this person committed a terrible assault on the city, the
spirit of our New Orleans will never, never, never be defeated.  It
always will shine forth. 

We’ve seen that time and time again throughout its history, and I know
we’ll see it again in the days and weeks ahead.

May God bless the people in New Orleans.  May our — God bless our police
and our first responders.  And may God protect our troops.

And we’ll keep you fully, contemporaneously informed.

Thank you.
