---
date: '2025-01-06'
modified_time: 2025-01-07 14:54:47-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-06 18:51:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2025/01/06/remarks-by-president-biden-at-an-interfaith-prayer-service-for-peace-and-healing-new-orleans-la/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at an Interfaith Prayer Service for Peace and\_\
  Healing"
---
 
St. Louis Cathedral  
New Orleans, Louisiana

6:51 P.M. CST  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Your Excellency, Archbishop Aymond; members of the
clergy representing Christian, Jewish, Muslim faiths across the board,
thank you for what you’re doing. 

Governor Landry, Representatives Carter and Fields, Mayor Cantrell, and
all elected officials and members of the community. 

Most of all, the families and loved ones of those we lost in this
horrific act of terrorism last Wednesday.  
  
I know events like this are hard when the shock and pain is still so
very raw.   
  
My wife, Jill, and I are here to stand with you, to grieve with you, to
pray with you, and let you know you are not alone.  The rest of the
nation is looking at you as well.

It’s not the same, but we know what it’s like to lose a piece of our
soul — the anger, the emptiness, the black hole that seems to be sucking
you into your chest, the sense of loss, the questions of faith in your
soul.

I know it’s been five days staring at that empty chair in the kitchen,
around the kitchen table, and not hearing the voice.  
  
You think of the birthdays, the anniversaries, the holidays to come
without them.   
  
You think of everything — everyday things, the small things, the details
you’ll miss the most.  The morning coffee you shared together.  The bend
of his smile.  The perfect pitch of her laugh.

The rest of America has learned about them as well.

Students who dreamed of becoming engineers or nurses.Star athletes who
worked on Wall Street or helped coach small children.  Warehouse
managers.  Bluegrass fan.  Cook, engaged to be married.  A single mom
just promoted at work and teaching her young son to read.

They came from different states, even different country.

They were children who had dinner with their parents besur- — before
joining their friends on New Year’s Eve.

Some even ran toward the chaos to try to help save others.

We remember them.

Today, we also stand with the 35 people who were injured in the attack,
and we think of the brave responders and law enforcement officers —
officials who risked their lives to stop the terror and save others,
including two of those officers that I met tonight, injured in the
firefight.  Now, thankfully, both are recovering and are home.

I’ve directed my team to make every resource available to federal,
state, and local law enforcement to complete this investigation quickly
and do whatever else we can.

The French Quarter is also home to so many people.  We will support
everyone who lives there, all the people of New Orleans as they heal.

And if there’s one thing we know, New Orleans defines strength and
resilience.  You define it.  Whether it’s in the form of this atta- —
from this attack or hurricanes or superstorms, this city and its people
get back up.

That’s the spirit of America as well.

Let me close with this.  To the families left behind, we know from some
experience it’s hard.  But I promise you, the day will come when the
memory of your loved one — you pass that park, open that closet door,
smell that fragrance, just remember that laugh — when the memory of your
loved one will bring a smile to your lips before a tear to your eye.

It will take time, but I promise you — I promise you, it will come.  It
will take time.  My prayer is that that day comes sooner rather than
later.  But it will come.  And when it does, you my — may you find
purpose in your pain to live the life worthy of the one you lost.

  
From the hymn based on the 91st Psalm in my church, “May He raise you up
on eagle’s wings and bear you on the breath of dawn, make you to shine
like the sun, and hold you — hold you in the palm of His hand.”

God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.  God bless you. 
(Applause.)

6:57 P.M. CST
