---
date: '2025-01-06'
modified_time: 2025-01-06 22:26:06-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-06 22:26:05-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2025/01/06/remarks-of-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-a-new-frontier-for-the-u-s-india-partnership/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks of National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan A New Frontier for the\
  \ U.S.-India\_Partnership"
---
 
The Indian Institute of Technology Delhi

Good afternoon.  It’s great to be back in New Delhi.

And thank you, Eric, for that gracious introduction. President Biden has
been lucky to have you here representing the United States.

I also want to thank everyone here at IIT Delhi for such a warm welcome.

\*\*\*

In 1949, Prime Minister Nehru went on a now-famous tour of the United
States.

His goal was to understand how new technologies and innovations could
strengthen his then-young nation.

So for nearly a month, he traveled all across America. From businesses
in New York and San Francisco, to family farms around Chicago and
Madison, to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

And that visit at MIT helped inspire the establishment of India’s own
IIT system, which not only ignited a new era of science and technology
innovation for a new nation –

but also ignited a partnership in science and technology between the
United States and India. 

Indeed, the United States was the first foreign partner to collaborate
with India’s IITs, when nine leading U.S. universities helped build the
Indo-American research program at IIT Kanpur.

Some years later, Prime Minister Nehru would observe – at an IIT
convocation, in fact —something prescient for our own era.  He said, and
I quote:

*“the time has now come when the engineer plays an infinitely greater
role than anybody else…because the major work of the country today deals
with…engineering schemes of various types…and the administrator who is
completely ignorant of engineering does not help much in
administering.”*

Something quite similar could of course be said today…about governments
racing to keep pace with concurrent revolutions in artificial
intelligence, biotechnology, space, quantum, and other fields.

So it is fitting in *many* ways that today, seven decades later and in
*this* moment of technological transformation, India and the United
States are taking our partnership to the next frontier—together.

And—if we can get it right—I believe this partnership will be the most
consequential of the 21st century.

For both the United States and India, our partnership is key to our own
growth — and jobs — at home …

It is critical for stability and security in the Indo-Pacific …

And, increasingly, it will bring prosperity to like-minded friends
around the world, especially emerging economies.

And so, we are deeply invested in India’s success and, I believe, India
in ours.

Over 1,000 American companies are operating in India.

Over $50 billion in foreign direct investment flowed into India from the
United States, and Indian private sector investment in the United States
recently surpassed that of China – investments that, by some estimates,
are generating over 400,000 U.S. jobs.

And over 300,000 Indian students are studying in the United States. In
fact, our international students come from India more than any other
country in the world.

And for all our work together, in many ways, we’re just getting started.

When President Biden came into office, he made clear that America’s
domestic strength and our international position were inherently
linked. 

And that in an era of intense geopolitical competition, we needed to
re-invest in our domestic industrial base and our innovation economy to
strengthen our advantages abroad. 

But he was also clear that this approach was not one we could pursue on
our own.  We would need to do it together with our allies and partners.

Because by building trusted supply chains, jointly investing in emerging
technologies, and leveraging our respective advantages, we would all
emerge in a stronger position.

There is nowhere we have proved the theory of that case more clearly
than in the U.S.-India relationship.

Over the past four years, we’ve joined hands to halt a pandemic and
bring vaccines to the world; we’ve launched initiatives on jet engines,
semiconductors, and clean energy; and in a few months’ time, we will
come together to put an Indian astronaut into space.  

These are remarkable achievements, and we made them by harnessing the
remarkable innovation of the American and Indian people.

I had the chance to see some of that collaboration here at IIT Delhi
just a few moments ago, when I met with some impressive young
entrepreneurs who are designing everything from AI-enabled robotics to
military-grade sensors…

…ventures that I’m proud to say are being supported by the United States
through partnerships with New York University, the U.S. National Science
Foundation, and the U.S. Space Force.

And that’s what I’d like to say more about today: How we’ve taken the
U.S.-India partnership to a fundamentally new level over the last four
years, with innovation at its core, and how that is playing out
bilaterally, regionally, and globally.

\*\*\*

**First, we started by transforming our technology partnership.**

When President Biden came into office, he knew that “Make in India” and
“Made in America” are complementary, not incompatible, precepts.

That’s why, in 2022, our Administration launched the initiative on
Critical and Emerging Technologies with India.

The fundamental premise of iCET is that, in an era of renewed
geopolitical competition, the United States and India must collaborate
on the development, diffusion, and protection of critical
technologies—from artificial intelligence to biotechnology, and beyond.

That is our responsibility as the world’s largest democracies. As two of
the fastest-growing and largest economies. And as leading Indo-Pacific
powers.

And—as we mark the second anniversary of iCET this month—we’ve proven
just how impactful this deepened collaboration can be across both of our
economies, and both of our innovation ecosystems.

Just look at Vikram Solar, which announced plans last year for a $1.5
billion investment in solar manufacturing here in the United States.

Or Bharat Forge, which in 2021 opened the first U.S. greenfield aluminum
forging plant in over 15 years.

At the same time, U.S. companies looking for more resilience in both
their markets and supply chains are shifting out of China and expanding
to India.

Take, for example, Apple’s significant investment in Indian production.
Within the next couple of years, over a quarter of all iPhones in the
world will be made right here in India.

Or Ford’s recent expansion in Chennai—which will add thousands of jobs
in Tamil Nadu.

And I want to take a moment to talk about our supply chains
specifically.

The United States, India, and other partners have all been
reminded—abruptly and sharply—that we cannot ignore the ways in which
interdependencies can be weaponized against us.

We’ve seen countries lose access to critical minerals that support our
clean energy and electronics industries.

We’ve seen companies struggling to compete against China’s predatory
industrial strategies in chips, clean energy, and other emerging
technologies.

And, of course, we’ve seen repeated attacks on industries tied to our
critical infrastructure, which is heightening the risks not only of
cyber espionage, but of destructive sabotage.

That’s why—as we launched iCET—both President Biden and Prime Minister
Modi made it a priority to invest in national programs that are spurring
production in sectors that had become overly reliant on China.

These include the U.S. CHIPS and Science Act, the India Semiconductor
Mission, and India’s Production-Linked Incentive program in areas such
as biopharmaceuticals.

The benefits of those programs are already flowing to both of our
countries.

Micron was the first, not just American, but first global company to
partner with India’s Semiconductor Mission, investing hundreds of
millions of dollars in new semi-conductor packaging facilities that will
establish India as a new hub in the global chip ecosystem.

India and the United States have joined hands with Japan, the ROK**,**
and Europe to establish a new Biopharmaceutical Supply Chain
Consortium—the “Bio-5”—that will reduce dependence on single-source
suppliers supply chains.

We are poised to expand these efforts into new sectors—most notably,
commercial space exploration.  In fact, as we speak, U.S. companies are
providing support for a SpaDeX \[*Spay-Dex*\] satellite docking
experiment that will enable new Indian missions to the moon.    

And as a result of new updates to our missile technology control export
policies that President Biden signed out just last week—and which I’m
glad to announce publicly for the first time today—our commercial and
civil space partnership is set for lift off.

\*\*\*

**Second, as we’ve strengthened our technology partnership—we started
delivering for the Indo-Pacific region  as well.  **

Take, for example, the U.S.-India defense partnership.  The growth of
our defense partnership over the past two decades has been nothing short
of remarkable.

Just consider, twenty-five years ago, the United States and India had no
defense trade relationship at all.

No frameworks for information sharing or logistics cooperation.

No major military exercises to train alongside each other.

Today, the United States is not just *selling* defense systems to India.
We are *making* them here in India. And the United States has become the
top destination for Indian defense exports.

We launched a first-of-its kind defense initiative—INDUS X—that is
awarding American and Indian start-ups the funding to more rapidly bring
new technologies forward to our militaries.

On top of this—in the past two years alone—the Biden administration has
approved technology proposals that would enable India to become the
first global producer of Stryker combat vehicles, a leading producer of
advanced munitions systems, and the first foreign producer of
cutting-edge maritime systems.

We announced a ground-breaking initiative to enable India to manufacture
jet engines that will power India’s future indigenous fighter fleet.

And even more work is underway – in aviation, sensing, undersea — that
will come to fruition soon.

So many of these initiatives have the potential to extend beyond the
United States and India, to eventually help countries across the
Indo-Pacific region upgrade their defensive capabilities as well.

Because that’s another goal that unites us: to ensure a more free, more
secure, more prosperous, and more resilient Indo-Pacific region.

And stronger U.S. and Indian defense cooperation is already enabling
security across the region.

Through the multinational Combined Maritime Forces Coalition—of which
India is now a full-time member—we are combatting piracy and trafficking
at sea.

Through Exercise Malabar, the United States, India, Australia, and Japan
are training to more rapidly respond to natural disasters across the
Indo-Pacific.

And through historic agreements that allow U.S. Navy vessels to seek
repair and maintenance in Indian shipyards in Kochi, Mumbai, and soon
Chennai, the United States can more readily train and operate with
countries across the Indian Ocean region.

At a time when we’re seeing dangerous provocations in the air and at
sea—

The proliferation of destabilizing technologies—

And countries attempting to change the status quo by force—

Our cooperation—in technology, in defense, and beyond—is a pillar of
stability in the Indo-Pacific.

\*\*\*

**And frankly, it goes beyond the Indo-Pacific. Which brings me to the
third area: delivering for the world.**

Nowhere is this more evident than clean and affordable technologies.

The U.S. Development Finance Corporation is engaged in path-breaking
partnerships with Indian companies to localize and scale solar
manufacturing. 

This includes investing nearly $1 billion in solar panel manufacturing
in Tamil Nadu, and providing support for leading Indian manufacturers,
like Tata Power Renewables. 

And in the past year, we concluded a new initiative on clean energy
supply chains that lays out a path for our countries to deploy clean
energy across Africa and to work with African partners on high-impact
solar and electric vehicle projects.

And we’re not stopping with clean energy. Our technology partnership is
delivering affordable public goods in numerous ways.

That is why we launched a new U.S.-India Global Digital Development
Partnership that will leverage both government and private sector
resources to deploy safe and responsible digital technologies with
like-minded partners around the world.

And through the Quad, we announced plans to deliver Open RAN technology,
AI-driven agricultural solutions, and cutting-edge satellite data to
developing economies.

And at the G20 in Delhi in September of 2023, we announced the launch of
the India-Middle East Economic Corridor, an ambitious initiative linking
India, the Middle East and Europe with a sea-and-rail corridor and fiber
and energy connections. 

That was just a few weeks before October 7.  But we have continued to
nurture the vision, and I have personally engaged the key countries and
key leaders to keep making progress. 

I have also talked to the incoming administration about the enormous
opportunity to deliver growth and integration – and a high-standard
alternative to what Beijing is offering.

The bottom line of all of these efforts is that the potential of this
partnership is boundless.

\*\*\*

**But I hasten to add: it is not inevitable.**

Over the years, people have referred to the United States and India as
“natural” partners.

And in many ways, that’s true. Our democracies our linked. Our companies
are linked. Our universities are linked. And more than anything else,
our people our linked.

But the U.S.-India partnership that we have built together is not one
that just naturally sprang into existence.  All of our linkages have
been necessary, but at the same time, insufficient.

The partnership we have built is one of intention, of choice. One of
determination, of leadership. And, frankly, one of perseverance and
grit.

Look at the U.S.-India Civil Nuclear Agreement concluded by President
George W. Bush and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, may he rest in peace.

Or India’s designation as a Major Defense Partner of the United States
in 2016.

Or President Biden and Prime Minister Modi’s decision to manufacture
advanced jet engine technology and explore space together.

None of these were “natural” occurrences.

Step-by-step we have worked to build trust. To build habits of
cooperation. And to move our partnership past what Prime Minister Modi
has called our “hesitations of history.”

Which brings me to another historic step forward on that journey.

Although former President Bush and former Prime Minister Singh laid out
a vision of civil-nuclear cooperation twenty years ago, we have yet to
fully realize it.

But as we work to build clean energy technologies, to enable growth in
artificial intelligence, and to help U.S. and Indian energy companies
unlock their innovation potential, the Biden administration determined
it was time to take the next major step in cementing this partnership.

So today I can announce that the United States is now finalizing the
necessary steps to remove longstanding regulations that have prevented
civil nuclear cooperation between India’s leading nuclear entities and
U.S. companies.

This is a statement of confidence in the progress we have made—and will
continue to make—as strategic partners, and as countries who share a
commitment to peaceful nuclear cooperation. 

And it is the result of India’s open and transparent engagement with our
Administration over the course of the past four years, which has enabled
this new chapter to move forward.

Of course, none of this has been easy.

We’ve both had to navigate our share of turbulence. Legacy
relationships. Tensions over trade, as well as human rights and rule of
law, at home and abroad.

But we have navigated these issues together, with our eye on the long
game. And our ability to do so reflects the deep and enduring resilience
between the United States and India—across generations, across
administrations, and “across the aisle.”

\*\*\*

**This leads to my parting thoughts: where do we go from here?**

I am deeply proud of the work the United States and India have done
together under iCET to shape the technologies of the future. And I’m
proud that we are passing the baton off the next Administration in an
even stronger position.

But there is still much more to be done.

Looking forward, it will not be enough for the United States and India
to simply collaborate in building the critical technologies of the
future.

We also need to work together to shape the diffusion, protection, and
rules that govern those technologies.

We have already begun this work in domains such as space, where India’s
decision to join the Artemis Accords is allowing us to establish a
common set of principles around civilian space exploration.

We will need to continue to drive similar efforts in other spheres, such
as the employment of artificial intelligence and advanced
biotechnologies—both of which will have enormous consequences in every
facet of life.

As we see more and more new technologies diverted to unfriendly actors,
theUnited States and India will also need to ensure that valuable
dual-use technologies don’t fall into the wrong hands.

This means aligning our export control systems. Looking at trade
measures to protect our industrial strategies against overcapacity.
Better securing our supply chains. And reviewing outbound and inbound
investments in sensitive sectors.

As we take these steps, we need to expand the work we’re doing to
leverage American and Indian innovation to help the world – especially
emerging economies – to enable equitable growth across the globe.

And finally, our partnership can be most effectively sustained – and can
only reach its full potential – if we each live up to the values that
lie at the core of our democracies.  Respect for the rule of law that
creates the conditions for dynamic growth. Respect for pluralism and
tolerance that powers innovation.  And the protection of basic freedoms
that unleash the human spirit. 

I say this not as a skeptic, but as someone who fully believes the
United States and India can realize those aspirations.  These are basic
truths about how our democracies will grow and flourish.

**\*\*\***

So let me close with this.

This is likely the last trip overseas I will lead as National Security
Advisor.

And I cannot think of a better way to end my tenure in the White
House–visiting India on my final overseas visit to mark the advances we
have made together over the past four years: this is a shared and
historic achievement, and a cornerstone of the Biden administration’s
foreign policy legacy.

We’ve had to deal with challenging moments.  We’ve had to work to
resolve difficult issues.

But being here at IIT Delhi with the young technologists and
entrepreneurs and policymakers who will take this generational project
forward,

I have every reason to be believe that within the next decade we’ll see:

American and Indian firms working together to build the next generation
of semi-conductor technologies.

American and Indian astronauts conducting cutting-edge research and
space exploration together.

American and Indian researchers contributing to a new explosion in
lifesaving vaccines.

American and Indian engineering students developing new innovations
together right here at IIT Delhi.

And American and Indian leaders propelling our partnership – and our
future – toward what the American statesman-scientist Vannevar Bush
called “the endless frontier” that we haven’t yet imagined.

Thank you again for having me here.  I cannot wait to see what all of
you, and so many other young people across our nations, achieve in the
years ahead.

\###
