---
date: '2025-01-07'
modified_time: 2025-01-08 09:45:19-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-07 22:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2025/01/07/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-the-lying-in-state-ceremony-for-former-president-jimmy-carter/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at the Lying in State Ceremony for Former\
  \ President Jimmy\_Carter"
---
 
*U.S. Capitol  
Washington, DC*

5:20 P.M. EST

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Leader Thune, Speaker Johnson, Leader Schumer,
Leader Jeffries, members of Congress, and distinguished guests, it is an
honor to be with you this afternoon.

And to Jack, Chip, Jeff, Amy, and Jason and all the other members of the
Carter family, on behalf of the American people, Doug and I offer our
deepest condolences.

Being with you today, I am reminded of the enduring words of a favorite
hymn: May the works I have done speak for me.

Today, we gather to celebrate the life of a man whose works will echo
for generations to come, a man from Plains, Georgia, who grew up without
electricity or running water and served as the 39th president of the
United States of America and lived every day of his long life in service
to the people: President James Earl Carter, Jr.

So, I was in middle school when Jimmy Carter was elected president, and
I vividly recall how my mother admired him, how much she admired his
strength of character, his honesty, his integrity, his work ethic and
determination, his intelligence, and his generosity of spirit.

We have heard much today and in recent days about President Carter’s
impact in the four decades after he left the White House.  Rightly so. 
Jimmy Carter established a new model for what it means to be a former
president and leaves an extraordinary post-presidential legacy, from
founding the Carter Center, which has helped advance global human rights
and alleviate human suffering, to his public health work in Latin
America and Africa, to his tireless advocacy for peace and democracy
around the globe. 

And Jimmy Carter was a president of the United States who was ahead of
his time.  He was the first president of the United States to have a
comprehensive energy policy, including providing some of the first
federal support for clean energy.  He also passed over a dozen major
pieces of legislation regarding environmental protection and more than
doubled the size of America’s national parks, including protecting our
beloved Redwoods in my home state of California.

He was a president who, between the years of 1977 and 1981, appointed
more Black Americans to the federal bench than all of his predecessors
combined and appointed five times as many women.  And in the wake of
Watergate, Jimmy Carter passed historic ethics legislation to help
rebuild America’s faith in government.

Jimmy Carter, as president, was also a respected global leader.  To be
sure, the years of his presidency were not without international crises
or challenges, but his legacy of global leadership is well established. 

In Asia, he instituted full diplomatic relations with China, which he
would later call one of the most historically significant
accomplishments of his presidency. 

And his legacy lives on in the Middle East, because do recall in the
decades before Jimmy Carter became president, Israel and Egypt had been
at war numerous times.  Few thought peace could be achieved between
them.  Yet Jimmy Carter did that.  Through his persistence and
perseverance, through his unshakable belief in the power of American
diplomacy, he secured the Camp David Accords, one of the most
significant and durable peace treaties since World War II.

And throughout the world, Jimmy Carter elevated the role of human rights
in America’s foreign policy priorities and uplifted the importance of
civil society in doing that work. 

Jimmy Carter was a forward-looking president with a vision for the
future.  Consider his establishment of the Department of Energy in 1977,
which anticipated the central role it would play in addressing the
climate crisis; his creation of FEMA in 1979, which enabled our nation
to mobilize a national response to disasters which has helped countless
communities rebuild and recover; and his founding of the Department of
Education later that year, which elevated public education institutions
and increased national standards for the education of America’s children
and future leaders.

Jimmy Carter was that all-too-rare example of a gifted man who also
walks with humility, modesty, and grace.  Recall the stories from the
1976 campaign about how he slept in the homes of his supporters to share
a meal with them at their table and to listen to what was on their
minds. 

How, on their first trip for Habitat for Humanity, Jimmy and Rosalynn
rode the bus with the other volunteers.  And when the group stopped for
the night to stay at a local church, Jimmy and Rosalynn gave their
private room to a young couple who had put off their honeymoon to join
the trip.  And with the other volunteers, they then slept on the floor
of the church basement. 

And then, of course, his work to eradicate the vicious Guinea worm
disease that once disabled millions of people a year.  It was one of the
Carter Center’s greatest triumphs.  And Jimmy Carter, of course, given
his nature, attributed its success not to his own leadership but to the
thousands of everyday Africans who were on the ground doing the work.

Throughout his life and career, Jimmy Carter retained a fundamental
decency and humility.  James Earl Carter, Jr., loved our country.  He
lived his faith, he served the people, and he left the world better than
he found it. 

And in the end, Jimmy Carter’s work and those works speak for him louder
than any tribute we can offer.

May his life be a lesson for the ages and a beacon for the future. 

May God bless President Jimmy Carter.  And may God bless the United
States of America.

                        END                     5:29 P.M. EST

\# \# \#
