---
date: '2025-01-09'
published_time: 2025-01-09 08:33:54-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2025/01/09/remarks-by-president-biden-during-briefing-on-the-palisades-wildfire-santa-monica-ca/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden During Briefing on the Palisades Wildfire | Santa\
  \ Monica,\_CA"
---
 
Santa Monica Fire Station \#5  
Santa Monica, California

11:16 A.M. PST

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, the governor asked for a declaration that provides
for everything the federal government can do, and I’m prepared to sign
it today.

The — folks, the fact is that I’ve directed DOD — the Department of
Defense — to rapidly provide additional firefighting personnel and
capabilities.  I’ve also — the California National Guard is adding two
Modular Air Fire Fighting Systems units, and two more are being readied
by the National Guard — the Na- — the Nevada National Guard.  And four
more are coming from Northern — from the Northern Command.  And 10 Navy
helicopters with water delivery buckets are coming down from San Diego.

We’re prepared to do anything and everything as long as it takes to
contain these fires and to help reconstruct and make sure we get back to
normal.  It’s going to be a hell of a long way. 

The — it’s going to take time.  But we’re in it.  The federal government
is here to stay as long as you need us and everything you need. 

Is there anything you’ve asked that you haven’t gotten yet?

GOVERNOR NEWSOM:  Quite the contrary.  Mr. President, just, first of
all, that major disaster declaration being approved — next level
appreciation on behalf of all the residents here in Southern California.

As the chief said, we had pre-positioned assets this weekend in
anticipation of these weather events: the complexity of multiple fires;
the likelihood these weather events — this wind event would continue
over the course of the next many days; impacts of over a thousand
structures already that have been destroyed; a hundred-plus thousand
people that have been evacuated; lives lost; traditions, lifestyles,
places torn asunder.  This means the world to us.

And — and just publicly, because I think this is important: The
president happened to be in the region, in town.  It’s impossible for me
to express the level of appreciation and cooperation we received from
the White House and this administration. 

So, on behalf of all of us, Mr. President, thank you for being here —
and not just being here today.  Thank you for being here since the
minute of this incident when it was a 10-acre fire less than 24-or-so
hours ago.  My deep gratitude.

THE PRESIDENT:  It’s astounding what’s happened. 

There’s only one piece of good news.  My son lives out here and his
wife.  Their — they got a notification yesterday that their home is
probably burned to the ground.  Today, it appears that maybe it’s still
standing.  We’re not sure.

But the good news is I’m a great-grandfather as of today.  My eldest
granddaughter.  (Applause.)  A 10-pound, 4-ounce baby girl — baby boy.

So, I — I’m going to remember this day for a lot of the wrong reasons. 
But anyway.

11:19 A.M. PST
