---
date: '2022-05-25'
published_time: 2022-05-25 17:47:30-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/25/statement-by-the-press-secretary-on-steve-dettelbachs-confirmation-hearing/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement by the Press Secretary on Steve Dettelbach\u2019s Confirmation\_\
  Hearing"
---
 
Steve Dettelbach demonstrated today exactly why he has
received strong bipartisan support from leading law enforcement groups,
mayors, and top former federal prosecutors – and why the Senate should
move quickly to confirm him to lead the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,
Firearms, and Explosives.

Dettelbach is a career prosecutor who won unanimous support the last
time he was before the Senate, and who has spent decades working
hand-in-hand with law enforcement – including ATF agents – to prosecute
complex cases, take down gangs, and successfully charge hate crimes. He
understands the vital importance of redoubling ATF’s work to fight gun
violence and domestic terrorism, and he understands deeply, as he said
today, that “politics can play no role in law enforcement.”

After being vacant for seven years, it’s never been more important to
have a tough, experienced, leader like Steve Dettelbach at the helm of
ATF to support the agents risking their lives on the front lines every
day to protectthe American people. And as we saw with the tragic
shootings in Uvalde and Buffalo – where ATF agents have played a key
role in the investigations – and with daily gun violence plaguing too
many of our communities, now is the time to provide ATF the leadership
it needs to redouble its work to enforce our gun laws and make our
communities safer.

\###
