---
date: '2022-05-03'
modified_time: 2022-05-03 16:19:56-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-03 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/03/president-biden-announces-key-nominees-13/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Nominees"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to nominate the
following individuals to serve as key leaders in his administration:

-   Carlos Felipe Uriarte, Nominee for Assistant Attorney General for
    Legislative Affairs, U.S. Department of Justice
-   Gerald H. Acker, Nominee for Commissioner & Chair of the
    International Joint Commission
-   Annie Caputo, Nominee for Nuclear Regulatory Commission
-   Bradley R. Crowell, Nominee for Nuclear Regulatory Commission

**<u>Carlos Felipe Uriarte, Nominee for Assistant Attorney General for
Legislative Affairs, U.S. Department of Justice</u>**

Carlos Uriarte currently serves as Vice President, Regulatory Counsel at
Unite Us, a technology company that connects health and social care
providers. He previously served as Chief Counsel for Investigations on
the House Select Subcommittee on the Coronavirus Crisis to House
Majority Whip James E. Clyburn (D-SC), and as Counsel to Representative
Elijah Cummings (D-MD) on the House Committee on Oversight and
Government Reform, and to Representative Judy Chu (D-CA).  Uriarte also
served in the Obama-Biden Administration as Associate Deputy Attorney
General in the Office of the Deputy Attorney General at the Department
of Justice, and as Senior Counsel in the Office of the Secretary at the
Department of the Interior.  Uriarte began his service on Capitol Hill
as a law clerk to then-Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Arlen Specter
(R-PA). 

Uriarte holds a J.D. from the University of Pennsylvania Law School, and
a B.A., *magna cum laude*, in Economics and American Culture Studies
from Washington University in St. Louis. After law school, Uriarte
served as a Law Clerk to the Honorable Juan R. Sánchez of the U.S.
District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.

**<u>Gerald H. Acker, Nominee for Commissioner & Chair of the
International Joint Commission</u>**

Gerald H. Acker is an attorney who has been involved in law and policy
in Michigan for 40 years.  He is the co-founder and managing partner of
Goodman Acker PC, a law firm that specializes in dispute resolutions
between individuals and insurance companies. In 2010, Acker was
appointed by Governor Jennifer Granholm to serve on the Board of
Directors of Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan. Acker was previously
appointed to the Board of Directors of the Mediation Tribunal
Association of Wayne County, where he helped to ensure fair and
equitable alternative dispute resolution in Michigan’s largest county. 
In 2009, he served as the President of the Michigan Association of
Justice, the largest pro civil justice organization in Michigan. Acker
has also served on the Board of Directors for the Hebrew Free Loan
Association and as a Chairperson for the State Bar of Michigan, Attorney
Grievance Commission.

Acker has a B.G.S. from the University of Michigan, and a J.D. from
Wayne State University. He is married to Caryn, a retired teacher, and
has two children and five grandchildren.

**<u>Annie Caputo, Nominee for Nuclear Regulatory Commission</u>**

Annie Caputo currently consults with the Idaho National Laboratory (INL)
regarding international collaboration on advanced nuclear reactors. 
Prior to her work at INL, Caputo served as a professional staff member
on the U.S. Senate Armed Services Committee (SASC), assisting the
Committee with issues related to the National Nuclear Security
Administration’s infrastructure. Preceding her SASC assignment, Caputo
served as a Commissioner of the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission for
three years until the term expired in June 2021.

Caputo previously served as a professional staff member and senior
policy advisor for the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee and
the House Committee on Energy & Commerce from 2005 to 2018. Prior to her
positions on Capitol Hill, she worked for Exelon Corporation and its
predecessor company Commonwealth Edison, holding positions in both
nuclear fuel and government affairs. Caputo has also served on the Board
of the American Nuclear Society. Caputo earned her Bachelor’s degree in
Nuclear Engineering from the University of Wisconsin-Madison. She lives
in Virginia with her husband and two children. 

**<u>Bradley R. Crowell, Nominee for Nuclear Regulatory Commission</u>**

Bradley R. Crowell serves as Director of the Nevada Department of
Conservation and Natural Resources (DCNR).  Crowell was first appointed
as Director in 2016 by former Governor Brian Sandoval and was
reappointed by Governor Steve Sisolak in 2019. At DCNR, he leads
approximately 1000 employees across 8 divisions and manages a nearly
$300 million biennial budget.  Crowell has more than 20 years of
experience in the fields of energy, environment, natural resources,
climate change, and national security, including executive leadership
positions in federal and state government.  Prior to his current role,
he worked for multiple Members of Congress, including former Nevada
Governor and Senator Richard Bryan (D-NV) and Senator Sheldon Whitehouse
(D-RI). Crowell served in the Obama-Biden Administration at the U.S.
Department of Energy from 2010-2016, and was confirmed by the U.S.
Senate in 2013 as the Assistant Secretary of Energy for Congressional
and Intergovernmental Affairs. 

Crowell resides in Reno, Nevada, with his wife, Mrs. Rebecca Claypool
and their 1-year-old daughter Hazel, and is a native of Carson City,
Nevada. 

\###
