---
date: '2022-05-31'
modified_time: 2022-05-31 15:47:36-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-31 15:47:35-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/31/background-press-call-by-a-senior-administration-official-on-president-bidens-meeting-with-prime-minister-jacinda-ardern-of-new-zealand/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Background Press Call by a Senior Administration Official on President\_Biden\u2019\
  s Meeting with Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern of New\_Zealand"
---
 
Via Teleconference

12:50 P.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  Great.  Thank you.  And thanks everyone for joining.  Sorry
for the delay.  The meeting went a little bit over. 

So just to quickly go over the ground rules for this: This call is on
background, attributable to “senior administration officials.”  The
contents of this call are embargoed until the end of the call. 

For your awareness and not for reporting, our speaker on the call is
\[senior administration official\].  And he’s going to have some short
remarks at the top, and then we’ll take some questions. 

So, \[senior administration official\], over to you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great, thank you very much.  And I
appreciate all of you for joining.  The meeting went, actually,
significantly longer than expected, and so I apologize for those of you
who were kept waiting.  And so, we’ll try and keep this relatively short
and take some questions.

The President and the Prime Minister met for well over an hour.  The
conversation was very warm, very direct, and there was a great
understanding between the two of them, as you would expect.  And there
really was discussion about the shared vision for the Indo-Pacific and
the importance, in particular, of stepping up engagement with the
Pacific Island states.  But really, discussion covered the broader
Indo-Pacific region and the world. 

The two leaders discussed the many ways in which we work together
already on a variety of regional and global issues, but also ways in
which we can step up our cooperation, in particular, to support the
Pacific Island states as they face tremendous challenges from a variety
of fronts — including, obviously, recovering from COVID and the economic
impacts of the COVID pandemic, as well as climate change and other
challenges. 

They discussed the work that the United States and New Zealand do
together on a range of issues, including how we cooperate on addressing
common challenges in the broader Indo-Pacific region, including — and
how we’re working together on the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework, which
the President announced last week in Tokyo; as well as dealing with and
addressing the climate crisis — ways in which we share visions for where
the region — what the region can be doing to better support some of
those vulnerable countries that are dealing with challenges caused by
the climate crisis. 

They also, as you would expect, discussed countering terrorism and
dealing with radicalization, and ways in which that has fed violence,
and the nexus with online as well as offline issues. 

And I think that they also had some fairly detailed discussions about
the importance of in-person engagement with the Pacific Island leaders,
and the importance of continue — the United States working closely with
New Zealand and other partners as we continue to step up our efforts to
engage more effectively in the Pacific. 

And they — there was also discussion of the shared history and shared
perspectives and the ways in which United States and New Zealand have
worked together over the years to deal with common challenges. 

I think that the — you know, things that really stood out were just the
warmth, the intimacy, the alignment on a variety of issues, the shared
concern about the challenges caused by extremism, and particularly the
online nexus, but more broadly, how to deal with the challenges of
domestic violence and — or — sort of violence and terrorism domestically
as well as internationally. 

I think that the context for this is obviously the administration’s
focus on the Indo-Pacific, which I’m sure all of you have seen both from
the recent engagements in Washington with the ASEAN — the U.S.-ASEAN
special summit, as well as the President’s trip to Korea and Japan last
week, the launch of the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework, and the Quad
meeting. 

I think the discussion with Prime Minister Ardern really further
highlighted the breadth and depth of the shared concerns about changes
and challenges in the region and the fact that New Zealand continues to
be a very close and very important U.S. partner. 

I think that this is also in the context of — the fact that the United
States is a Pacific nation, and the region remains an enduring foreign
policy priority for the United States. 

And then, you know, in addition to the examples I just cited, we’ve been
working on stepping up our engagement in the Pacific and doing this in
close — with close consultation with New Zealand, as well as other
important partners and Pacific Island states themselves. 

You will have seen that Secretary Blinken announced — visited Fiji in
February.  He was the first U.S. Secretary of State to visit there in 36
years.  While there, he rolled out the U.S. Indo-Pacific Strategy, which
we think — you know, it was a very important signal to do that in the
Pacific and in Fiji. 

He also announced that the U.S. intends to open an embassy in the
Solomon Islands in Honiara and that the U.S. is working to expand our
diplomatic footprint and presence throughout the region and to better
harness and work with the programs that we do have that are both
regional and global, as well as our direct engagements in the region,
and to work more closely with partners.

Last year in August 2021, the President became the first U.S. president
to ever address the Pacific Islands Forum leaders meeting.  And this was
— the meeting was remote but the President took great satisfaction in
that address, which we believe strengthened the engagement and
relationship with the region. 

And I think that as part of our focus on the Pacific, we recognize the
tremendous importance of concluding negotiations with the freely
associated states of the Republic of Marshall Islands, the Federated
States of Micronesia, and Palau.  And in order to do that and to be able
to regain momentum on that and to try and conclude these agreements
which we believe are vital for the United States as well as for the
countries concerned, the President appointed Ambassador Joseph Yun as
Special Presidential Envoy for Compact Negotiations.  And this was only
the third Special Presidential Envoy designation in the administration. 

Also recognizing the tremendous demand and something that New Zealand
and other countries have been very clear in the importance of trying to
address this challenge of trying to provide better maritime domain
awareness of capability throughout the region but particularly in the
Pacific, we announced the Indo-Pacific Partnership for Maritime Domain
Awareness at the Quad meeting in Tokyo last week. 

This program and this partnership will offer a near real-time,
integrated and cost-effective maritime domain awareness picture and will
transform the ability of partners in the Pacific Islands, Southeast
Asia, the Indian Ocean region to fully monitor the waters in their
exclusive economic zones, which we believe both helps them in terms of
their own interests but also helps strengthen the ability to deliver a
free and open Indo-Pacific.

The administration is working closely also with traditional partners in
the region — including Australia, New Zealand, Japan, France, the United
Kingdom — on climate, maritime security, infrastructure, education, and
post-COVID economic recovery issues.

And you may have seen that, just last week, we announced Fiji as the
14th founding partner for the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework, which
will help set the rules for the digital economy; strengthen supply
chains and lower costs, as well as tackling corruption that drags down
our economies, our companies, and our workers; and then try and work
more effectively to address the challenge of climate change and
decarbonization while also trying to seize the economic potential
benefits that come from that.

You will be seeing a joint statement that goes into more detail on the
U.S.-New Zealand partnership and the issues that we’ve been working on
as part of this visit.  And I think that reflects the extraordinary
closeness and — of the relationship, the progress has been made over the
years, and the fact that New Zealand remains a very close and important
partner to the United States, and that the leaders have a very, very
close relationship that is really based on shared perspectives on the
world, as well as an understanding of the importance of working
together.

So, with that, let me take some questions.

MODERATOR:  Great.  Thanks, \[senior administration official\]. 

Q    Hi, thank you for taking my call.  I have two questions about the
meeting.  The first one is: Did the leaders discuss this economic and
security deal that has been attempted by China and, so far, rejected by
the Pacific Island countries?  Is this something that the U.S. is
concerned about?  What are you planning to do to increase engagement in
the region beyond what you’ve just outlined?

And then, the second question is: Did the leaders discuss New Zealand’s
military support for Ukraine?  I understand, so far, they’ve given
support for training soldiers.  Did the Prime Minister indicate whether
— or did the President encourage the Prime Minister to consider sending
heavy weapons to Ukraine as well? 

Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you very much.  So, on the first
question, the two leaders discussed the importance of our respective
engagement in the Pacific, and they discussed the challenges that the
region faces, including the climate crisis as well as recovering from
COVID. 

They discussed the — they did not get into specific details about
efforts by other countries, but they did discuss the importance of
working together to present an affirmative vision for the region, as
well as solidifying the traditional areas of cooperation and building
new ones.

In the context of Ukraine, there — they did not get into specifics. 
There was — the President expressed great appreciation for New Zealand’s
strong support for Ukraine in the face of the brutal Russian invasion
and the importance of working together, as well as with the rest of the
international community, to ensure support for Ukraine.

The President made clear his appreciation of the very significant steps
that Ukraine is — that New Zealand has taken for this, and that this
reflects very strong leadership on the part of the Prime Minister.

Q    Hi.  Yes, hi.  Thank you very much.  I just wanted to follow up on
that last question and ask whether there — you know, there are any
specific plans to step — you know, when the United States talks about
the need to step up its game and for its allies and partners to do the
same.  Were there any specific steps that were discussed?

On the — also, on (inaudible), it seems that he was quite disparaging
about IPEF (inaudible) China.  I was wondering if you can comment on
that. 

And also, about the New Zealand Prime Minister’s view that while IPEF is
all very well, it would be better if the United States rejoined what is
now CPTPP. 

Many thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great, thank you.  So I think that — a
couple of things.  First, with regard to IPEF, you know, we believe that
this is a very significant step.  And we are very pleased at the
extraordinarily strong interest from throughout the region.  It is — you
know, fro- — I think, to us, it is interesting that, on one hand, that
we have heard some disparagement of IPEF from China and then also some
complaints that it doesn’t incl- — that China hasn’t been invited.

I think that our view is that IPEF is about working together to support
a free and open Indo-Pacific, and that it is — that it is open to
countries who support a free and open Indo-Pacific.  And that we are
very pleased — there has been — the interest that there has been from so
many countries to join and that — that have been the chosen to be
founding members.

I think that, you know, we also remember that, you know, there was
similar disparagement at one point about the Quad, and the Quad turned
out not to be (inaudible).  And that, you know, we are interested in
seeing how things evolve with the perceptions of IPEF. 

I think that what we are pleased by is that the countries that have —
that are participating clearly are very enthusiastic about the basic
principles behind it. 

With regard to discussions on CPTPP, I think the Prime Minister has made
her views very clear.  I think in this meeting, there was discussion
about the importance of economic engagement.  And I would note that
we’re announcing the resumption of the TIFA discussions between the U.S.
— or consultations between the U.S. and New Zealand. 

I think that there is — there’s also — you know, she was very clear in
her support and New Zealand’s — how pleased New Zealand is to be a
founding member of IPEF and the importance of affirmative U.S. economic
engagement in the region.

I think that the —

MODERATOR:  \[Senior administration official\], are you still there? 
\[Senior administration official\], are you still there?

OPERATOR:  Let me check.  We may have lost him.  He has disconnected
from the call.

MODERATOR:  All right.  Could we just pause for a few minutes?  Let me
try to see what happened here. 

OPERATOR:  Certainly.

And he is back.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes, I’m back.  So sorry about that.

MODERATOR:  Great.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So I think that on the — on the other
questions about the economic partnership, I think that the two leaders
did discuss the importance of broader economic engagement in the region
and the importance of continuing to work very closely together. 

I would note that we’re very grateful for New Zealand’s advice as we
worked on the development of IPEF.  nd New Zealand’s, you know, extreme
sophistication and experience on regional economic and trade issues was
particularly valuable in that. 

So, I’m sorry.  I apologize again for getting cut off.  So hopefully
that answered your question.

Q    Thanks very much.  So, two sperate questions.  The first: When you
were talking before, you said they did not discuss specific efforts from
other countries.  Was that in relation to China?

And secondly, with the Maritime Awareness Initiative out of the Quad,
was there any sort of indication that New Zealand might be invited into
such an agreement? 

And also, just on the AUKUS arrangement between Australia and the U.S.,
was there any discussion around how New Zealand might be able to have
some involvement in arrangements like that?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, let me start off on — you know,
again, there was a general discussion about the challenges that the
Pacific region faces.  There weren’t — there was not a specific
discussion about any specific initiatives that are coming out from any
other countries. But I think there’s a general awareness of the need to
make sure that we step up our efforts and our cooperation.

In terms of what that means, I think that it is about several different
things.  One is expanding U.S. engagement in the region.  And as I
mentioned, there was discussion about the importance of in-person
meetings at the leader level.

There also was a discussion about expanding U.S. diplomatic presence and
also looking to step up the various types of engagement on things having
to do with climate, recovery from COVID, preparation for next pandemic,
and, I think, a great deal of commonality of views. 

So I think that in terms of the questions about the maritime domain
awareness initiatives, I think that at this point that — we did not have
discussions — or there was not a specific discussion about how New
Zealand is going to play into that, but it was very clear that New
Zealand is very supportive of the initiative.

In terms of AUKUS, there was no specific discussion about AUKUS itself,
but this is something that is discussed in the — but part of that is
because it had been addressed in the joint statement.  And I think that
there is a — I think an awareness of the potential that AUKUS offers as
a platform for perhaps opening up other apertures for cooperation in the
future.

And I think that more broadly, there was support for the importance of
greater engagement by outside partners, as we see in AUKUS, in terms of
trying to ensure a free and open Indo-Pacific.

Q    Thank you.  Did the two leaders discuss gun control?  And in
particular, did the Prime Minister urge President Biden to embrace the
gun buyback programs and a ban on assault weapons like New Zealand has
done in the last few years?  And could you just give us a sense of what
that conversation was like if — if they did discuss the Uvalde
situation?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Look, they discussed domestic extremism
and the challenges that poses.  And the Prime Minister discussed the
Christchurch Call to Action and the responses that New Zealand had done
after the tragic attack in Christchurch. 

They just — they both share a very strong concern about the slaughter of
innocents that these kinds of extremist attacks pose.  There was — she
did not urge the President to any specific course of action, but there
was discussion about the challenges that these — and the horrible cost
of these kinds of attacks. 

I think that there is a — you know, she was — she offered her sympathy,
and the President appreciated that very much.  It was very clear that,
you know, she has, as you would expect, a particular understanding of
the extraordinarily difficult challenges that these kinds of attacks
pose both at the — you know, in terms of the actual victims, but then,
more broadly, the longer-term consequences for survivors and first
responders.

So, it was a very — it was a very powerful discussion. But it was not
one where she urged a particular course of action on the President, but
rather expressed a broad understanding for what the United States is
going through.

MODERATOR:  Great.  All right, well, thanks everyone for joining. 

As a reminder, this call was on background, attributable to a “senior
administration official.”  And the embargo on the contents of the call
will lift as soon as the call is over.

Thanks for joining.  If you have any more questions, let me know.

                           1:12 P.M. EDT
