---
date: '2022-05-23'
modified_time: 2022-05-23 11:04:30-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-23 11:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/23/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-holds-justice40-week-of-action-to-highlight-historic-investments-in-overburdened-and-underserved-communities/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Holds Justice40 Week of Action\
  \ to Highlight Historic Investments in Overburdened and Underserved\_Communities"
---
 
*White House announces that over $29 billion in funding opportunities
have already incorporated Justice40 considerations*

President Biden’s Executive Order on [Tackling the Climate Crisis at
Home and
Abroad](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/27/executive-order-on-tackling-the-climate-crisis-at-home-and-abroad/)
laid the foundation for the most ambitious environmental justice agenda
ever undertaken by an Administration—committing to center communities
overburdened by pollution, on the frontlines of climate impacts, and
marginalized by decades of underinvestment.

As part of this historic commitment to environmental justice, President
Biden created the Justice40 Initiative to ensure that federal agencies
deliver 40 percent of the overall benefits of climate, clean energy,
affordable and sustainable housing, clean water, and other investments
to disadvantaged communities. In total, hundreds of federal programs,
representing billions of dollars in annual investment—including programs
that were funded or created in the President’s [Bipartisan
Infrastructure
Law](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/16/the-bipartisan-infrastructure-law-advances-environmental-justice/)—are
being  utilized to maximize benefits to disadvantaged communities
through the Justice40 Initiative.

At the start of 2022, the Biden-Harris Administration marked [a year of
progress](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/01/26/fact-sheet-a-year-advancing-environmental-justice/)
on advancing environmental justice. Today, the Administration is
launching a Justice40 Week of Action to highlight additional steps that
are delivering real benefits to communities across the country. The
Administration is kicking off the week with announcements including:

-   **Clean School Buses:** The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
    [announced $500 million in Bipartisan Infrastructure Law
    funding](https://www.epa.gov/cleanschoolbus) to begin replacing the
    nation’s fleet of school buses with clean, American-made,
    zero-emission buses, while prioritizing applications from school
    districts serving disadvantaged communities.
-   **Snapshot of Justice40 Funding Rollouts To-Date:** The White House
    Office of Management and Budget released a snapshot of over $29
    billion in new funding opportunity notifications and announcements
    that the Biden-Harris Administration has already rolled out to
    deliver on the Justice40 Initiative—with much more on the way. To
    put that figure in context, the President’s FY23 budget request for
    climate and environmental justice discretionaryfunding totals about
    $45 billion.

<!-- -->

-   **Progress on Key Recommendations:** The White House Council on
    Environmental Quality (CEQ) released a [report submitted to
    Congress](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ceq/news-updates/2022/05/23/biden-harris-administration-outlines-historic-progress-on-environmental-justice-in-report-submitted-to-congress-2/),
    outlining steps the Biden-Harris Administration has taken to
    implement recommendations from the first-ever White House
    Environmental Justice Advisory Council (WHEJAC), including regarding
    the Justice40 Initiative.

<!-- -->

-   **Outreach and Listening Sessions:** The White House launched a
    Justice40 stakeholder engagement series to provide updates on how
    leaders at the agency, state, and community level are using the
    mandate of the President’s Justice40 Initiative to deliver benefits
    to disadvantaged communities, and for Administration officials to
    hear community input on opportunities to maximize these benefits.

<!-- -->

-   **Environmental Justice Website:** The White House launched a new
    website,
    [WhiteHouse.gov/EnvironmentalJustice](https://www.whitehouse.gov/environmentaljustice)
    to provide a public platform and centralized location for the
    Administration’s environmental justice priorities, including the
    Justice40 Initiative.

These actions will be followed throughout the week by additional
announcements from across the Biden-Harris Administration. Although
there is much more work to do, this Administration has made historic
strides to realize the vision of the Justice40 Initiative, including:

**<u>Delivering Historic and Long Overdue Investments in Disadvantaged
Communities</u>**  
  
President Biden and Vice President Harris secured $5 billion in the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law for a key environmental justice
priority—clean school buses to protect our kids and neighborhoods from
dirty diesel exhaust. Last week, Vice President Harris joined EPA
Administrator Regan to
[announce](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/biden-harris-administration-makes-500-million-available-clean-school-buses-through-epa)
that $500 million is now available for school districts and other
eligible school bus operators and contractors to begin replacing the
nation’s fleet of school buses with clean, American-made, low and
zero-emission buses. New, clean school buses will produce cleaner air
for students, bus drivers, school staff working near the bus loading
areas, and the communities that the buses drive through each day. This
investment, like other climate and clean energy-related Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law investments, are included in the President’s
Justice40 Initiative and will prioritize applications that will replace
buses serving high-need local education agencies, Tribal schools, and
rural areas.

Over the last year, the Biden-Harris Administration has already made
available tens-of-billions of dollars in funding opportunity
notifications and announcements to deliver on the Justice40 Initiative.
A new compilation from the White House Office of Management and Budget
provides a snapshot of at least $29 billion of these opportunities. This
initial wave of funding includes announcements on:

-   .  Using funding from President Biden’s Bipartisan Infrastructure
    Law, the EPA announced $1.3 billion for various grants that will
    remediate and reduce pollution, such as cleaning up
    [brownfield](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/biden-administration-announces-254-million-tackle-polluted-brownfield-sites)
    and
    [Superfund](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/epa-announces-plans-use-first-1b-bipartisan-infrastructure-law-funds-clear-out)
    sites, and reducing [lead in drinking
    water](https://www.grants.gov/web/grants/view-opportunity.html?oppId=338182),
    to benefit disadvantaged communities. The Department of the Interior
    (DOI) also announced $725 million for reclaiming [abandoned mine
    lands](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-administration-announces-nearly-725-million-create-good-paying-union-jobs).
    Funds will help communities eliminate dangerous environmental
    hazards and pollution caused by past coal mining, while creating
    good-paying jobs and providing opportunities to revitalize coal
    communities. Additionally, DOI announced the availability of $775
    million in initial grants to states for [plugging orphaned oil and
    gas
    wells](https://www.doi.gov/sites/doi.gov/files/state-initial-grant-guidance-4-11-22.pdf)
    to clean up these environmental and safety hazards, create
    good-paying union jobs, catalyze economic growth and revitalization
    in disadvantaged communities, and shut down sources of harmful
    methane emissions. DOI is also taking action to clean up orphaned
    wells on federal lands, giving priority to wells in proximity to
    disadvantaged communities.

<!-- -->

-   **Improving Water Quality.**  The EPA announced more than $9.6
    billion through EPA’s [State Revolving
    Funds](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/epa-announces-additional-19-billion-state-revolving-loan-funds-water-infrastructure)
    to accelerate progress on water infrastructure projects. This
    funding helps states, Tribes, and territories upgrade water
    infrastructure to provide safe drinking water and protect vital
    water resources.  EPA is continuing to work with states, Tribes, and
    territories to ensure that disadvantaged communities fully benefit
    from these historic investments. EPA Administrator Regan [sent a
    letter](https://www.epa.gov/system/files/documents/2021-12/governors-bil-letter-final-508.pdf)
    to Governors in December 2021encouraging  them to target the
    Bipartisan Infrastructure Law funds toward disadvantaged communities
    and those most impacted by urgent water challenges.

<!-- -->

-   **Reducing Transportation Emissions and Improving the Nation’s
    Transportation Infrastructure.** The Department of Transportation
    (DOT) announced $1.47 billion to states, local government
    authorities, and Tribes, including $1.1 billion for the [Bus and Bus
    Facilities and Low or No Emission grant
    programs](https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/FR-2022-03-04/pdf/2022-04621.pdf).
    In order to access this funding, applicants are required to describe
    specific environmental justice activities that have been
    incorporated in the application and, provide evidence of strategies
    used in the planning process to seek out and consider the needs of
    those historically disadvantaged and underserved by existing
    transportation systems. DOT also announced over $6 billion for
    surface transportation projects with significant national or
    regional impact. The Department seeks to fund projects that benefit
    low-income communities, disadvantaged communities, communities
    underserved by affordable transportation, or overburdened
    communities.

<!-- -->

-   The Department of Energy (DOE) announced over $3 billion for
    [Weatherization Assistance
    Program](https://www.energy.gov/sites/default/files/2022-03/wpn-bil-22-2.pdf)
    formula grants from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law that will
    reduce energy costs for low-income households by increasing the
    energy efficiency of their homes, while ensuring health and safety
    and creating jobs. DOE also announced over $3 billion from the
    Bipartisan Infrastructure Law for competitive solicitations in areas
    including advanced battery manufacturing and clean energy R&D. These
    solicitations support achievement of the Administration’s Justice40
    Initiative goals in a variety of ways, including ensuring
    development of environmental justice analyses, requiring applicants
    to describe how the technology being developed has the potential to
    advance equity and energy justice and revitalize the economies of
    coal, oil and gas, and power plant communities, or defining success
    metrics that include the advancement of environmental justice and
    economic revitalization initiatives.

<!-- -->

-   **Building Community Resilience and Advancing Nature-Based
    Solutions.** The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)
    [announced](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/09/fact-sheet-biden-administration-announces-nearly-5-billion-in-resilience-funding-to-help-communities-prepare-for-extreme-weather-and-climate-related-disasters/)
    $1.2 billion for states, local governments, territories and Tribes,
    under the Building Resilient Infrastructure and Communities (BRIC)
    program and Flood Mitigation Assistance, to help communities build
    resilience to natural disasters thanks to the President’s Bipartisan
    Infrastructure Law. The Biden-Harris Administration implemented a
    number of changes to enhance funding opportunities for Tribes and
    disadvantaged communities, including by changing program selection
    criteria and providing a larger allocation for Tribes. Additionally,
    the Department of Agriculture announced $1 billion in [Partnerships
    for Climate-Smart
    Commodities](https://www.usda.gov/climate-solutions/climate-smart-commodities)
    to support the production and marketing of climate-smart commodities
    through a set of pilot projects. Projects funded through this
    funding opportunity will build markets and invest in America’s
    climate-smart farmers, ranchers, and forest owners to strengthen
    U.S. rural and agricultural communities, including through the
    meaningful inclusion of small and underserved producers and early
    adopters.

<!-- -->

-   **Providing Healthy and Affordable Housing.** The Department of
    Housing and Urban Development announced $759.7 million for grants to
    supportsustainable and affordable housing in disadvantaged, Tribal,
    and low-socioeconomic communities, including $365 million to
    identify, remediate, and protect the most vulnerable and
    disadvantaged from the harmful effects of lead-based paints in
    homes.

In response to the Administration’s Justice40 efforts, philanthropic,
labor and nonprofit organizations have also committed new resources to
assist communities in Justice40 implementation—including the [Justice40
Accelerator](https://www.justice40accelerator.org/), a partnership
between Elevate, Groundswell, The Hummingbird Firm, Partnership for
Southern Equity and the Solutions Project that are working together to
ensure the tools and resources are in place for frontline organizations
to be prepared to access the benefits of the Justice40 Initiative.

**<u>Renewing a Focus on Environmental Justice Across the Federal
Government</u>**

Today, the White House Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) released a
report submitted to Congress that outlines how the Biden-Harris
Administration has addressed recommendations from the first-ever White
House Environmental Justice Advisory Council (WHEJAC). The report
fulfills a statutory obligation under the Federal Advisory Committee Act
to provide a report to Congress within one year of receiving
recommendations from a Federal Advisory Committee. The report is a
formal response to recommendations the WHEJAC provided on the Justice40
Initiative, the Climate and Economic Justice Screening Tool, and
revisions on Executive Order 12898 Executive Order 12898 on *Federal
Actions To Address Environmental Justice in Minority Populations and
Low-Income Populations*.

The report submitted by CEQ to Congress contains detailed status updates
from fifteen agencies to the WHEJAC’s recommendations on the Justice40
Initiative. In keeping with the Biden-Harris Administration’s commitment
to improving transparency in government, the report illustrates how
Federal agencies are advancing and implementing the President’s
commitment to environmental justice right now. The report also
summarizes actions that agencies are taking—informed by nearly 200
recommendations from the WHEJAC—to ensure that the benefits of key
programs are reaching the communities that need them most.

**<u>Elevating the Voices of Environmental Justice Communities    
</u>**

The White House announced the launch of a Justice40 stakeholder
engagement series that will bring Administration officials into
communities to both listen to the concerns of stakeholders and identify
ways to magnify the impact of Justice40 covered programs. This
stakeholder engagement began with a public Justice40 update briefing
with senior Administration officials highlighting leaders at the agency,
state and community level who are using the mandate of the President’s
Justice40 Initiative to deliver benefits to disadvantaged communities.  
  
The White House also announced the launch of a new website,
[WhiteHouse.gov/EnvironmentalJustice](https://www.whitehouse.gov/environmentaljustice),
which provides a public platform and centralized location for
information about the Administration’s environmental justice priorities
and initiatives, such as the Justice40 Initiative and the White House
Environmental Justice Interagency Council, as well as news and updates
on environmental justice across the whole-of-government.

This week also marks the closure of the extended public comment period
for the beta version of the [Climate and Economic Justice Screening
Tool](https://screeningtool.geoplatform.gov/en). This geospatial mapping
tool will provide important information for the [Justice40
Initiative](https://www.federalregister.gov/d/2021-02177/p-163) by
helping agencies to identify disadvantaged communities that are
marginalized, underserved, and overburdened by pollution. The tool was
released in a beta version in order to receive feedback from the public,
Tribal Nations, and Federal agencies.  After hearing from environmental
justice leaders, community-based organizations and allied groups, and
members of the public from across the country, CEQ
[extended](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ceq/news-updates/2022/04/21/ceq-extends-public-comment-period-on-beta-version-of-the-climate-and-economic-justice-screening-tool/)
the public comment period until May 25, 2022. An updated version of the
screening tool, along with an updated technical support document, will
be released after the feedback from the public comment period, Tribal
consultations, and meetings with Federal agencies has been reviewed. The
screening tool will be continually updated as new data and research
become available.

\###
