---
date: '2022-05-19'
modified_time: 2022-05-19 12:55:59-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-19 16:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/19/president-biden-announces-key-regional-appointments-for-usda-epa-and-hhs/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Regional Appointments for USDA, EPA, and\_\
  HHS"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden appointed the following
individuals to serve in key regional leadership roles at the United
States Department of Agriculture (USDA), Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA), and Department of Health and Human Services (HHS):

-   Joy Kono, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency, Hawaii
-   Maria Herrera, USDA State Director, Rural Development, California
-   Casey Sixkiller, EPA Regional Administrator, Region 10
-   Joseph Palm, HHS Regional Director, Region 7

These regional appointees will be critical to the President’s efforts to
rebuild communities most impacted by the pandemic, the economic
recovery, and climate change. They bring deep expertise in their issue
areas as well as critical relationships with federal, state, tribal, and
local leaders. And, consistent with the President’s commitment to
building an administration that looks like America, these regional
appointees represent the diversity of America and the communities they
serve.****

**<u>UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (USDA)</u>**

The USDA’s Farm Service Agency implements agricultural policy,
administers credit and loan programs, and manages conservation,
commodity, disaster, and farm marketing programs in each U.S. State. Its
mission is to equitably serve all farmers, ranchers, and agricultural
partners through the delivery of effective, efficient agricultural
programs for all Americans. State Executive Directors oversee this work,
ensuring the needs of local constituents are met and that USDA resources
are distributed equitably and fairly.

USDA’s Rural Development mission area is committed to helping improve
the economy and quality of life in rural America. State Directors lead
offices that offer grants, loans, and loan guarantees to help create
jobs and support economic development and essential services.

**<u>Joy Kono, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
Hawaii</u>**

Joy Kono has over 30 years of managerial and administrative experience
in support programs, along with a first-hand understanding of the
challenging and diverse agricultural industry of Hawaii. Kono comes from
a rural community on the island of Kauai, where her family farmed a
variety of vegetables and livestock, ranging from chickens, pigs, and
cattle, to truck crops and leafy greens. Kono began work on the farm at
12 years old, spending her college summers working on a ranch. As a
dedicated farm family on Kauai, they were awarded Hawaii Farm Bureau’s
Farm Family of the Year.

Kono earned a Bachelor’s degree in Agriculture Economics from the
University of Hawaii at Manoa and then obtained a Master’s degree in
Agribusiness from Santa Clara University.

Kono worked for Kamehameha Schools for the last 20 years; her current
position oversees four teams that process over 30,000 applications
annually for various programs. Appointed as Senior Director of Education
Support Services in 2015, Kono has administered numerous programs that
provides crucial support across the state of Hawaii to families and
students that apply for over $30 million in aid each year. Kono is
currently the board chair for the Hawaii Commission for National and
Community Services and has served on the Agriculture Leadership
Foundation of Hawaii Board and the Hawaii Farm Bureau Board.

**<u>Maria Herrera, USDA State Director, Rural Development,
California</u>**

Maria Gallegos Herrera is a proud daughter of farmworker parents who
grew up in the rural agricultural communities in the heart of
California’s San Joaquin Valley. She joined the Office of Governor Gavin
Newsom in 2019 as the Central California Deputy Regional Director of
External Affairs and in July of 2021 was promoted to Central California
Regional Director.

Herrera previously served as a Community Development Manager at
Self-Help Enterprises, a nationally recognized community development
organization dedicated to working with low-income families to build and
sustain healthy communities. She previously held positions at the
Community Water Center and the California Department of Food and
Agriculture. Throughout her career, Herrera has tackled water
contamination and shortages, improved access to government, and worked
to create resilient and sustainable communities through relationship
building, community organizing, advocacy, legislation, and technical
assistance. Herrera also served on the California Water Commission from
2015 to 2019 and was the recipient of the 2019 Rachel’s Network
Inaugural Catalyst Award.

**<u>ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)</u>**

Regional Administrators lead the EPA’s 10 regional offices around the
country, each of which is responsible for the execution of EPA programs
within a set of several states and territories. EPA regional offices
also ensure the views and needs of each region are incorporated into the
formulation of agency and national policy.

**<u>Casey Sixkiller, EPA Regional Administrator, Region 10</u>**

Casey Sixkiller previously served as Deputy Mayor of the City of Seattle
and prior to that as Chief Operating Officer of King County, overseeing
the daily operations of the largest city and the largest county in
Washington state, each with more than 12,000 employees and an annual
budget of $6.5 billion. While at the City, Sixkiller oversaw key
elements of the City’s pandemic response including support for
vulnerable families, mitigating the impact of the pandemic on city
services, and helping scale nation-leading testing and vaccination
efforts. At King County, Sixkiller worked to embed measurable equity and
social justice deliverables across departments, increase equitable
access to public space and transit, and lift up the voices of BIPOC
communities in decision making. Sixkiller was the founder and managing
partner of Sixkiller Consulting, a Washington, D.C.-based national
strategic advisory, public policy, and business development firm.

Sixkiller began his career in public service in Washington, D.C., first
working for then-Representative Jim McDermott (D-WA) and later Senator
Patty Murray (D-WA). An enrolled citizen of the Cherokee Nation,
Sixkiller helped launch the Cherokee Nation’s Washington Office in 2001,
serving as the Nation’s lead advocate before Congress and federal
agencies. Born and raised in Seattle, Sixkiller is a graduate of Seattle
Public Schools and Dartmouth College, and the proud father of Anna, Sam,
and Will.

Region 10 serves Alaska, Idaho, Oregon and Washington.

**<u>DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)</u>**  
Regional Directors lead HHS’s 10 Regional Offices that directly serve
state and local organizations. Regional Directors ensure the Department
maintains close contact with state, local, and tribal partners and
addresses the needs of communities and individuals served through HHS
programs and policies.

**<u>Joseph Palm, HHS Regional Director, Region 7</u>**

Joseph Palm is a native of Saint Louis, Missouri, with family roots in
Wardell, Missouri. Palm received his Bachelors of Communications Studies
and Masters in Public Health from Saint Louis University. In 2009, Palm
became the Chief of the Office of Minority Health at the Missouri
Department of Health and Senior Services. As the Chief, Palm was the key
advisor to the Director on various health matters that affect
minorities; he also served as a liaison to the Missouri General Assembly
and worked with all statewide local public health agencies and elected
officials. Palm supervised the Centers for Disease Control (CDC)
grant-funded opioid and homicide prevention program, and he has also
advised and facilitated the creation of hundreds of mobile COVID-19
testing and vaccination sites across the State of Missouri in uninsured
and underserved communities. Palm has also worked on the ground during
the Ferguson and Joplin daily recovery operations.

Palm previously worked as the Assistant to the Chief of Staff in the
City of Saint Louis Mayor’s Office, as a Legislative Researcher in the
Missouri State Capitol, and as an assistant to the Chief of Staff in
Missouri’s 1<sup>st</sup> Congressional District Office.

Region 7 serves Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, and Nebraska.

\###
