---
date: '2022-05-16'
published_time: 2022-05-16 11:46:30-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/16/president-joseph-r-biden-jr-to-award-medals-of-valor/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. to Award Medals of\_Valor"
---
 
On May 16, 2022, President Joseph R. Biden, Jr., will award the Medal of
Valor to fifteen public safety officers, including two officers who died
in the line of duty, during a ceremony in the East Room. These awards
are for acts of bravery in eight different incidents during the
2019-2020 and 2020-2021 award cycles. Nine police officers and six
firefighters are receiving the award for acts of bravery in the line of
duty.  
  
The Medal of Valor is awarded to public safety officers who have
exhibited exceptional courage, regardless of personal safety, in the
attempt to save or protect others from harm.  
  
**Recipients of the2019-2020 Class:**  
  
Assistant Chief **Ryan Sprunger** of the East Wayne, Ohio, Fire
District, was off duty when he responded to a call about several
individuals who fell into a frozen pond. Without any thermal protection,
and equipped with nothing but a throw rope, Assistant Chief Sprunger
jumped into the freezing water to rescue the victims – a grandfather and
his two grandchildren. He pulled the grandfather and one child out, and
guided medics who arrived to the second child – demonstrating
extraordinary courage to save lives.

Officers **Ryan Smith**, **Vincent Mendoza,** and **Robert Paul III** of
the California Highway Patrol were caught in a gunfight with a violent
assailant who had shot and killed their colleague in an unprovoked
attack during a traffic stop. The officers went to incredible lengths to
protect each other, even as Officer Smith and Officer Paul each
sustained multiple gunshot wounds to their legs. Officer Mendoza engaged
the suspect so his wounded colleagues could evacuate safely – all three
of them demonstrating bravery and composure while enduring a deadly
rampage.  
  
**Recipients of the 2020-2021 Class:**

Firefighter **Abraham Miller **of the New York City Fire Department
rappelled down the roof of a burning residential building – without a
solid anchor for his rope – to rescue a five-year-old girl being held
out a window by her grandmother. Firefighter Miller smashed the glass,
reached through heavy smoke, and saved the little girl as they were
lowered six floors to safety – demonstrating brave and decisive action
to save lives.  
  
Fallen Officer **Jason Shuping** and Officers **Kyle Baker**, **Paul
Stackenwalt**, and** Kaleb Robinson** of the Concord, North Carolina,
Police Department engaged a suspect in a busy retail area who opened
fire on the officers and took a woman hostage. The officers fired at the
suspect to turn attention away from their colleagues and shielding each
other with their own bodies – until they ended the threat. During the
gunfight, Officer Shuping paid the ultimate sacrifice.  All four men
demonstrated courageous action in a volatile encounter with a gunman to
protect the public.  
  
Deputy Sheriff **Dalton Rushing** of the Perry County, Ohio, Sheriff’s
Office plunged into a frozen lake to rescue a person who had fallen
through the ice and remained stuck in hypothermic conditions for 45
minutes. When the victim couldn’t grab on to him and said he was
prepared to give up, Deputy Rushing tied a rope to the victim and
submerged himself into the icy water until rescuers could pull them both
to shore – demonstrating courageous action and uncommon poise to save
lives.   
  
Fallen 2<sup>nd</sup> Lieutenant **Jared Lloyd** of the Spring Valley,
New York, Fire Department repeatedly rushed into a burning nursing home
to carry out elderly residents who couldn’t escape in their wheelchairs
and walkers. Along with his team, Lieutenant Lloyd rescued all 112
residents. As flames engulfed the building, Lieutenant Lloyd ran back in
one more time to make sure no residents were trapped, ultimately
sacrificing his life as the building collapsed – and demonstrating
heroic actions to protect innocent civilians.  
  
Firefighters **John Colandro**, **Michael Rosero**, and** Chad
Titus** of the Stamford, Connecticut, Fire Department dove into freezing
water during a blizzard to rescue two trapped occupants of a truck that
was rapidly sinking below the waterline. After rescuing one victim, the
truck fully submerged and facing strong offshore winds, the rescuers
then broke a glass window – while underwater – and successfully pulled
the remaining passenger out to safety. All three men demonstrated
extraordinary courage to save accident victims.  
  
Officer **Anthony Giorgio** of the Pensacola, Florida, Police
Department, while on a beach vacation with his family, heard screams
coming from the water, as swimmers were pummeled by tall crashing waves.
Officer Giorgio ran into the dangerous rip current and brought a child
back to shore. He then jumped back in the water several more times, and
in total, swam approximately 300 yards and successfully rescued two
children and one adult in distress – putting himself in grave danger to
save lives.

\###
