---
date: '2022-05-23'
modified_time: 2022-05-23 03:00:42-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-23 03:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/23/japan-u-s-joint-leaders-statement-strengthening-the-free-and-open-international-order/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Japan-U.S. Joint\_Leaders\u2019\_Statement: Strengthening\_the Free and Open\
  \ International\_Order"
---
 
Today, Japan and the United States affirm a partnership that is stronger
and deeper than at any time in its history. Guided by our shared values;
anchored by our common commitment to democracy and the rule of law;
inspired by the innovation and technological dynamism of our economies;
and rooted in the deep people-to-people ties between our countries, the
Japan-U.S relationship is the cornerstone of a free and open
Indo-Pacific region.  
   
It is in this spirit that Prime Minister of Japan KISHIDA Fumio welcomed
Joseph R. Biden, Jr to Japan in his first visit as President of the
United States. President Biden commended Prime Minister Kishida’s global
leadership, including in the Japan-Australia-India-U.S. (Quad) Summit
meeting.  
   
As global partners, Japan and the United States affirm that the rules-
based international order is indivisible; threats to international law
and the free and fair economic order anywhere constitute a challenge to
our values and interests everywhere. Prime Minister Kishida and
President Biden shared the view that the greatest immediate challenge to
this order is Russia’s brutal, unprovoked, and unjustified aggression
against Ukraine. The two leaders condemned Russia’s actions, and called
for Russia to be held accountable for its atrocities. They reaffirmed
their support for Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. The
Prime Minister and the President underscored the importance of the
international community’s unity, and expressed solidarity with the
Ukrainian people in responding to Russia’s aggression through sanctions,
including financial sanctions, export controls, and other steps, taken
with like-minded countries to impose long-lasting economic costs on
Russia.  
   
The two leaders shared the view that the United Nations (U.N.) forms the
foundation of the rules-based international order, grounded in shared
principles and universal values articulated in the U.N. Charter,
including respect for human rights. Both commended the unprecedented
global unity demonstrated by U.N. Member States in condemning Russia’s
aggression against Ukraine and suspending it from the U.N. Human Rights
Council. Recognizing that the U.N. Security Council (UNSC) has primary
responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security
on behalf of the Member States, the two leaders expressed deep concern
about Russia’s irresponsible behavior as a Permanent Member and its
abuse of the veto, particularly Russia’s attempt to shield itself from
accountability for its aggression against another Member State. The two
leaders expressed a determination to strengthen the United Nations and
to encourage all Member States to recommit to the vision and values
enshrined in the U.N. Charter. Both expressed the need to strengthen and
modernize the multilateral system to better enable it to meet the
challenges of the 21st century.   
   
President Biden reiterated support for Japan’s permanent membership on a
reformed Security Council, and for other countries who are important
champions of multilateral cooperation and aspire to permanent seats. The
two leaders also stressed the importance of strengthening coordination
among democracies and like-minded partners to effectively address the
challenges they face.  
   
**<u>Advancing a “Free and Open Indo-Pacific”  
</u>**  
Notwithstanding the ongoing crisis in Europe, the two leaders reaffirmed
that the Indo-Pacific is a region of vital importance to global peace,
security, and prosperity – and one that faces mounting strategic
challenges to the rules-based international order. From this standpoint,
Prime Minister Kishida and President Biden committed to action to
advance their shared vision of a free and open Indo-Pacific region.
Prime Minister Kishida welcomed the U.S. “Indo-Pacific Strategy.”
President Biden emphasized unwavering U.S. commitment to the region, and
underscored that his strategy will be matched with resources and steady
implementation. The two leaders welcomed the increasingly vibrant,
multilayered, and interconnected architecture in the region that
supports our common vision; they affirmed the importance of ASEAN unity
and centrality, and highlighted the important work of the Quad, AUKUS,
and other multilateral fora. They also underscored the importance of
cooperation with like-minded partners in other regions, such as Europe
and Canada. 

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Regional Issues: Responding to
an Increasingly Challenging Regional Security Environment  
</span>  
Prime Minister Kishida and President Biden called on China to stand with
the international community and unequivocally condemn Russia’s actions
in Ukraine. They discussed continuing actions by China that are
inconsistent with the international rules-based order, including
coercion by economic and other means. Noting China’s ongoing increase in
its nuclear capabilities, the two leaders requested China to contribute
to arrangements that reduce nuclear risks, increase transparency, and
advance nuclear disarmament. They also concurred to work together to
strengthen deterrence to maintain peace and stability in the region. The
two leaders strongly opposed any unilateral attempts to change the
status quo in the East China Sea, and reiterated their strong opposition
to China’s unlawful maritime claims, militarization of reclaimed
features, and coercive activities in the South China Sea; they
emphasized their firm commitment to the rule of law, including the
freedom of navigation and overflight, consistent with the UN Convention
on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS). Prime Minister Kishida and President
Biden stated that their basic positions on Taiwan remain unchanged, and
reiterated the importance of peace and stability across the Taiwan
Strait as an indispensable element in security and prosperity in the
international community. They encouraged the peaceful resolution of
cross-Strait issues. Both leaders voiced concern over the recent
PRC-Solomon Islands security agreement, which was concluded in a
non-transparent manner without addressing regional voices of concern.
Prime Minister Kishida and President Biden also shared serious and
ongoing concerns regarding developments in Hong Kong and human rights
issues in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region. They underscored the
importance of candid communication with China, including at the leader
level, and expressed the intent to work with China where possible on
areas of common interest. Prime Minister Kishida and President Biden
welcomed the inauguration of the new government of the Republic of Korea
(ROK), and stressed the critical importance of close ties and
cooperation among Japan, the United States, and the ROK,
including security ties. The two leaders condemned North Korea’s
advancing nuclear and missile development activities, including its
recent ICBM launches. They reaffirmed their commitment to the complete
denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula in accordance with UNSC
resolutions, and urged North Korea to abide by its obligations under
these resolutions. The two leaders reaffirmed U.S. commitment
to the immediate resolution of the abductions issue. Both leaders
expressed support for a calibrated diplomatic approach to North Korea,
and called for its engagement in serious and sustained dialogue.  
  
Prime Minister Kishida and President Biden condemned the coup in Myanmar
and the Myanmar military’s brutal attacks on civilians, and committed to
continue taking action to press for the immediate cessation of violence,
the release of all those who are wrongfully detained, unfettered
countrywide humanitarian access, and a swift return to democracy.  
  
The two leaders expressed concern about the increasing activities of
Russian military forces around Japan, and committed to remain attentive
to cooperation between China and Russia in military affairs.  

<span style="text-decoration: underline">The Japan-U.S. Alliance:
Strengthening Deterrence and Response Capabilities</span>

The two leaders renewed their commitment to strengthening the deterrence
and response capabilities of the Alliance. Prime Minister
Kishida expressed his resolve to examine all options necessary for
national defense, including capabilities to counter missile threats.
Prime Minister Kishida stated his determination to
fundamentally reinforce Japan’s defense capabilities and secure
substantial increase of its defense budget needed to effect it.
President Biden strongly supported Prime Minister Kishida’s
determination.  
  
President Biden reiterated the U.S. commitment to the defense of Japan
under the Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security, backed by the full
range of capabilities, including nuclear; the leaders reaffirmed their
intent to ensure full bilateral coordination through the Alliance
Coordination Mechanism throughout every phase of a developing situation.
The two leaders affirmed the critical importance of ensuring that U.S.
extended deterrence remains credible and resilient. They reiterated the
significance of enhancing bilateral discussions on extended deterrence,
including through the Security Consultative Committee (SCC) and the
Extended Deterrence Dialogue. The President reaffirmed that Article V of
the Treaty applies to the Senkaku Islands, and the two leaders
reiterated their opposition to any unilateral action that seeks to
undermine Japan’s longstanding administration of the Senkaku
Islands. The two leaders decided to accelerate cooperation in the cyber
and space domains as well as in the field of emerging technologies. They
shared the view that cyber security and information security form the
foundation of close alliance cooperation, and will remain a continuous
focus of our collaboration. The two leaders expressed their
determination to continually modernize the Alliance, evolve bilateral
roles and missions, and strengthen joint capabilities including by
aligning strategies and prioritizing goals together.  
  
Prime Minister Kishida and President Biden affirmed their intent to
deepen cooperation on joint training and capacity building in third
countries, including through cooperation by the Japan and U.S. Coast
Guards; the two leaders welcomed the signing of annexes to the
Memorandum of Cooperation between the U.S. Coast Guard and the Japan
Coast Guard.  
  
The two leaders confirmed the steady implementation of the realignment
of U.S. forces in Japan, including the construction of the Futenma
Replacement Facility at Henoko as the only solution that avoids the
continued use of MCAS Futenma, development of the Field Carrier Landing
Practice Facility at Mageshima, and the relocation of U.S. Marine Corps
units from Okinawa to Guam.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Achieving More Resilient,
Sustainable and Inclusive Economic Growth</span>

The two leaders discussed opportunities to further secure our shared
prosperity. They exchanged perspectives on the importance of bold
economic policies, including Prime Minister Kishida’s “new form of
capitalism” and President Biden’s plan to build from the bottom up and
the middle out, that promote technological advances while recognizing
that the benefits of such progress must accrue to all communities,
reduce inequality, and strengthen the middle-class in both nations. The
two leaders also expressed their determination that Japan and the United
States play an active role in addressing the challenges most salient for
the global community – whether the emergence of new technologies, the
impact of climate change, or transnational threats such as infectious
disease.  
  
The two leaders confirmed that Japan and the United States will
collaborate in protecting and promoting critical technologies, including
through the use of export controls, supporting their respective
competitive advantages and ensuring supply chain resilience. They
concurred on establishing a joint task force to explore the development
of next generation semiconductors, based on “the Basic Principles on
Semiconductor Cooperation” adopted in the Japan-U.S. Commercial and
Industrial Partnership (JUCIP). President Biden noted the Japanese
Diet’s approval of the Economic Security Promotion Bill, with its focus
on supply chain resilience, essential infrastructure protection,
technology development and the protection of patent applications. The
two leaders concurred in exploring further cooperation to strengthen
economic security.  
  
The two leaders applauded the work to date under the [Competitiveness
and Resilience (CoRe)
Partnership](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/23/fact-sheet-the-u-s-japan-competitiveness-and-resilience-core-partnership/)
announced last year, and expressed their intention to hold the
Japan-U.S. Economic Policy Consultative Committee (the Economic “2+2”)
at the Ministerial level in July 2022.  
  
Prime Minister Kishida expressed his support for President Biden’s
Indo-Pacific Economic Framework (IPEF), and the two leaders welcomed the
launch of discussions among IPEF partners toward future negotiations.  
  
The two leaders recognized the importance of a multilateral trading
system based on free and fair economic rules, and confirmed that they
will work closely together, through international frameworks such as the
G7, G20, WTO, and OECD, to address non-market policies and practices as
well as economic coercion, that are incompatible with the multilateral
trading system. They also welcomed the recent progress made on bilateral
and multilateral trade issues as well as in advancing close cooperation
in such areas as digital trade and combatting forced labor. Both leaders
reaffirmed the moral and economic imperative of ending the use of forced
labor and concurred in working together, recognizing the importance of
enhancing predictability and fostering an enabling environment for
businesses that respect human rights in their supply chains.  
  
Prime Minister Kishida and President Biden reaffirmed the importance of
implementing the “G20 Principles for Quality Infrastructure Investment”
and confirmed that they will further promote efforts to meet global
infrastructure needs, in cooperation with the G7 and regional partners.
They reiterated the importance of promoting debt sustainability and
transparency under the G20 Common Framework. The two leaders also
stressed the importance of fair and open lending practices. They
reiterated the importance of internationally recognized rules and
standards for major creditor countries.  
  
The two leaders welcomed recent efforts by the international community
to secure stable energy and food supplies, which are threatened by the
impact of Russia’s aggression against Ukraine. Prime Minister Kishida
emphasized the significant role U.S. Liquid Natural Gas plays in
alleviating global supply constraints and welcomed investment by U.S.
industry to increase oil and natural gas production. The two leaders
also welcomed the establishment of Japan-U.S. Clean Energy and Energy
Security Initiative (CEESI) to achieve both energy security and net-zero
emissions. They confirmed their commitment to work bilaterally and
multilaterally on energy and food security, and to cooperate with
international organizations such as the International Energy Agency to
promote clean energy and mitigate the impact of the disruption in energy
supplies, especially on developing countries. Building on the G7
countries’ commitment to reduce dependence on Russian energy, the two
leaders shared their intention to explore an initiative to provide Asian
partners with support for strengthening their energy security*.*  
  
Prime Minister Kishida and President Biden welcomed Japan’s commitment
to take all available measures to double demand for bioethanol,
including for sustainable aviation fuel and on-road fuel, by 2030 to
reduce dependence on imported petroleum.  
  
They also shared the need to strengthen resilient and diverse supply
chains of critical minerals and to elevate environmental, social, and
governance standards in the sector.  
  
The two leaders celebrated the deep tradition of space cooperation
between Japan and the United States. They announced progress in
collaboration on the Artemis program, including reaffirming our shared
intention to include a Japanese astronaut on Gateway and on human and
robotic lunar surface missions. Both leaders committed to conclude
negotiations on the Framework Agreement and the Implementing Arrangement
for Gateway cooperation in 2022.  

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Global Challenges: Realizing
Human Security in a New Era</span>

Prime Minister Kishida and President Biden confirmed that they will
continue cooperating to overcome the COVID-19 crisis and strengthen
health security to prevent, prepare for, and respond to future
pandemics, including through frameworks such as the Quad, the
COVID-19 Global Action Plan, and the G20 Finance and Health fora. The
two leaders confirmed support through COVAX, as well as for
“last one mile support” programs to increase equitable access to
vaccines, while working together on therapeutics, testing, and
strengthening health systems. They also confirmed the need to strengthen
the global health architecture, including by reforming the WHO,
establishing a new pandemic preparedness and global health security fund
at the World Bank, strengthening coordination arrangements between
finance and health authorities, with a view to achieving universal
health coverage.  
  
The two leaders welcomed further progress in Japan-U.S. joint research
on cancer cures and treatment, and welcomed the renewal of the Memoranda
of Understanding enabling this cooperation. President Biden highlighted
the role of the National Cancer Center of Japan in promoting
international collaborations under the Cancer Moonshot program since
2017, and underscored that U.S. commitment to growing that initiative.  
  
Prime Minister Kishida and President Biden recognized the existential
threat of the climate crisis, and committed to making the 2020s the
decisive decade for climate action. They affirmed their intent to meet
today’s energy demands while working toward long-term energy security by
implementing ambitious 2030 nationally determined contributions under
the Paris Agreement and 2050 net zero emission goals. In service of
these goals, the two leaders affirmed their intent to enhance
cooperation under the [Japan US Climate
Partnership](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/23/u-s-japan-climate-partnership-fact-sheet/).  
  
The two leaders recognized the importance of nuclear energy as a
critical and reliable source of carbon-free electricity and process
heat. To this end, they committed to greater nuclear energy
collaboration and to accelerating the development and global deployment
of advanced and small modular reactors by jointly using export promotion
and capacity building tools. The two leaders also concurred to work
together to create more resilient nuclear supply chains, including
uranium fuel, for both existing and new reactors.  
  
Prime Minister Kishida and President Biden reaffirmed their intent to
work together toward a world without nuclear weapons. In particular,
they affirmed their commitment to strengthen the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons as the cornerstone of the
international nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament regime. Prime
Minister Kishida noted the importance of advancing realistic measures on
nuclear disarmament, while addressing security challenges, and President
Biden agreed. The two leaders welcomed recent progress in cooperation on
nuclear security, including the removal of all highly enriched uranium
(HEU) fuel from the University of Tokyo research reactor “Yayoi” and
other Japanese research reactors to the United States, furthering their
mutual goal of minimizing worldwide stocks of HEU.  
  
Prime Minister Kishida and President Biden, recognizing that the
pandemic has made promoting gender equity more important than ever,
concurred that ensuring that all people, regardless of gender identity,
can achieve their full potential is both a moral and strategic
imperative, critical to every aspect of society and the economy. The two
leaders also emphasized the importance of preventing and addressing
gender-based violence, including conflict-related sexual violence.  

<span style="text-decoration: underline">People-to-People Exchange:
Creating Diverse and Inclusive Networks that Support a “Free and Open
Indo-Pacific”</span>

The two leaders underscored the importance of mutual exchange and
collaboration, to foster the next generation of leaders that will
advance a “free and open Indo-Pacific.” They concurred to resume and
boost various exchanges, including through study abroad programs; the
JET Programme; the Kakehashi Project and the Tomodachi Initiative; and
fellowships and collaborative projects among researchers and
practitioners such as the Mansfield Fellowship Program and those of the
Japan Foundation. Prime Minister Kishida expressed his intention to
boost exchanges among professionals and practitioners in areas such as
advanced technologies, climate change and disaster management and
implement Kakehashi with an emphasis on Okinawa, Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
The two leaders also paid tribute to the history, contributions and
cultural heritage of Japanese Americans and concurred to engage next
generation Japanese American leaders in the future Japan-U.S.
cooperation. The two leaders also reaffirmed the role of the U.S.-Japan
Conference on Cultural and Educational Interchange in people-to-people
exchange.  
   
**<u>Toward Building a Future-Oriented Japan-U.S. Relationship</u>**  
As the two largest democratic economies, Japan and the United States
have a unique obligation to support democratic values, norms, and
principles, and to advance a vision for the future in which peace,
prosperity, and freedom are ensured. Prime Minister Kishida and
President Biden together embraced this responsibility. They affirmed the
importance of building a coalition of likeminded partners to advance
this shared vision, noting that Japan will chair the G7 and the United
States will host APEC in 2023.

\###
