---
date: '2022-05-04'
modified_time: 2022-05-04 09:12:48-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-04 09:12:47-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/04/national-security-memorandum-on-promoting-united-states-leadership-in-quantum-computing-while-mitigating-risks-to-vulnerable-cryptographic-systems/
tags: statements-releases
title: "National Security Memorandum on Promoting United\_States Leadership in Quantum\
  \ Computing While Mitigating Risks to Vulnerable Cryptographic\_Systems"
---
 
NATIONAL SECURITY MEMORANDUM/NSM-10

MEMORANDUM FOR THE VICE PRESIDENT

               THE SECRETARY OF STATE

               THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY

               THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

               THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

               THE SECRETARY OF COMMERCE

               THE SECRETARY OF ENERGY

               THE SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY

               THE ASSISTANT TO THE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF OF STAFF

               THE DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT BUDGET

               THE DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE

               THE DIRECTOR OF THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

               THE ASSISTANT TO THE PRESIDENT FOR NATIONAL

                 SECURITY AFFAIRS

               THE COUNSEL TO THE PRESIDENT

               THE ASSISTANT TO THE PRESIDENT FOR ECONOMIC

                 POLICY AND DIRECTOR OF THE NATIONAL ECONOMIC

                 COUNCIL

               THE DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE OF SCIENCE AND

                 TECHNOLOGY POLICY

               THE NATIONAL CYBER DIRECTOR

               THE CHAIRMAN OF THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF

               THE DIRECTOR OF THE FEDERAL BUREAU OF

                 INVESTIGATION

               THE DIRECTOR OF THE NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY  
  
               THE DIRECTOR OF THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF  
  
               STANDARDS AND TECHNOLOGY  
  
               THE DIRECTOR OF THE CYBERSECURITY AND  
  
               INFRASTRUCTURE SECURITY AGENCY

SUBJECT:       Promoting United States Leadership in Quantum

               Computing While Mitigating Risks to Vulnerable

              Cryptographic Systems

This memorandum outlines my Administration’s policies and initiatives
related to quantum computing.  It identifies key steps needed to
maintain the Nation’s competitive advantage in quantum information
science (QIS), while mitigating the risks of quantum computers to the
Nation’s cyber, economic, and national security.  It directs specific
actions for agencies to take as the United States begins the multi-year
process of migrating vulnerable computer systems to quantum-resistant
cryptography.  A classified annex to this memorandum addresses sensitive
national security issues.

Section 1.  Policy.  (a)  Quantum computers hold the potential to drive
innovations across the American economy, from fields as diverse as
materials science and pharmaceuticals to finance and energy.  While the
full range of applications of quantum computers is still unknown, it is
nevertheless clear that America’s continued technological and scientific
leadership will depend, at least in part, on the Nation’s ability to
maintain a competitive advantage in quantum computing and QIS. 

\(b\)  Yet alongside its potential benefits, quantum computing also
poses significant risks to the economic and national security of the
United States.  Most notably, a quantum computer of sufficient size and
sophistication — also known as a cryptanalytically relevant quantum
computer (CRQC) — will be capable of breaking much of the public-key
cryptography used on digital systems across the United States and around
the world.  When it becomes available, a CRQC could jeopardize civilian
and military communications, undermine supervisory and control systems
for critical infrastructure, and defeat security protocols for most
Internet-based financial transactions.

\(c\)  In order to balance the competing opportunities and risks of
quantum computers, it is the policy of my Administration:  (1) to
maintain United States leadership in QIS, through continued investment,
partnerships, and a balanced approach to technology promotion and
protection; and (2) to mitigate the threat of CRQCs through a timely and
equitable transition of the Nation’s cryptographic systems to
interoperable quantum‑resistant cryptography.

\(d\)  Additional guidance and directives may be required in the future
as quantum computing technologies and their associated risks mature.

Sec. 2.  Promoting United States Leadership.  (a)  The United States
must pursue a whole-of-government and whole‑of‑society strategy to
harness the economic and scientific benefits of QIS, and the security
enhancements provided by quantum-resistant cryptography.  This strategy
will require a coordinated, proactive approach to QIS research and
development (R&D), an expansion of education and workforce programs, and
a focus on developing and strengthening partnerships with industry,
academic institutions, allies, and like-minded nations.

\(b\)  The United States must seek to encourage transformative and
fundamental scientific discoveries through investments in core QIS
research programs.  Investments should target the discovery of new
quantum applications, new approaches to quantum-component manufacturing,
and advances in quantum‑enabling technologies, such as photonics,
nanofabrication, and cryogenic and semiconductor systems.

\(c\)  The United States must seek to foster the next generation of
scientists and engineers with quantum-relevant skill sets, including
those relevant to quantum-resistant cryptography.  Education in QIS and
related cybersecurity principles should be incorporated into academic
curricula at all levels of schooling to support the growth of a diverse
domestic workforce.  Furthermore, it is vital that we attract and retain
talent and encourage career opportunities that keep quantum experts
employed domestically.

\(d\)  To promote the development of quantum technology and the
effective deployment of quantum-resistant cryptography, the United
States must establish partnerships with industry; academia; and State,
local, Tribal, and territorial (SLTT) governments.  These partnerships
should advance joint R&D initiatives and streamline mechanisms for
technology transfer between industry and government.

\(e\)  The United States must promote professional and academic
collaborations with overseas allies and partners.  This international
engagement is essential for identifying and following global QIS trends
and for harmonizing quantum security and protection programs.

\(f\)  In support of these goals, within 90 days of the date of this
memorandum, agencies that fund research in, develop, or acquire quantum
computers shall coordinate with the Director of the Office of Science
and Technology Policy to ensure a coherent national strategy for QIS
promotion and technology protection, including for workforce issues.  To
facilitate this coordination, all such agencies shall identify a liaison
to the National Quantum Coordination Office to share information and
best practices, consistent with section 102(b)(3) of the National
Quantum Initiative Act (Public Law 115-368) and section 6606 of the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (Public Law
117-81).  All coordination efforts shall be undertaken with appropriate
protections for sensitive and classified information and intelligence
sources and methods.

Sec. 3.  Mitigating the Risks to Encryption.  (a)  Any digital system
that uses existing public standards for public‑key cryptography, or that
is planning to transition to such cryptography, could be vulnerable to
an attack by a CRQC.  To mitigate this risk, the United States must
prioritize the timely and equitable transition of cryptographic systems
to quantum-resistant cryptography, with the goal of mitigating as much
of the quantum risk as is feasible by 2035.  Currently, the Director of
the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and the
Director of the National Security Agency (NSA), in their capacity as the
National Manager for National Security Systems (National Manager), are
each developing technical standards for quantum‑resistant cryptography
for their respective jurisdictions.  The first sets of these standards
are expected to be released publicly by 2024.   

\(b\)  Central to this migration effort will be an emphasis on
cryptographic agility, both to reduce the time required to transition
and to allow for seamless updates for future cryptographic standards.
 This effort is an imperative across all sectors of the United States
economy, from government to critical infrastructure, commercial services
to cloud providers, and everywhere else that vulnerable public-key
cryptography is used.

\(c\)  Consistent with these goals:

\(i\)     Within 90 days of the date of this memorandum, the Secretary
of Commerce, through the Director of NIST, shall initiate an open
working group with industry, including critical infrastructure owners
and operators, and other stakeholders, as determined by the Director of
NIST, to further advance adoption of quantum-resistant cryptography.
 This working group shall identify needed tools and data sets, and other
considerations to inform the development by NIST of guidance and best
practices to assist with quantum‑resistant cryptography planning and
prioritization.  Findings of this working group shall be provided, on an
ongoing basis, to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget
(OMB), the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
(APNSA), and the National Cyber Director to incorporate into planning
efforts. 

\(ii\)    Within 90 days of the date of this memorandum, the Secretary
of Commerce, through the Director of NIST, shall establish a “Migration
to Post-Quantum Cryptography Project” at the National Cybersecurity
Center of Excellence to work with the private sector to address
cybersecurity challenges posed by the transition to quantum-resistant
cryptography.  This project shall develop programs for discovery and
remediation of any system that does not use quantum-resistant
cryptography or that remains dependent on vulnerable systems.

\(iii\)   Within 180 days of the date of this memorandum, and annually
thereafter, the Secretary of Homeland Security, through the Director of
the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA), and in
coordination with Sector Risk Management Agencies, shall engage with
critical infrastructure and SLTT partners regarding the risks posed by
quantum computers, and shall provide an annual report to the Director of
OMB, the APNSA, and the National Cyber Director that includes
recommendations for accelerating those entities’ migration to
quantum-resistant cryptography.

\(iv\)    Within 180 days of the date of this memorandum, and on an
ongoing basis, the Director of OMB, in consultation with the Director of
CISA, the Director of NIST, the National Cyber Director, and the
Director of NSA, shall establish requirements for inventorying all
currently deployed cryptographic systems, excluding National Security
Systems (NSS).  These requirements shall include a list of key
information technology (IT) assets to prioritize, interim benchmarks,
and a common (and preferably automated) assessment process for
evaluating progress on quantum-resistant cryptographic migration in IT
systems.

\(v\)     Within 1 year of the date of this memorandum, and on an annual
basis thereafter, the heads of all Federal Civilian Executive Branch
(FCEB) Agencies shall deliver to the Director of CISA and the National
Cyber Director an inventory of their IT systems that remain vulnerable
to CRQCs, with a particular focus on High Value Assets and High Impact
Systems.  Inventories should include current cryptographic methods used
on IT systems, including system administrator protocols, non-security
software and firmware that require upgraded digital signatures, and
information on other key assets.

\(vi\)    By October 18, 2023, and on an annual basis thereafter, the
National Cyber Director shall, based on the inventories described in
subsection 3(c)(v) of this memorandum and in coordination with the
Director of CISA and the Director of NIST, deliver a status report to
the APNSA and the Director of OMB on progress made by FCEB Agencies on
their migration of non-NSS IT systems to quantum-resistant cryptography.
 This status report shall include an assessment of the funding necessary
to secure vulnerable IT systems from the threat posed by adversarial
access to quantum computers, a description and analysis of ongoing
coordination efforts, and a strategy and timeline for meeting proposed
milestones.

\(vii\)   Within 90 days of the release of the first set of NIST
standards for quantum-resistant cryptography referenced in subsection
3(a) of this memorandum, and on an annual basis thereafter, as needed,
the Secretary of Commerce, through the Director of NIST, shall release a
proposed timeline for the deprecation of quantum-vulnerable cryptography
in standards, with the goal of moving the maximum number of systems off
quantum-vulnerable cryptography within a decade of the publication of
the initial set of standards.  The Director of NIST shall work with the
appropriate technical standards bodies to encourage interoperability of
commercial cryptographic approaches.

\(viii\)  Within 1 year of the release of the first set of NIST
standards for quantum-resistant cryptography referenced in subsection
3(a) of this memorandum, the Director of OMB, in coordination with the
Director of CISA and the Director of NIST, shall issue a policy
memorandum requiring FCEB Agencies to develop a plan to upgrade their
non-NSS IT systems to quantum-resistant cryptography.  These plans shall
be expeditiously developed and be designed to address the most
significant risks first.  The Director of OMB shall work with the head
of each FCEB Agency to estimate the costs to upgrade vulnerable systems
beyond already planned expenditures, ensure that each plan is
coordinated and shared among relevant agencies to assess
interoperability between solutions, and coordinate with the National
Cyber Director to ensure plans are updated accordingly.

\(ix\)    Until the release of the first set of NIST standards for
quantum-resistant cryptography referenced in subsection 3(a) of this
memorandum, the heads of FCEB Agencies shall not procure any commercial
quantum-resistant cryptographic solutions for use in IT systems
supporting enterprise and mission operations.  However, to assist with
anticipating potential compatibility issues, the heads of such FCEB
Agencies should conduct tests of commercial solutions that have
implemented pre-standardized quantum-resistant cryptographic algorithms.
 These tests will help identify interoperability or performance issues
that may occur in Federal environments at an early stage and will
contribute to the mitigation of those issues.  The heads of such FCEB
Agencies should continue to implement and, where needed, upgrade
existing cryptographic implementations, but should transition to
quantum-resistant cryptography only once the first set of NIST standards
for quantum-resistant cryptography is complete and implemented in
commercial products.  Conformance with international standards should be
encouraged, and may be required for interoperability.

\(x\)     Within 1 year of the date of this memorandum, and annually
thereafter, the Director of NSA, serving in its capacity as the National
Manager, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense and the Director
of National Intelligence, shall provide guidance on quantum-resistant
cryptography migration, implementation, and oversight for NSS.  This
guidance shall be consistent with National Security Memorandum/NSM-8
(Improving the Cybersecurity of National Security, Department of
Defense, and Intelligence Community Systems).  The National Manager
shall share best practices and lessons learned with the Director of OMB
and the National Cyber Director, as appropriate.

\(xi\)    Within 1 year of the date of this memorandum, and on an
ongoing basis, and consistent with section 1 of NSM-8, the heads of
agencies operating NSS shall identify and document all instances where
quantum-vulnerable cryptography is used by NSS and shall provide this
information to the National Manager.

\(xii\)   Within 180 days of issuance by the National Manager of its
standards on quantum-resistant cryptography referenced in section 3(a)
of this memorandum, and annually thereafter, the National Manager shall
release an official timeline for the deprecation of vulnerable
cryptography in NSS, until the migration to quantum-resistant
cryptography is completed.

\(xiii\)  Within 1 year of issuance by the National Manager of its
standards on quantum-resistant cryptography for referenced in subsection
3(a) of this memorandum, and annually thereafter, the heads of agencies
operating or maintaining NSS shall submit to the National Manager, and,
as appropriate, the Department of Defense Chief Information Officer or
the Intelligence Community Chief Information Officer, depending on their
respective jurisdictions, an initial plan to transition to
quantum‑resistant cryptography in all NSS.  These plans shall be updated
annually and shall include relevant milestones, schedules, authorities,
impediments, funding requirements, and exceptions authorized by the head
of the agency in accordance with section 3 of NSM-8 and guidance from
the National Manager.  

\(xiv\)   By December 31, 2023, agencies maintaining NSS shall implement
symmetric-key protections (e.g., High Assurance Internet Protocol
Encryptor (HAIPE) exclusion keys or VPN symmetric key solutions) to
provide additional protection for quantum-vulnerable key exchanges,
where appropriate and in consultation with the National Manager.
 Implementation should seek to avoid interference with interoperability
or other cryptographic modernization efforts.

\(xv\)    By December 31, 2023, the Secretary of Defense shall deliver
to the APNSA and the Director of OMB an assessment of the risks of
quantum computing to the defense industrial base and to defense supply
chains, along with a plan to engage with key commercial entities to
upgrade their IT systems to achieve quantum resistance.

Sec. 4.  Protecting United States Technology.  (a)  In addition to
promoting quantum leadership and mitigating the risks of CRQCs, the
United States Government must work to safeguard relevant quantum R&D and
intellectual property (IP) and to protect relevant enabling technologies
and materials.  Protection mechanisms will vary, but may include
counterintelligence measures, well-targeted export controls, and
campaigns to educate industry and academia on the threat of cybercrime
and IP theft.

\(b\)  All agencies responsible for either promoting or protecting QIS
and related technologies should understand the security implications of
adversarial use and consider those security implications when
implementing new policies, programs, and projects.

\(c\)  The United States should ensure the protection of U.S.‑developed
quantum technologies from theft by our adversaries.  This will require
campaigns to educate industry, academia, and SLTT partners on the threat
of IP theft and on the importance of strong compliance, insider threat
detection, and cybersecurity programs for quantum technologies.  As
appropriate, Federal law enforcement agencies and other relevant
agencies should investigate and prosecute actors who engage in the theft
of quantum trade secrets or who violate United States export control
laws.  To support efforts to safeguard sensitive information, Federal
law enforcement agencies should exchange relevant threat information
with agencies responsible for developing and promoting quantum
technologies.  

\(d\)  Consistent with these goals, by December 31, 2022, the heads of
agencies that fund research in, develop, or acquire quantum computers or
related QIS technologies shall develop comprehensive technology
protection plans to safeguard QIS R&D, acquisition, and user access.
 Plans shall be coordinated across agencies, including with Federal law
enforcement, to safeguard quantum computing R&D and IP, acquisition, and
user access.  These plans shall be updated annually and provided to the
APNSA, the Director of OMB, and the Co-Chairs of the National Science
and Technology Council Subcommittee on Economic and Security
Implications of Quantum Science.

Sec. 5.  Definitions.  For purposes of this memorandum:

\(a\)  the term “agency” has the meaning ascribed to it under 44 U.S.C.
3502;

\(b\)  the term “critical infrastructure” means systems and assets,
whether physical or virtual, so vital to the United States that their
incapacitation or destruction would have a debilitating effect on the
Nation’s security, economy, public health and safety, or any combination
thereof;

\(c\)  the term “cryptographic agility” means a design feature that
enables future updates to cryptographic algorithms and standards without
the need to modify or replace the surrounding infrastructure;

\(d\)  the term “cryptanalytically relevant quantum computer” or “CRQC”
means a quantum computer capable of undermining current public-key
cryptographic algorithms;

\(e\)  the term “Federal Civilian Executive Branch Agency” or “FCEB
Agency” means any agency except the Department of Defense or agencies in
the Intelligence Community;

\(f\)  the term “high value asset” means information or an information
system that is so critical to an organization that the loss or
corruption of this information, or loss of access to the system, would
have serious impacts on the organization’s ability to perform its
mission or conduct business;

\(g\)  the term “high impact system” means an information system in
which at least one security objective (i.e., confidentiality, integrity,
or availability) is assigned a Federal Information Processing Standards
(FIPS) 199 potential impact value of “high”;

\(h\)  the term “information technology” or “IT” has the meaning
ascribed to it under 44 U.S.C. 3502;

\(i\)  the term “National Security Systems” or “NSS” has the meaning
ascribed to it in 44 U.S.C 3552(b)(6) and shall also include other
Department of Defense and Intelligence Community systems, as described
in 44 U.S.C. 3553(e)(2) and 44 U.S.C. 3553(e)(3);

\(j\)  the term “quantum computer” means a computer utilizing the
collective properties of quantum states, such as superposition,
interference and entanglement, to perform calculations.  The foundations
in quantum physics give a quantum computer the ability to solve a subset
of hard mathematical problems at a much faster rate than a classical
(i.e., non‑quantum) computer;

\(k\)  the term “quantum information sciences” or “QIS” has the meaning
ascribed to it under 15 U.S.C. 8801(6) and means the study and
application of the laws of quantum physics for the storage,
transmission, manipulation, computing, or measurement of information;
and

\(l\)  the term “quantum-resistant cryptography” means those
cryptographic algorithms or methods that are assessed not to be
specifically vulnerable to attack by either a CRQC or classical
computer.  This is also referred to as post-quantum cryptography.

Sec. 6.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this memorandum shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof, to include the protection of intelligence
sources and methods; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of OMB relating to budgetary,
administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with applicable
law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This memorandum shall also be implemented without impeding the
conduct or support of intelligence activities, and all implementation
measures shall be designed to be consistent with appropriate protections
for sensitive information and intelligence sources and methods. 

\(d\)  This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any
right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in
equity by any party against the United States, its departments,
agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other
person.   

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
