---
date: '2022-05-17'
modified_time: 2022-05-16 22:46:40-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-17 09:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/17/statement-by-president-joe-biden-on-international-day-against-homophobia-transphobia-and-biphobia/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement by President Joe\_Biden on International Day Against Homophobia,\
  \ Transphobia and\_Biphobia"
---
 
On the International Day Against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia,
Jill and I stand in support and solidarity with lesbian, gay, bisexual,
transgender, queer, and intersex, (LGBTQI+) people in the United States
and around the world. And we join with Americans across the country to
reaffirm our commitment to the ongoing work of upholding human dignity
for all people and advancing equality globally.

On this day in 1990, the World Health Organization took the long overdue
step of declassifying ‘homosexuality’ as a mental disorder. Since that
time, there has been much progress. But we continue to witness
disturbing setbacks and rising hate and violence targeting LGBTQI+
people in the United States and around the world. This is wrong. LGBTQI+
people are entitled to all the rights, opportunities, and protections
that belong to every human on this planet. LGBTQI+ people are an
essential part of families and communities—teachers, first responders,
public officials, doctors, lawyers, front-line workers, and friends who
enrich and strengthen every single country.

And make no mistake: hateful legislative attacks against members of our
own LGBTQI+ community cannot be tolerated in America or anywhere else.
They spur discrimination and can stoke violence. And they are rooted in
the same ignorance and intolerance that we see around the world. Hate is
hate—and all of us have a responsibility to speak out against hate
wherever we find it.

The United States leads the world not only by the example of our power,
but by the power of our example. That means making commitments— and
following through with action, transparency, and accountability. That’s
why, last month, we released the first-ever public progress
[report](https://www.state.gov/lgbtqi-human-rights/) on my
Administration’s whole-of-government approach to advance the human
rights of LGBTQI+ people globally, from supporting local civil society
organizations to standing up for LGBTQI+ human rights at the United
Nations, and in our engagement with repressive governments.

By openly reporting on our own progress, the United States hopes to
inspire other governments to take similar action to address the needs of
their LGBTQI+ communities.

Strong and healthy democracies must ensure LGBTQI+ people can enjoy full
participation in society and access all the benefits available to a
nation’s citizens. At the first Summit for Democracy, the United States
committed to facilitating the participation and leadership of LGBTQI+
community members in democratic institutions, a process we will continue
to support.

To the LGBTQI+ community, my administration sees you. We stand with you.
And we will continue to defend human rights and dignity, at home and
around the world. 

\###
