---
date: '2022-05-31'
modified_time: 2022-05-31 10:59:19-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-31 12:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/31/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-highlights-strategy-to-address-the-national-mental-health-crisis/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Highlights Strategy to Address\
  \ the National Mental Health\_Crisis"
---
 
As we mark [Mental Health Awareness
Month](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/04/29/a-proclamation-on-national-mental-health-awareness-month-2022/),
our country faces an unprecedented mental health crisis among people of
all ages. Two in five American
adults [report](https://www.kff.org/report-section/the-implications-of-covid-19-for-mental-health-and-substance-use-issue-brief/) symptoms
of anxiety and depression, and more than half of parents
express concern over their children’s mental well-being. Over forty
percent of
teenagers [state](https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/volumes/71/su/pdfs/su7103a1-a5-H.pdf) they
struggle with persistent feelings of sadness or hopelessness. These
growing demands have exposed longstanding cracks in our care
infrastructure while compounding many other domestic policy challenges,
from criminal justice to homelessness to the labor shortage.   
  
To address this crisis, as part of his Unity Agenda, President Biden has
put forward a [comprehensive national
strategy](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/01/fact-sheet-president-biden-to-announce-strategy-to-address-our-national-mental-health-crisis-as-part-of-unity-agenda-in-his-first-state-of-the-union/) to
tackle our mental health crisis, and used his State of the Union Address
to call for a major transformation in how mental health is understood,
accessed, treated, and integrated – in and out of health care settings.
Across the federal government, the Administration has already invested
nearly $4 billion in [American Rescue
Plan](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/11/the-american-rescue-plan-people-difference/) (ARP)
funding to expand access to mental health and substance use services.
The President’s [FY23
budget](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/03/budget_fy2023.pdf) goes
further, by proposing over $27 billion in discretionary funding and
another $100 billion in mandatory funding over 10 years to implement his
national strategy and transform behavioral health services for all
Americans.   
  
This month, the Biden-Harris Administration is taking additional, new
actions to advance the President’s mental health strategy across its
three objectives: strengthening system capacity, connecting more
Americans to care, and creating a continuum of support.  
  
**<u>Strengthen System Capacity</u>**  
  
At the center of our behavioral health crisis is a severe workforce
shortage. We do not have enough providers, and they are not located in
the right places or providing the right services to meet Americans’
needs. Even where there are sufficient providers, the fragmentation and
inconsistency of the current system can make it difficult for people to
find the right level of care. To address these needs, this month, the
Administration is taking new actions to:  
  
**Promote the mental well-being of our frontline health
workforce. **Even before the COVID-19 pandemic, health worker burnout
had
reached [“crisis”](https://nap.nationalacademies.org/catalog/25521/taking-action-against-clinician-burnout-a-systems-approach-to-professional) levels
– affecting up to 60 percent of frontline providers. To respond, the
U.S. Surgeon General
is [issuing](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2022/05/23/new-surgeon-general-advisory-sounds-alarm-on-health-worker-burnout-and-resignation.html) the
first-ever Advisory on Health Worker Burnout, which lays out
whole-of-society recommendations to advance health worker well-being.  
  
**Pilot new approaches to training behavioral health
paraprofessionals. **To better support veterans with substance use
disorders, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is hiring 277 new
Peer Specialists, employees in recovery themselves specifically trained
and certified to help fellow veterans. The Department of Defense (DOD)
is also hiring roughly 2,500 new personnel over the next 6 years to
comprehensively address risk for conditions like mental illness and
substance use.  
  
**Strengthen our crisis care and suicide prevention
infrastructure. **The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) will
expand access to mobile crisis services in high-need communities by
launching a Mental Health Crisis Response Partnership Pilot Program. DOD
will also strengthen suicide prevention services for service members, by
establishing and training military health providers in new, standardized
procedures to promote the identification, treatment, and tracking of
patients at risk of suicide.  
  
**Build the capacity of long-term care facilities to deliver behavioral
health care. **HHS
is [launching](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2022/05/16/hhs-announces-new-funding-opportunity-strengthen-behavioral-health-services-nursing-homes-other-long-term-care-facilities.html) a
new, $15 million funding opportunity to establish a Center of Excellence
for Building Capacity in Nursing Facilities to Care for Residents with
Behavioral Health Conditions, which will work to strengthen behavioral
health care in long-term care facilities by improving mental health
literacy and combating stigmatization among staff.  
  
**Address our caregiving crisis. **In partnership with the [RAISE Family
Caregiving](https://acl.gov/programs/support-caregivers/raise-family-caregiving-advisory-council) and [Supporting
Grandparents Raising
Grandchildren](https://acl.gov/programs/support-caregivers/supporting-grandparents-raising-grandchildren-0) Advisory
Councils, HHS’s Administration for Community Living will submit a
National Caregiving Strategy to Congress outlining new recommendations
for better supporting family caregivers, many of whom have been under
great strain during the COVID-19 pandemic.   
  
This builds on prior Administration actions, including:

-   HHS invested nearly $400 million to help states prepare for the July
    launch of 988, the new three-digit code for the National Suicide
    Prevention Lifeline. And the Center for Medicare & Medicaid Services
    (CMS) [established](https://www.cms.gov/newsroom/press-releases/biden-harris-administration-awards-15-million-20-states-mobile-crisis-intervention) a
    new state option for Medicaid coverage of qualifying community-based
    mobile crisis intervention services.  
     
-   HHS awarded [$250
    million](https://www.samhsa.gov/newsroom/press-announcements/202107291030) across
    100 grants to increase access to Certified Community Behavioral
    Health Centers (CCBHCs), which provide 24/7, comprehensive primary
    and behavioral health care – including crisis care – to the most
    vulnerable Americans.  
     
-   Bright Futures, a HRSA partnership with the American Academy of
    Pediatrics, [added](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2022/01/12/2022-00461/updates-to-the-bright-futures-periodicity-schedule) universal
    screening for suicide risk to its national guidelines for
    individuals ages 12 to 21.  
     
-   AmeriCorps invested $8 million through its new [Public Health
    AmeriCorps](https://americorps.gov/about/what-we-do/public-health-americorps) to
    fund the recruitment of new AmeriCorps members to support
    individuals with mental health and substance use challenges.  
     
-   HHS invested [$1
    billion](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2021/11/22/hhs-announces-record-health-care-workforce-awards-in-rural-underserved-communities.html) in
    the National Health Service Corps, Nurse Corps, and Substance Use
    Disorder Treatment and Recovery Loan Repayment Program, which has
    enabled these provider pipeline programs to amass the largest field
    strength in history.  
     
-   HHS awarded [$103
    million](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2022/01/20/biden-harris-administration-awards-103-million-american-rescue-plan-funds-reduce-burnout-promote-mental-health-wellness-among-health-care-workforce.html) to
    45 health care organizations to address burnout and strengthen
    resiliency among health care workers.  
     
-   The President signed the bipartisan Dr. Lorna Breen Health Care
    Provider Protection Act into law,
    which [authorized](https://www.aha.org/news/news/2022-03-18-dr-lorna-breen-health-care-provider-protection-act-signed-law) $135
    million over three years to train health care providers on suicide
    prevention and behavioral health.

**<u>Connect Americans to Care</u>**  
  
Even when services are available, barriers like cost, cultural bias, and
inconvenience prevent people from consistently accessing the care they
need. On average, it takes [11
years](https://www.nami.org/mhstats) after the onset of mental health
symptoms for someone to seek treatment. It is critical that we make care
affordable across all types of health insurance coverage, and integrate
mental health services in ways that reduce stigmatization and access
barriers. This month, the Biden-Harris Administration is
taking new actions to:  
  
**Advance behavioral health care for the Asian American, Native
Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AANHPI) community. **To reduce
behavioral health-related disparities, HHS
is [announcing](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2022/05/17/hhs-announces-funding-opportunity-for-new-asian-american-native-hawaiian-pacific-islander-behavioral-health-center-of-excellence.html) a
nearly $3.5 million, five-year grant opportunity to launch a new AANHPI
Center of Excellence, which will promote culturally and linguistically
appropriate behavioral health practices while providing training and
technical assistance on addressing the mental health impacts of hate and
unconscious bias against the AANHPI community.  
  
**Lower barriers to behavioral health care among service members. **To
reduce concerns about potential negative impacts on military career
progression, DOD is revising its policy that outlines requirements for
notifying military commanders when service members seek mental health or
substance use care.  
  
**Ensure access to mental health support in schools, colleges and
universities.** The Department of Education
is [issuing](https://www.ed.gov/news/press-releases/building-president-bidens-unity-agenda-education-department-urges-colleges-use-american-rescue-plan-funds-provide-mental-health-supports-students) new
guidance to colleges and universities on how to use ARP relief funds to
provide mental health and substance use disorder services on campus,
including by hiring mental health professionals, expanding virtual
counseling support, offering stress-reduction activities, building peer
support programs, and erecting student-staffed crisis hotlines.  
  
**Strengthen the federal government’s role as a model employer for
behavioral health. **In addition to facilitating access to comprehensive
telebehavioral health benefits through the Federal Employees Health
Benefits Program, the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) is working to
reinvigorate Employee Assistance Programs provided by all federal
agencies to better meet employees’ behavioral health needs, while
disseminating best practices and new ideas for improving federal
workplace mental health.  
  
This builds on prior Administration actions, including:

-   In January, federal
    agencies [issued](https://www.dol.gov/sites/dolgov/files/EBSA/laws-and-regulations/laws/mental-health-parity/report-to-congress-2022-realizing-parity-reducing-stigma-and-raising-awareness.pdf) a
    detailed report about how to improve insurance company compliance
    with requirements related to mental health services. HHS also
    developed [new
    resources](https://www.samhsa.gov/newsroom/press-announcements/20220427/hhs-new-mental-health-substance-use-disorder-benefit-resources) to
    help patients and state regulators better understand how to enforce
    their rights.  
     
-   ARP provided [$122
    billion](https://oese.ed.gov/offices/american-rescue-plan/american-rescue-plan-elementary-and-secondary-school-emergency-relief/) in
    relief funds for schools to help them reopen safely and address the
    social and emotional needs of students. As of April, the number of
    social workers in public schools has increased by 67 percent, and
    the number of counselors has increased by 18 percent, since the
    years before the pandemic.  
     
-   In March, HHS and the Department of
    Education [announced](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2022/03/24/hhs-secretary-xavier-becerra-education-secretary-miguel-a-cardona-announce-joint-effort-develop-share-resources-ensure-children-have-access-school-based-health-services.html) a
    joint effort to develop and
    share [resources](https://www.hhs.gov/sites/default/files/school-based-health-services-resources.pdf) to
    ensure that children have access to school-based health services.  
     
-   HHS invested $80 million in ARP funding into the Pediatric Mental
    Health Care Access program, which promotes integrating care for
    behavioral health needs into pediatric primary care settings.  
     
-   The final [CY 2022 Medicare Physician Fee Schedule
    rule](https://www.cms.gov/newsroom/fact-sheets/calendar-year-cy-2022-medicare-physician-fee-schedule-final-rule) increased
    access to telebehavioral health services, including by allowing
    certain services to occur via audio-only calls when video is
    unavailable, and by allowing Rural Health Clinics and Federally
    Qualified Health Centers to report and receive payment for
    telebehavioral health services.

**<u>Support Americans by Creating Healthy Environments</u>**

No health problem can be addressed solely through the health care
system. We must also invest in programs that can prevent mental health
challenges and build environments that promote wellness and recovery.
Decades of research show that coordinated prevention across settings can
pay long-term dividends, including reductions in community violence.
Similarly, when settings provide services and restorative programs that
support individuals with mental health problems or other at-risk
behaviors, they can promote broader social and economic gains. This
month, the Biden-Harris Administration is taking new actions to:  
  
**Train social and human services professionals in basic mental health
skills.** The Department of Agriculture (USDA) is launching a series of
initiatives to improve mental health literacy among its partners and
employees. It will give all public-facing employees who work with
agricultural producers and grant recipients access to Mental Health
First Aid Training and integrate more robust mental health messaging
into its programs. And, it will support efforts to train 4-H volunteers
and participants in social and emotional skills, help-seeking, and
self-care.  
  
**Train tribal law enforcement personnel in mental health. **The
Department of Interior’s Bureau of Indian Affairs Office of Justice
Services is implementing a Mental Health Crisis Instructor Training
Program and a Resiliency Initiative to train officers on coping with
stress; managing anxiety; providing psychological first aid; and
identifying substance use disorder, depression, and post-traumatic
stress in themselves and in colleagues.  
  
**Enhance school-based supports in Native communities. **The Department
of Interior’s Bureau of Indian Education is launching a Social and
Emotional Learning Initiative for educators and staff, which will work
to improve access to culturally relevant social and emotional learning
supports at schools serving Native communities.     
  
**Spur innovation in recovery support models.** HHS
is [launching](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2022/05/18/hhs-announces-its-first-ever-behavioral-health-recovery-innovation-challenge.html) its
first-ever behavioral health Recovery Innovation Challenge, which will
disburse up to 10 awards totaling $400,000 to peer-run and
community-based groups implementing innovative programs that advance
recovery from substance use disorders.    
  
**Improve financial security among veterans. **VA is launching a
National Center for Veterans Financial Empowerment to provide veterans
with education, tools, and resources to successfully navigate financial
strain, which has been associated with increased risk of suicide.  
  
**Enforce workplace rights of the mentally ill.** The Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission (EEOC) is increasing outreach to mental health
providers to support protections under the Americans with Disabilities
Act. It is also committing to increase the accessibility of its
technical assistance and guidance documents on mental health.

**Establish a federal research action plan on mental health. **The
underlying causes of most mental health conditions remain largely
unknown. To fill this knowledge gap, the [White House Office of Science
& Technology Policy](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/ostp/) is leading an
effort to establish several new cross-agency research priorities for
mental health as part of a broader coordinating effort on brain health.
   
This builds on prior Administration actions, including:

-   HHS opened the first-ever [Office of
    Recovery](https://www.samhsa.gov/about-us/who-we-are/offices-centers/or) at
    the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration,
    dedicated to evaluating and initiating programs, policies, and
    services that center the needs and experiences of those in
    recovery.  
     
-   HHS’s Centers for Disease Control and Prevention announced
    new **Comprehensive Suicide Prevention
    Program** [funding](https://www.grants.gov/web/grants/view-opportunity.html?oppId=337047) to
    support a comprehensive public health approach to suicide prevention
    with attention to disproportionately affected populations, such as
    veterans, rural communities, tribal, LGBTQ, and youth.  
     
-   EEOC has actively used its enforcement authority to combat unlawful
    disability discrimination against individuals based on their [mental
    health
    conditions](https://www.eeoc.gov/newsroom/ranews-management-company-pay-250000-settle-disability-discrimination-lawsuit),
    their use of legally prescribed [opioid
    medications](https://www.eeoc.gov/newsroom/lonza-america-pay-150000-settle-eeoc-disability-lawsuit),
    and their participation in substance use recovery programs. It has
    also [conducted](https://www.eeoc.gov/wysk/what-you-should-know-about-covid-19-and-ada-rehabilitation-act-and-other-eeo-laws) outreach
    and [education](https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/depression-ptsd-other-mental-health-conditions-workplace-your-legal-rights) programs
    for [employers](https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/USEEOC/bulletins/2cc9aa1) emphasizing
    their obligations to treat employees with mental health conditions
    the same as those with any other disabilities.  
     
-   USDA invested nearly [$25
    million](https://www.google.com/search?q=%2425+million+in+the+form+of+50+grants+to+the+Farm+and+Ranch+Stress+Assistance+Network+projects) in
    the [Farm and Ranch Stress Assistance
    Network](https://www.nifa.usda.gov/grants/programs/farm-ranch-stress-assistance-network-frsan) projects
    which to strengthen programs that provide professional behavioral
    health counseling and other services to individuals in agricultural
    occupations.  
     
-   The Department of Education released [Supporting Child and Student
    Social, Emotional, Behavioral and Mental
    Health](https://www2.ed.gov/documents/students/supporting-child-student-social-emotional-behavioral-mental-health.pdf) to
    enhance the promotion of mental health and the social and emotional
    well-being among children and students.  
     
-   CDC invested $15 million in the Healthy Schools program,
    which [works](https://www.cdc.gov/chronicdisease/resources/publications/factsheets/healthy-schools.htm) with
    states, school systems, and national partners to improve the
    well-being of K-12 students.  
     
-   The Surgeon General issued a
    new [Advisory](https://www.hhs.gov/sites/default/files/surgeon-general-youth-mental-health-advisory.pdf) to
    highlight the urgent need to address the nation’s youth mental
    health crisis – with particular attention to online harms and the
    impact of social media on young people’s mental health.    
     
-   HHS [announced](https://www.samhsa.gov/grants/grant-announcements/sm-22-013) $2
    million in funding to establish the new Center of Excellence on
    Social Media and Mental Wellness, which will develop and disseminate
    information, guidance, and training on the impact of children and
    youth social media use, especially the potential risks social media
    platforms pose to mental health.

 ###
