---
date: '2022-05-25'
published_time: 2022-05-25 11:37:52-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/25/president-biden-names-eighteenth-round-of-judicial-nominees/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Names Eighteenth Round of Judicial\_Nominees"
---
 
The President is announcing three new federal judicial nominees, all of
whom are extraordinarily qualified, experienced, and devoted to the rule
of law and our Constitution.

These choices also continue to fulfill the President’s promise to ensure
that the nation’s courts reflect the diversity that is one of our
greatest assets as a country — both in terms of personal and
professional backgrounds.

For example, if confirmed, Judge Doris Pryor would be the  first judge
of color to ever serve on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh
Circuit from Indiana.  
  
This is President Biden’s eighteenth round of nominees for federal
judicial positions and his fifth slate of nominations in 2022, bringing
the number of announced federal judicial nominees to 98.  
  
President Biden has spent decades committed to strengthening the federal
bench, which is why he continues to move rapidly to fill judicial
vacancies. And he has won confirmation of the most lower court judges
for the first year of a presidency since the Kennedy Administration.

**<u>U.S. Circuit Court</u>**

**<u>Rachel S. Bloomekatz: Nominee for the United States Court of
Appeals for the Sixth Circuit</u>**

Rachel S. Bloomekatz is a solo practitioner at Bloomekatz Law LLC, which
she founded in 2019 in Columbus, Ohio. From 2016 to 2019, Ms. Bloomekatz
was a principal at Gupta Wessler PLLC. She was previously an associate
at Jones Day LLC in Columbus, Ohio from 2013 to 2015. Ms. Bloomekatz
served as an Assistant Attorney General in the Office of the Attorney
General in Boston, Massachusetts from 2010 to 2011. From 2011 to 2012,
Ms. Bloomekatz served as a law clerk for Justice Stephen Breyer on the
U.S. Supreme Court. From 2009 to 2010, she served as a law clerk for
Chief Justice Margaret Marshall on the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial
Court. From 2008 to 2009, Ms. Bloomekatz served as a law clerk for Judge
Guido Calabresi on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.

Ms. Bloomekatz received her J.D. from UCLA School of Law in 2008 and her
A.B., *magna cum laude*, from Harvard University in 2004.

**<u>Judge Florence Y. Pan: Nominee for the United States Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit</u>**

Judge Florence Y. Pan has served on the U.S. District Court for the
District of Columbia since 2021. She previously served as an Associate
Judge on the Superior Court for the District of Columbia from 2009 to
2021. From 1999 to 2009, Judge Pan served as an Assistant U.S. Attorney
in the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia, where she
also served as Deputy Chief of the Appellate Division from 2007 to 2009.
From 1998 to 1999, she worked at the U.S. Department of Treasury, first
as a Senior Advisor to the Assistant Secretary for Financial Markets in
1998 and then as a Senior Advisor to the Undersecretary for Domestic
Finance in 1999. Judge Pan worked for the U.S. Department of Justice
from 1995 to 1998, during which time she was a Bristow Fellow in the
Office of the Solicitor General from 1995 to 1996 and an attorney in the
Appellate Section of the Criminal Division from 1996 to 1998. She served
as a law clerk for Judge Ralph K. Winter on the U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit from 1994 to 1995, and for Judge Michael B.
Mukasey on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York
from 1993 to 1994.

Judge Pan received her J.D. with distinction from Stanford Law School in
1993, and her B.A. and B.S., *summa cum laude*, from the University of
Pennsylvania in 1988.

**<u>Judge Doris L. Pryor: Nominee for the United States Court of
Appeals for the Seventh Circuit</u>**

Judge Doris L. Pryor has served as a U.S. Magistrate Judge for the
Southern District of Indiana since 2018. From 2006 to 2018, Judge Pryor
served as an Assistant U.S. Attorney for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for
the Southern District of Indiana. She served as National Security Chief
for the office from 2014 to 2018. From 2005 to 2006, Judge Pryor served
as a Deputy Public Defender for the State of Arkansas Public Defender’s
Commission. Judge Pryor served as a law clerk for Judge J. Leon Holmes
on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Arkansas from
2004 to 2005 and for Chief Judge Lavenski Smith on the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Eighth Circuit from 2003 to 2004.

Judge Pryor received her J.D. from the Indiana University Maurer School
of Law in 2003 and her B.S. from the University of Central Arkansas in
1999.

\###
