---
date: '2022-05-02'
published_time: 2022-05-02 12:02:15-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/02/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-the-costume-institutes-2022-spring-exhibition/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden at The Costume\
  \ Institute\u2019s 2022 Spring\_Exhibition"
---
 
The Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, NY

No matter the words we choose or the speeches we give, the world sees
the totality of who we are. The way we carry ourselves, how we put our
shoulders back when times are hard, or offer a friendly smile even when
we don’t agree. How we choose to show up for our communities—the small
acts of kindness that are remembered long after they are offered.

And that includes what we wear.

Beautiful or dissonant, finely-crafted or thrown together—our style
helps us express things that can’t be put in words. We reveal and
conceal who we are with symbols and shapes, colors and cuts—and who
creates them.

The history of American design is rich and deep. It is a story of
innovation and ingenuity, of rebellion and renewal. It has often been
written by those in the shadows, not recognized for their influence and
art.

But here at the Met, their stories are told. Their voices are raised and
their work can shine.

And that’s why I was so excited to accept Anna’s invitation to join you
to celebrate this incredible exhibit and the education that is such a
critical part of your mission.

As an English teacher, I have always believed in the power of language.
But since I’ve become First Lady, I’ve been reminded that it’s only one
way we communicate.

A few months ago, as the President was preparing for the State of the
Union address, my mind was a world away. Like so many Americans, I was
transfixed by the news of Ukraine, the bombings, the parents weeping
over their children’s broken bodies in the streets.

As the State of the Union approached, I knew the only thing that would
be reported about me was what I was wearing. So, I ordered sunflower
appliqués—the flower of Ukraine and a symbol of hope and solidarity—and
had one sewn on the cuff of my dress. It was small—but it shined against
the deep cobalt-blue of my sleeve. And that night, sitting next to the
Ukrainian ambassador, I knew I was sending a message without saying a
word: that Ukraine was in our hearts—and that we stood with them.

Earlier today, I announced that, at the end of this week, I’ll be headed
to Romania and Slovakia to visit our troops and spend Mother’s Day with
Ukrainian families who’ve been displaced by Putin’s war. As a mother
myself, I can only imagine the grief families are feeling. I know that
we might not share a language, but I hope that I can convey—in ways so
much greater than words—that their resilience inspires me, that they are
not forgotten, and that all Americans stand with them still.

As we celebrate the designers and the fashion that has shaped the very
identity of America, I hope it will inspire all of us to keep learning.
I hope it will help us to see the beauty and art that surrounds us every
day. And most importantly, I hope it will remind us to be bold and
brave.

Thank you all for what you do and enjoy the exhibit!

Thank you.

\###
