---
date: '2022-05-12'
modified_time: 2022-05-12 11:58:14-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-12 13:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/12/2nd-covid-19-co-host-statement/
tags: statements-releases
title: "2nd COVID-\u206019 Co-Host\_Statement"
---
 
***Maintaining the momentum for pandemic response and Prioritizing
Preparedness***

On May 12, under the leadership of the United States, Belize, Germany,
Indonesia, and Senegal, global leaders from across the world’s
economies, civil society, and the private sector gathered for the
2<sup>nd</sup> Global COVID-19 Summit.  Summit participants made major
new policy and financial commitments to make vaccines available to those
at highest risk, to expand access to tests and treatments, and to
prevent future health crises.  These are linked here.  Success in these
areas is achievable, but it is not inevitable; leaders reinforced the
value of whole-of-government and whole-of-society approaches to bring
the acute phase of COVID-19 to an end, and the importance of being
 prepared for future pandemic threats. The Summit was focused on
preventing complacency, recognizing the pandemic is not over; protecting
the most vulnerable, including the elderly, immunocompromised people,
and frontline and health workers; and preventing future health crises,
recognizing *now* is the time to secure political and financial
commitment for pandemic preparedness.

The Summit catalyzed bold commitments.  Financially, leaders committed
to provide nearly $2 billion in new funding – additional to pledges made
earlier in 2022.  These funds will accelerate access to vaccinations,
testing, and treatments, and they will contribute to a new pandemic
preparedness and global health security fund housed at the World Bank. 
Leaders also made robust national commitments to expand and accelerate
vaccine coverage, in particular for their at-risk populations; to expand
access to testing and treatments; to protect and support the health
workforce and increase domestic budgets for health systems
strengthening; and to advance health security, including through the new
fund. 

World leaders identified three major Summit outcomes.

-   **Prioritizing the highest risk populations to save lives. ** First,
    great progress has been made in fighting COVID-19, but the pandemic
    is not over and the next health crisis can strike at any time –
    likely while the world is still battling COVID-19.  Summit
    participants committed to double down on their collective efforts to
    control COVID-19, and we will enhance our focus on the highest risk
    populations, including the elderly, the immunocompromised, and
    healthcare and frontline workers – so that SARS-CoV-2 becomes a
    manageable respiratory pathogen everywhere.

<!-- -->

-   **Expanding access to countermeasures– for COVID-19 and future
    threats.** Second, the pandemic has led to major advances in
    developing and delivering life-saving vaccines, tests, treatments,
    personal protective equipment, and other supplies.  Participants
    especially expressed support for the ACT-Accelerator, as the
    multilateral mechanism deploying these needed supplies. And yet, the
    pandemic also underscored major longstanding inequities in access to
    new countermeasures, especially for low- and lower middle-income
    countries.  Summit participants committed to finding sustainable and
    predictable solutions for early warning systems and to developing a
    cohesive global roadmap for local and regional access to medical
    countermeasures, personal protective equipment, and other lifesaving
    supplies for potentially pandemic diseases, as well as expanding
    access to manufacturing and research, including the concept of
    regional hubs for pandemic preparedness and response around the
    world.

<!-- -->

-   **Maintaining the momentum for pandemic response and prioritizing
    preparedness. ** Finally, no country was fully prepared for the
    COVID-19 pandemic.  As a result, over 6 million people around the
    world have lost their lives, trillions of dollars have been lost
    from the global economy, and gains in global health and towards the
    U.N. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) have been reversed. 
    Summit participants committed to maintain the political will needed
    to establish national, regional, and global capacity for health
    security and pandemic prevention, preparedness, and response,
    including for training a strong network of experts to ensure
    readiness for future outbreaks with pandemic potential.  They
    supported the efforts of the G20 and other partners to establish a
    pandemic preparedness and global health security fund housed at the
    World Bank, working in close cooperation with WHO, and they
    committed to support locally-led solutions to expand and protect the
    health workforce and minimize disruptions to routine and essential
    health services.

***<u>Vaccinate the World:</u>*** **<u>Getting Vaccines to the Most
Vulnerable</u>**

Many countries have made great strides toward meeting the 70% global
vaccination target set by the World Health Organization. Since the first
Summit, the world’s vaccination rate has increased from 33% to nearly
60%, and lower-middle income countries have risen from 13% to over 50%. 
However, low income countries are struggling, and our strategy must
continue to evolve with the virus.  The global effort must focus on
populations at highest risk of hospitalization and mortality, including
the elderly, immunocompromised people, and healthcare and other
frontline workers.  World leaders must take action, now, to build,
coordinate, and finance the national, regional, and global systems and
expert networks required to control COVID-19 so that it becomes a
manageable respiratory illness – including predictable and equitable
access to safe and effective pandemic vaccines for all countries. 

Ten leaders from government and civil society joined this session, which
was co-hosted by **His Excellency Abdoulaye Diouf Sarr**, Minister of
Health and Social Action, Senegal; **Her Excellency Annalena Baerbock,**
Foreign Minister of Germany; and **Her Excellency Samantha Power**,
Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development.
The speakers re-emphasized the value of safe and effective vaccines for
bringing the acute phase of COVID-19 to an end.  The speakers discussed
new commitments, challenges, and solutions for building the national,
regional, and global systems needed to get vaccines to health and
frontline workers, the elderly and immunocompromised, and in
humanitarian settings.  In particular, they discussed new policy
commitments to help overcome local barriers to vaccine access and
uptake, as well as financial commitments to expand and sustain access,
country by country, everywhere in the world.  They also discussed
commitments to developing, financing, and sustaining systems for
producing and supplying vaccines for COVID-19 variants and future health
emergencies, including national and regional access to vaccines and
predictable access, scaling, and surge supply.  Leaders highlighted the
need for robust and sustained donor attention to vaccine administration
for COVID-19  and a more coordinated, country-by-country approach to
getting vaccinations to those most at risk in communities.  They also
called for \[and committed to\] developing a cohesive roadmap for local
and regional access to vaccines for future variants and pandemics.  The
session also highlighted bold commitments from governments to get
boosters to their populations, launch vaccination campaigns to reach
high risk populations and children, and to accelerate vaccination
coverage in their domestic populations. Non-governmental leaders also
pledged to work toward sustained access to vaccine availability, as well
as plans to scale up and provide open-source results of research and
development to inform COVID-19 vaccination strategies in low- and
lower-middle income countries, including on boosters and mix-and-match
vaccination strategies.

***<u>Save Lives Now:</u>*** **<u>Expanding Access to Tests and
Treatments</u>**

Ending the acute phase of the COVID-19 pandemic and ensuring that
COVID-19 becomes a treatable respiratory disease will require enhancing
predictable and equitable access to rapid testing and to lifesaving
treatments.  While the COVID-19 pandemic has catalyzed great advances in
diagnostic testing and new therapeutics, such as oral antivirals, there
is not yet a sustainable supply of these lifesaving interventions nor a
sustainable system for targeting these interventions to those facing the
highest risk of hospitalization and mortality, including the elderly,
immunocompromised people, as well as healthcare and other frontline
workers.  In addition, access to and provision of oxygen needs to be
increased.  Moreover, testing and diagnostics is crucial to enable
genetic sequencing and to monitor the emergence of new virus variants.
This means that world leaders must take actions, now, to solve
persistent challenges in the sustainable and scaled production,
delivery, and market demand for tests and treatments, by incentivizing
market shaping commitments and advancing platforms for advanced
purchases of tests and treatments; lowering production costs,
facilitating manufacturing of antiviral inputs, including Active
Pharmaceutical Ingredients, and developing national plans for testing
and treatment.

Eleven leaders from government and civil society joined this session,
which was co-hosted **by His Excellency Kevin Bernard,** Minister of
Health and Wellness of Belize,and **Her Excellency Svenja Schulze**,
Federal Minister for Economic Cooperationand Development of Germany. 
Speakers acknowledged the work of existing global efforts, such as
ACT-Accelerator, and the importance of fully funding them, to enable the
delivery of tests and treatment to people who need them. Speakers
emphasized the importance of targeting testing and treatment to those at
highest risk of hospitalization and death around the world. 
Specifically, they discussed the need for country strategies and
financing to enhance access to molecular diagnostics and rapid tests, as
well as treatments, including oral antivirals and oxygen.  They
committed to work nationally and globally to overcome local barriers and
to pilot test-to-treat strategies. While progress is being made with the
Medicines Patent Pool, leaders underscored the importance of long-term
access and affordable pricing for affordable, safe, effective and
quality medications, including antiviral medications, including the
need  for closer partnerships between producers, generic manufacturers,
and regulators.

***<u>Build Better Health Security:</u>*** **<u>Preventing Future Health
Crises</u>**

No country in the world was well-prepared for the COVID-19 pandemic.  As
a result, the pandemic remains an ongoing global catastrophe that has
cost millions of lives, unwound decades of gains in global health and
development, and decreased national and regional resilience to shocks. 
The time is now to create the national, regional, and global capacity
needed to prepare for future variants and the next health emergency,
which could come at any time. To reduce the world’s vulnerability to
future pandemics, the WHO’s Independent Panel for Pandemic Preparedness
and Response and the G20’s High Level Independent Panel made a number of
action-oriented recommendations in early 2021, including to establish a
new Financial Intermediary Fund (FIF) for pandemic preparedness and
global health security.  This recommendation has since been amplified by
the World Health Organization Director General and Indonesian G20
Presidency, as well as prominent and expert organizations and
individuals from around the world.

Eleven leaders from government and civil society joined this session,
which was co-hosted by **His Excellency Budi Gunadi Sadikin,** Minister
of Health of Indonesia,and by **His Excellency Antony Blinken**,
Secretary of State of the United States**.** This session discussed the
need for country capacity, sustainable financing, and a strong health
workforce to strengthen health security and health systems – for
COVID-19 variants and for future health emergencies.  Specifically,
speakers discussed exciting new financial commitments and momentum,
including work in support of the G20’s Finance and Health Taskforce, to
establish a new pandemic preparedness and global health security
financial intermediary fund at the World Bank in the next few months, in
close cooperation with the WHO and other international partners. 
Speakers also called for the support of initiatives to strengthen global
health governance, especially at the WHO, through amendments of the
International Health Regulations and a new international instrument on
pandemic prevention, preparedness, and response.

Speakers also emphasized new commitments to expand and protect the
health workforce, including by increasing training on infection
prevention and control and providing personal protective equipment.
Speakers also highlighted the need for current and future policy and
financial commitments to ensure that every country has the needed
capacity to mitigate COVID-19 variants and future health threats and
pandemics. Speakers highlighted commitments to expanding and improving
laboratory capacities. Speakers also reiterated the need to generate and
sustain local and regional access to medical countermeasures and
personal protective equipment, including through research and
development and by scaling and diversifying local and regional
manufacturing globally. Leaders underscored the need to build a strong
network of experts to ensure readiness for future outbreaks with
pandemic potential. Discussions also highlighted the need for a robust
global plan for a timely and seamless transition from ACT-A to future
approaches and instruments.

\###
