---
date: '2022-05-16'
modified_time: 2022-05-15 23:47:04-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-16 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/16/president-biden-announces-new-actions-to-ease-the-burden-of-housing-costs/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces New Actions to Ease the Burden of Housing\_Costs"
---
 
***New Biden-Harris Administration Housing Supply Action Plan To Help
Close the Housing Supply Gap in Five Years***

As President Biden said last week, tackling inflation is his top
economic priority. Today, President Biden is releasing a Housing Supply
Action Plan to ease the burden of housing costs over time, by boosting
the supply of quality housing in every community. His plan includes
legislative and administrative actions that will help close America’s
housing supply shortfall in 5 years, starting with the creation and
preservation of hundreds of thousands of affordable housing units in the
next three years. When aligned with other policies to reduce housing
costs and ensure affordability, such as rental assistance and
downpayment assistance, closing the gap will mean more affordable rents
and more attainable homeownership for Americans in every community. This
is the most comprehensive all of government effort to close the housing
supply shortfall in history.

The Plan will help renters who are struggling with high rental costs,
with a particular focus on building and preserving rental housing for
low- and moderate-income families. The Plan’s policies to boost supply
are an important element of bringing homeownership within reach for
Americans who, today, cannot find an affordable home because there are
too few homes for sale in their communities. And it will help reduce
price pressures in the economy, as housing costs make up about one-third
of of the market basket for inflation, as measured by the Consumer Price
Index.

Under the Plan, the Administration will:

-   ***Reward jurisdictions that have reformed zoning and land-use
    policies*** with higher scores in certain federal grant processes,
    for the first time at scale.

<!-- -->

-   ***Deploy new financing mechanisms to build and preserve more
    housing where financing gaps currently*** ***exist***: manufactured
    housing (including with chattel loans that the majority of
    manufactured housing purchasers rely on), accessory dwelling units
    (ADUs), 2-4 unit properties, and smaller multifamily buildings.

<!-- -->

-   ***Expand and improve existing forms of federal financing***,
    including for affordable multifamily development and preservation.
    This includes making Construction to Permanent loans (where one loan
    finances the construction but is also a long-term mortgage) more
    widely available by exploring the feasibility of Fannie Mae purchase
    of these loans; promoting the use of state, local, and Tribal
    government COVID-19 recovery funds to expand affordable housing
    supply; and announcing reforms to the Low Income Housing Tax Credit
    (LIHTC), which provides credits to private investors developing
    affordable rental housing, and the HOME Investment Partnerships
    Program (HOME), which provides grants to states and localities that
    communities use to fund a wide range of housing activities.

<!-- -->

-   ***Ensure that more government-owned supply of homes and other
    housing goes to owners who will live in them*** – or non-profits who
    will rehab them – not large institutional investors.

<!-- -->

-   Work with the private sector to address supply chain challenges and
    improve building techniques to ***finish construction in 2022 on the
    most new homes in any year since 2006***.

Today’s rising housing costs are years in the making.  Fewer new homes
were built in the decade following the Great Recession than in any
decade since the 1960s – constraining housing supply and failing to keep
pace with demand and household formation.  This mismatch between housing
supply and housing demand grew during the pandemic. While estimates
vary, [Moody’s Analytics
estimates](https://www.moodysanalytics.com/-/media/article/2021/Overcoming-the-Nations-Housing-Supply-Shortage.pdf)
that the shortfall in the housing supply is more than 1.5 million homes
nationwide. This shortfall burdens family budgets, drives up inflation,
limits economic growth, maintains residential segregation, and
exacerbates climate change.  Rising housing costs have burdened families
of all incomes, with a particular impact on low- and moderate-income
families, and people and communities of color.

As his Action Plan reflects, President Biden believes the best thing we
can do to ease the burden of housing costs is to boost the supply of
quality housing. This means building more new homes and preserving
existing federally-supported and market-rate affordable housing,
ensuring that total new units do not merely replace converted or
dilapidated units that get demolished.

The President continues to urge Congress to pass investments in housing
production and preservation. One independent
[analysis](https://www.novoco.com/notes-from-novogradac/more-12-billion-lihtc-provisions-and-nearly-6-billion-neighborhood-homes-tax-credits-nov-3-draft)
of proposals in the House of Representatives-passed reconciliation bill
found that the housing-related proposals would finance close to 1
million affordable homes. Key provisions, like the expansion of LIHTC
and the Neighborhood Homes Tax Credit, have received bipartisan support.
The President’s 2023 Budget includes investments in housing supply that
would lead to the production or rehabilitation of another 500,000 homes.

Building on the actions the Administration
[announced](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/01/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-immediate-steps-to-increase-affordable-housing-supply/)
last September to build and rehabilitate 100,000 homes over the next
three years, these legislative proposals and the new administrative
steps being launched – in partnership with state, local, for-profit, and
non-profit partners – can put the economy on a path to closing the
housing supply gap in the next five years.

**<u>Providing Incentives for Land Use and Zoning Reform and Reducing
Regulatory Barriers</u>**

One of the most significant issues constraining housing supply and
production is the lack of available and affordable land, which is in
large part driven by state and local zoning and land use laws and
regulations that limit housing density. Exclusionary land use and zoning
policies constrain land use, artificially inflate prices, perpetuate
historical patterns of segregation, keep workers in lower productivity
regions, and limit economic growth.  Reducing regulatory barriers to
housing production has been a
[bipartisan](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2019-02-20/utah-pro-housing-bill-is-zoning-reform-red-state-style)
cause in a number of states throughout the country. It’s time for the
same to be true in Congress, as well as in more states and local
jurisdictions throughout the country.

To that end, the Administration is taking the following ***immediate
steps***:

-   **Leveraging transportation funding from the Bipartisan
    Infrastructure Law (BIL).** Earlier this year, the Administration
    began using federal transportation programs to encourage state and
    local governments to boost housing supply, where consistent with
    current statutory requirements. For example, this year, the U.S.
    Department of Transportation (DOT) released three funding
    applications for competitive grant programs totaling nearly $6
    billion in funding that reward jurisdictions that have put in place
    land-use policies to promote density and rural main street
    revitalization with higher scores in the grant process. Today, the
    Administration is announcing that DOT will continue to include
    language encouraging locally driven land use reform, density, rural
    main street revitalization, and transit-oriented development in BIL
    and other transportation discretionary grant programs.

<!-- -->

-   **Integrating affordable housing into DOT Programs.** DOT will also
    issue updated program guidelines that increase financial support for
    Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA)
    program projects that include residential development.

<!-- -->

-   **Including land use within the U.S. Economic Development
    Administration’s (EDA) investment priorities**.EDA evaluates all
    project applications for its competitive grants to determine the
    extent to which they align with EDA’s [investment
    priorities](https://eda.gov/about/investment-priorities/). EDA
    already includes transit-oriented and infill development within its
    “Environmentally-Sustainable Development” priority. Over the coming
    year and before its next round of grants, EDA will add language to
    its investment priorities to encourage economic development projects
    that enhance density in the vicinity of the development.

These actions build on the strategies that the ***Administration has
proposed and continues to call on Congress to pass***:

-   **Unlocking Possibilities Program**. The Unlocking Possibilities
    Program, proposed by President Biden and included in the
    reconciliation bill passed by the House last year, would establish a
    new, $1.75 billion competitive grant program, administered by HUD,
    to help states and localities eliminate needless barriers to
    affordable housing production, including permitting for manufactured
    housing communities. 

<!-- -->

-   **Housing Supply Fund grants to reduce affordable housing
    barriers.** Building on the Unlocking Possibilities Program, the
    President’s 2023 Budget includes a mandatory spending proposal that
    would provide $10 billion in HUD Grants to Reduce Affordable Housing
    Barriers for states and localities that have already adopted Housing
    Forward policies and practices to address challenges to housing
    supply production constraints. While Unlocking Possibilities would
    help states and localities undertake reform, the Housing Supply Fund
    would reward those that have already made reforms by giving them
    additional funding to boost the affordability and maximize the
    benefits of their new policies. This funding would also support
    broader housing development activities, including environmental
    planning and mitigation, road infrastructure, and water or sewer
    infrastructure.

**<u>Piloting New Financing for Housing Production and
Preservation</u>**

A second, significant barrier to increasing housing supply is a lack of
attractive and low-cost financing for new construction and
rehabilitation – particularly for units that are affordable. While the
federal government currently offers a range of financing options for
large multifamily development, market gaps exist for the construction
and rehabilitation of single-family homes, 2-4-unit properties, ADU
construction, manufactured and modular housing delivery, and smaller
multifamily properties. Financing for these housing types has the
potential to boost supply in constrained markets, and create
location-efficient, modest density that can improve labor market
outcomes and reduce greenhouse gas emissions – particularly when paired
with state and local policies that remove barriers to where these kinds
of housing can be located.  

To that end, the Administration is taking the following ***immediate
steps***:

-   **Supporting production and availability of manufactured housing.**
    The majority of people buying new manufactured homes rely on
    personal property financing (chattel lending) rather than
    conventional mortgages. This type of financing typically costs more
    than traditional mortgage financing due to higher interest rates and
    shorter loan terms. Freddie Mac has announced that it will complete
    a feasibility assessment for the requirements and processes
    necessary to support loan purchases of personal property
    manufactured housing loans. If FHFA approval is obtained, Freddie
    Mac will purchase these kinds of loans to assist with product design
    and support future loan purchase capabilities. Beyond personal
    property financing, both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (the
    Enterprises), in their Duty to Serve Plans, also released revised
    purchase targets for manufactured housing loans, which will have the
    effect of fostering greater liquidity for manufactured housing and
    increasing delivery of manufactured homes. Finally, recognizing the
    cost and development time savings provided by manufactured housing,
    HUD is making it easier to finance new units and helping
    manufacturers update their designs to meet changing consumer
    demands. This includes working to increase the usability of FHA’s
    Title I loan program for Manufactured Housing, supporting greater
    securitization of Title I loans through Ginnie Mae’s platform,
    updating the HUD Code to allow manufacturers to modernize and expand
    their production lines, and helping manufacturers respond to supply
    chain issues.

<!-- -->

-   **Scaling Up ADUs and piloting ADU and home renovation financing
    tools.** As the Biden-Harris Administration highlighted at a recent
    [event](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C-vzPIHUTts), a number of
    states and local jurisdictions have made land-use changes to permit
    the construction and renovation of ADUs, which can offset the cost
    of homeownership while expanding the supply of affordable rental
    housing. According to a recent independent
    [analysis](https://www.urban.org/sites/default/files/publication/105265/the-role-of-single-family-housing-production-and-preservation-in-addressing-the-affordable-housing-supply-shortage.pdf),
    these kinds of state and local reforms – when combined with policies
    to improve financing options – could lead to the creation of more
    than 1 million ADUs in the next five years. In addition to zoning
    and land use changes, achieving that goal will require simpler and
    more affordable financing options for homeowners and builders. To
    that end, FHA and FHFA are exploring avenues to help lenders pilot
    and scale renovation and construction financing for
    ADUs—particularly for low- and moderate-income homeowners – in
    addition to new financing options for other single-family
    renovations and for 2-4-unit rehabilitation. FHA and FHFA will
    evaluate the credit performance of these loans to identify
    opportunities to add features and flexibilities to existing loan
    programs, expanding affordable financing options for homeowners and
    builders.

<!-- -->

-   **Boosting rural single-family construction.** USDA’s Construction
    to Permanent program, allows approved lenders and homebuilders
    participating in the Single Family Housing Guaranteed Loan program
    to close both construction and permanent financing at the same time
    and receive a loan note guarantee before construction begins. This
    additional certainty has the effect of encouraging more
    single-family supply to be built more quickly in rural areas
    throughout the country. In the months ahead, USDA will educate
    lenders on the benefits of the program in order to improve program
    utilization, increase new construction in rural areas, and address
    obstacles that may be limiting use of the program.

These actions build on the strategies that the ***Administration has
proposed and continues to call on Congress to pass***:

-   **Provide tax credits to build and rehabilitate 125,000 homes for
    low- and middle-income homebuyers.** The Neighborhood Homes
    Investment Act, proposed by the President and included in last
    year’s reconciliation bill, would provide tax credits to encourage
    investment in the millions of homes that are otherwise too costly or
    difficult to develop or rehabilitate. It also requires that these
    homes are sold to owner-occupants, rather than large investors. This
    investment would boost the supply of affordable homes for low- and
    moderate-income homebuyers who have struggled with historically low
    availability of affordable, starter homes – and has received
    bipartisan support in Congress.  

<!-- -->

-   **Provide Housing Supply Fund financing for affordable housing
    production to develop 500,000 units of housing for low- and
    moderate-income renters and homebuyers.** The President’s 2023
    Budget includes a proposal for $25 billion for Grants for Affordable
    Housing Production. These resources would be distributed to State
    and local housing finance agencies and their partners, territories,
    and Tribes, and would be focused on streamlining financing tools to
    reduce transaction costs and increase housing supply through
    multifamily and single-family housing units of modest density (up to
    100 units per site). HUD will encourage grantees to develop housing
    that directly meet identified local needs, especially housing that
    is not sufficiently provided by the market. This includes
    intergenerational housing, investments that place vacant or
    underutilized properties back into productive use, ADUs, and novel
    and non-traditional development techniques, including modular,
    panelized, or manufactured housing. States and localities would have
    flexibility to design their programs to meet local needs, and the
    resources would be used to support renters and homebuyers with up to
    150 percent of area median income in high-cost areas. These
    investments, combined with complementary proposals in the Budget,
    would support the development of around 500,000 units of housing
    over the next 10 years.

**<u>Improving and Expanding Existing Federal Financing</u>**

Multiple forms of federal financing have played a critical role over the
years in boosting affordable housing supply. But more production is
needed to make up for more than a decade of underbuilding before the
pandemic, and existing programs need to work more effectively and
efficiently in order to boost housing production at a pace that will
close the housing shortfall in 5 years.

To that end, the Administration is taking the following ***immediate
steps***:

-   **Strengthening Enterprise financing for multifamily development and
    rehabilitation.** Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are working to
    determine how to expand and better market their forward commitment
    programs. These programs allow developers to secure financing to pay
    off a construction loan upon completion of construction and when the
    housing project has been approved for occupancy. In addition, FHFA
    will work with Fannie Mae to consider the feasibility, in addition
    to the safety and soundness, of purchasing Construction to Permanent
    multifamily loans. These single closing loans finance the
    construction of multifamily housing, in addition to serving as a
    permanent mortgage, which allows for the developers to only need one
    loan, thus reducing interest rate risk, loan resizing risk, and
    transaction costs – encouraging production and supply. These loans
    would not finance land purchases. Expansion of forward commitments
    and increasing liquidity for Construction to Permanent financing
    will provide a stable and low-cost source of capital for new
    construction of affordable multifamily units. These actions build on
    actions earlier this year to meet the demand for rental housing and
    growth in the multifamily originations market. For example, FHFA
    raised the maximum amount of multifamily loans Fannie Mae and
    Freddie Mac can purchase by 11 percent to a total of $78 billion
    in 2022. These purchases allow for more liquidity in the multifamily
    market, which in turn allows more deals to be financed.   Last
    September, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac also increased their equity
    investment in LIHTC deals, resulting in investments in over 7,000
    units. The Enterprises anticipate further growing their LIHTC equity
    investments in the year ahead. And to ensure a strong focus on
    affordable housing and traditionally underserved markets, FHFA is
    requiring that at least 50 percent of the Enterprises’ 2022
    financing for multifamily housing be targeted to mission-driven
    affordable housing.

<!-- -->

-   **Leveraging American Rescue Plan funds for investments in
    affordable housing.** Treasury has urged state, local, and Tribal
    governments to dedicate more of their American Rescue Plan funds to
    build additional affordable housing at lower costs for families and
    individuals.A broad range of affordable housing production and
    preservation activities are eligible uses of the American Rescue
    Plan’s State and Local Fiscal Recovery Funds, including development
    of multi-family or single-family affordable housing, preservation of
    existing affordable housing, permanent supportive housing, support
    for home repairs, homeownership assistance, rental subsidies, and
    other activities. To date, nearly 570 jurisdictions have committed
    over $11.7 billion to housing-related activities, with $3.2 billion
    committed to production and preservation. For example, Los Angeles
    County, California will invest $10 million into creating permanent
    supportive and interim housing for individuals and families with
    complex health or behavioral health conditions who are experiencing
    homelessness by constructing new modular, prefabricated, or
    container housing on County-owned or City-owned or leased property,
    and by the strategic renovation of existing County facilities.
     Denver, Colorado has allocated $28 million to the Affordable
    Housing Fund, which will support 400 newly constructed rental units,
    200 preserved rental units, 50 newly constructed homeowner units,
    and work to acquire existing unsubsidized affordable or hotel
    buildings. And Erie, Pennsylvania will use $6.5 million to preserve
    and expand the supply of quality affordable housing, creating 100
    units of new affordable housing, helping homeowners and small
    businesses bring their properties up to code, and providing
    low-interest loans for new homeowners.

<!-- -->

-   **Finalizing** **the LIHTC “Income Averaging” proposed rule.** To
    qualify for LIHTC, developers must make commitments to create
    housing that is affordable to households that meet specific income
    thresholds.  Income averaging allows a developer to meet the same
    affordability goals by taking the average of the income for some
    households who are in the property as opposed to requiring all to
    meet the same threshold. This “average-income test” for LIHTC
    qualification will enable the creation of more financially-stable,
    mixed-income developments and make LIHTC-supported housing more
    feasible in sparsely populated rural areas. It will also facilitate
    the production of additional affordable and available units for
    extremely low-income tenants. By the end of September, Treasury will
    finalize regulations to provide needed guidance to developers using
    LIHTC equity to build multifamily housing that is rented to tenants
    across a wider income spectrum.

<!-- -->

-   **Advancing HOME as a key tool for the production and preservation
    of affordable rental and homeownership housing.** HUD will update
    guidance to strengthen the HOME Investment Partnerships Program.
    Through the reauthorization of HOME, updated guidance, and robust
    technical assistance, HUD will advance and streamline this critical
    resource for the creation of affordable rental housing and promotion
    of homeownership. HOME provides grants to states and localities that
    communities use to fund a wide range of activities including
    building, buying, or rehabilitating affordable housing for rent or
    homeownership or providing direct rental assistance to low-income
    people

<!-- -->

-   **Continuing to drive housing production through the Federal
    Financing Bank’s Risk Sharing Program**. Last September, the
    Administration announced that Treasury and HUD had finalized an
    agreement to restart the Federal Financing Bank’s Risk Sharing
    program. The program provides loans at reduced interest rates to
    state and local housing finance agencies to create and preserve
    high-quality, affordable homes. Twenty-two state agencies have been
    approved to use FFB, and HUD has committed to guarantee more than
    $1.3 billion in loans representing more than 7,100 affordable units.
    HUD will work in the months ahead to accelerate this work by
    encouraging more state and local HFAs to participate and explore the
    development of a permanent financing mechanism for these loans
    through Ginnie Mae’s securitization platform. 

<!-- -->

-   **Improving the alignment of federal funds to reduce transaction
    costs and duplications, and accelerate development.** Affordable
    housing development projects often require more than one federal
    source of funding. The most common pairing is LIHTC and HUD funds,
    such as FHA Multifamily, the Housing Trust Fund, or HOME. But each
    funding source comes with its own set of requirements and
    procedures. To reduce transaction costs and duplication, and to
    speed development, the Administration will make changes to harmonize
    federal requirements across programs as much as possible – including
    through programs like HUD’s LIHTC Pilot Program, which streamlines
    FHA processing of mortgage insurance applications for projects with
    LIHTC equity. To encourage alignment of affordable housing
    subsidies, the White House, HUD, Treasury, and USDA will convene
    state housing agencies to discuss best practices on the alignment of
    applications, reviews, and funding. 

<!-- -->

-   **Supporting the construction of more than 8,000 rural multi-family
    housing units**.  In March 2022, the U.S. Department of Agriculture
    (USDA) announced a new fee structure that would lower initial and
    annual guarantee fees for lenders under the Section 538 program.
    This new fee reduction will encourage lenders to utilize the program
    to develop multifamily housing. USDA anticipates these fee
    reductions will facilitate a 84.5 percent increase over the pre-fee
    reduction volume.

<!-- -->

-   **Disposing of federal properties to create affordable housing for
    people experiencing homelessness**. Title V of the McKinney Vento
    Act allows for the disposition of federal property for re-use as
    housing for the homeless. While only a small percentage of disposed
    properties are suitable for this use, Title V is an important
    mechanism to create housing, especially in places with high rates of
    homelessness. GSA, HUD, and HHS are planning to  issue new Title V
    regulations this summer. The goals of the proposed regulations are
    to make the disposition process easier to navigate for affordable
    housing developers and enable the creation of new affordable housing
    developments to serve people experiencing homelessness. In addition
    to the proposed regulations, HUD and GSA will strengthen the process
    to identify suitable properties, market them to potential
    developers, and enhance technical assistance.

<!-- -->

-   **Supporting new and existing affordable housing in Indian
    Country.** HUD will award Indian Housing Block Grant (IHBG) funding
    to Tribes and Tribally Designated Housing Entities to finance the
    construction of new affordable housing in Indian Country, and also
    make historic levels of annual IHBG formula funding available to
    them.

These actions build on the proposals that the ***Administration has
proposed and continues to call on Congress to pass***:

-   **Financing more than 800,000 affordable rental units by expanding
    and strengthening the Low-Income Housing Tax Credit.** LIHTC offers
    federal income tax credits to private investors in exchange for
    investments in affordable rental housing. The House-passed
    reconciliation bill would increase tax credit allocations, provide
    additional capacity for private activity bonds to finance affordable
    housing, target tax credits for housing that serves extremely
    low-income Americans, and make it easier to use tax credits in
    Indian Country. The President’s 2023 Budget also includes a
    provision that would provide additional subsidy through LIHTC to
    developments that add net new supply and that would otherwise not be
    financially feasible. Given the longstanding bipartisan support for
    LIHTC, the Administration looks forward to working with Congress to
    pass these critical enhancements, as soon as possible.

<!-- -->

-   **Expanding access to federal subsidies for the construction or
    rehabilitation of rental homes affordable to low and extremely low
    income households.** Additional federal resources are needed to
    create housing affordable for people with the lowest incomes such as
    people experiencing homelessness. The House-passed reconciliation
    bill would bolster funding for successful housing subsidy programs
    that can pair with LIHTC to produce and preserve housing that is
    affordable for very- and extremely-low-income renters. These
    programs include the Housing Trust Fund, the HOME Program, Housing
    Choice Vouchers and the Project Based Rental Assistance program.
    Together, these investments would produce, preserve, and retrofit
    hundreds of thousands of deeply affordable, rental housing homes in
    big cities and small towns across the country.

<!-- -->

-   **Addressing longstanding public housing capital needs.** Nearly two
    million people across the country live in public housing. The
    House-passed reconciliation bill includes a transformative
    investment to rehabilitate and preserve public housing, addressing
    residents’ critical health, safety, and energy efficiency concerns.

<!-- -->

-   **Preserving more than 10,000 multifamily rental housing units in
    urban and rural America**. The House-passed reconciliation bill
    provides funding to preserve over 10,000 HUD-assisted multifamily
    rental properties that are at risk of deterioration and do not have
    other sources of repair funds. It also invests specifically in rural
    preservation through USDA, as rural communities face unique housing
    needs that are not always fulfilled by other federal housing
    programs. The bill would support the construction, rehabilitation,
    and affordability of thousands of multifamily units, including units
    that provide affordable, sustainable housing to farmworkers and
    their families.

**<u>Preserving the Availability of Affordable Single-Family Homes for
Owner-Occupants</u>**

Beyond financing challenges, in recent years, the share of single family
home purchases by investors has grown – comprising [more than
25%](https://www.corelogic.com/intelligence/single-family-investor-activity-remained-high-in-the-third-quarter/)
of all purchases nationally in some months of 2021, with an even higher
share in certain markets, like Atlanta, San Jose, and Phoenix. Well over
half of these purchases were made by investors with more than ten
properties, and almost a quarter of these purchases were made by
investors with over 100 properties. Large investor purchases of
single-family homes drive up home prices for lower-cost starter homes,
making it harder for aspiring first-time and first-generation home
buyers, among others, to access wealth-building opportunities from
homeownership.  

To that end, and beyond the proposed investments discussed above, the
Administration is taking the following ***immediate steps***:

-   **Directing supply to owner-occupants and mission-driven entities
    instead of large investors.** After the Administration announced it
    would take steps to direct a greater percentage of the supply of
    FHA- and Enterprise-defaulted asset dispositions to owner-occupants
    and mission-driven entities instead of large investors, 50% of
    mortgage notes secured by vacant HUD-held properties were sold to
    non-profit organizations in a recent sale, rather than investors.
    This compares to just 10% in a typical sale. FHA and the
    Enterprises, at the direction of FHFA, have extended the period
    during which available real-estate owned (REO properties) are only
    made available to owner-occupants and non-profit organizations to 30
    days. Large investors are only permitted to submit bids after that
    period. In addition, earlier this month, FHA announced it is
    expanding its Claims Without Conveyance of Title Process (CWCOT) to
    include the establishment of an initial exclusive Post-Foreclosure
    Sales Period for owner-occupant buyers, HUD approved non-profit, and
    governmental entities.  FHA, FHFA, and agencies across government
    will accelerate efforts to direct available supply to targeted
    buyers by continuing to target the sale of at least 50 percent of
    mortgage notes to owner-occupants and mission-driven entities.
    Additionally, FHFA previously
    [announced](https://www.fhfa.gov/Media/PublicAffairs/Pages/Fannie-Mae-and-Freddie-Mac-to-Conclude-Single-Family-Rental-Pilot-Programs.aspx)
    that it will prohibit the Enterprises from purchasing institutional
    investor mortgages for single family homes.

<!-- -->

-   **Encouraging use of CDBG for local acquisition and local sales to
    owner-occupants and mission-driven entities.** HUD also will provide
    technical assistance and update guidance on the “Use of CDBG Program
    Funds in Support of Housing” to promote acquisition, homeownership
    assistance, conversion of existing structures into rental housing
    and “starter” homes, housing counseling, and rehabilitation and
    reconstruction.

**<u>Addressing Other Constraints to Supply: Materials Costs and Labor
Supply</u>**

During the pandemic, the price of goods used in residential construction
has increased, squeezing already-tight project budgets and delaying
completions. And even before, there has been limited adoption of
potentially cost-saving, off-site building techniques used widely in
other countries. Additionally, labor supply challenges in construction
have made it harder for affordable housing developers to recruit and
retain workers. In the months ahead, the Administration is committed to
working with the private sector to address near-term constraints to
supply and production – with the goal of achieving the most completed
housing units in a single year in 15 years.

To that end, the Administration is taking the following ***immediate
steps***:

-   **Partnering with the private sector to address supply chain
    disruptions for building materials.** Secretary Fudge, Secretary
    Raimondo, and other Administration leaders will meet with
    representatives from the building industry to explore additional
    actions that the federal government and the private sector can take
    in partnership to help turn the record number of homes under
    construction into completed homes where Americans can live. The
    Administration already has taken a range of short-term and long-term
    actions that will have the effect of easing price pressures for
    building materials over time. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law
    included funding for wildfire resilience, forest management, and
    reforestation that will promote the health and resilience of our
    forests and timber supply. In addition, the Department of Commerce
    recently announced that it had reduced duties on softwood lumber
    shipments from Canada, as part of an independent and quasi-judicial
    process.

<!-- -->

-   **Promoting modular, panelized, and manufactured housing – and
    construction R&D.** Innovations in homebuilding, including
    manufactured, modular, panelized, precut, and additive construction,
    hold promise for increasing housing productivity and thus housing
    supply. HUD will highlight these and other technologies that can
    benefit affordable housing construction during the Innovative
    Housing Showcase on the National Mall in June 2022. HUD is also
    working to assess hurdles to modular and panelized housing posed by
    inconsistent state and local inspection requirements and standards,
    which limit economies of scale and potential cost savings. The
    Department of Energy also recently awarded $32 million in funding to
    support 30 next-generation building retrofit projects that will
    dramatically improve affordable housing technologies. These
    technologies include prefabricated, super-insulated wall retrofit
    panel blocks and 3D-printed modular overclad panels.

These actions build on the strategy that the ***Administration has
proposed and continues to call on Congress to pass***:

-   **Recruiting more workers into good-paying construction jobs**. The
    House-passed reconciliation bill included funding for increasing the
    number of Registered Apprenticeships for career technical education,
    as well as for pre-apprenticeship programs like JobCorps and
    YouthBuild, which would increase the pipeline of construction
    workers. The President’s Budget includes a 50% increase in funding
    for Youth Build, invests $303 million to expand Registered
    Apprenticeships and $100 million for a new Sectoral Employment
    through Career Training for Occupational Readiness program, which
    will support training programs focused on growing industries, like
    construction. Additionally, the $1.2 trillion for training in the
    Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is creating good paying union jobs,
    many of them in construction. In addition, the Administration
    continues to call on Congress to pass comprehensive immigration
    reform, while the Administration acts administratively to accelerate
    visa processing and other improvements to our immigration system.
