---
date: '2022-05-18'
published_time: 2022-05-18 18:22:41-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/18/letter-from-president-biden-to-secretary-xavier-becerra-and-secretary-thomas-vilsack-on-addressing-infant-formula-shortage/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Letter from President\_Biden to Secretary Xavier Becerra and Secretary Thomas\
  \ Vilsack on  Addressing Infant Formula\_Shortage"
---
 
Dear Secretary Becerra and Secretary Vilsack,

The Departments of Agriculture and Health and Human Services, including
the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), have taken significant action
over the last several months to boost the production and availability of
infant formula after the voluntary recall and subsequent shutdown of one
of the largest infant formula production facilities in the country in
February.  This shutdown was needed to ensure the highest safety
standards were being met but resulted in a decline in production of
formula that American families rely on.  Your departments have worked
closely with manufacturers to help them increase formula production and
availability, which resulted in more formula produced in April than
before the recall.  By working with States and retailers to create
flexibilities around the types of formula WIC recipients can purchase,
we are helping all families access the formula they need.

This week, the FDA reached an agreement with Abbott, the formula
manufacturer whose product was pulled from shelves.  This agreement will
enable Abbott to restart production safely so more infant formula will
be produced and distributed over the coming weeks and months.  The FDA
also announced an expedited process for manufacturers who do not
normally sell infant formula in the United States to begin to sell it
here safely and efficiently.  This additional, high-quality formula
should begin to hit shelves within weeks.

Imports of baby formula will serve as a bridge to this ramped up
production, therefore, I am requesting you take all appropriate measures
available to get additional safe formula into the country immediately.

Specifically, I request that you work expeditiously to identify any and
all avenues to speed the importation of safe infant formula into the
United States and onto store shelves.  I further request that over the
next week you work with the Department of Defense to utilize contracted
aircraft to accelerate the arrival of infant formula into the United
States that meets our Government’s health and safety standards.  This
will ensure that we are using every available tool to get American
families swifter access to the infant formula they need.

                                                                       
Sincerely,

                         
JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
