---
date: '2022-05-25'
modified_time: 2022-05-25 09:10:40-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-25 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/25/fact-sheet-president-biden-to-sign-historic-executive-order-to-advance-effective-accountable-policing-and-strengthen-public-safety/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden to Sign Historic Executive Order to Advance Effective,\
  \ Accountable Policing and Strengthen Public\_Safety"
---
 
Two years ago, the murder of George Floyd exposed for many what Black
and Brown communities have long known and experienced — that we must do
more to ensure that our Nation lives up to its founding promise of fair
and impartial justice for all. The incident sparked one of the largest
social movements this country has ever seen, with calls from all corners
to acknowledge the legacy of systemic racism in our criminal justice
system and in our institutions more broadly.

Today, President Biden will sign a historic executive order (EO) to
advance effective, accountable policing and criminal justice practices
that will build public trust and strengthen public safety. Police cannot
fulfill their role to keep communities safe without public trust and
confidence in law enforcement and the criminal justice system. Yet,
there are places in America today where the bonds of trust are frayed or
broken. To heal as a nation, we must acknowledge that fatal encounters
with law enforcement have disproportionately involved Black and Brown
people.

President Biden’s EO will enhance public trust by promoting
accountability, transparency, and the principles of equality and dignity
in policing and the larger criminal justice system. Increased trust
makes policing more effective and thereby strengthens public safety.
Without that trust, victims do not call for help. Witnesses do not step
forward. Crimes go unsolved. Justice is not served. The EO mandates
measures for all Federal law enforcement agencies, leveraging the
President’s direct authority over the executive branch. The EO also
requires the use of federal tools such as guidance on best practices,
training and technical assistance, and grantmaking to support reforms at
State, Tribal, local, and territorial law enforcement agencies that will
strengthen public trust and improve public safety across the nation.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Promotes
Accountability</span>**

**Creates a new national database of police misconduct**. The EO orders
the Attorney General to establish a National Law Enforcement
Accountability Database, in which all Federal law enforcement agencies
(Federal LEAs) must participate. The database will include records of
officer misconduct (including convictions, terminations,
de-certifications, civil judgments, resignations and retirements while
under investigation for serious misconduct, and sustained complaints or
records of disciplinary actions for serious misconduct), as well as
commendations and awards.

The database will have due process protections for officers. All federal
agencies must use the database in screening personnel, and it will be
accessible to state and local LEAs, who are encouraged to enter their
records as well. The Attorney General will make aggregate data, by law
enforcement agency, public, and will assess what whether and in what
form records from the database may be accessible to the public.

**Strengthens Pattern or Practice Investigations.** The EO requires
steps to improve the investigation and prosecution of criminal civil
rights violations, including directing the issuance of best practices
for independent investigations and improving coordination to address
systemic misconduct through pattern-or-practice cases.

**Ensures timely and thorough investigations and consistent
discipline**. The EO requires Federal LEAs to adopt measures to promote
thorough investigation and preservation of evidence after incidents
involving the use of deadly force or deaths in custody, as well as to
prevent unnecessary delays and ensure appropriate administration of
discipline.

**Mandates the adoption of body-worn camera policies.** The EO orders
all Federal LEAs to adopt and publicly post body-worn camera policies
that mandate activation of cameras during activities like arrests and
searches and provide for the expedited public release of footage
following incidents involving serious bodily injury or deaths in
custody.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Raises Standards</span>**

**Bans the use of chokeholds and carotid restraints unless deadly force
is authorized, and restricts the use of no-knock entries.** The EO
orders all Federal LEAs to adopt policies that ban chokeholds and
carotid restraints unless deadly force is authorized and restricts the
use of no knock entries to a limited set of circumstances, such as when
an announced entry would pose an imminent threat of physical violence.

**Requires new standards that limit the use of force and require
de-escalation for all federal agencies.** The EO orders all Federal LEAs
to adopt use of force policies with requirements that meet or exceed
those in the Department of Justice’s updated use-of-force policy, which
authorizes force only when no reasonably effective, safe, and feasible
alternative appears to exist; authorizes deadly force only when
necessary; and emphasizes de-escalation. The policy also imposes a duty
to intervene to stop excessive force and a duty to render medical aid.
Federal LEAs must conduct annual training on those policies, implement
risk management tools to facilitate appropriate interventions before
problematic behavior escalates, and ensure accountability for policy
violations. The policy is publicly available on [DOJ’s
website](https://www.justice.gov/ag/page/file/1507826/download#%3A~%3Atext%3DLaw%20enforcement%20officers%20and%20correctional%2Cofficer%20or%20to%20another%20person).

**Restores and expands upon the Obama-Biden Administration’s
restrictions on the transfer of military equipment.** The EO imposes
sensible restrictions on the transfer or purchase with federal funds of
military equipment that belongs on a battlefield, not on our streets.
The list of prohibited equipment is broader than under the Obama-Biden
Administration, and the EO’s mandate is broader than the George Floyd
Justice in Policing Act (GFJPA) in that it pertains to all relevant
programs, not only the Defense Department’s 1033 program. The EO
continues to ensure that state and local LEAs can access and use
appropriate equipment for disaster-related emergencies; active shooter
scenarios; hostage or search and rescue operations; and anti-terrorism
efforts.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Supports Law Enforcement with
Improved Systems and Training</span>**

**Requires an updated approach to recruitment, hiring, promotion, and
retention of law enforcement officers.** The EO requires Federal LEAs to
develop best practices to attract, support, and retain an inclusive,
diverse, expert, and accountable law enforcement workforce, including by
implementing screening tools to ensure that agencies do not hire or
retain, or partner with on task forces, individuals who promote unlawful
violence, white supremacy, or other bias on the basis of protected
characteristics. The working group also will identify ways to expand
mentorship and leadership opportunities, and ensure that performance
evaluations and promotions are tied to an officer’s adherence to these
policies.

**Reimagines Crisis Response.** The EO directs the Attorney General and
the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to issue guidance and
identify federal resources for innovative models to respond to persons
in crisis, including co-responder and alternative responder models,
community-based crisis centers, and post-crisis care. It also orders
guidance on the use of pharmacological agents such as ketamine outside
the hospital setting.

**Prioritizes Officer Wellness**. The EO directs DOJ and HHS to publish
best practices and standards to promote officer wellness and to identify
resources to support wellness programs, and requires each Federal LEA to
assess and improve its own Officer Wellness program. The Attorney
General must also recommend measures to the President to help prevent
officer suicide, after consultation with HHS and stakeholders.

**Requires new standards for accreditation and for accrediting bodies.**
The EO requires the Attorney General, after consultation with
stakeholders, to formulate standards for bodies that accredit law
enforcement agencies. Those standards must include that the accrediting
body requires policies consistent with those of the EO, and that the
accrediting body conducts independent assessments of agency compliance
rather than rely on the agency’s self-certification. The Attorney
General must also incentivize and support agencies in seeking and
obtaining accreditation, including through grantmaking.

**Implements a new, evidence-informed annual anti-bias training
requirement**. The EO requires development of an evidence-informed
training module for law enforcement on implicit bias and avoiding
improper profiling based on the actual or perceived race, ethnicity,
national origin, limited English proficiency, religion, sex (including
sexual orientation and gender identity), or disability of individuals.
Federal LEAs must conduct that training annually, implement procedures
to respond meaningfully to complaints of bias, and reassess a 2014
guidance on use of certain protected characteristics by law enforcement.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Improves Data Transparency
and Oversight of New Technologies</span>**

**Tracks data on use of force incidents.** Within six months of the date
of the EO, all Federal LEAs must collect and submit on a monthly basis
all data on incidents involving use of deadly force compiled by the
FBI’s Use of Force Data Collection. The Attorney General must also
facilitate the contribution of this data, as well as data about officers
killed or assaulted, by STLT LEAs, and report to the President his plan
to fully implement the Death in Custody Reporting Act.

**Studies the impact of use of force incidents on communities.** The EO
directs HHS to publish a nationwide review of the physical, mental, and
public health effects of use of force incidents on communities,
including any disparate impacts, and outline available resources to
support mental health and support services. It also tasks the Attorney
General to issue best practices for conducting law enforcement-community
dialogues, and for ensuring timely and appropriate notification of
deaths in custody.

**Safeguards the use of facial recognition technology and other
sophisticated algorithmic tools.** The EO directs the National Academy
of Sciences to conduct and publish a study of facial recognition
technology, other biometric technologies, and predictive algorithms that
assesses any privacy, civil rights, civil liberties, accuracy, or
disparate impact concerns with their use. This study will then be used
to make any necessary changes to Federal law enforcement practices.

**Enhances data collection and data transparency.** A working group will
write a report to the President on how to collect and publish data on
police practices (including calls for service, searches, stops, frisks,
seizures, arrests, complaints, law enforcement demographics, and civil
asset forfeiture), and on the practices and policies governing the
acquisition and use of advanced surveillance and forensic technologies.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Reforms Our Broader Criminal
Justice System</span>**

**Directs a government-wide strategic plan to propose interventions to
reform our criminal justice system**. A new committee with
representatives from agencies across the federal government will produce
a strategic plan that advances front-end diversion, alternatives to
incarceration, rehabilitation, and reentry. The Attorney General will
also publish an annual report on resources available to support the
needs of persons on probation or supervised release.

**Improves conditions of confinement.** The Attorney General, in
consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, will
update procedures as necessary to increase mitigation of Covid-19 in
correctional facilities; expand the publication and sharing of
vaccination, testing, infection, and fatality data disaggregated by
race, ethnicity, age, sex, disability, and facility; and to identify
alternatives to facility-wide lockdowns and restrictive housing to
reduce the risk of transmission. The Attorney General will also report
to the President on steps to limit the use of restrictive housing and
improve conditions of confinement, including with respect to the
incarceration of women, juveniles, and persons in recovery.

**Requires full implementation of the FIRST STEP Act.** The Attorney
General will update DOJ policy as necessary to fully implement the FIRST
STEP Act and to report annually on implementation metrics, including an
assessment of any disparate impact of the PATTERN risk assessment tool
and steps to correct any such disparities.

\###
