---
date: '2022-05-04'
published_time: 2022-05-04 15:19:28-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/04/president-biden-announces-appointments-to-the-presidents-intelligence-advisory-board-and-the-national-science-board/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Appointments to the  President\u2019s Intelligence\
  \ Advisory Board and the National Science\_Board"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announces his intent to appoint the
following individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Admiral James A. “Sandy” Winnefeld, Jr., USN (Ret.), Chair,
    President’s Intelligence Advisory Board 

<!-- -->

-   Gilman G. Louie, Member, President’s Intelligence Advisory Board

<!-- -->

-   Secretary Janet A. Napolitano, Member, President’s Intelligence
    Advisory Board

<!-- -->

-   Ambassador Richard R. Verma, Member, President’s Intelligence
    Advisory Board

<!-- -->

-   Dr. Victor R. McCrary, Jr., Member, National Science Board

<!-- -->

-   Dr. Julia M. Phillips, Member, National Science Board

The President’s Intelligence Advisory Board is an independent element
within the Executive Office of the President. The President’s
Intelligence Advisory Board exists exclusively to assist the President
by providing the President with an independent source of advice on the
effectiveness with which the Intelligence Community is meeting the
nation’s intelligence needs and the vigor and insight with which the
community plans for the future. The President is able to appoint up to
16 members of the Board. 

The National Science Board establishes the policies of the National
Science Foundation (NSF) and serves as advisor to Congress and the
President. The Board approves major NSF awards, provides congressional
testimony and issues statements relevant to the nation’s science and
engineering enterprise. The President is able to appoint up to 24
members to the Board, each for a term of six years. 

**<u>President’s Intelligence Advisory Board</u>**

**Admiral James A. “Sandy” Winnefeld, Jr., USN (Ret.), Chair,
President’s Intelligence Advisory Board **

Admiral Winnefeld graduated from Georgia Tech with a degree in Aerospace
Engineering and served for 37 years in the United States Navy. He flew
the F-14 Tomcat, and served as an instructor at TOPGUN and as senior
aide-de-camp to General Colin L. Powell. He commanded a fighter
squadron, the amphibious ship USS CLEVELAND, the aircraft carrier USS
ENTERPRISE, a carrier strike group, two NATO commands, the United States
SIXTH Fleet, United States NORTHERN Command, and the North American
Aerospace Defense Command. He retired after serving as the ninth Vice
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Admiral Winnefeld is a frequently
published author and a director or advisor to companies operating in a
broad spectrum of business sectors. He co-founded SAFEProject.US, a
national nonprofit committed to helping reverse the epidemic of drug
overdose fatalities in the United States.

**Gilman G. Louie, Member, President’s Intelligence Advisory Board**

Gilman Louie is Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder of America’s
Frontier Fund, the public private partnership created to ensure that
America leads the next wave of technology innovation. As the early CEO
of In-Q-Tel, Louie has over 30 years of national security and investment
experience, serving as an advisor to the Defense Innovation Board and as
Commissioner to both the National Security Commission on Artificial
Intelligence (NSCAI) and the National Commission for Review of Research
and Development Programs of the United States Intelligence Community. He
is co-founder of Alsop Louie Partners and Chairman of LookingGlass Cyber
Solutions, Chairman of the Board of Visitors of National Intelligence
University, and the Chairman of the Federation of American Scientists.
His awards include CIA Agency Seal Medallions and the CIA Director’s
Award. Louie received his B.S. from San Francisco State University.

**Secretary Janet A. Napolitano, Member, President’s Intelligence
Advisory Board**

Janet Napolitano is a Professor of Public Policy at the Goldman School
of Public Policy and the Founder and Faculty Director of the Center for
Security in Politics at UC Berkeley. She served as the twentieth
president of the University of California, the nation’s largest public
research university with ten campuses, five medical centers, three
affiliated national laboratories, and a statewide agriculture and
natural resources program. Prior to joining the University of
California, Professor Napolitano served as Secretary of Homeland
Security from 2009 to 2013. She is a former two-term Governor of
Arizona, a former Attorney General of Arizona, and a former U.S.
Attorney for the District of Arizona. In 2019, Napolitano published *How
Safe Are We? Homeland Security Since 9/11*. Professor Napolitano earned
her B.S. degree, summa cum laude, in Political Science from Santa Clara
University and her J.D. from the University of Virginia. She is based in
Berkeley, CA.

**Ambassador Richard R. Verma, Member, President’s Intelligence Advisory
Board**

Richard Verma is the General Counsel and Head of Global Public Policy
for Mastercard.  In this role, he oversees the company’s law and policy
functions in the United States and around the world. He previously
served as the U.S. Ambassador to India, where he led one of the largest
U.S. diplomatic missions and championed historic progress in bilateral
ties. Verma is a former Assistant Secretary of State and the former
National Security Advisor to the Senate Majority Leader. Verma is a
veteran of the U.S. Air Force, and the recipient of numerous military
awards and civilian decorations, including the Meritorious Service Medal
and the State Department’s Distinguished Service Award. He was a member
of the WMD and Terrorism Commission, and he currently serves on a number
of boards including the Ford Foundation, Lehigh University and the
National Endowment for Democracy. Verma is a Senior Fellow at Harvard
University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, and he
holds multiple academic degrees, including his doctorate (Ph.D.) from
Georgetown University and his law degree (J.D.) from American
University.  

**<u>National Science Board</u>**

**Dr. Victor R. McCrary, Jr., Member, National Science Board**

Victor R. McCrary is the Vice President for Research and Graduate
Programs at the University of the District of Columbia, where his team
leads the growth, development, oversight and strategic direction of the
University’s research enterprise. He has held similar research
leadership positions at the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics
Laboratory, Morgan State University, and the University of Tennessee. He
has received numerous honors and awards including co-recipient of the
U.S. Department of Commerce’s Gold Medal in 2000 for the development of
the first global electronic book industry standards and the 2002 Percy
Julian Award by the National Organization of Black Chemists and Chemical
Engineers. In 2011, he was honored as Scientist of the Year by the
Annual Black Engineer of the Year Award (BEYA) STEM Conference. In 2016,
President Barack Obama appointed Dr. McCrary to serve on the National
Science Board. As a member of the Board, Dr. McCrary chaired a task
force which recently produced the report “The Skilled Technical
Workforce: Crafting America’s Science and Engineering Enterprise.” In
2020, he was elected Vice-Chair of the Board.

**Dr. Julia M. Phillips, Member, National Science Board**

Julia Phillips is a materials physicist. She retired in 2015 from Sandia
National Laboratories in Albuquerque, New Mexico and is currently
Executive Emeritus. As Vice President and Chief Technology Officer at
Sandia, she managed the Laboratory’s $160 million Laboratory Directed
Research and Development Program. She was also responsible for research
strategy development, implementation and intellectual property
protection and deployment. Her previous roles at Sandia include Vice
President of Research and Chief Technology Officer (2013-2014). Prior to
that, she was a member of the technical staff and a manager at AT&T Bell
Laboratories from 1981 to 1995. She is a member of the National Academy
of Engineering and a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and
Sciences. Dr. Phillips received a B.S. from William & Mary and a Ph.D.
from Yale University.

\###
