---
date: '2022-05-18'
published_time: 2022-05-18 18:00:06-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/18/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-new-actions-to-address-infant-formula-shortage/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Announces New Actions to Address Infant Formula\_\
  Shortage"
---
 
During the infant formula shortage caused by Abbott Nutrition’s
voluntary recall, the President has directed his team to do everything
possible to ensure that there is enough safe infant formula in the
country and available for families that need it.

Today, President Biden is announcing additional actions to get more
formula into the United States and onto store shelves.

-   **Invoking the Defense Production Act.** To ensure that
    manufacturers have the necessary ingredients to make safe, healthy
    infant formula here at home, President Biden is invoking the Defense
    Production Act (DPA). The President is requiring suppliers to direct
    needed resources to infant formula manufacturers before any other
    customer who may have ordered that good. Directing firms to
    prioritize and allocate the production of key infant formula inputs
    will help increase production and speed up in supply chains.

<!-- -->

-   **Launching Operation Fly Formula.** To speed up the import of
    infant formula and get more formula to stores as soon as possible,
    President Biden has directed the Department of Health and Human
    Services (HHS) and U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to use
    Department of Defense (DOD) commercial aircraft to pick up overseas
    infant formula that meets U.S. health and safety standards, so it
    can get to store shelves faster. DOD will use its contracts with
    commercial air cargo lines, as it did to move materials during the
    early months of the COVID pandemic, to transport products from
    manufacturing facilities abroad that have met Food and Drug
    Administration (FDA) safety standards. Bypassing regular air
    freighting routes will speed up the importation and distribution of
    formula and serve as an immediate support as manufacturers continue
    to ramp up production.

Earlier this week, FDA and Abbott agreed on next steps to reopen
Abbott’s facility in Sturgis, Michigan, which was closed due to concerns
about bacterial contamination after four infants fell ill. FDA also
announced guidance that will allow major formula manufacturers to safely
import formula that is not currently being produced for the U.S. market.
The Administration continues to urge states to cut red tape and
implement WIC flexibility, as USDA wrote to states in a letter last
week. The Administration remains in close touch with manufacturers and
retailers to identify transportation and logistical needs to increase
the amount and speed of FDA approved formula being shipped into the
country, and ensure that formula is quickly moving from factories to
retailers.

Today’s steps further underscore the Administration’s commitment to
addressing the formula shortage quickly and safely, and the
Administration will continue working overtime to get more formula to
stores as soon as possible.

\###
