---
date: '2022-05-17'
modified_time: 2022-05-16 22:32:26-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-17 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/17/fact-sheet-the-biden-administration-announces-americans-can-order-additional-free-at-home-rapid-covid-19-tests-at-covidtests-gov/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Fact Sheet: The Biden Administration Announces Americans Can Order Additional\
  \ Free At-Home, Rapid COVID-\u206019 Tests at\_COVIDTests.gov"
---
 
Today, the Biden Administration is announcing that COVIDTests.gov is now
open for a third round of ordering. U.S. households are now be able to
order an additional eight free at-home tests at COVIDTests.gov—bringing
the total number of free tests available to each household since the
start of the program to 16. As the highly transmissible subvariants of
Omicron drive a rise in cases in parts of the country, free and
accessible tests will help slow the spread of the virus.

In January 2022, President Biden committed to making one billion at-home
tests available to the American people for free, including
half-a-billion available for ordering at COVIDTests.gov. Since then,
over 70 million households have visited COVIDTests.gov to order at-home
tests to be mailed directly to them. To date, the Administration has
delivered approximately 350 million free tests to mailboxes and
doorsteps across the country, in U.S. territories, and at overseas
military bases, with most tests delivered by the U.S. Postal Service
within 48 hours of shipping. The third round of tests available were
purchased by the federal government earlier this year with funding from
the American Rescue Plan.

People who have difficulty accessing the internet or need additional
support placing an order can call 1-800-232-0233 (TTY 1-888-720-7489) to
get help in English, Spanish, and more than 150 other languages—8am to
midnight ET, 7 days a week. For more information, people can visit:
<https://www.covid.gov/tests/faq>.

Since January 2021, the Biden Administration has taken significant
action and invested resources provided by Congress to dramatically
increase domestic COVID-19 testing manufacturing, the number of tests
authorized for use in the U.S., and the number of places where Americans
can get a test, as well as to decrease costs for consumers and increase
access to free tests.

COVID-19 testing is a critical tool to help mitigate the spread of the
virus, which is why maintaining domestic testing capacity is an
essential component of the President’s National COVID-19 Preparedness
Plan.

Due to Congress’s failure to provide additional funding for the nation’s
COVID-19 response, the Administration cannot continue making the types
of federal investments needed to sustain domestic testing manufacturing
capacity, and this may jeopardize the federal government’s ability to
provide free tests moving forward. Today’s announcement underscores the
Administration’s commitment to doing everything in our power to ensure
the American people have the lifesaving tools they need—so they are
prepared for whatever comes. Congress must step up and act as well.

\###
