---
date: '2022-05-13'
modified_time: 2022-05-13 21:33:59-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-13 21:33:58-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/13/asean-u-s-special-summit-2022-joint-vision-statement/
tags: statements-releases
title: "ASEAN-U.S. Special Summit 2022, Joint Vision\_Statement"
---
 
**WE**, the Member States of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations
(ASEAN) and the United States gather on the occasion of the ASEAN-U.S.
Special Summit, the first-ever to be held in Washington, D.C., on 12-13
May 2022.  
  
**EMPHASIZING** the importance of adhering to key principles, shared
values and norms enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, the
ASEAN Charter, the Declaration on Zone of Peace, Freedom and Neutrality
(ZOPFAN), the Treaty of Amity and Cooperation in Southeast Asia (TAC),
the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), the
Treaty on the Southeast Asia Nuclear Weapon-Free Zone (SEANWFZ) and the
ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific (AOIP);   
  
**EMPHASIZING **the importance of creating a peaceful environment for
further enhancing cooperation and strengthening the existing bonds of
friendship among our countries in keeping with the principles of
equality, partnership, consultation, and mutual respect, guided by the
principles of the East Asia Summit (EAS) Declaration on the Principles
for Mutually Beneficial Relations (Bali Principles);   
  
**RECOGNIZING** that our cooperation has long been indispensable to
ASEAN, to the United States, and to the broader international community,
beginning with our first dialogue, in Manila in 1977, and growing with
the United States’ signing of the Treaty of Amity and Cooperation in
Southeast Asia; with the establishment of a U.S. Mission to ASEAN, in
Jakarta; and with the founding of the ASEAN-U.S. Summit;   
  
**NOTING** that both the AOIP and the Indo-Pacific Strategy of the
United States share relevant fundamental principles in promoting an
open, inclusive, and rules-based regional architecture, in which ASEAN
is central, alongside partners who share in these goals;   
  
**REAFFIRMING** our shared commitment to strengthen and build more
comprehensive ASEAN-U.S. Dialogue Relations, which have long been
indispensable to ASEAN and the United States, as well as the broader
region and the international community, in order to continue promoting
and maintaining peace, security, stability and prosperity in the region;
to ensure that relations remain adaptable to meet new challenges; and to
appropriately cooperate in international and regional fora of
which ASEAN Member States and the United States are members.   
  
**FURTHER REAFFIRMING** our shared commitment to maintaining and
promoting peace, security and stability in the region, as well as to the
peaceful resolution of disputes, including full respect for legal and
diplomatic processes, without resorting to the threat or use of force,
in accordance with international law.   
  
  
**WE HEREBY DECLARE: **  
  
As we celebrate the 45<sup>th</sup> anniversary of ASEAN-U.S. Dialogue
Relations in 2022, we commit to establish an ASEAN-U.S. Comprehensive
Strategic Partnership that is meaningful, substantive, and mutually
beneficial at the 10<sup>th</sup> ASEAN-U.S. Summit in November 2022. We
look forward to the early completion of the necessary process.  
  
**Fighting the COVID-19 pandemic, building better health security, and
recovering together **

-   We support ASEAN’s pandemic recovery and health
    security efforts by strengthening regional and national health
    systems and capabilities, such as through the ASEAN-U.S. Health
    Futures initiative, and commit to adequate, stronger and sustainable
    global financing for pandemic prevention, preparedness, and
    response, including supporting ongoing efforts with the World Bank
    and the World Health Organization. In welcoming support extended by
    ASEAN Dialogue Partners through various initiatives, including the
    Quad Vaccine Partnership, we remain committed
    to facilitating equitable access to safe, affordable and quality
    medicine and health services. We are also committed to
    expanding local and regional sustainable manufacturing capacity of
    essential medical products, including through transfer of
    knowledge on voluntary and mutually agreed terms and provision of
    technical assistance. We are committed to investing in and
    strengthening health systems through Universal Health Coverage, in
    particular primary health care and access to essential health
    services, and expanding and training the health workforce as strong
    foundations for regional and global health and health security. 

**Strengthening Economic Ties and Connectivity **

-   We are committed to continuing to advance stronger, more equitable,
    more inclusive economicgrowth and sustainable development, including
    through the implementation of the ASEAN-U.S. Trade and Investment
    Framework Arrangement and Expanded Economic Engagement Initiatives
    Workplan, and through the vital economic participation of the U.S.
    in the region.   
      
-   We are committed to working to meet the region’s infrastructure
    needs by catalyzing investment in high-standard, transparent,
    low-carbon and climate-resilient infrastructure projects that
    advance inclusive and sustainable economic growth that
    meet applicable international labor standards and environmental
    protections.  
      
-   We are committed to continuing to cooperate to promote trade and
    investment and facilitating resilient global supply chains and
    seamless regional connectivity, including for essential goods such
    as medical supplies, medicines, vaccines, food and agricultural
    products, commodities, high-tech products, and other essential
    supplies and services, contributing to sustainable economic recovery
    and resilience in the region.   
      
-   We seek to deepen our collaboration on transport connectivity,
    including air, land, maritime, and transport facilitation program to
    advance sustainable infrastructure development and support emerging
    technologies, including electric vehicles.   
      
-   We remain committed to and invested in prosperity and development in
    ASEAN and the United States. We will actively partner in the
    discussions to strengthen regional and global governance systems,
    and we look forward to further strengthening cooperation including
    through relevant initiatives or frameworks of the United States or
    ASEAN.   
      
-   We are committed to improving cybersecurity capabilities, promoting
    digital literacy and inclusion, and strengthening frameworks and
    policies that foster efficiency, innovation, communication, safe
    and equitable use of the internet and economic prosperity while
    exchanging views and experiences on cyber threats and on regulatory
    framework and technical standards that protect personal data in
    light of emerging technologies and their vulnerabilities.  
      

**Promoting Maritime Cooperation **

-   We note the United Nations General Assembly Resolution A/RES/75/239
    emphasizing in the Preamble, the universal and unified character of
    the 1982 UNCLOS, and reaffirming that the Convention sets out the
    legal framework within which all activities in the oceans and seas
    must be carried out and is of strategic importance as the basis for
    national, regional and global action and cooperation in the marine
    sector, and that its integrity needs to be maintained.   
      
-   We are committed to advancing our cooperation in the maritime
    domain through ASEAN-led mechanisms. We plan to forge new ties as
    well as to promote cooperation and coordination among our relevant
    agencies, including maritime law enforcement agencies, to
    collaborate to improve maritime domain awareness, search and rescue,
    maritime security, and to curb illegal, unreported, and unregulated
    (IUU) fishing through sharing of information, best practices and
    expertise, as well as technical assistance, which will complement,
    and not duplicate the existing mechanisms. We also commit to
    continuing efforts to protect, restore, and sustainably manage the
    marine environment.    
      
-   We are dedicated to maintaining peace, security, and stability in
    the region, and to ensuring maritime security and safety, as well
    as freedom of navigation and overflight and other lawful uses of the
    seas as described in the 1982 UNCLOS, and unimpeded lawful maritime
    commerce as well as non-militarization and self-restraint in the
    conduct of activities.    
      
-   We recognise the benefits of having the South China Sea as a sea of
    peace, stability, and prosperity. We emphasise the importance of
    practical measures that could reduce tensions and the risk of
    accidents, misunderstandings, and miscalculation. We stressed the
    importance of undertaking confidence building and preventive
    measures to enhance, among others, trust and confidence amongst
    parties. We further reaffirmed the need to pursue peaceful
    resolution of disputes in accordance with universally recognized
    principles of international law, including the 1982 UNCLOS.   
      
-   We underscored the importance of the full and effective
    implementation of the 2002 Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in
    the South China Sea (DOC) in its entirety. We emphasized the need to
    maintain and promote an environment conducive to the Code of Conduct
    in the South China Sea (COC) negotiations. We welcome further
    progress towards the early conclusion of an effective and
    substantive COC consistent with international law, including the
    1982 UNCLOS.  
      

**Enhancing People-to-people connectivity **

-   We are committed to investing in human capital development,
    empowering youth and vulnerable or marginalized groups, and
    strengthening the connections between our peoples, among others,
    support for English language, digital skills, Technical and
    Vocational Education and Training (TVET) and Science, Technology,
    Engineering, and Math (STEM) trainings in the region, including
    through the Billion Futures Program and the Young Southeast Asian
    Leaders Initiative (YSEALI).  
      
-   We commit to working with partners, including companies and
    universities, to increase access to education while fostering
    collaboration and exchanges among our students and workers.
    Furthermore, we are committed to empowering women and
    girls and promoting gender equity and equality through enhanced
    engagement in ASEAN-led mechanisms, including through support for
    ASEAN’s gender programs and initiatives. We also commit to advancing
    the rights of persons with disabilities through supporting
    implementation of the ASEAN Enabling Masterplan on Mainstreaming the
    Rights of Persons with Disabilities. 

**Supporting Sub-regional Development **

-   We are committed to supporting ASEAN Centrality and unity in
    promoting ASEAN’s sub-regional development. We further commit to
    promoting the stability, peace, prosperity, and sustainable
    development of the Mekong sub-region through shared initiatives
    under the Mekong-U.S. Partnership (MUSP), which complements the
    Friends of the Mekong, and supports the implementation of the Master
    Plan on ASEAN Connectivity (MPAC) 2025 and the Initiative for ASEAN
    Integration (IAI) Work Plan IV (2021-2025).    
      
-   We support ASEAN’s efforts in promoting equitable development,
    including in the fields of energy
    transition, transportation, environmental protection, regional
    resources management, and water data sharing in accordance with the
    Mekong River Commission’s Procedures for Data and Information
    Exchange and Sharing (PDIES), by aligning sub-regional growth with
    the comprehensive development of ASEAN, and to promote
    complementarity and synergy among ASEAN, MUSP and other existing
    Mekong cooperation mechanisms. 

**Leveraging Technologies and Promoting Innovation **

-   We are committed to further exploring cooperation in areas of mutual
    benefit such as smart manufacturing, blockchain applications, trade
    facilitation, digital connectivity, digitalisation and e-commerce of
    MSMEs, e-services, digital financial services and regional payment
    connectivity,new and emerging technologies in line with relevant
    ASEAN agreements and frameworks, as well as increase technical
    assistance for ASEAN Member States to promote innovation**, **and
    capacity building on digital skills.    
      
-   We commit to support the development of ASEAN’s digital
    infrastructure, to promote the development of peaceful, secure,
    open, interoperable, reliable, inclusive, and resilient Information
    and Communications Technology (ICT) ecosystems and 5G networks, and
    explore ways to strengthen cooperation on digital economy,
    smart, sustainable city development and emerging
    technologies, including through the U.S.-ASEAN Smart Cities
    Partnership (USASCP).    
      
-   We are committed to enhancing collaboration in biotechnology, smart
    farming, both precision agriculture and climate-smart agriculture
    (CSA), food science, meteorology, microelectronics, marine science,
    energy, and space.  

**Addressing Climate Change **

-   We are further committed to working together to advance our
    respective nationally determined contributions (NDC). We affirm the
    key role that sub-national actors play in advancing climate action,
    and intend to collaborate together in the clean energy transition,
    including through financing and technology. We recognize the
    importance of taking strong action to reduce methane emissions
    globally, including through efforts underway such as the Global
    Methane Pledge.   
      
-   We are committed to intensifying our partnership to bolster ASEAN’s
    capacity to enhancedisaster resiliency and adapt to the effects of
    climate change, such as rising sea levels, more frequent flooding,
    drought and other extreme weather events, heightened risk of
    water-energy-food insecurity, and ever-more-destructive storms.   
      
-   We resolve to enhance energy transition and resilience in  an
    inclusive and just manner through the facilitation of clean and
    renewable energy development, the promotion of public-private
    collaboration to address transition financing needs, including
    through blended finance, and the deployment of advanced and emerging
    low-carbon energy technologies in supporting increased access to
    energy services and  energy security, including ongoing efforts,
    such as elements of the ASEAN Plan of Action for Energy Cooperation
    (APAEC) that support the acceleration of energy transition and
    strengthening of energy resilience in ASEAN, particularly the ASEAN
    Power Grid.  
      
-   We resolve to work together to conserve ASEAN’s rich biodiversity
    and its natural capital, including through preventing, halting and
    reversing deforestation, and the degradation of ecosystems, as well
    as the restoration of critical ecosystems including forests, and
    wetlands, coastal and marine ecosystems, and the continued
    collaboration with the ASEAN Centre for Biodiversity (ACB). 

**Preserving Peace, Building Trust **

-   We support ASEAN’s efforts to preserve the Southeast Asian region as
    a Nuclear Weapon-Free Zone and free of all other weapons of mass
    destruction, as enshrined in the Treaty on the Southeast Asia
    Nuclear Weapon-Free Zone (SEANWFZ Treaty) and the ASEAN
    Charter tostrengthen the nuclear non-proliferation regime, and to
    nuclear disarmament as stipulated in Article VI of the Treaty on the
    Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), and peaceful uses of
    nuclear energy as set forth in NPT Article IV. We remain committed
    to universalization of the IAEA additional protocol, and support
    full implementation of the Convention on the Prohibition of the
    Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and
    on their Destruction (CWC) and the Convention on the Prohibition of
    the Development, Production, and Stockpiling of Bacteriological
    (Biological) and Toxin Weapons and on their Destruction (BTWC).   
      
-   We reaffirm a shared commitment to the goal of the complete
    denuclearization and the establishment of a permanent peace on the
    Korean Peninsula. We continue to call on the DPRK to fully comply
    with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions, taking into
    account the international community’s call for diplomacy and in the
    interest of maintaining peace and security in the region.  
      
-   We remain deeply concerned over the crisis in
    Myanmar. We highlight Myanmar’s commitment to the ASEAN Five-Point
    Consensus during  the ASEAN Leaders’ Meeting on 24 April 2021
    and urge the timely and complete implementation of the Five-Point
    Consensus. We will continue to support ASEAN’s efforts to facilitate
    a peaceful solution in the interest of the people of Myanmar,
    including through the work of the Special Envoy of the ASEAN Chair
    on Myanmar,in building confidence and trust with full access to all
    parties concerned, and effective delivery of humanitarian assistance
    to the people of Myanmar, including those who are the most in need,
    without discrimination. We reiterate our commitment to peace and
    stability in the region and continue to call for the immediate
    cessation of violence in Myanmar and for the release of allpolitical
    detainees, including foreigners. We will redouble our collective
    efforts towards a peaceful solution in Myanmar that also
    reflects a continued commitment to human rights and fundamental
    freedoms, as outlined in the ASEAN Charter. We welcome close
    coordination between the Special Envoy of the ASEAN Chair on Myanmar
    and the Special Envoy of the UN Secretary-General on Myanmar to
    ensure synergy in this important endeavor.   
      
-   With regard to Ukraine, as for all nations, we continue to reaffirm
    our respect for sovereignty, political independence, and territorial
    integrity. We reiterate our call for compliance with the UN Charter
    and international law. We underline the importance of an immediate
    cessation of hostilities and creating an enabling environment for
    peaceful resolution. We support the efforts of the UN
    Secretary-General in the search for a peaceful solution. We also
    call for the facilitation of rapid, safe and unhindered access to
    humanitarian assistance for those in need in Ukraine, and for the
    protection of civilians, humanitarian personnel, and persons in
    vulnerable situations.  
      
-   As we proceed with implementation of this ambitious agenda in the
    coming months and years, we look forward to reaching a new level of
    cooperation and partnership and task our Ministers to coordinate the
    implementation of this Joint Vision Statement.  
      

\###
