---
date: '2022-05-13'
modified_time: 2022-05-13 17:09:10-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-13 17:10:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/13/president-biden-announces-key-nominees-15/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Nominees"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to nominate the
following individuals to serve as key leaders in his administration:

-   David Pressman, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to Hungary
-   Heide B. Fulton, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Oriental Republic of Uruguay
-   Calvin Smyre, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Commonwealth of The Bahamas
-   Yohannes Abraham, Nominee for Representative of the United States of
    America to the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, with the rank
    and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary
-   Stacy Dean, Nominee for Under Secretary for Food Nutrition and
    Consumer Services, U.S. Department of Agriculture
-   Alexis Taylor, Nominee for Under Secretary for Trade and Foreign
    Agricultural Affairs, U.S. Department of Agriculture
-   Laura D. Taylor-Kale, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of Defense for
    Industrial Base Policy
-   Rubydee Calvert, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors for
    the Corporation for Public Broadcasting
-   Andrew G. Biggs, Nominee for Member of the Social Security Advisory
    Board

**<u>David Pressman, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to Hungary</u>**

David Pressman is the former United States Ambassador to the United
Nations for Special Political Affairs.  At the United Nations, Pressman
represented the United States on the United Nations Security Council and
led U.S. negotiations on a range of threats to international peace and
security, with a particular focus on issues involving Europe, Russia,
East Asia and the Pacific, and Africa.  Earlier, Pressman served at the
Department of Homeland Security as Assistant Secretary of Homeland
Security, at the White House as Director for War Crimes and Atrocities
on the National Security Council, and at the Department of State as an
aide to Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright. Pressman is currently
a partner at Jenner & Block LLP where he represents clients in national
security and human rights related litigation. A prominent international
human rights lawyer, Pressman has held leadership roles in multiple
nonprofit organizations committed to advancing international human
rights and is the past co-chair of the International Bar Association’s
Human Rights Law Committee. 

Pressman received his Bachelor’s degree from Brown University and his
Juris Doctor degree from New York University School of Law.

**<u>Heide B. Fulton, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Oriental Republic of Uruguay</u>**

Heide B. Fulton, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service with the
rank of Minister-Counselor, currently serves as Deputy Assistant
Secretary of State in the Bureau of International Narcotics and Law
Enforcement Affairs (INL).  In this capacity, she is responsible for
State Department programs combating illicit drugs and organized crime,
as well as support for law enforcement and rule of law in the Western
Hemisphere and INL’s global aviation program.  Before that, she served
as Director of the Office of Mexican Affairs.  Previously, she led the
U.S. Embassy in Honduras as Deputy Chief of Mission and Charge d’Affairs
a.i.  Fulton served overseas in Afghanistan, Ecuador, Cambodia, and
Manila.  Her Washington assignments include serving as the Director of
the Main Press Office, Pearson Fellow in the Office of Senator Robert
Menendez, Press Advisor for the Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs,
and Special Assistant to the Under Secretary for Political Affairs. 
Prior to joining the Foreign Service, Fulton served on active duty as a
Quartermaster Officer with the U.S. Army in Europe.  She returned to
active duty as a Civil Affairs Officer to deploy to Iraq, where she
served as the Senior Multi-National Force – Iraq Liaison Officer to the
United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq in Baghdad.  She retired from
the U.S. Army Reserve in 2020 after 28 years of service.  A native of
New York, she has a Bachelor’s degree from Boston College and a Master’s
degree in International Relations from Troy State University.  She
speaks Spanish.

**<u>Calvin Smyre, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Commonwealth of The Bahamas</u>**

Calvin Smyre has served for 48 years as an elected Representative in the
Georgia State Assembly, and was Chairman of the Democratic Caucus within
the Assembly for over a decade and still serves as Chairman Emeritus of
the Caucus. He is the ‘Dean’ of the Georgia House of Representatives and
serves on the Appropriations, Rules, and Higher Education Committees. 
Smyre is President Emeritus of the National Black Caucus of State
Legislators (NBCSL), and a member of the National Conference of State
Legislators. In the private sector, he served for almost four decades as
the Executive Vice President of Corporate Affairs for Synovus Financial
Corporation. He represented Synovus on the Financial Services Roundtable
in Washington D.C., and was the President of the Synovus Foundation.

Smyre served on the Board of Trustees of the Medical College of Georgia
Foundation; the Morehouse School of Medicine; the Jack D. Hughston
Foundation and the Fort Valley State University Foundation as its
Chair.  Smyre earned his B.S. from Fort Valley State University, Fort
Valley, Georgia and has received over 200 local, state and national
honors and awards. In 1985 and 2005, he was selected by his peers as the
National “Legislator of the Year.”

**<u>Yohannes Abraham, Nominee for Representative of the United States
of America to the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, with the rank
and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary</u>**

Yohannes Abraham currently serves as Deputy Assistant to the President,
Chief of Staff, and Executive Secretary of the National Security
Council.  Prior to this, Abraham served as the Executive Director of the
Biden-Harris Transition, where he managed day-to-day operations and
oversaw the national security, economic, and domestic policy and
personnel teams. During the Obama-Biden administration, Abraham served
as Deputy Assistant to the President and Senior Advisor to the National
Economic Council, as well as Chief of Staff for the Office of Public
Engagement and Intergovernmental Affairs. Abraham has also worked in the
Vanguard Group’s global investment unit and served on the faculty of the
Harvard Kennedy School of Government. A native of Springfield, Virginia,
Abraham holds a BA from Yale College and an MBA from Harvard Business
School.

**<u>Stacy Dean, Nominee for Under Secretary for Food Nutrition and
Consumer Services, U.S. Department of Agriculture</u>**

Stacy Dean was appointed by President Biden to serve as the Deputy Under
Secretary for the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Food,
Nutrition, and Consumer Services where she works to increase nutrition
assistance for struggling families and individuals as well as tackling
systemic racism and barriers to opportunity. Prior to joining USDA, Dean
served as the Vice President for Food Assistance Policy at the Center on
Budget and Policy Priorities (CBPP). She directed CBPP’s food assistance
team, which published frequent reports on how federal nutrition programs
affect families and communities and developed policies to improve them.
In addition to her work on federal nutrition programs, Dean directed
CBPP efforts to integrate the delivery of health and human services
programs at the state and local levels. Before joining CBPP, she worked
as a budget analyst at the Office of Management and Budget.

Dean earned her B.A. and master’s degree in public policy from the
University of Michigan.

**<u>Alexis Taylor, Nominee for Under Secretary for Trade and Foreign
Agricultural Affairs, U.S. Department of Agriculture</u>**

Alexis Taylor serves as Director of the Oregon Department of Agriculture
(ODA), having served since her appointment by Oregon Governor Kate Brown
in December 2016. As Director, Taylor works to promote and regulate
agriculture and food, always keeping ODA’s mission to ensure healthy
natural resources, environment, and economy for Oregonians now and into
the future at the forefront.

Prior to her appointment as Director of ODA, Ms. Taylor oversaw the U.S.
Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Farm and Foreign Agricultural
Services (FFAS). While traveling the world, she worked to open new
markets and improve the competitive position of U.S. agricultural
products in the marketplace. Before joining USDA, she worked for several
Members of Congress, staffing members from Montana and Iowa. Taylor is
an Iowa native, who moved to Oregon after working 12 years in Washington
D.C. focused on U.S. agricultural and trade policy. She is a graduate of
Iowa State University and grew up on her family farm in Iowa, which has
been in her family for more than 160 years. While still in high school,
she enlisted in the U.S. Army Reserves. During her junior year in
college her army reserve unit was deployed to Iraq, where she served one
tour with the 389th Combat Engineer Battalion. While no longer an active
reservist, Taylor continues to advocate for veterans.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Laura D. Taylor-Kale, Nominee
for Assistant Secretary of Defense for Industrial Base Policy</span>**

Dr. Laura Taylor-Kale serves as the Fellow for Innovation and Economic
Competitiveness at the Council on Foreign Relations (CFR), where she
researches and writes about strategic innovation, industrial policy, and
the changing nature of work, and contributes to CFR’s Renewing America
Initiative.  From 2017-2018, she was an International Affairs Fellow at
CFR and the Deputy Director of CFR’s independent task force on the
future of the U.S. workforce.  From 2014-2017, Taylor-Kale served in the
Obama-Biden Administration as the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Commerce
for Manufacturing in the International Trade Administration, and as the
Senior Advisor for Policy and Operations at the U.S. Development Finance
Corporation. Taylor-Kale joined the Obama-Biden Administration from the
World Bank, where she held positions as an advisor to the U.S. Executive
Director on the boards of the World Bank and International Finance
Corporation and as an advisor to the Bank Group’s Vice President for
sustainable development and climate change.  From 2003-2012, Taylor-Kale
was a career State Department Foreign Service Officer, with diplomatic
postings in Afghanistan, India, Cote d’Ivoire, and the Bureau of
Economic and Business Affairs.

Taylor-Kale holds a Bachelor of Arts in economics and anthropology from
Smith College, a Master of Public Affairs from Princeton University’s
School of Public and International Affairs, a Master of Business
Administration from the New York University’s Stern School of Business,
and has earned a Ph.D. in management science and engineering with a
specialization in Organizations, Technology, and Entrepreneurship from
Stanford University’s School of Engineering.  Taylor-Kale is a native
Midwesterner and resides in Washington, DC.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Rubydee Calvert, Nominee for
Member of the Board of Directors for the Corporation for Public
Broadcasting</span>**

Rubydee Calvert began her service on the Board of Directors for the
Corporation for Public Broadcasting in 2018. Calvert was elected to the
Board for America’s Public Television Stations in 2017. Calvert, a
long-term Wyoming resident, retired from Wyoming PBS in 2015, where she
served as the General Manager of the station and also President of the
Wyoming PBS Foundation for ten years. Prior to becoming General Manager,
she was the Director of Programming and Production for 24 years, leading
the station’s production team to produce three of the station’s
signature series: “Main Street, Wyoming”, “Capitol Outlook,” and
“Wyoming Chronicle”. She also served as Executive Producer and Producer
on a number of documentaries that aired locally in Wyoming and
nationally, as well as numerous public affairs forums and election
debates. 

Her other board service includes serving two terms on the national PBS
Board, a term on the Wyoming State Board of Education, two terms on the
Riverton Memorial Hospital Board, and six years as an officer and board
member of Riverton Rotary, of which she is still a member.  More
recently she has served on the Board of Trustees for the Buffalo Bill
Center of the West, and currently serves as Vice President on the Board
of Directors for the Wind River Cultural Centers Foundation. Ms. Calvert
has three children, Chad, Kara and Christopher, and 6 grandchildren; she
currently has her own property management business in Riverton, Wyoming,
and assists in management of several family businesses.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Andrew G. Biggs, Nominee for
Member of the Social Security Advisory Board</span>**

Andrew G. Biggs is a Senior Fellow at the American Enterprise Institute
(AEI), where he studies Social Security reform, state and local
government pensions, and public sector pay and benefits. Before joining
AEI, Biggs was the Principal Deputy Commissioner of the Social Security
Administration (SSA), where he oversaw SSA’s policy research efforts. As
an Associate Director of the White House National Economic Council in
2005, he worked on Social Security reform. In 2001, he joined the staff
of the President’s Commission to Strengthen Social Security. Biggs has
been interviewed on radio and television as an expert on retirement
issues and on public versus. private sector compensation. He has
published widely in academic publications as well as in daily newspapers
such as The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, and The Washington
Post. He has also testified before Congress on numerous occasions. In
2013, the Society of Actuaries appointed Biggs co-vice chair of a
blue-ribbon panel tasked with analyzing the causes of underfunding in
public pension plans and how governments can securely fund plans in the
future. In 2014, Institutional Investor Magazine named him one of the 40
most influential people in the retirement world. In 2016, he was
appointed by President Obama to be a member of the financial control
board overseeing reforms to Puerto Rico’s budget and the restructuring
of the island’s debts.

\###
