---
date: '2022-05-12'
published_time: 2022-05-12 15:17:36-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/12/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-additional-steps-to-address-infant-formula-shortage/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Announces Additional Steps to Address Infant\
  \ Formula\_Shortage"
---
 
President Biden has directed his administration to work urgently to
ensure that during the Abbott Nutrition voluntary recall, infant formula
is safe and available for families across the country. Today, President
Biden spoke with retailers and manufacturers, including Wal-Mart,
Target, Reckitt, and Gerber, to discuss ways we can all work together to
do more to help families access infant formula.

On February 17, the largest infant formula manufacturer in the
country—Abbott Nutrition—initiated a voluntary recall of several lines
of powdered formula. This came after concerns about bacterial
contamination at Abbott’s Sturgis, Michigan, facility after four infants
fell ill and two died. The federal government—including the Food and
Drug Administration (FDA), Department of Agriculture (USDA), Department
of Justice (DOJ), Department of Transportation (DOT), U.S. Trade
Representative (USTR), Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Department
of Commerce (DOC), and the White House—has worked diligently over the
last few months to address the shortfall in infant formula production
while the Sturgis plant remains offline, including working with other
infant formula manufacturers to increase production, expediting the
import of infant formula from abroad, and calling on both online and in
store retailers to establish purchasing limits to prevent the
possibility of hoarding. As a result, more infant formula has been
produced in the last four weeks than in the four weeks preceding the
recall — despite one of the largest infant formula production facilities
in the U.S. being offline.

Families across the country remain concerned about the availability of
infant formula—especially families that depend on specialty formulas for
which the Sturgis facility is a key supplier. These 20 specialty
formulas are used by about 5,000 infants as well as some older children
and adults with rare metabolic diseases, and Abbott Nutrition is the
only supplier for some of these formulas.

Today, President Biden is announcing additional steps to bolster our
work to get infant formula onto store shelves as quickly as possible
without compromising safety. These steps include:

-   **Cutting Red Tape to Get More Infant Formula to Store Shelves
    Quicker:** Manufacturers typically produce many different sizes of
    the same type of infant formula. Simplifying product offerings
    allows manufacturers to increase the speed and scale of their infant
    formula production, stabilizing the overall volume of formula
    available in the market. The type of formula that companies make and
    distribute is impacted by the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program
    for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), administered by USDA. About
    half of infant formula nationwide is purchased by participants using
    WIC benefits, based on both federal requirements and additional
    rules set by individual states that have a large effect on the
    availability and distribution of infant formula in a given state.

To help further increase manufacturers’ ability to meet demand and
distribute formula, USDA is working with states to make it easier for
vulnerable families to purchase the formula they need with their WIC
benefits. USDA is urging states to allow WIC recipients to use their WIC
benefits on a wider variety of products so that if certain sizes or
types of formula are out of stock, they can use their benefits on those
that are in stock. And, USDA is urging states to relax their
requirements that stores keep a certain amount of formula in stock. This
will offer relief to retailers and allow companies to manage inventories
to meet demand. Some states are already doing this. All fifty states
should. These actions will make it easier for vulnerable families to get
the necessary nutritional support for their infants.

-   **Calling on the FTC and State Attorneys General to Crack Down on
    Any Price Gouging or Unfair Market Practices Related to Sales of
    Infant Formula:** Parents looking to feed their child should not be
    taken advantage of by unscrupulous retailers unfairly jacking up
    prices. There have been
    [several](https://www.nbcconnecticut.com/news/local/baby-formula-shortage-forces-mothers-to-go-to-the-extreme/2771731/?amp)
    [reports](https://www.wtvr.com/news/local-news/baby-formula-shortage-virginia-moms)
    that actors are purchasing formula at retail stores and reselling it
    online at a markup several times the retail price, especially
    specialty brands of formula that have experienced the most
    disruption. These actions not only are costing families hundreds of
    dollars for formula they need, but drive scarcity on the market.
    Since February, the FDA has worked with companies, calling on them
    to issue purchasing limits to help limit such predatory behavior.
    Many responsible retailers have responded to that call. Now, DOJ is
    engaging with state attorneys general to encourage them to use their
    powers to monitor and address price gouging in the infant formula
    market, and urging them to devote more resources to monitoring
    predatory behavior in the market for infant formula. And, the
    President today asked the Federal Trade Commission to use all its
    available tools to monitor and investigate reports of illegal and
    predatory conduct.

<!-- -->

-   **Increasing the Supply of Formula Through Increased Imports:** The
    U.S. normally produces 98% percent of the infant formula it
    consumes, and trading partners in Mexico, Chile, Ireland, and the
    Netherlands are key sources of imports. But given the production and
    distribution issues leading to local short supplies of infant
    formula, the FDA will, in the coming days, announce specific new
    steps it is taking concerning importing certain infant formula
    products from abroad.

More information on actions that the FDA announced earlier this week to
address the shortage of infant formula can be found
[here](https://www.fda.gov/news-events/press-announcements/fda-takes-important-steps-improve-supply-infant-and-specialty-formula-products).
The Biden-Harris Administration will continue to monitor the situation
and identify other ways it can support the safe and rapid increase in
the production and distribution of baby formula.
