---
date: '2022-05-11'
modified_time: 2022-05-11 19:44:27-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-11 20:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/11/readout-of-the-white-houses-first-stakeholder-convening-on-mining-reform/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of the White\_House\u2019s First Stakeholder Convening on Mining\_\
  Reform"
---
 
*On 150<sup>th</sup> Anniversary Of 1872 Mining Law, Biden-Harris
Administration Convenes Representatives from States, Tribes, The Mining
Industry, Environmental Groups, Legal Experts to Discuss Much Needed
Reform to Outdated Law*

  
Yesterday, the White House convened over 20 representatives from states,
Tribes, the mining industry, environmental groups, labor unions,
automakers, legal experts, and other stakeholders on the 150th
anniversary of the signing of the Mining Law of 1872 to discuss the need
for reforms and improvements to establish strong, 21st Century
environmental and engagement standards that would allow for the
responsible and sustainable development of domestic hardrock minerals.  
  
This meeting was the first external engagement of the Department of
Interior-led Interagency Working Group on Mining Regulations, Laws, and
Permitting, which is charged with providing recommendations to Congress
on how to reform the mining law to ensure new production meets strong
environmental standards throughout the lifecycle of the project, ensure
meaningful community consultation and consultation with Tribal nations,
and reduce the time, cost, and risk of mine permitting.  Additional
stakeholder meetings will be held over the coming months, and comments
can also be submitted in response to the Request for Information that
was issued by the Department of the Interior on March 31. Comments can
be made through July 31, 2022 at
[Regulations.gov](https://www.regulations.gov/document/DOI-2022-0003-0001).  
  
Participants discussed the shared benefits, challenges, and
opportunities of reforming the current system. The General Mining Law of
1872 governs the extraction of critical and valuable minerals on federal
lands across the country, and has remained fundamentally unchanged since
Ulysses S. Grant signed it to promote westward expansion. The law does
not require royalties to be paid to the taxpayers for the extraction and
sale of valuable minerals, does not include any environmental,
reclamation or financial assurance provisions, and fails to have a
single department in charge of mining, leaving stakeholders and
companies to navigate a morass of systems and laws. As we grow the clean
energy economy, critical minerals for electric vehicles, large capacity
batteries, wind turbines, and other clean energy technologies, such as
lithium, cobalt, and nickel, are projected to increase in demand by
400-600% in the coming decades. The current global supply chains for
these minerals too often fail to adhere to strong social and
environmental standards, despite the demands of the end customers and
companies. Creating a modern legal framework for the socially and
environmentally responsible and sustainable mining and production of
these minerals is essential to the Biden-Harris Administration’s efforts
to strengthen our critical supply chains; the administration
[issued](https://www.doi.gov/sites/doi.gov/files/biden-harris-administration-fundamental-principles-for-domestic-mining-reform.pdf)
principles for mining reform in February to guide this effort.     
  
After participating in the convening, participants ranging from
companies, Tribes, environmental groups, trade groups, experts, and
labor unions all highlighted the importance of the discussion and common
goals to improve the current system:  
  
**Tom Palmer, President and CEO, Newmont Corporation**: “Newmont
Corporation was honored to be a part of today’s discussion with the
White House on modernizing the General Mining Law. This historic
gathering of diverse stakeholders, including federal and state
government agencies and representatives, Native American leaders, Labor,
NGOs, Academia, and consumers provided a rare opportunity to discuss
updates to the Federal regulatory system to incentivize responsible
domestic metals and minerals mining in a challenging global environment.
We appreciate the Administration convening this productive session and
initiating the discussion on the future of mining in the United States.
We look forward to Newmont’s continued participation and
collaboration.”   
  
**Jennifer Krill, Executive Director, Earthworks**: “Meeting the
President’s climate and environmental justice goals depends on a shift
in the way we source and use minerals. To ensure that our emerging clean
energy system is not built on dirty mining, we must reform the rules of
the road for mining and invest in creating a sustainable minerals
economy. On this 150th anniversary of the 1872 Mining Law, Earthworks
looks forward to working with the Biden-Harris administration and a
broad group of stakeholders to promote a rapid, just, and equitable
renewable energy transition using responsibly sourced materials.”  
  
**Joe Britton, Executive Director, Zero Emission Transportation
Association**: “We had a great conversation today with a diverse array
of federal, tribal, electric vehicle and critical mineral stakeholders
committed to climate action, sustainable economies, and conservation.
There was strong consensus on the need to both encourage community
consultation and take action that reflects the urgency of responsibly
procuring the critical minerals needed for climate solution
technologies. ZETA thanks the Biden-Harris Administration for leading
these tough discussions and looks forward to making progress on the
decarbonization needed to make us all better off.”  
  
**Rich Nolan, President and CEO, National Mining Association**: “The NMA
was pleased today to join the Biden administration’s Interagency Working
Group on mining law reform at the White House. The strength of the U.S.
economy depends on mining, and industry stands ready to work with the
government to find a productive path forward that will help reshore
essential supply chains, reduce our mineral import overreliance and
build the materials industrial base needed to underpin the energy
transition and the EV revolution. We look forward to continuing to
contribute to the work of this important group.”  
  
**Sam Penney, Chairman, Nez Perce: “**The Nez Perce Tribe appreciates
the White House convening the mining reform meeting today. Listening to
the various perspectives of states, Tribes, and stakeholders is an
important initial step. Protection of treaty reserved rights and
upholding federal trust responsibility are critical aspects of mining
reform.**”**  
  
**Collin O’Mara, President and CEO, National Wildlife Federation**:
“Responsibly mined critical minerals are essential for our clean energy
future and our national security — and it’s time that we finally move
our 19<sup>th</sup> century laws into the 21<sup>st </sup>century.
President Biden and his administration have made it clear that they are
serious about responsibly producing a secure domestic supply of critical
minerals through reclamation, recycling, and new mining, while fully
supporting communities and workers, remediating abandoned mines, and
addressing the impacts on clean drinking water, lands, and wildlife and
people alike.”  
  
**Mark Bristow, President & CEO, Barrick:** “Barrick and Nevada Gold
Mines value being part of the discussions today and look forward to
continued collaboration with the federal government and other
stakeholders. We support the initiative to improve the permitting
process and regulatory regime with the objective of ensuring responsible
mining of minerals and metals in the United States of America.”  
  
**John Ruple, Professor of Law (Research) & Wallace Stegner Center
Fellow, S.J. Quinney College of Law, University of Utah**: “The
150-year-old General Mining Law is like driving a stagecoach, and it’s
time to trade in the stagecoach for an electric vehicle. Today’s meeting
included a broad representation of mining stakeholders—from
multinational mining corporations, to Tribes and environmentalists, to
organized labor and academia—universally, we agree on the value in
updating the 150-year-old general mining law to increase the supply of
strategic minerals and an opportunity to improve environmental
stewardship and collaboration with Native Nations. I am honored to work
with the Biden-Harris Administration on efforts to bring mining law into
the 21st century and to secure for America the critical minerals that we
need for a transition to renewable energy in an environmentally
responsible manner.”  
  
**Yvette Pena-O’Sullivan, Executive Director of the Office of the
President, Laborers’ International Union of North America (LIUNA)**: “I
was pleased to be a part of the White House’s convening of stakeholders
from labor, industry, environment, and tribal communities to discuss
mining reform and remediation.  Today’s meeting was an important step
forward to securing a safe and domestic supply chain for critical
minerals.  The hard-working men and women of LIUNA who work on mineral
mining projects too often have their livelihoods put on hold as permits
are stalled due to outdated policies and a legal framework that dates to
the 1870s. LIUNA commends the Biden-Harris Administration’s leadership
in charting a new strategy on critical minerals that can help our nation
build a vibrant clean energy economy responsibly.”   
  
**Jason Walsh, Executive Director, BlueGreen Allilance:** “As we work to
grow the clean economy, demand for mined materials—such as copper,
lithium, and nickel, as well as other minerals, metals, and rare
earths—is only going to increase. We need a new national commitment to
responsible mining and the reclamation and recycling of these minerals
and materials. And we have to do this in ways that uphold our
obligations to workers, communities, and the environment. We appreciate
the administration convening this important conversation and we look
forward to continuing to discuss and advance this issue with our
partners.”  

\###
