---
date: '2022-05-18'
published_time: 2022-05-18 11:39:55-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/18/statement-by-president-biden-on-the-applications-to-nato-by-finland-and-sweden/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement by President\_Biden on the Applications to NATO by Finland and\_\
  Sweden"
---
 
I warmly welcome and strongly support the historic applications from
Finland and Sweden for membership in NATO and look forward to working
with the U.S. Congress and our NATO Allies to quickly bring Finland and
Sweden into the strongest defensive alliance in history.

Sweden and Finland have made the important decision to seek NATO
membership after thorough and inclusive democratic processes in each
country. NATO guarantees the security of one billion people in Europe
and North America—united by our shared commitment to democratic
principles and our vision of peace and prosperity in Europe and around
the world. And my commitment to NATO and Article 5 is ironclad. 

Finland and Sweden are longtime, stalwart partners of the United States.
By joining NATO, they will further strengthen our defense cooperation
and benefit the entire Transatlantic Alliance. Together with our NATO
Allies, the United States will maintain its robust exercise activity and
presence in the Baltic Sea region. While their applications for NATO
membership are being considered, the United States will work with
Finland and Sweden to remain vigilant against any threats to our shared
security, and to deter and confront aggression or the threat of
aggression.

I look forward to welcoming President of Finland Sauli Niinistö and
Prime Minister of Sweden Magdalena Andersson to Washington tomorrow so
that we can further consult on their NATO applications and European
security.

\###
