---
date: '2022-05-20'
modified_time: 2022-05-20 06:23:26-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-20 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/20/fact-sheet-in-first-stop-on-asia-travel-president-biden-tours-model-for-samsungs-new-texas-semiconductor-facility/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: In First Stop on Asia Travel, President\_Biden Tours Model for\
  \ Samsung\u2019s New Texas Semiconductor\_Facility"
---
 
***New Plant in Texas will Create 3,000 New Good-Paying Jobs; Biden to
Call on Congress to Pass Bipartisan Innovation Act to Supercharge New
Investments in Innovation***

Today, President Biden and the President of the Republic of Korea (ROK)
Yoon Suk Yeol will tour the Samsung Electronics Pyeongtaek Campus – a
model for the new Samsung plant being built in Taylor, Texas. The stop
will demonstrate how our alliances deliver for the American middle
class, investing in manufacturing in the United States, creating good
paying jobs and strengthening our supply chains. The United States and
the ROK are among each other’s largest trading and investment partners,
with more than $62 billion of foreign direct investment by Korean firms
in the United States as of 2020 – supporting over 94,000 American and
bringing our governments, businesses, and people closer together.   

At the plant, President Biden will also make the case for quickly
passing the Bipartisan Innovation Act which will deliver historic
federal investments in U.S. research and development, supply chains, and
domestic manufacturing – including funding for the CHIPS Act to provide
$52 billion to catalyze more private-sector investments and advance
American technological leadership. As the President has said, tackling
inflation is his top economic priority, and making these investments
will help lower costs by making our supply chains more resilient in the
long term, protecting us against costly disruptions and higher prices
for consumers.

The Biden-Harris Administration has been working around the clock with
Congress, our allies and partners, and the private sector to generate
additional semiconductor manufacturing capacity with strong labor
protections, address key bottlenecks and lower costs for families, and
cement American leadership in the industries of the future. In President
Biden’s first year in office, the U.S. economy created a historic 6.6
million new jobs. The economy has added 545,000 manufacturing jobs since
President Biden took office – more manufacturing jobs on average per
month than any other President in the last 50 years and 2021 seeing the
highest increase in U.S. manufacturing jobs in nearly 30 years.

As a result of sustained engagement with Samsung and the Republic of
Korea, Samsung is investing $17 billion to build a new semiconductor
facility, adding to the 20,000 jobs Samsung already supports in the
United States. Under President Biden, semiconductor manufacturing is
coming back to America**:**

-   Since the beginning of 2021, the semiconductor industry has
    announced nearly $80 billion in new investments in the United States
    through 2025, according to the Semiconductor Industry
    Association.Thisincludes [Intel’s $20
    billion](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/01/20/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-bringing-semiconductor-manufacturing-back-to-america/)
    fab outside Columbus, Ohio; Texas Instruments investing up to $30
    billion in Texas; Wolfspeed’s $1 billion expansion in North
    Carolina; and expansions by Global Foundries and SK Group.

<!-- -->

-   In June, the Commerce Department issued a set of recommendations on
    how to secure the U.S. semiconductor supply chain. Since that time,
    Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo, National Security Advisor Jake
    Sullivan, and National Economic Council Director Brian Deese have
    held regular follow-up engagements with industry leaders and
    diplomatic partners and allies to advance practical solutions to
    strengthen the global semiconductor supply chain.

<!-- -->

-   The U.S. Department of Defense has used Defense Production Act
    authorities to strengthen supply chains for key defense-related
    semiconductors.

<!-- -->

-   In October of last year, President Biden hosted a global summit on
    supply chains with the heads of state from 14 countries and the
    European Union on the margins of the G20 in Italy to discuss supply
    chain disruptions, with a focus on semiconductors. This year,
    Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo and Secretary of State Antony
    Blinken will hold a follow-on ministerial-level convening of
    international partners, members of the private sector, and other
    stakeholders to discuss next steps in securing global supply chain
    resilience including for semiconductors.

<!-- -->

-   The President also focused on semiconductor supply chain resilience
    in his bilateral meetings with foreign leaders and directed the
    Administration to cooperate with Europe on strengthening global
    supply chains through the U.S.-E.U. Trade and Technology Council
    (TTC) and through the Quad’s focus on critical technologies. At the
    TTC last week, the U.S. and EU announced [an early warning
    system](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/16/fact-sheet-u-s-eu-trade-and-technology-council-establishes-economic-and-technology-policies-initiatives/)
    to better predict and address potential semiconductor supply chain
    disruptions as well as establish a Transatlantic approach to
    semiconductor investment aimed at ensuring security of supply and
    avoiding subsidy races.

President Biden hosted a virtual summit with leading firms that produce
chips and those that use chips to identify practical ways to discuss
actions they could to address the disruptions resulting from the global
chip shortage. By the end of the year, the participants had [announced
new
partnerships](https://www.wsj.com/articles/ford-enters-semiconductor-business-amid-chip-shortage-impact-11637242202)
between semiconductor companies and U.S. automakers to strengthen the
resiliency of the automotive chip supply chain.

\###  
