---
date: '2022-05-06'
modified_time: 2022-05-06 07:22:58-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-06 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/06/fact-sheet-biden-administration-celebrates-launch-of-am-forward-and-calls-on-congress-to-pass-bipartisan-innovation-act/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden Administration Celebrates Launch of AM Forward and Calls\
  \ on Congress to Pass Bipartisan Innovation\_Act"
---
 
*AM Forward will help lower costs for American families by improving the
competitiveness of America’s small-and-medium-sized manufacturers,
creating and sustaining high-paying manufacturing jobs, and improving
supply chain resilience through adoption of additive manufacturing*

President Biden’s top economic priority is to fight inflation by
lowering costs that working families face, and lowering the federal
deficit.

One of the best ways to lower the cost of the goods and services that
families rely on is to make more things in America, with more secure,
resilient supply chains. We’ve learned this the hard way during this
crisis – when brittle supply chains and hollowed out manufacturing
resulted in backlogs, bottlenecks and higher prices for families.

President Biden’s plan to fight inflation addresses this problem head
on. Thanks to the President’s leadership, we are in the midst of an
American manufacturing boom with over $200 billion of investments in new
manufacturing facilities and record-setting job creation. The Biden
Administration has spurred unprecedented job growth and the fastest
economic recovery in nearly four decades. Since taking office, President
Biden’s actions have resulted in the creation of 7.9 million jobs,
including 473,000 in manufacturing – more jobs in the first 14 months of
any President’s term ever.

Companies are investing in America again, bringing good-paying
manufacturing jobs back home. Whether it’s semiconductors, advanced
batteries, or other leading sectors, companies are opening new
facilities and announcing commitments to produce the world’s most
cutting-edge technologies in the United States.

This is just the beginning of a broad revival of American industrial
might. Continuing this momentum is key to easing price pressures
throughout our economy and bringing inflation down. That is why the
President is committed to making more in America, strengthening our
supply chains, supercharging American leadership in the industries of
the future, and lowering costs for families. That starts with the
historic resources in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, which are
rebuilding our roads, bridges, ports, airports, and making our
businesses and workers more competitive globally. And we can take the
next step by passing the Bipartisan Innovation Act, which will make
generational investments in innovation, domestic manufacturing, and
lowering prices through stronger supply chains.

AM Forward builds on that work and advances key Administration goals:

-   More resilient and innovative supply chains, by investing in small
    and medium sized companies;
-   Growing industries of the future, overcoming coordination challenges
    that limit adoption of new technologies like additive manufacturing;
    and
-   Both inventing and making more in America, through investments in
    regional manufacturing ecosystems.

Each of these goals is also advanced by the Bipartisan Innovation Act
(BIA), which establishes a Supply Chain Office at the Department of
Commerce, supports foundational technologies such as additive
manufacturing, and invests in regional tech hubs as well as increasing
funding for Manufacturing USA Institutes and the Manufacturing Extension
Partnership.

Keeping pace with technological change should not be the capability of a
few, or an over-the-horizon goal, out of reach for most of our
manufacturing base. It should be a pillar of American industrial
competitiveness – something that is broadly deployed and available to
small and large companies alike. Enacting BIA will put important new
technologies like additive manufacturing into the hands of entrepreneurs
and companies across the country—raising the productivity and resilience
of US manufacturers while lowering costs for American families. It is
urgent that Congress acts quickly to pass the BIA, sending it to the
President’s desk for his signature.

But not enough American companies are using 3D printing or other
high-performance production technologies. That’s why President Biden is
pleased to join several leading American companies to celebrate the
launch Additive Manufacturing Forward (AM Forward), a voluntary compact
between large, iconic manufacturers and their smaller U.S.-based
suppliers. GE Aviation, Honeywell, Lockheed Martin, Raytheon, and
Siemens Energy are the initial participants in AM Forward. These leading
manufacturers will support their U.S.-based suppliers’ adoption of new
additive capabilities, helping to transform shop floors across the
country.

In additive manufacturing, producers transmit computer data to
industrial 3D printers.  In turn, these machines build parts on-demand,
directly in suppliers’ own shops. Firms use this capability to reduce
the number of parts required for an application, to make spare parts one
at a time as needed, and design high-performing components in various
industries ranging from aviation to medical devices

Through AM Forward, each of these iconic companies will make clear,
[public commitments](https://www.astroa.org/amforward) to purchase
additively produced parts from smaller U.S.-based suppliers; train the
workers of their suppliers on new additive technologies; provide
detailed technical assistance to support their suppliers’ adoption of
new capabilities; and engage in common standards development and
certification for additive products.

Among other public commitments:

-   GE Aviation will target small/medium sized suppliers to compete on
    50% of the requests for quotes that are sent out on products made
    using additive or related technologies; and will target 30% of its
    total external sourcing of additively manufactured parts from
    U.S.-based SME suppliers.

<!-- -->

-   Raytheon will seek SME manufacturers involvement in over 50% of its
    requests for quotes on products manufactured using additive
    technologies; the company will also seek to simplify and accelerate
    the procurement process of AM parts.

<!-- -->

-   Siemens Energy will target to purchase 20-40% of total externally
    sourced AM parts and services from U.S.-based suppliers and
    partners. It will engage 10-20 U.S. SME suppliers to help improve
    their AM capability. And, it will also train 10-20 SME suppliers on
    inspection and post-processing best practices.

<!-- -->

-   Lockheed Martin will work with its SME suppliers to conduct research
    to improve the performance of additive manufacturing AM techniques
    specifically focused on the use of 3D printing as an alternative to
    castings and forgings; and it will further participate in university
    and technical college programs for additive workforce development,
    including coursework and apprenticeship.

<!-- -->

-   Honeywell will target U.S.-based SME suppliers to compete on request
    for quote packages sent out for products, machinery, manufacturing
    tooling, and/or manufacturing process development utilizing additive
    or related technologies. It will also offer technical assistance in
    part design, data generation, machine operation, post-processing,
    part inspection / quality management to its SME suppliers.

AM Forward is a completely voluntary compact [open to any OEM to
participate](https://www.astroa.org/amforward), provided they are
willing to make public commitments to support their suppliers’ adoption
of additive capabilities. It will be supported by Applied Science &
Technology Research Organization (ASTRO), a non-profit organization.

To support AM Forward, the Biden Administration has identified a range
of federal programs that U.S. SME manufacturers can use to support their
adoption of additive capabilities and increase their competitiveness.
The Administration’s actions are focused on helping to overcome common
challenges that have slowed the deployment of AM technologies,
particularly among smaller manufacturers.

They include:

-   *Providing access to capital to our SME manufacturers:* Providing
    affordable financing to small manufacturers will support the
    installation of additive equipment by reducing its cost. To address
    this issue, the U.S. Department of Agriculture will make its
    Business and Industry program available to rural manufacturers to
    support the purchase of new additive machines, and the training
    necessary to upskill their workforce. The Export-Import Bank will
    highlight its new domestic lending program that can help SME
    manufacturers upgrade their existing production equipment. And the
    Small Business Administration will work with the participants of AM
    Forward on how its 504 Loan Program and Small Business Investment
    Company (SBIC) program can support the widespread deployment of new
    additive capabilities across U.S. industry.

<!-- -->

-   *Delivering* *technical assistance from the federal government and
    OEMs to our SME manufacturers:* SME manufacturers have noted the
    need [for technical
    assistance](https://sites.lsa.umich.edu/stevensamford/wp-content/uploads/sites/552/2017/10/Samford-et-al-BAP-2017.pdf)
    to utilize new production technologies like 3D printers to their
    fullest extent. To support AM Forward, the Department of Energy will
    make its Manufacturing Demonstration Facility at Oak Ridge National
    Laboratory available to SME manufacturers to test new additive
    techniques. The Manufacturing Extension Partnership will provide
    enhanced technical assistance; and the Department of Defense (DOD)
    will use its Mentor Protégé Program to reimburse the cost to the
    large OEM participants in AM Forward for providing technical
    assistance to their smaller U.S.-based suppliers owned and
    controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals.
    DOD’s Manufacturing Technology Program Office will work with America
    Makes, a DOD-sponsored Manufacturing Innovation Institute, and AM
    Forward members on a pilot standardization project.

<!-- -->

-   *Investing in the additive manufacturing workforce*: To fully
    benefit from the use of additive capabilities, SME manufacturers
    must train their workforce differently to successfully deploy
    additive capabilities, including upskilling workers. America Makes
    will thus develop curriculum for workforce training with AM Forward
    participants; and, along with the U.S. Department of Labor, will
    assist manufacturers in launching apprenticeship programs in
    additive manufacturing.

<!-- -->

-   *Setting industry standards*: Finally, since 3D printing requires
    different standards and process certifications, the U.S. Department
    of Commerce – through the National Institute of Standards and
    Technology (NIST) – will conduct measurement science research to
    overcome key barriers to widespread use of metals-based additive
    manufacturing, develop the technical basis for new high-priority
    standards, and disseminate these results to AM Forward participants
    through leadership of standards development within ASTM
    International, International Organization for Standardization (ISO),
    American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), and other standards
    bodies.

\###
