---
date: '2022-05-12'
modified_time: 2022-05-12 10:01:29-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-12 10:15:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/12/statement-from-president-biden-and-president-von-der-leyen-on-occasion-of-the-second-global-covid-19-summit-may-12-2022/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President\_Biden and President von der Leyen on occasion of\
  \ the second Global COVID-\u206019 Summit, May 12,\_2022"
---
 
The United States of America and the European Union are implementing the
**U.S.-EU Agenda for Beating the Global Pandemic, Vaccinating the World,
Saving Lives Now and Building Back Better Health Security** of
[September 22,
2021](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/22/a-u-s-eu-agenda-for-beating-the-global-pandemic-vaccinating-the-world-saving-lives-now-and-building-back-better-health-security/).
Today, Presidents Biden and von der Leyen reaffirmed milestones in their
strong cooperation towards the five headline goals of the Agenda, and
they previewed further joint action below:

***Vaccine equity and ‘shots-in-arms’.*** Having shared a combined total
of more than one billion COVID-19 vaccine doses, and in line with a
commitment to share a total of 1.9 billion doses around the world, the
EU and U.S. seek to ensure ongoing **deliveries are based on country
demand, informed by best practices and reach ‘tarmac to arms’**, with
focus on sub-Saharan Africa. Through support from Team Europe and U.S.
Global VAX programs, both sides recognise that vaccine equity starts
with best practice donation principles including adequate and
transparent planning in **cooperation with governments, in-country
partners, COVAX (as part of ACT-A), Africa Vaccine Acquisition Task Team
(AVATT), World Health Organization (WHO), the COVID- 19 Vaccine Delivery
Partnership (CoVDP),** and others. Given that dose supply is currently
not constrained, the partnership should pay particular attention to
enhancing vaccine readiness, strengthening logistics, combating
hesitancy, and building longer-term capacity by means of health systems
strengthening, and immediate capability for vaccine uptake as part of
the global COVID-19 Vaccine Delivery Partnership. To strengthen our
partnership, the U.S. and EU will actively consult with partners
including AVATT, CoVDP, and COVAX on strategies to accelerate vaccine
absorption. The U.S. and EU will strengthen dialogues with multilateral
development banks and global partners aiming towards better uptake of
and sustainable financing for in-country vaccination operations.  
  

***Strengthening global supply chains and manufacturing.*** The need to
ensure vaccine and therapeutic dose supply and administration in the
face of supply chain constraints led to the
[launch](https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/STATEMENT_21_4847)
of the joint **EU-U.S. COVID-19 manufacturing and supply chain task
force** in September 2021. The leaders expect that the task force will
extend its activities to provide **early warning of supply chain
bottlenecks** that could hamper global availability of vaccines and
treatments, and to coordinate efforts to sustain vaccine and
therapeutics production capabilities for variants and future pandemics,
including in Africa.  
  

***Enhanced EU-US coordination to improve global health security
architecture.*** Enhancing pandemic prevention, preparedness and
response (PPR) capacities requires strong international cooperation, and
the U.S. and the EU are committed to cooperate to this end, including
under the lines of effort of the COVID-19 Prioritized Global Action Plan
for Enhanced Engagement (GAP). Enhanced PPR requires a strengthening of
the global health architecture, including of the WHO at the center, and
sustainable financing. Presidents Biden and von der Leyen welcomed the
support of the G20 under Indonesia’s leadership, and committed to
cooperate on the establishment of a new **Financial Intermediary Fund
(FIF) for pandemic preparedness and global health security** at the
World Bank, including its **sustainable capitalization**, governance and
structure. The U.S. and EU committed to support the early design and
implementation of the FIF. The leaders will also cooperate towards the
conclusion of a convention, agreement or other international instrument
on pandemic prevention, preparedness and response at the WHO, and
targeted amendments to the International Health Regulations, in order to
**strengthen the global rulebook for pandemic PPR**. The EU and the U.S.
are working together with **expert dialogue** to forge consensus on
targeted IHR amendments and the content of a pandemic instrument. They
also recognise the importance of engagement with other partners to take
forward both sustainable financing for PPR and a strengthened WHO.  
  

***Preparing for the future, pathogen detection and monitoring, joint
threat assessment and response.*** The EU and U.S. will collaborate to
improve pathogen monitoring and threat assessment, leveraging existing
and novel approaches, providing integrated surveillance, real-time
monitoring, early warning systems, forecasting and analytics,
intelligence exchange, supporting rapid response networks, and an
‘always-ready’ health emergency workforce to prevent or mitigate
cross-border outbreaks, all within a One Health approach.

***Research and development for new vaccines, therapeutics and
diagnostics.*** Acknowledging the importance of swiftly reacting to
pandemics, the U.S. and EU support science to shorten the cycle for the
development of safe and effective vaccines, therapeutics and diagnostics
from 300 to 100 days following the identification of such threats and
work to make them widely available. In the near term, the EU and U.S.
committed to deepen **cooperation to identify and evaluate variant
adapted, more broadly protective, and next generation vaccines,
therapeutics and diagnostics, while ensuring their safety and
efficacy**. The U.S. and the EU will work towards aligning R&D
investments with manufacturing and manufacturing capabilities
development, and will conclude a formal administrative arrangement on
preparedness and response for public health threats to be signed this
month between the European Commission Health Emergency and Preparedness
Response Authority (HERA) and the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services.

\###
