---
date: '2022-05-24'
modified_time: 2022-05-24 04:52:47-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-24 03:42:26-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/24/quad-joint-leaders-statement/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Quad Joint Leaders\u2019\_Statement"
---
 
Today, we – Prime Minister Anthony Albanese of Australia, Prime Minister
Narendra Modi of India, Prime Minister Fumio Kishida of Japan, and
President Joe Biden of the United States – convene in Tokyo to renew our
steadfast commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific that is inclusive
and resilient.

Just over one year ago, Leaders met for the first time. Today in Tokyo,
we convene for our fourth meeting, and our second in person, to
demonstrate, at a time of profound global challenge, that the Quad is a
force for good, committed to bringing tangible benefits to the region.
In our first year of cooperation, we established the Quad’s dedication
to a positive and practical agenda; in our second year, we are committed
to deliver on this promise, making the region more resilient for the
21<sup>st</sup> century.

With the COVID-19 pandemic still inflicting human and economic pain
around the world, tendencies for unilateral actions among states and a
tragic conflict raging in Ukraine, we are steadfast. We strongly support
the principles of freedom, rule of law, democratic values, sovereignty
and territorial integrity, peaceful settlement of disputes without
resorting to threat or use of force, any unilateral attempt to change
the status quo, and freedom of navigation and overflight, all of which
are essential to the peace, stability and prosperity of the Indo-Pacific
region and to the world. We will continue to act decisively together to
advance these principles in the region and beyond. We reaffirm our
resolve to uphold the international rules-based order where countries
are free from all forms of military, economic and political coercion.   
  
**Peace and Stability**  
We discussed our respective responses to the conflict in Ukraine and the
ongoing tragic humanitarian crisis, and assessed its implications for
the Indo-Pacific. Quad Leaders reiterated our strong resolve to maintain
the peace and stability in the region. We underscored unequivocally that
the centerpiece of the international order is international law,
including the UN Charter, respect for sovereignty and territorial
integrity of all states. We also emphasized that all countries must seek
peaceful resolution of disputes in accordance with international law.

The Quad is committed to cooperation with partners in the region who
share the vision of a free and open Indo-Pacific. We reaffirm our
unwavering support for ASEAN unity and centrality and for the practical
implementation of ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific. We welcome the EU’s
Joint Communication on the EU Strategy for Cooperation in the
Indo-Pacific which was announced in September 2021 and increased
European engagement in the Indo-Pacific region. We will champion
adherence to international law, particularly as reflected in the UN
Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), and the maintenance of
freedom of navigation and overflight, to meet challenges to the maritime
rules-based order, including in the East and South China Seas. We
strongly oppose any coercive, provocative or unilateral actions that
seek to change the status quo and increase tensions in the area, such as
the militarization of disputed features, the dangerous use of coast
guard vessels and maritime militia, and efforts to disrupt other
countries’ offshore resource exploitation activities.

Individually and collectively, we will further strengthen our
cooperation with Pacific island countries, to enhance their economic
well being, strengthen health infrastructure and environmental
resilience, to improve their maritime security and sustain their
fisheries, to provide sustainable infrastructure, to bolster educational
opportunities, and to mitigate and adapt to the impacts of climate
change, which pose especially serious challenges for this region. We are
committed to working together to address the needs of Pacific island
partners. We reaffirmed our support for Pacific Islands Forum unity and
for Pacific regional security frameworks.

Among ourselves and with our partners, we will deepen our cooperation in
multilateral institutions, including at the United Nations, where
reinforcing our shared priorities to reform and enhance the resilience
of the multilateral system itself. Individually and together, we will
respond to the challenges of our time, ensuring that the region remains
inclusive, open, and governed by universal rules and norms.

We reaffirm our commitment to the complete denuclearization of the
Korean Peninsula, consistent with United Nations Security Council
Resolutions (UNSCRs) and also reconfirm the necessity of immediate
resolution of the issue of Japanese abductees. We also condemn North
Korea’s destabilizing ballistic missile development and launches,
including multiple intercontinental ballistic missile tests, in
violation of UNSCRs, and call on the international community to fully
implement these resolutions. We urge North Korea to abide by all of its
obligations under the UNSCRs, refrain from provocations, and engage in
substantive dialogue.

We remain deeply concerned by the crisis in Myanmar, which has caused
grave humanitarian suffering and posed challenges to regional stability.
We continue to call for the immediate end to violence in Myanmar, the
release of all political detainees, including foreigners, engagement in
constructive dialogue, humanitarian access, and the swift restoration of
democracy. We reaffirm our support for ASEAN-led efforts to seek a
solution in Myanmar and welcome the role of Special Envoy of the ASEAN
Chair. We further call for the urgent implementation of the ASEAN Five
Point Consensus.

We condemn unequivocally terrorism and violent extremism in all its
forms and manifestations and   reiterate that there can be no
justification for acts of terror on any grounds whatsoever. We denounce
the use of terrorist proxies and emphasize the importance of denying any
logistical, financial or military support to terrorist groups which
could be used to launch or plan terror attacks, including cross-border
attacks. We reiterate our condemnation of terrorist attacks, including
26/11 Mumbai and Pathankot attacks. We also reaffirm UNSC Resolution
2593 (2021), which demands that Afghan territory must never again be
used to threaten or attack any country or to shelter or train
terrorists, or to plan or finance terrorist attacks. We emphasize the
importance of upholding international standards on anti-money laundering
and combating the financing of terrorism by all countries, consistent
with FATF recommendations. We reaffirm that in our fight against global
terrorism, we will take concerted action against all terrorist groups,
including those individuals and entities designated pursuant to the UNSC
Resolution 1267(1999).  
  
**COVID-19 and Global Health Security**  
For more than two years, the world has grappled with the devastating
impacts of COVID-19 – on our communities, citizens, health workers and
systems and economies. The Quad countries have led and will continue to
lead global efforts for COVID-19 response, with a view to building
better health security and strengthening health systems. We commit to
adapt our collective approaches to get ahead of the virus with a focus
on preparing for new variants, and getting vaccines, tests, treatments,
and other medical products to those at highest risk.

To date, the Quad partners have collectively pledged approximately USD $
5.2 billion to the COVAX AMC, approximately 40 percent of the total
contributions from government donors. We are proud to have delivered
over 670 million doses, including at least 265 million doses to
Indo-Pacific. Noting significant expansion in the global supply of
COVID-19 vaccines, we will continue to share safe, effective, affordable
and quality-assured COVID-19 vaccines where and when they are needed.

We welcome the progress on the expansion of J&J vaccine production at
the Biological E facility in India under the Quad Vaccine Partnership–
sustainable manufacturing capacity will yield long-term benefit in the
fight against COVID-19 and future pandemics. In this regard, we look
forward to the grant of WHO’s EUL approvals regarding the aforementioned
vaccines in India. We celebrate the donation by the Quad to Cambodia and
Thailand of WHO approved Made in India vaccines, together with Quad
members’ other vaccine related support, as an example of tangible
achievement of our collaboration.

We will continue to address both the COVID-19 response and preparedness
against future health threats. We will accelerate getting shots in arms
through last mile support of which over 2 billion USD has been provided
in more than 115 countries globally by our four countries, and will also
address vaccine hesitancy through a Quad-convened event this week at the
World Health Assembly. We will coordinate our efforts including through
the “COVID-19 Prioritized Global Action Plan for Enhanced Engagement
(GAP),” and COVAX Vaccine Delivery Partnership.  We welcome the
successful 2nd Global COVID-19 Summit co-hosted by the United States,
and joined by the Quad members, which galvanized $3.2 billion in
financial and policy commitments. We will strengthen support for
economic and social revitalization in the Indo-Pacific region.

In the long term, we will strengthen the global health architecture and
pandemic prevention, preparedness and response (PPR) to build better
health security, including by enhancing finance and health coordination
and bolstering on-going science and technology cooperation, such as
through clinical trials and genomic surveillance**.** Building on
existing Quad collaboration, we will enhance our capacity to improve
early detection and monitor new and emerging pathogens with pandemic
potential, and work to increase resilience to epidemics and pandemics.
For the development of new vaccines to prevent and contain infectious
diseases, Quad partners have collectively committed $524 million to the
next phase of CEPI’s work, accounting for about 50 percent of the total
public investors.

We commit, as members of the Group of Friends of UHC, to take global
leadership to further strengthen　and reform the global health
architecture for enhancing PPR and promoting UHC in the lead up to the
UN High Level Meeting on UHC to be held in 2023.  
  
**Infrastructure**  
We reaffirmed our shared commitment to deepen cooperation on
infrastructure, which is critical to driving productivity and prosperity
in the Indo-Pacific region. We also share a commitment to addressing
debt issues, which have been exacerbated by the pandemic in many
countries.

Quad partners bring decades of skills and experience together to
catalyse infrastructure delivery to the region. We are committed to
working closely with partners and the region to drive public and private
investment to bridge gaps. To achieve this, Quad will seek to extend
more than 50 billion USD of infrastructure assistance and investment in
the Indo-Pacific, over the next five years.

We will work to strengthen capacities of the countries in need to cope
with debt issues under the G20 Common Framework and by promoting debt
sustainability and transparency in close collaboration with finance
authorities of relevant countries, including  through the  “Quad Debt
Management Resource Portal,” which consists of multiple bilateral and
multilateral capacity building assistance.

We also welcome the meeting of the development finance institutions and
agencies of the four countries in the margins of the Quad Leaders’
Meeting. We are working closely with experts, our region and each other
to link our toolkits and expertise to better connect the Indo-Pacific.

We will further deepen collaboration and pursue complementary actions in
identified areas, such as regional and digital connectivity, clean
energy, and climate resilience including disaster resilience in energy
related facilities that reflect the region’s priorities including ASEAN
Outlook on the Indo-Pacific, to contribute to sustainable and inclusive
growth in the region.  
  
**Climate**  
Recognizing the urgent need to address climate change as emphasized in
the latest IPCC reports, we will steadfastly implement the Paris
Agreement and deliver on the outcomes of COP26, accelerating our efforts
to raise global ambition, including reaching out to key stakeholders in
the Indo-Pacific region and supporting, strengthening, and enhancing
climate actions by partners in the region including through mobilizing
climate finance, both public and private, and facilitating the research,
development, and deployment of innovative technology.

Today, we launch the “Quad Climate Change Adaptation and Mitigation
Package (Q-CHAMP)” with “mitigation” and “adaptation” as its two themes.
Q-CHAMP includes ongoing activities under the Quad Climate Working Group
on: green shipping and ports aiming for a shared green corridor
framework building on  each Quad country’s input; clean energy
cooperation in clean hydrogen and methane emissions from the natural gas
sector; strengthening clean energy supply chains, welcoming the
contribution of the Sydney Energy Forum; climate information services
for developing an engagement strategy with Pacific island countries; and
disaster risk reduction, including disaster and climate resilient
infrastructure such as the efforts through the Coalition for Disaster
Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI). Its coverage includes new cooperation
in clean fuel ammonia, CCUS/Carbon Recycling, cooperation and capacity
building support to advance high integrity carbon markets under Article
6 of the Paris Agreement, climate-smart agriculture, knowledge sharing
on subnational climate actions, and ecosystem-based adaptation. To make
Q-CHAMP tangible, we are committed to expanding our programs, in support
of climate actions between our four countries as well as in the
Indo-Pacific region. We recognize the immense challenges posed by
climate change to the island nations of the Pacific.

We welcome the new Australian Government’s commitment to stronger action
on climate change, including through passing legislation to achieve net
zero by 2050 and lodging a new, ambitious Nationally Determined
Contribution.  
  
**Cybersecurity**  
In an increasingly digital world with sophisticated cyber threats we
recognize an urgent need to take a collective approach to enhancing
cybersecurity. To deliver on the Quad Leaders’ vision for a free and
open Indo-Pacific, we commit to improving the defense of our nations’
critical infrastructure by sharing threat information, identifying and
evaluating potential risks in supply chains for digitally enabled
products and services, and aligning baseline software security standards
for government procurement, leveraging our collective purchasing power
to improve the broader software development ecosystem so that all users
can benefit. The Quad partners will coordinate capacity building
programs in the Indo-Pacific region under the Quad Cybersecurity
Partnership, and will initiate the first-ever Quad Cybersecurity Day to
help individual internet users across our nations, the Indo-Pacific
region, and beyond to better protect themselves from cyber threats.

**Critical & Emerging Technologies**  
The Quad remains focused on harnessing critical and emerging
technologies to enhance the prosperity and security of the region. In
the area of 5G and beyond 5G, while welcoming the Prague Proposals on
Telecommunications Supplier Diversity, we will advance interoperability
and security through the signature of a new Memorandum of Cooperation on
5G Supplier Diversification and Open RAN. We are also deepening our
engagement with industry, including through Open RAN Track 1.5 events,
and exploring ways to collaborate on the deployment of open and secure
telecommunications technologies in the region.

We have mapped the Quad’s capacity and vulnerabilities in global
semiconductor supply chains and have decided to better leverage our
complementary strengths to realize a diverse and competitive market for
semiconductors. The Common Statement of Principles on Critical
Technology Supply Chains, launched on the occasion of this Summit,
advances our cooperation on semiconductors and other critical
technologies, providing a cooperative foundation for enhancing our
resilience against various risks to the region.  Our cooperation in the
international standardization organizations, such as the
Telecommunication Standardization Bureau of the International
Telecommunication Union, has made great progress, and we expect to
strengthen such cooperation through the new International Standards
Cooperation Network (ISCN). This cooperation will help ensure technology
development in the region is guided by our shared democratic values. We
continue to strengthen our horizon scanning cooperation following our
deepened discussions in biotechnology through our efforts on mapping and
a corresponding Track 1.5 and a future focus on quantum technologies. We
will convene a business and investment forum for networking with
industry partners to expand capital for critical and emerging
technologies.  
  
**Quad Fellowship**  
We recognize that people to people ties are the bedrock of the Quad and
welcome the official launch of the Quad Fellowship, which is now open
for application. The Quad Fellowship will bring 100 students from our
countries to the United States each year to pursue graduate degrees in
STEM fields, and is administered by Schmidt Futures.  The first class of
Quad Fellows will begin their studies in the third quarter of 2023, and
we look forward to building together a talented cohort of
next-generation STEM minds who will lead our countries in cutting-edge
research and innovation.  
  
**Space
                                                                                                                                                    **  
Space-related applications and technologies can also contribute to
addressing common challenges such as climate change, disaster
preparedness and response, and sustainable uses of oceans and marine
resources. Each Quad partner will endeavor to improve public access to
Earth observation satellite data and applications. We will work together
to create an Earth observation-based monitoring and sustainable
development framework.  We will endeavor to share space-based civil
Earth observation data, along with providing a “Quad Satellite Data
Portal” that aggregates links to our respective national satellite data
resources. We will work together to develop space applications,
including in the area of Earth observations, and provide capacity
building support to countries in the region, including with regards to
partnering on using space capabilities to respond to extreme
precipitation events. We will also consult on rules, norms, guidelines
and principles for the sustainable use of space, and extend support to
countries in the region through joint workshops including in relation to
the UN Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space (COPUOS) Guidelines
for the Long-Term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities.  
  
**Maritime Domain Awareness and HADR**  
We welcome a new maritime domain awareness initiative, the Indo-Pacific
Partnership for Maritime Domain Awareness (IPMDA), designed to work with
regional partners to respond to humanitarian and natural disasters, and
combat illegal fishing. IPMDA will support and work in consultation with
Indo-Pacific nations and regional information fusion centers in the
Indian Ocean, Southeast Asia, and the Pacific Islands by providing
technology and training to support enhanced, shared maritime domain
awareness to promote stability and prosperity in our seas and oceans.
IPMDA embodies what the Quad stands for: catalyzing our joint efforts
towards concrete results that help to make the region more stable and
prosperous.

Delivering on our commitment following our virtual meeting on 3 March
2022, we announce today the establishment of the “Quad Partnership on
Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief (HADR) in the Indo-Pacific”.
This Partnership will further strengthen our collaboration to
effectively respond to disasters in the region.  
  
**Closing**  
Today, with a shared vision for a free and open Indo-Pacific, we once
again emphasize the importance of fundamental values and principles, and
commit to work tirelessly to deliver tangible results to the region. In
doing so, we will regularize the Quad activities, including regular
meetings by the Leaders and Foreign Ministers. We agree to hold our next
in-person summit in 2023 hosted by Australia.

\###
