---
date: '2022-05-10'
modified_time: 2022-05-10 09:14:10-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-10 09:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/10/office-of-the-national-cyber-director-announces-senior-leadership/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Office of the National Cyber Director Announces Senior\_Leadership"
---
 
Today, the Office of the National Cyber Director announced Kemba Walden
as the first Principal Deputy National Cyber Director and Neal Higgins
and Rob Knake as Deputy National Cyber Directors. These key personnel
will join Deputy National Cyber Director for Federal Cybersecurity and
Federal Chief Information Security Officer Chris DeRusha in fulfilling
ONCD’s mission to ensure every American can share in the full benefits
of our digital ecosystem.

“As we continue to build this new office, the additions of Kemba, Neal,
and Rob will accelerate our efforts to protect Americans in cyberspace,”
said **National Cyber Director Chris Inglis**. “Each of these leaders
brings impressive experience in cybersecurity policy making to our team,
and their diverse perspectives will be invaluable as we strengthen our
collective defense.”

More on these additions:

**Principal Deputy National Cyber Director Kemba Eneas Walden** is an
attorney with extensive experience in government and the private sector.
She comes to ONCD from Microsoft, where she served as an Assistant
General Counsel in Microsoft’s Digital Crimes Unit (DCU) responsible for
launching and leading DCU’s Ransomware Program. Prior to joining
Microsoft, Kemba spent a decade in government service at the Department
of Homeland Security, most recently at the Cybersecurity and
Infrastructure Security Agency. She was appointed to the Cyber Safety
Review Board and holds a J.D. from the Georgetown University Law Center,
Master’s in Public Affairs from Princeton University, and B.A. from
Hampton University.

**Deputy National Cyber Director for National Cybersecurity Neal
Higgins** comes to ONCD from CIA, where he served as Associate Deputy
Director for Digital Innovation, responsible for CIA’s cyber operations,
open source collection, data science, and secure global
communications. Neal also served as CIA’s Director of Congressional
Affairs and as deputy chief of the WikiLeaks Task Force. Before joining
CIA, Neal served in several senior staff roles in the United States
Senate and worked as an editor at *Foreign Affairs* and as a member of
the trial team prosecuting Slobodan Milosevic. Neal is a graduate of
Princeton University, Harvard Law School, and the Fletcher School of Law
& Diplomacy.

**Deputy National Cyber Director for Strategy and Budget Rob Knake** is
a cybersecurity policy expert with decades of experience in the field.
Prior to joining ONCD, he was a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign
Relations, a fellow at the Harvard Belfer Center’s Cyber Project, and an
adviser to cybersecurity startups and Fortune 500 companies. During the
Obama Administration, he served in the cyber directorate at the National
Security Council and at the Department of Homeland Security’s National
Protection & Programs Directorate, the predecessor organization to CISA.
He is a graduate of Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government and the
co-author of two books on cybersecurity.

Higgins and Knake have already assumed their roles at ONCD while Walden
will be joining the office in the coming weeks.

\###
