---
date: '2022-05-20'
modified_time: 2022-05-20 13:48:58-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-20 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/20/president-biden-announces-key-nominees-16/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Nominees"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announces his intent to nominate the
following individuals to serve as key leaders in his administration:

-   Amy L. Solomon, Nominee for Assistant Attorney General, Office of
    Justice Programs, U.S. Department of Justice
-   Milancy Harris, Nominee for Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for
    Security & Intelligence, U.S. Department of Defense
-   Joey R. Hood, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Tunisia
-   Jonathan Henick, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Uzbekistan
-   Richard Glick, Nominee for Member and Chair of the Federal Energy
    Regulatory Commission

**<u>Amy L. Solomon, Nominee for Assistant Attorney General, Office of
Justice Programs, U.S. Department of Justice</u>**

Amy L. Solomon currently serves as Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney
General of the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) Office of Justice
Programs (OJP), overseeing approximately $5 billion annually in grants
to support state and local justice efforts. Solomon brings to this role
more than three decades of government, think tank, and philanthropy
experience and a deep commitment to social justice, racial equity, and
improving the criminal justice system.

Before returning to DOJ in 2021, Solomon spent almost four years as Vice
President of Criminal Justice at Arnold Ventures where she launched
portfolios on corrections reform and expanding economic opportunity for
justice-impacted populations. Solomon spent seven years in the
Obama-Biden Administration, serving as Director of Policy and Senior
Advisor at OJP. Solomon concurrently served as Executive Director of the
Federal Interagency Reentry Council, a cabinet-level body responsible
for spearheading the federal Ban the Box rule, fair housing guidance,
the Second Chance Pell initiative, and Medicaid guidance for the
justice-involved population.

Solomon spent 10 years at the Urban Institute, directing projects on
prisoner reentry and public safety. She also worked at the National
Institute of Justice, managed a community service program, developed
reentry strategies for a Department of Correction, and worked with
juveniles in probation, halfway houses, and school settings. Solomon
holds a Master’s Degree in Public Policy from the Harvard Kennedy School
of Government and a Bachelor’s Degree from the University of Michigan.

**<u>Milancy Harris, Nominee for Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for
Security & Intelligence, U.S. Department of Defense</u>**

Milancy Harris is currently the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense
for Irregular Warfare and Counterterrorism at the U.S. Department of
Defense. Prior to taking this role, she served on the Intelligence
Community Agency Review Team for the Biden-Harris Transition. Harris
joined the Intelligence Community in 2004 as an Analyst with the Defense
Intelligence Agency. Harris previously served in a variety of analytic
and staff roles at the National Counterterrorism Center and the Office
of the Director of National Intelligence until 2019. She also served as
a Director for Counterterrorism on the National Security Council staff
from 2015-2017.  Outside of government, her work focused on technology
governance issues and content moderation. 

Originally from Wisconsin, Harris holds a Bachelor’s Degree from
Marquette University and a Master’s Degree from The George Washington
University. 

**<u>Joey R. Hood, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Tunisia</u>**

Joey R. Hood is a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of
Minister-Counselor.  Hood served as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary
of State, Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs, U.S. Department of State, and
was the Acting Assistant Secretary of the Bureau from January to
September, 2021. Previously, Hood served in leadership positions
overseas as the Chargé d’affaires and Deputy Chief of Mission of the
U.S. Embassy in Baghdad, Iraq, the Deputy Chief of Mission of the U.S.
Embassy in Kuwait City, Kuwait, and the Principal Officer of the U.S.
Consulate General in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. Hood’s other assignments
include service as the Deputy Director and the Acting Director of the
Office of Iranian Affairs in the State Department’s Bureau of Near
Eastern Affairs, as the Public Affairs Officer of the U.S. Embassy, Doha
Qatar, and as the Political-Economic Section Chief of the U.S. Embassy
in Sanaa, Yemen.  Hood earned a B.A. Degree from Dartmouth College and
an M.A. Degree from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts
University. Hood speaks French and Arabic.

**<u>Jonathan Henick, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Uzbekistan</u>**

Jonathan Henick, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service with the
rank of Minister-Counselor, currently serves as the U.S. Department of
State Chair at the College of Information and Cyberspace at the National
Defense University. Previously, he served as the Deputy Assistant
Secretary in the Bureau for South and Central Asian Affairs, where he
was responsible for the countries of Central Asia, as well as Public
Diplomacy and Press for all of South and Central Asia. Earlier, he
served as Acting Deputy Coordinator of the Global Engagement Center
where he helped to lead and coordinate U.S. efforts to counter
disinformation from Russia, China, and Iran. Henick served as the
Principal Deputy Coordinator and Acting Coordinator for the Bureau for
International Information Programs. His other assignments include
serving as the Minister Counselor for Public Affairs in Turkey, the
Deputy Chief of Mission in Timor-Leste, as well as in other positions in
Azerbaijan, Turkey, Portugal, and Uzbekistan. Henick has worked as a
Fellow and Visiting Professor at The George Washington University and as
a Diplomat-in-Residence at the East-West Center in Honolulu, Hawaii. He
has received the Public Diplomacy Alumni Association Achievement Award. 
A native of New York, he speaks Russian, Portuguese, Turkish, and
Azerbaijani, and holds a Ph.D. in Political Science from the University
of Hawaii, a Master’s Degree in International Affairs from Columbia
University, and a Bachelor’s Degree from Columbia College, Columbia
University.

**<u>Richard Glick, Nominee for Member and Chair of the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission</u>**

Chairman Richard Glick was named by President Biden to be Chairman of
the Federal Regulatory Commission on January 21, 2021 and is serving a
Commission term that ends June 30, 2022. Glick was nominated to the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission by President Donald J. Trump in
August 2017 and confirmed by the U.S. Senate on November 2, 2017. Before
joining the Commission, he was General Counsel for the Democratic
members on the U.S. Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee,
serving as a Senior Policy Advisor on numerous issues including
electricity and renewable energy.

Prior to that, he was Vice President of Government Affairs for
Iberdrola’s renewable energy, electric and gas utility, and natural gas
storage businesses in the United States. Glick previously served as a
Director of Government Affairs for PPM Energy and before that was
Director of Government Affairs for PacifiCorp. Glick served as a Senior
Policy Advisor to U.S. Energy Secretary Bill Richardson, and before that
was Legislative Director and Chief Counsel to U.S. Senator Dale Bumpers
(D-AR). From 1988-1992, Chairman Glick was an Associate with the law
firm of Verner, Liipfert, Bernhard, McPherson and Hand. He is a graduate
of The George Washington University and Georgetown Law.

\###
