---
date: '2022-05-12'
modified_time: 2022-05-12 17:32:49-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-12 17:32:48-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/12/fact-sheet-u-s-asean-special-summit-in-washington-dc/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: U.S.-ASEAN Special Summit in Washington,\_DC"
---
 
President Biden will welcome the leaders of the Association of Southeast
Nations (ASEAN) for a historic U.S.-ASEAN Special Summit, held for the
first time in Washington D.C. and at the White House, to re-affirm the
United States’ enduring commitment to Southeast Asia and underscore the
importance of U.S.-ASEAN cooperation in ensuring security, prosperity,
and respect for human rights.    
  
Over many years, the United States has steadily deepened our partnership
with Southeast Asia. The United States has provided over $12.1 billion
in development, economic, health, and security assistance to Southeast
Asian allies and partners since 2002 and over that same period of time,
the United States has provided over $1.4 billion in humanitarian
assistance, including life-saving disaster assistance, emergency food
aid, and support to refugees throughout Southeast Asia. Building on our
long-standing commitment to this critical region, the Biden-Harris
Administration’s FY 2023 Budget Request included over $800 million in
bilateral assistance for ASEAN partners and over $25 million to deepen
relations with ASEAN and enhance ASEAN’s capacity to tackle pressing
regional challenges.   
  
The United States and Southeast Asia also benefit from our far-reaching
commercial and trade ties. ASEAN represents the world’s fourth largest
market and the United States is ASEAN’s largest source of foreign direct
investment, while our two-way trade amounted to over $360 billion in
2020.   
  
U.S.-ASEAN relations are ultimately anchored in the special friendship
shared by our combined one billion people. Our ongoing commitment to
deepening people-to-people ties is marked by 7000 programs at 83
American Spaces in ASEAN countries, the Young Southeast Asian Leaders
Initiative’s 155,000 alumni, and the connections forged through nearly 6
million U.S. visas, including student visas, granted to Southeast Asian
travelers since 2010.  
  
At the annual U.S.-ASEAN Summit in October 2021, President Biden
announced an unprecedented investment of up to $102 million in
U.S.-ASEAN relations, significantly expanding our cooperation on health,
climate, science and innovation, trade facilitation, education, and
more. Today, the United States and ASEAN will inaugurate a new era of
partnership, guided by the complementary objectives of the Indo-Pacific
Strategy of the United States and the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific.
In that spirit, President Biden is announcing over $150 million in
initiatives which we expect will mobilize billions more in private
financing that will deepen U.S.-ASEAN relations, strengthen ASEAN
centrality, and expand our common capacity to achieve our shared
objectives.  
  
**ACCELERATING CLIMATE ACTION, SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT, AND INCLUSIVE
PROSPERITY**  
  
In support of U.S.-ASEAN Climate Futures and U.S.-ASEAN Economic
Futures, the United States and ASEAN will raise our collective climate
ambition while working together to support implementation of the Master
Plan on ASEAN Connectivity 2025.  We will help meet the region’s
enormous infrastructure needs in a sustainable manner that accelerates
the clean energy transition, helps the region to achieve a path to net
zero emissions by mid-century, and drives inclusive, broad-based
prosperity.

-   Investing in Clean Energy Infrastructure: Through the Southeast Asia
    Smart Power Program, the United States will invest $40 million in
    order to mobilize $2 billion in blended financing for clean energy
    infrastructure in Southeast Asia, thereby decarbonizing and
    strengthening the region’s power system, increasing regional energy
    trade, and accelerating the deployment of clean energy
    technologies.  
     
-   U.S.-ASEAN Forest Future Initiative: The United States is committed
    to working with ASEAN to fight deforestation and accelerate the
    regional transition to sustainable, climate-positive forest
    economies – a critical step in achieving ASEAN countries’ climate
    and development goals.   
     
    -   Mobilizing Finance at Scale: The United States is launching a
        new platform, bringing together members of the Forest Investor
        Club, leaders from the United States and ASEAN in the financial
        sector, conservation and community engagement organizations,
        agriculture and forestry companies, and governments, to deliver
        a coordinated approach for natural capital finance. This
        initiative, subject to appropriate procedures and requirements,
        aims to mobilize $1 billion in capital investment across the
        region toward sustainable forestry, forest restoration, and
        responsible land use.   
         
    -   ASEAN Nature Finance Innovation Roundtable: The U.S. Agency for
        International Development, the Department of State, and the U.S.
        International Development Finance Corporation will convene an
        ASEAN Nature Finance Innovation Roundtable to catalyze the use
        of innovative financial mechanisms and mobilize
        additional finance to support the long-term conservation,
        restoration, and sustainable management of critical ecosystems
        in Southeast Asia.   
         
-    U.S.-ASEAN Climate Solutions Hub: The United States is launching a
    U.S.-ASEAN Climate Solutions Hub, which will provide technical
    assistance to ASEAN countries in order to accelerate implementation
    of their Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) and related
    low-emission development and resilience strategies. This
    demand-driven initiative will support renewable energy deployment,
    decarbonization of the transportation sector, methane reduction
    efforts, and sustainable agriculture, forestry, and land management.
    It will also support the development of energy and land-use
    frameworks and measures that mobilize public and private finance and
    achieve just transitions.  
     
-   The U.S.-ASEAN Transportation Dialogue Partnership: The Department
    of Transportation will launch new air, land, and maritime
    transportation programs that promote safety, sustainable and
    resilient infrastructure, regional connectivity, and emerging
    transport technologies.  
     
-   The U.S.-ASEAN Alliance for Protected Area Conservation**: **The
    Department of the Interior, including the National Park Service,
    will collaborate with their counterparts in Southeast Asia to expand
    conservation and reverse deforestation. U.S. rangers will travel to
    Southeast Asia to share best practices and improve protected area
    management across the region, emphasizing nature-based climate
    solutions, sustainable tourism and visitor management, traditional
    knowledge and access to resources, and transboundary habitat
    connectivity.  
     
-   Promoting Investment in Climate-Smart Infrastructure: The U.S. Trade
    and Development Agency is launching new initiatives intended to
    catalyze over $13 billion in financing for clean energy projects
    that advance ASEAN’s net zero goals, while leveraging over $1
    billion in public and private financing for investment in digital
    infrastructure and smart cities in Southeast Asia.  
     
-   Space Cooperation: The United States will invest in the SERVIR
    initiative to share satellite data across ASEAN in support of
    climate monitoring and environmental forecasting, disaster
    management, and food security analysis.  
     
-   Reducing Methane Emissions: The United States is committed to
    working with the nations of Southeast Asia to reduce the region’s
    methane emissions. The United States welcomed Indonesia, Vietnam,
    Malaysia, the Philippines, and Singapore joining the Global Methane
    Pledge at COP-26, and we are accelerating technical assistance,
    financial resources, and project pipeline development for methane
    mitigation in Global Methane Pledge countries, including through the
    EPA, USTDA, DFC, and EXIM, as well as the newly-created Global
    Methane Hub, a ​philanthropic fund that can support methane
    mitigation priorities in the region.  
     
-   Trade Winds Business Forum: The Department of Commerce will hold its
    2023 flagship trade mission – Trade Winds Business Forum – in
    Southeast Asia. U.S. companies from a wide range of industries will
    have the opportunity to pursue new commercial and trade
    opportunities in the region, building on the 2022 U.S. trade
    missions to Southeast Asia focused on clean energy, healthcare, and
    advanced manufacturing.  
     
-   Accelerating Digital Development: The United States will advance
    digital development across Southeast Asia through a new $6 million
    regional initiative that will, in line with the ASEAN Digital
    Integration Framework Action Plan, support innovation, strengthen
    digital economy rule-making, facilitate public-private connections,
    strengthen digital policymaking, and support the adoption of global
    standards in artificial intelligence. 

**SUPPORTING ACCESS TO EDUCATION **  
  
The strength of U.S.-ASEAN relations is anchored in the friendship
shared by our combined one billion people. Each year the United States
provides more than $70 million to support educational and cultural
exchanges that foster greater understanding, enhance cooperation, and
create lifelong friendships that increase the strength and resilience of
our communities over the long term. 

-   U.S.-ASEAN Institute for Rising Leaders at the School of Advanced
    International Studies: The Johns Hopkins School of Advanced
    International Studies (SAIS) will launch the U.S.-ASEAN Institute
    for Rising Leaders, an innovative program to bring exceptional
    public servants from ASEAN governments to the United States for
    professional and leadership training. Through private funding,
    including from Boeing, UPS, PhRMA, and JPMorgan Chase and Co., the
    program will sponsor up to 30 mid-career public-service
    professionals each year – up to three from each of the ten ASEAN
    countries – to attend a tailored, intensive multi-week
    leadership-development program. The Institute will hone the
    academic, leadership, and policy-making skills of emerging Southeast
    Asian leaders and lay a robust foundation for deepening the
    U.S.-ASEAN partnership – between governments, businesses, and
    individuals – for years to come.      
     
-   Expanding Youth Engagement: The Department of State will double the
    size of the Young Southeast Asian Leaders Initiative (YSEALI)
    program within three years, such that 900 emerging leaders will
    benefit from YSEALI’s academic and professional opportunities every
    year.    
     
-   Cooperation in Higher Education: The U.S. government, alongside
    American companies and universities, is committed to increasing
    connectivity among educational institutions in the United States and
    Southeast Asia, while providing new opportunities for students and
    workers in ASEAN countries to study in the United States or develop
    critical skills at home.  
     
    -   Billion Futures Scholarships: A new cohort of Billion Futures
        Scholars will begin their studies in U.S. universities across
        the United States in Fall 2022, joining the 100 Scholars
        currently in the United States for undergraduate and graduate
        study, adding $5 million in new funding to our Billion Futures
        commitment.   
         
    -   U.S.-ASEAN University Connections: The Department of State will
        launch a new exchange program through which 20 academic fellows
        from universities across ASEAN will travel to the United States,
        exchange best practices with U.S. academics, and explore
        opportunities for collaborative research and teaching
        initiatives.  
         
    -   Fulbright ASEAN Scholars: The Department of State will double
        the size of the Fulbright U.S.-ASEAN Visiting Scholarship
        Program, such that a wider range of ASEAN academics, government
        officials, and civil society leaders can travel to the United
        States to undertake research on topics of importance to the
        U.S.-ASEAN relationship.  
         
-   English Language Training: The Department of State will
    significantly expand English language programs in Southeast Asia
    with a new $3 million investment that will provide capacity-building
    support for hundreds of thousands of English teachers in the
    region.   
     
-   Private Sector Initiatives: Leading American companies have
    announced new initiatives to increase opportunities for education,
    training, and upskilling in Southeast Asia. Google will equip
    200,000 small and medium enterprises in Southeast Asia with the
    skills to grow their business, through a $4 million grant to The
    Asia Foundation’s “Go Digital ASEAN,” and the U.S. Department of
    State and Google will partner to build digital literacy among youth
    at American Spaces located in Southeast Asia. HP is providing more
    than 20,000 students in Indonesia with technology and
    entrepreneurship skills through five HP Tech Hubs, while 3M is
    supporting science, technology, engineering, and math education for
    girls across Southeast Asia. The U.S. ASEAN Business Council
    Institute has launched a Myanmar Scholarship Fund to support
    students in the United States whose higher education journeys were
    disrupted by the crisis in Myanmar. 

**EXPANDING MARITIME COOPERATION**  
  
The United States is committed to supporting implementation of the ASEAN
Outlook on the Indo-Pacific’s Maritime Pillar. Today we are
announcing $60 million in new regional maritime initiatives, most of
which will be led by the U.S. Coast Guard (USCG). 

-   Personnel and Presence: The USCG will deploy assets and assign
    additional personnel to the Indo-Pacific to help meet partners’
    requests for maritime training and capacity-building, to include a
    USCG attaché at the U.S. Mission to ASEAN.  
     
-   Countering Illegal, Unreported, and Unregulated Fishing: The
    Department of State, Department of Labor, and USCG will launch new
    initiatives to help ASEAN counties counter illegal, unreported, and
    unregulated fishing and strengthen the capacity of ASEAN sectoral
    bodies to prevent forced labor in the fishing industry.  
     
-   Indo-Pacific Support Platform: The USCG will deploy a cutter to
    Southeast Asia and Oceania for security cooperation and to operate
    as a training platform. This cutter will deploy throughout the
    region providing multinational crewing opportunities, conduct
    training missions, and participate in cooperative maritime
    engagements.  
     
-   Excess Defense Articles: As USCG decommissions cutters, the service
    will prioritize the transfer of ships to Southeast Asian countries
    to increase the coastal nations’ maritime law enforcement capacity
    and promote a free and open Pacific.  
     
-   Southeast Asia Training Team: The Department of State and USCG will
    expand USCG support to maritime law enforcement agencies in
    Southeast Asia by placing a training team in the region for the
    first time with additional dedicated support from U.S.-based
    trainers. These technical experts will provide capacity-building for
    the regional partners’ maritime law enforcement agencies in the
    areas of institutional development, readiness, sustainment of
    equipment, and workforce professionalization.   
     
-   Emergency Training: The USCG and the Department of State will
    provide new trainings on energy safeguards, protection of critical
    maritime infrastructure, and all-hazards response.

**PROMOTING GLOBAL HEALTH AND HEALTH SECURITY **  
  
In support of U.S.-ASEAN Health Futures, the United States and ASEAN are
taking swift action to fight the COVID-19 pandemic, strengthen health
systems, and promote health security. The United States is proud to have
provided over $200 million in COVID-19 assistance through the Department
of State and USAID and donated over 115 million doses of safe and
effective COVID-19 vaccines in Southeast Asia, with more on the way.

-   Enhancing Pan-Respiratory Diseases Surveillance: The U.S. Centers
    for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), through its new regional
    office in Hanoi, Vietnam, will enhance surveillance for
    pan‑respiratory diseases in Southeast Asia, including through
    expanded sample collection and access, and through capacity-building
    for laboratories and other healthcare facilities. This $5 million
    program will increase coverage of large urban population sites and
    significantly expand access to genomic testing equipment and
    technology.  
     
-   Airborne Infection Defense Platform: USAID will support up to $10
    million in programs to advance early detection and community
    response for COVID-19, tuberculosis, and other airborne diseases
    across Southeast Asia.   
     
-   Global Health Worker Initiative: The United States is working to
    strengthen regional health systems, increase ASEAN countries’ health
    capacity, and expand, train, and protect the health workforce across
    Southeast Asia, in support of the newly-announced Administration
    Global Health Worker Initiative.   
     
    -   Supporting Community-Based Health Capacity: The President’s
        Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) is strengthening human
        health systems management in ASEAN countries, including through
        train-the-trainer programs for clinical and community health
        workers and programs that counter discrimination in the health
        workforce toward HIV/AIDS patients.  
         
    -   Healthcare Curriculum: USAID is partnering with Vietnam to
        enhance its medical training program and ensure Vietnam’s health
        professionals are prepared to meet the country’s current and
        future needs. By 2025, over 2,000 university faculty will be
        trained in new educational methods and 5,000 physicians will
        graduate from the revised program.     
         
    -   COVID-19 Training: Peace Corps is supporting COVID-19 mitigation
        and vaccine promotion training for the public and the healthcare
        workforce, including for community health workers in remote
        locations, in many ASEAN countries. 

\###
