---
date: '2022-05-11'
published_time: 2022-05-11 10:27:26-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/11/president-biden-nominates-bipartisan-slate-for-the-united-states-sentencing-commission/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Nominates Bipartisan Slate for the United\_States Sentencing\_\
  Commission"
---
 
President Biden is announcing seven experienced and qualified nominees
for the U.S. Sentencing Commission, a bipartisan independent agency
created during the Reagan Administration.  The Commission was created to
reduce sentencing disparities and promote transparency and
proportionality in criminal sentencing.

The Commission has lacked a quorum since 2019, which has prevented it
from doing critical business.  Today, President Biden is pleased to
announce the nominations of these individuals – a bipartisan slate
including the first Black chair of the organization – whose
confirmations would allow the Commission to conduct its important work.

**<u>Judge Carlton W. Reeves</u><u>: Nominee for Commissioner and Chair
of the United States Sentencing Commission</u>**

Judge Carlton W. Reeves has served as a United States District Court
Judge for the Southern District of Mississippi since 2010. Judge Reeves
was previously a partner at Pigott Reeves Johnson & Minor, P.A. from
2001 to 2010. From 1995 to 2001, Judge Reeves served as Chief of the
Civil Division for the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern
District of Mississippi. From 1991 to 1995, Judge Reeves was an
associate at Phelps Dunbar LLP. In 1991, Judge Reeves was a staff
attorney for the Supreme Court of Mississippi. Judge Reeves served as a
law clerk for Justice Reuben V. Anderson on the Mississippi Supreme
Court from 1989 to 1990.

Judge Reeves received his J.D. from the University of Virginia School of
Law in 1989 and his B.A. from Jackson State University in 1986.

**<u>Laura Mate: Nominee for Commissioner and Vice Chair of the United
States Sentencing Commission</u>**

Laura Mate has served as the Director of Sentencing Resource Counsel, a
project of the Federal Public and Community Defenders in the Office of
the Federal Public Defender for the District of Arizona, since 2021 and
from 2010 to 2021 was a member of Sentencing Resource Counsel. From 2001
to 2010, Ms. Mate served in the Office of the Federal Public Defender
for the Western District of Washington in various roles, including as
Assistant Federal Public Defender. Ms. Mate was an associate at Perkins
Coie LLP from 1998 to 2001.

Ms. Mate received her J.D. from the University of Michigan Law School in
1998 and her B.A. from Kenyon College in 1992.

**<u>Claire McCusker Murray: Nominee for Commissioner and Vice Chair of
the United States Sentencing Commission</u>**

Claire McCusker Murray served as the Principal Deputy Associate Attorney
General of the United States Department of Justice from 2019 to 2021.
She also served as Acting Associate Attorney General in 2021 and as
Counselor to the Attorney General in 2019. From 2017 to 2019, Ms. Murray
served in the White House Counsel’s Office as Special Assistant and
Associate Counsel to the President. From 2013 to 2017, Ms. Murray worked
at Kirkland & Ellis as an associate until she was elevated to partner in
2015. From 2010 to 2012, Ms. Murray served as a trial attorney in the
Criminal Division of the United States Department of Justice as part of
the Attorney General’s Honors Program and as a Special Assistant United
States Attorney in the United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern
District of Virginia in 2011. She served as a law clerk for Justice
Samuel Alito on the Supreme Court of the United States from 2012 to 2013
and for then-Judge Brett Kavanaugh on the United States Court of Appeals
for the District of Columbia Circuit from 2009 to 2010.

Ms. Murray received her J.D. from Yale Law School in 2009 and her
A.B., *magna cum laude*, from Harvard College in 2004. She also received
an M.Phil. from the University of Cambridge in 2008 and a d.e.a. from
l’Ecole des Hautes Etudes en Sciences Sociales in Paris in 2005.

**<u>Judge Luis Felipe Restrepo: Nominee for Commissioner and Vice Chair
of the United States Sentencing Commission</u>**

Judge Luis Felipe Restrepo has served as a United States Court of
Appeals Judge for the Third Circuit since 2016. Judge Restrepo
previously served as a United States District Court Judge for
the Eastern District of Pennsylvania from 2013 to 2016. Judge Restrepo
served as a United States Magistrate Judge for the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania from 2006 to 2013. Judge Restrepo was a partner at Krasner
& Restrepo from 1993 to 2006. From 1990 to 1993, he served as an
Assistant Federal Defender in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, and
from 1987 to 1990 as an Assistant Defender with the Defender Association
of Philadelphia.  

Judge Restrepo received his J.D. from Tulane Law School in 1986 and his
B.A from the University of Pennsylvania in 1981.

**<u>Judge Claria Horn Boom: Nominee for Commissioner of the United
States Sentencing Commission</u>**

Judge Claria Horn Boom has served as a United States District Court
Judge for the Eastern and Western Districts of Kentucky since 2018.
Judge Boom was previously a partner at Frost Brown Todd LLC. Judge Boom
served as an Assistant United States Attorney for the United States
Attorney’s Office in the Eastern District of Kentucky from 2001 to 2002
and for the Western District of Kentucky from 1998 to 2001. From 1995 to
1998, Judge Boom was as an associate at King & SpaldingLLP. Judge Boom
served as a law clerk for Judge Pierce Lively on the United States Court
of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit from 1994 to 1995.

Judge Boom received her J.D. from Vanderbilt University Law Schooland
her B.A. from Transylvania University, *summa cum laude*.

**<u>Judge John Gleeson: Nominee for Commissioner of the United States
Sentencing Commission</u>**

Judge John Gleeson is a partner at Debevoise and Plimpton LLP in New
York, where he has practiced since 2016. From 1994 to 2016 Judge Gleeson
served as a United States District Court Judge for the Eastern District
of New York. From 1985 to 1994, Judge Gleeson served as an Assistant
United States Attorney in the United States Attorney’s Office for the
Eastern District of New York. Judge Gleeson served as a law clerk for
Judge Boyce Martin on the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth
Circuit.

Judge Gleeson received his J.D. from the University of Virginia School
of Law in 1980 and his B.A. from Georgetown University in 1975.

**<u>Candice C. Wong: Nominee for Commissioner of the United States
Sentencing Commission</u>**

Candice C. Wong serves as an Assistant United States Attorney and Chief
of the Violence Reduction and Trafficking Offenses Section in the United
States Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia. Ms. Wong joined
the United States Attorney’s Office in 2015, and from 2017 to 2021, was
detailed to the Criminal Division of the United States Department of
Justice. There, she served in various roles, including as Acting Deputy
Assistant Attorney General and Acting Chief of Staff in the Criminal
Division. From 2020 to 2021, Ms. Wong also served as the Department of
Justice’s ex officio member on the United States Sentencing Commission.
Ms. Wong was previously an associate at Bancroft PLLC from 2013 to 2015
and at King & Spalding LLP from 2009 to 2011. Ms. Wong served as a law
clerk for Justice Sandra Day O’Connor and Justice Sonia M. Sotomayor on
the Supreme Court of the United States from 2011 to 2012, and for
then-Judge Brett M. Kavanaugh on the United States Court of Appeals for
the District of Columbia Circuit from 2008 to 2009.

Ms. Wong received her J.D. in 2008 from Harvard Law School and her A.B.
in 2004 from Harvard College.
