---
date: '2022-05-21'
modified_time: 2022-05-21 03:20:53-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-21 03:20:51-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/21/united-states-republic-of-korea-leaders-joint-statement/
tags: statements-releases
title: "United\_States-Republic of Korea Leaders\u2019 Joint\_Statement"
---
 
President Yoon Suk Yeol welcomes President Joseph R. Biden to the
Republic of Korea (ROK), marking the earliest meeting in a ROK
President’s term in office with the President of the United States
(U.S.). Founded in our shared sacrifice and honed by our deep security
ties, the Alliance between the Republic of Korea and the United States
continues to evolve and expand. The linchpin for peace and prosperity in
the region, the Alliance has grown far beyond the Korean peninsula,
reflecting the pivotal role of our countries as global leaders in
democracy, economy, and technology. Faced with existential challenges
like climate change and the COVID-19 pandemic, and growing threats to
the rules-based international order, foremost among which is Russia’s
further aggression against Ukraine, the Republic of Korea and the United
States are unified in common determination to deepen and broaden our
political, economic, security, and people-to-people ties.

The two Presidents deeply appreciate the recent accomplishments of the
Alliance and pledge to continue building off of its rock solid
foundation.

**The Linchpin for Peace and Prosperity**

President Yoon and President Biden reaffirm their mutual commitment to
the defense of the Republic of Korea and the combined defense posture
under the ROK-U.S. Mutual Defense Treaty. President Biden affirms the
U.S. extended deterrence commitment to the ROK using the full range of
U.S. defense capabilities, including nuclear, conventional, and missile
defense capabilities. The two Presidents also agree to reactivate the
high-level Extended Deterrence Strategy and Consultation Group at the
earliest date. Both leaders commit to further strengthen deterrence by
reinforcing combined defense posture, and reiterate commitment to a
conditions-based transition of wartime operational control. With this in
mind, and considering the evolving threat posed by the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK), both leaders agree to initiate
discussions to expand the scope and scale of combined military exercises
and training on and around the Korean Peninsula. Both leaders also
reaffirm the commitment of the U.S. to deploy strategic U.S. military
assets in a timely and coordinated manner as necessary, as well as to
enhance such measures and identify new or additional steps to reinforce
deterrence in the face of DPRK destabilizing activities. In this vein,
the United States and ROK will significantly expand cooperation to
confront a range of cyber threats from the DPRK, including but not
limited to, state-sponsored cyber-attacks.

President Yoon and President Biden reiterate their common goal of the
complete denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula and agree to further
strengthen the airtight coordination to this end. The two Presidents
share the view that the DPRK’s nuclear program presents a grave threat
not only to peace and stability on the Korean Peninsula but also the
rest of Asia and the world. Both leaders condemn the DPRK’s escalatory
ballistic missile tests this year, including multiple launches of
intercontinental ballistic missiles, as clear violations of United
Nations Security Council resolutions and reaffirm their joint commitment
to work with the international community to urge the DPRK to abandon its
weapons of mass destruction and ballistic missile programs.Both leaders
urge all UN Member States to fully implement all United Nations Security
Council resolutions and also call on the DPRK to abide by its
obligations under UN Security Council resolutions as well as its
previous commitments and agreements.

President Yoon and President Biden emphasize that the path to dialogue
remains open toward peaceful and diplomatic resolution with the DPRK and
call on DPRK to return to negotiations. President Yoon outlined his
vision to normalize inter-Korean relationship through an audacious plan
aimed at a denuclearized and prosperous Korean peninsula and President
Biden expresses his support for inter-Korean cooperation. Both leaders
underscore the importance of ROK-U.S.-Japan trilateral cooperation for
responding to the DPRK’s challenges, protecting shared security and
prosperity, upholding common values, and bolstering the rules-based
international order.

President Yoon and President Biden express grave concern over the human
rights situation in the DPRK. The two Presidents also reaffirm their
commitment to facilitate the provision of humanitarian aid to the most
vulnerable North Koreans. Both leaders express concern over the recent
COVID-19 outbreak in the DPRK. The ROK and the U.S. are willing to work
with the international community to provide assistance to the DPRK to
combat the virus.

**A Strategic Economic and Technology Partnership**

President Yoon and President Biden recognize that the future of the
Alliance will be defined by common efforts to address 21<sup>st</sup>
century challenges. In this vein, the two Presidents pledge to deepen
and broaden cooperation on critical and emerging technologies, and cyber
security. Both leaders also pledge to develop, use, and advance
technologies in line with shared democratic principles and universal
values.

President Yoon and President Biden recognize the importance of deepening
cooperation on economic and energy security, which are critical to
safeguarding our prosperity, shared security, and collective interests.
To support these initiatives, the two Presidents will direct respective
National Security Councils to launch an economic security dialogue aimed
to align the bureaucratic and policy approaches between the two
governments.

Fully recognizing that scientists, researchers, and engineers of the ROK
and the U.S. are among the most innovative in the world, the two
Presidents agree to leverage this comparative advantage to enhance
public and private cooperation to protect and promote critical and
emerging technologies, including leading-edge semiconductors,
eco-friendly EV batteries, Artificial Intelligence, quantum technology,
biotechnology, biomanufacturing, and autonomous robotics. Moreover, the
two Presidents also reaffirm their active support for people-to-people
exchanges between experts in these fields. To this end, the two
Presidents agree to work together to enhance partnership on these
critical and emerging technologies in both countries through the
promotion of investment as well as research and development cooperation.
Recognizing the growing potential for ROK-U.S. cooperation in the
defense industry, the two leaders agree to strengthen partnerships in
areas such as defense sector supply chain, joint development and
manufacturing, including beginning discussions on a Reciprocal Defense
Procurement agreement.

Secure, sustainable, and resilient global supply chains are foundational
to these efforts. Building upon international cooperation fostered by
the U.S.-led Summit on Global Supply Chain Resilience, and by working
closely together in the upcoming Ministerial-level summit, the two
Presidents agree to continue working together to tackle immediate and
long-term challenges in the supply chain ecosystem. Both leaders agree
to strengthen the resiliency and diversity of these networks including
by cooperating on early warning systems to detect and address potential
supply chain disruptions and working together to address sourcing and
processing of critical minerals. The two Presidents also agree to
establish a regular ministerial-level Supply Chain and Commercial
Dialogue to discuss promotion of resilient supply chains of key
products, including semiconductors, batteries, and critical minerals.
Both leaders also agree to enhance cooperation between our foreign
investment screening and export control authorities related to critical
technologies, which is necessary to prevent the use of advanced
technologies to undermine our national and economic security.

Recognizing the importance of energy security as well as commitment to
address climate change given the rapid increase of volatility in the
global energy market as a result of Russia’s further aggression against
Ukraine, the two Presidents will work to strengthen joint collaboration
in securing energy supply chains that include fossil fuels, and enriched
uranium, acknowledging that true energy security means rapidly deploying
clean energy technology and working to decrease our dependence on fossil
fuels.

The two leaders recognize the importance of nuclear energy as a critical
and reliable source of carbon-free electricity, an important element to
grow our clean energy economy, and an integral part of enhancing global
energy security. The two leaders commit to greater nuclear energy
collaboration and accelerating the development and global deployment of
advanced reactors and small modular reactors by jointly using export
promotion and capacity building tools, and building a more resilient
nuclear supply chain. The two Presidents reaffirm that both countries
will engage in global civil-nuclear cooperation in accordance with the
highest standards of nuclear nonproliferation, including the IAEA
Additional Protocol as the standard for both international safeguards
and for nuclear supply arrangements. Acknowledging the shared goals of
deepening strategic ties, while respecting each country’s intellectual
investments, both leaders commit to using tools such as the ROK-U.S.
Memorandum of Understanding on Nuclear Technology Transfer and Export
Cooperation to provide a solid foundation for strengthened cooperation
in the U.S., ROK and overseas nuclear markets and the High-Level
Bilateral Commission, to further cooperation for spent fuel management,
nuclear export promotion, assured fuel supply and nuclear security. The
U.S. welcomes the ROK’s decision to join the U.S.-led Foundational
Infrastructure for Responsible Use of Small Modular Reactor Technology
(FIRST) program.

President Yoon and President Biden commit to strengthening the ROK-U.S.
alliance across all sectors of space cooperation. Building on the ROK’s
previous commitment to participate in the Artemis program, the two
Presidents agreed to foster joint research in space exploration and to
support the ROK’s development of the Korean Positioning System (KPS).
Both leaders agree to hold “the 3<sup>rd</sup> U.S.-ROK Civil Space
Dialogue” by the end of the year, and to strengthen cooperation on the
two countries space industries. They also commit to continue cooperation
to ensure a safe, secure, and sustainable space environment including
through the bilateral space policy dialogue and committed to strengthen
defense space partnerships including through joint exercises.

President Yoon and President Biden agree that the Korea-U.S. Free Trade
Agreement (KORUS), which celebrated its 10<sup>th</sup> anniversary this
year, remains the foundation of our economic relationship. To promote
sustainable growth and financial stability, including orderly and
well-functioning foreign exchange markets, the two Presidents recognize
the need to consult closely on foreign exchange market developments. The
two Presidents share common values and an essential interest in fair,
market-based competition and commit to work together to address market
distorting practices.

**Global** **Comprehensive Strategic Alliance: Beyond the Korean
Peninsula**

Faced with increasingly complex global challenges including the threats
posed by climate change and the COVID-19 pandemic, President Yoon laid
out the ROK’s initiative for a global pivotal state that envisions a
heightened role in advancing freedom, peace, and prosperity in the
Indo-Pacific region and beyond. The two Presidents reaffirm their
commitments to a global comprehensive strategic alliance firmly rooted
in the shared values of promoting democracy and the rules-based
international order, fighting corruption, and advancing human rights.
President Biden appreciated President Yoon’s initiative to embrace
greater regional and global responsibilities, and enthusiastically
welcome the ROK taking a leadership role in *the Summit for Democracy*
process.

Acknowledging the existential threat posed by climate change, President
Yoon and President Biden reaffirm their commitments to their announced
nationally determined contributions under the Paris Agreement including
the 2030 greenhouse gas reduction targets and 2050 net zero emission
goals with strong efforts to align policies across sectors. The two
Presidents also agree to enhance cooperation to address methane
emissions globally, recognizing the importance of the Global Methane
Pledge and rapid global action needed to address methane. The two
Presidents also decide to strengthen cooperation in clean energy fields
such as hydrogen, clean shipping, accelerated deployment of
zero-emissions vehicles (ZEVs) and aligning international financial
flows with global net zero emissions by 2050 and deep reductions in the
2020s.

President Yoon and President Biden pledge to support in strengthening
multilateral efforts to prevent, prepare, and respond to infectious
disease threats. President Yoon underscored President Biden’s leadership
in convening the Global COVID-19 Summit in May 2022, and President Biden
appreciated President Yoon’s active participation and ROK’s announced
pledges, including funding for the Act-Accelerator to combat COVID-19
and support for the Financial Intermediary Fund for pandemic
preparedness and global health security at the World Bank. President
Biden welcomes the ROK’s decision to host a Global Health Security
Agenda ministerial meeting this Fall and establish a GHS coordinating
office for global and regional sustainable health security in Seoul. Our
countries will also increase efforts bilaterally and in multilateral
fora to promote biosafety and biosecurity norms. The U.S. and ROK will
also strengthen health systems and build on successful health sector
collaboration to accelerate cooperation and innovation in cancer
research, cutting edge cancer treatments, mental health research, early
detection, and treatment of mental health disorders.

President Yoon and President Biden highlight their shared belief in the
extraordinary benefits afforded by an open, free, global, interoperable,
reliable, and secure Internet. To combat the rising threats posed by
digital authoritarianism, they committed to defend human rights and
foster an open “network of networks” that ensures the free flow of
information globally. To achieve this, the ROK is ready to join the U.S.
in endorsing *the Declaration for the Future of the Internet*. The two
Presidents also reaffirm the need to ensure that the Internet continues
to play a positive role in promoting equity, equality and safety for
women and girls in both our societies. To this end, the U.S. and the ROK
joined the Global Partnership for Action on Gender-Based Online
Harassment and Abuse as founding members. Recognizing the importance of
telecommunications security and vendor diversity, the leaders also
commit to work together to develop open, transparent, and secure 5G and
6G network devices and architectures using Open-RAN approaches, both at
home and abroad.

President Yoon and President Biden will continue to deepen ROK-U.S.
cooperation on regional and international cyber policy, including
cooperation on deterring cyber adversaries, cybersecurity of critical
infrastructure, combatting cybercrime and associated money laundering,
securing cryptocurrency and blockchain applications, capacity building,
cyber exercises, information sharing, military-to-military cyber
cooperation, and other international security issues in cyberspace.

President Yoon and President Biden oppose all activities that undermine,
destabilize, or threaten the rules-based international order and stand
together with the international community in condemning Russia’s
unprovoked further aggression against Ukraine. Both countries, alongside
other international partners, have responded resolutely to this clear
violation of international law, by imposing their own financial
sanctions and export controls against Russia and Russian entities, along
with the vital provision of humanitarian aid to Ukraine. Both leaders
affirm that they will ensure the effective implementation of their
country’s respective measures to deter further Russian aggression and
maintain our commitment to the principles of sovereignty and territorial
integrity.

The two Presidents recognize the importance of maintaining a free and
open Indo-Pacific that is prosperous and peaceful, and agree to
strengthen mutual cooperation across the region. In this regard,
President Biden shares his support for President Yoon’s initiative to
formulate ROK’s own Indo-Pacific strategy framework. President Yoon also
welcomed the U.S. Indo-Pacific Strategy. The two Presidents commit to
cooperate closely through the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework (IPEF),
based on the principles of openness, transparency, and inclusiveness.
Both leaders agree to work together to develop a comprehensive IPEF that
will deepen economic engagement on priority issues, including the
digital economy, resilient supply chains, clean energy, and other
priorities geared toward promoting sustainable economic growth.

President Yoon and President Biden also reaffirm their strong support
for ASEAN centrality and the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific. The two
Presidents commit to increase cooperation with Southeast Asia and the
Pacific Island Countries to promote sustainable development, energy
security, and high-quality, transparent investment, including in quality
infrastructure. President Biden welcomes President Yoon’s interest in
the Quad, and noted complementary ROK strengths including tackling the
pandemic, fighting climate change and producing critical technologies.
The two leaders also agree to cooperate on infrastructure financing,
including digital infrastructure, in third countries. The two Presidents
emphasize the importance of ROK-U.S.- Japan trilateral cooperation to
effectively address common economic challenges.

President Yoon and President Biden reaffirm their commitment to maintain
peace and stability, lawful unimpeded commerce, and respect for
international law including freedom of navigation and overflight and
other lawful use of the seas, including in the South China Sea and
beyond. The two Presidents reiterate the importance of preserving peace
and stability in the Taiwan Strait as an essential element in security
and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region. Sharing our mutual concerns
regarding human rights situations in the Indo-Pacific region, both
leaders commit to promote human rights and rule of law globally. The two
Presidents resolutely condemn the coup in Myanmar and the military’s
brutal attacks on civilians, and commit to press for the immediate
cessation of violence, the release of those who are detained, unfettered
countrywide humanitarian access, and a swift return to democracy. The
two Presidents call on all nations to join us in providing safe haven to
Burmese nationals and in prohibiting arms sales to Myanmar.

President Yoon and President Biden share the view that the Alliance has
matured into a deep and comprehensive strategic relationship. Through
our close ties between the two dynamic populations, extensive economic
and investment links, and commitment to democracy, human rights, and the
rules-based international order, the ROK and the U.S. are charting a
path toward a relationship that is capable of meeting any challenge and
seizing all the opportunities presented before us. President Yoon and
President Biden jointly recognize the importance of our shared
commitments and pledge to work tirelessly to broaden and deepen our ties
to position us to succeed in a rapidly changing world.

President Biden expressed his gratitude for President Yoon’s warm
hospitality and extended an invitation for President Yoon to visit
Washington at a time of mutual convenience.

\###
