---
date: '2022-05-07'
modified_time: 2022-05-10 10:31:53-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-07 10:38:04-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/07/fact-sheet-the-biden-administration-responds-to-early-wildfires-in-new-mexico/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: The Biden Administration Responds to Early Wildfires in New\_\
  Mexico"
---
 
Early season wildfires in New Mexico and across the Southwest are
devastating communities and ravaging landscapes.  So far this year, the
number of acres burned across the United States is approximately 78%
above the 10-year average.  Much of the West, Plains, and Texas remain
in a historic drought with above average temperatures and below normal
precipitation, creating the conditions for more large and dangerous
wildfires this year.  While the National Wildland Fire Preparedness
Level remains at Level 2 (of 5), the Southwest Region was elevated to
Preparedness Level 4 on April 19<sup>th</sup>, the earliest date this
has ever occurred.  New Mexico has been particularly hard hit, with six
of the Nation’s ten large wildfires currently burning in the State,
consuming more than 250,000 acres.  This has created an unprecedented
situation in the State, with far reaching impacts on communities,
families, and livelihoods.

**The Biden Administration is taking prompt action to ensure that all
applicable Federal resources are mobilized to help New Mexico
communities respond to and recover from these devastating wildfires.** 
The President receives regular briefings on the spread of fires in New
Mexico from his Homeland Security Advisor.  On Wednesday May 4, he
approved a Major Disaster Declaration for Colfax, Lincoln, Mora, San
Miguel, and Valencia Counties in New Mexico to support the State in
responding to and recovering from several intense wildfires.

**Robust Wildfire Response**

The National Interagency Fire Center continues to surge resources to the
area to address this early start to the region’s wildfire season,
including firefighting crews, aircraft, engines, and incident management
teams from the U.S. Forest Service (USFS) and the Department of the
Interior (DOI).  These Federal firefighters joined state, local, and
Tribal firefighters in New Mexico for a unified and coordinated response
growing to nearly 3,000 personnel as of May 9.

FEMA has approved six Fire Management Assistance Grants to support New
Mexico this year.  These funds will support the State in providing
mitigation, management, and control of the fires, as well as provide
funding for emergency work, including procuring equipment and supplies
for responders, supporting evacuation requirements such as traffic
control and sheltering residents, pre-positioning resources to support
the response, and establishing field camps and meals for responders.

Throughout the response, the Department of Energy’s Los Alamos National
Laboratory (LANL) in Los Alamos, New Mexico has been working to ensure
the safety and security of facilities and staff and is actively engaged
with the surrounding community and response officials.  LANL has
pre-positioned assets to assist the Los Alamos Fire Department and
Federal responders with the protection of key facilities.  LANL is also
continuing ongoing efforts to mitigate the risk of wildfire through
fuels reduction activities. In addition, the Laboratory’s Wildland Fire
team has reduced undergrowth and other fuels in the forests around the
Lab property for many years and the Lab has prepared to prevent the
spread of fire on Lab property.

**Support to Communities**

The President’s approval of a Major Disaster Declaration on May 4
provides [additional Federal
funding](https://www.fema.gov/disaster/4652) to help communities recover
from the impacts of these fires.  This support includes financial
assistance for temporary and long-term housing, repairs, and other
critical needs for people who have had to evacuate and makes available
low-interest loans from the Small Business Administration for businesses
and homeowners impacted by the fires. In addition to these types of
assistance, Critical Needs Assistance (CNA) has also been approved,
which provides a one-time $500 payment per eligible impacted households
to cover immediate needs.

FEMA has pre-positioned meals, water, and shelter items for 30,000
people. In addition, the American Red Cross and New Mexico have
established shelters for residents who are displaced from their homes.
Pre-positioned generators and personnel from the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers are also on site to support power restoration efforts in
coordination with the State. The State of New Mexico is also supporting
pet and livestock sheltering needs for families who have been displaced
with animals.

A Federal Coordinating Officer and more than 180 FEMA personnel are on
the ground and working with the State to identify and address emerging
or unmet needs.  FEMA’s Incident Management Assistance Team is embedded
with the State Emergency Operations Center to assist with coordination
of all Federal resources available to the State, and they are continuing
to work with the State to conduct joint preliminary damage assessments
that will inform recovery planning.  FEMA has placed multi-lingual
disaster survivor assistance teams in impacted communities and at
shelters to work directly with New Mexico residents impacted by the
fires to ensure they have access to and are able to register quickly for
Federal assistance.

On May 9, 2022, the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS)
declared a Public Health Emergency for the State of New Mexico, to
ensure that those who rely on Medicare and Medicaid have continuous
access to the care they need during this disaster and as their
communities recover. HHS has deployed staff to support State and local
health authorities and emergency response officials, and staff from the
National Disaster Medical System and U.S. Public Health Service
Commissioned Corps are prepared to provide medical care and public
health support if needed.

In addition, the Disaster Distress Helpline
([1-800-985-5990](tel:1-800-985-5990)) is available 24/7/365 to provide
immediate crisis counseling for people who are experiencing emotional
distress during this disaster.

**Resilient Recovery**

Looking ahead, the summer Southwestern monsoon season and associated
heavy rains can cause substantial watershed impacts from burned areas.
These events can result in significant soil erosion, flooding, and
debris flows and impact both natural resources and communities.  Federal
agencies are working with the State and local communities to anticipate
and prepare for potential flooding and to support post-fire mitigation
activities.  The USFS has established a statewide post-fire response and
recovery team with New Mexico, the Natural Resource Conservation
Service, the Farm Bureau, and other Federal interagency partners to
coordinate efforts and access to funding for environmental response,
stabilization, and recovery.

DOI and USFS interagency Burned Area Emergency Response teams have
already been assigned to the New Mexico Fires. Teams are composed of
resource specialists who determine the need for, prescribe, and can
implement emergency treatments to minimize threats to life or property
or prevent further damage to natural and cultural resources on Federal
land. Assessments completed by these teams will support development of
post fire recovery plans and actions in coordination with the State.

The USDA has made resources available to support farmers and ranchers
whose land, crops, or livestock have been damaged or lost as a result of
wildfires.  These programs include the Livestock Indemnity Program;
Emergency Assistance for Livestock, Honey Bees, and Farm-raised Fish;
Forage Disaster Program; and the Noninsured Crop Disaster Assistance
Program.  USDA also provides low-interest loans to help farmers and
ranchers recover from production and physical losses and reestablish
their operations.  Local USDA staff at county service centers near the
declared counties are available to assist farmers and ranchers with
accessing this assistance.

USDA also has programs to support mitigation and recovery, including an
Environmental Quality Incentives Program to assist with immediate needs
and long-term support to help recover from natural disasters and
conserve water resources, an Emergency Conservation Program to
rehabilitate farmlands damaged by disaster, and an Emergency Forest
Restoration Program to restore private forestlands.  USDA’s Emergency
Watershed Protection Program can also help relieve imminent threats to
life and property caused by fire that impairs a watershed. 

The Biden Administration will continue to work hard to ensure that the
Federal government does everything it can to provide support to New
Mexicans who need help as a result of these early and extremely damaging
wildfires. 

Information on assistance and resources available to people in New
Mexico can be accessed at DisasterAssistance.gov.

\###
