---
date: '2022-05-04'
modified_time: 2022-05-04 18:56:10-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-04 15:59:15-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/04/remarks-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-team-usa-olympic-and-paralympic-athletes-visit/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Remarks by First Lady Jill\_Biden at TEAM USA Olympic and Paralympic Athletes\_\
  Visit"
---
 
The White House

11:43 A.M. EDT  
  
THE FIRST LADY:  Thank you so much.  And I — I would like to say thank
you to the band, who has been playing since 8:30 this morning.  Can we
say thank you?  (Applause.)  
  
So, hello, Olympians and Paralympians.  Welcome to the White House! 
(Applause.)  
  
Doug and I were so grateful to see your Games in Japan.  And Tokyo was
the first time I had the opportunity to see a three-on-three women’s
basketball game, and I was on the edge of my seat the whole time.  It
was everything I love about sports.  
  
Oh, you guys can sit down.  (Laughter.)  
  
I’ll start again: It was everything I love about sports — the moment
when the team shows to — seems to know each other’s thoughts; the air is
electric with that connection; when the crowd is breathing with one
breath, our hearts racing to the rhythm of each thump of the ball; every
basket pure joy.  
  
As I watched Stefanie, Allisha, Kelsey, and Jackie on — fly back and
forth on that court, only one thing mattered to the crowd: We were all
Team USA.  (Applause.)  
  
That’s the power of what all of you do.  You don’t just play a game, run
a race, hit a target, or win a competition. With every step, jump, roll,
kick, and twirl, you show us the heights of our human potential.  You
show us how to fail and then get back up.  You teach us that hard work
and sacrifice and determination can push us beyond what we ever thought
was in our reach.  
  
When we cheer you on, we are more than our cities or our states or our
backgrounds.  We are a part of something bigger than ourselves.  You
help us believe in the impossible and leave our differences behind.  
  
Now, I know that these games may not have been exactly as you once
imagined — with stadiums packed with people and all of your loved ones
screaming from the sidelines.  
  
But you are all champions just the same.  (Applause.)  Becoming an
Olympian or a Paralympian is a rare accomplishment in a normal time, but
you did it during a global pandemic.  You are forever one of the most
elite, most celebrated athletes in this world.  
  
I hope that you are proud of everything you have accomplished, because
we all are.  We are so proud of you.  (Applause.)  
  
And we are grateful for the gifts you’ve given us: the hope, the joy,
the unity — and, most of all, the chance to see you soar.  
  
Thank you.  (Applause.)    
  
And now, an even greater fan of Team USA, my husband, our President, Joe
Biden.  (Applause.)  
  
                        END                11:47 A.M. EDT
