---
date: '2022-05-08'
modified_time: 2022-05-08 11:44:50-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-08 12:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/08/fact-sheet-united-states-and-g7-partners-impose-severe-costs-for-putins-war-against-ukraine/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: United\_States and G7 Partners Impose Severe Costs for Putin\u2019\
  s War Against\_Ukraine"
---
 
*President Biden and G7 Leaders Meet with President Zelenskyy to
Continue our Efforts to Support Ukraine and Build on our Unprecedented
Sanctions and Export Controls*

Today, President Biden and G7 Leaders met with President Zelenskyy of
Ukraine to reinforce our shared commitment to strengthen Ukraine’s
position on the battlefield and at the negotiating table.  
  
Our unprecedented sanctions are already exacting an immense toll on
Russia’s economy and our export controls have strangled Russia’s access
to critical technology and the supply chains it needs to sustain its
military ambitions. Putin’s war is projected to wipe out the last 15
years of economic gains in Russia. As a result of our export controls,
Russia is struggling to replenish its military weapons and equipment.
Russia’s two major tank plants – Uralvagonzavod Corporation and
Chelyabinsk Tractor Plant – have halted work due to lack of foreign
components. Almost 1,000 private sector companies have left Russia, and
reports indicate that more than 200,000 Russians, many of whom are
highly skilled, have fled the country. All of these costs will compound
and intensify over time.  
  
Putin has failed in his initial military objective to dominate Ukraine –
but he has succeeded in making Russia a global pariah. Today, the United
States, the European Union and G7 committed to ratchet up these costs by
collectively taking further measures, consistent with each partner’s
respective legal authorities and processes.  
  
**Targeting State-Controlled Media Within Russia That Bolster Putin’s
War.** The United States will sanction three of Russia’s most
highly-viewed directly or indirectly state-controlled television
stations in Russia – Joint Stock Company Channel One Russia, Television
Station Russia-1, and Joint Stock Company NTV Broadcasting Company. All
three stations have been among the largest recipients of foreign
revenue, which feeds back to the Russian State’s revenue.  
  
**Banning Services that Help Finance Putin’s War and Aid Sanctions
Evasion.** The United States will prohibit U.S. persons from providing
accounting, trust and corporate formation, and management consulting
services to any person in the Russian Federation. These services are key
to Russian companies and elites building wealth, thereby generating
revenue for Putin’s war machine, and to trying to hide that wealth and
evade sanctions. This action builds on previous prohibitions to restrict
the export of goods related to aerospace, marine, electronics,
technology, and defense and related materiel sectors of the Russian
economy.  
  
**Cutting off Imports of Russian Oil and Reducing Dependence on Russian
Energy.** The United States has already banned the import of Russian
oil, gas, and coal. Today, the entire G7 committed to phasing out or
banning the import of Russian oil. This will hit hard at the main artery
of Putin’s economy and deny him the revenue he needs to fund his war.
The G7 also committed to work together to ensure stable global energy
supplies, while accelerating our efforts to reduce dependence on fossil
fuels.  
  
**Impose further export controls and sanctions to degrade Russia’s war
efforts. ** The United States will issue a new rule that imposes
additional restrictions on Russia’s industrial sector, including a broad
range of inputs and products including wood products, industrial
engines, boilers, motors, fans, and ventilation equipment, bulldozers,
and many other items with industrial and commercial applications. These
new controls will further limit Russia’s access to items and revenue
that could support its military capabilities. The United States also
sanctioned Limited Liability Company Promtekhnologiya, which produces
rifles and other weapons that have been used in military operations in
Ukraine; seven shipping companies, which own or operate 69 vessels; and
one marine towing company. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission will also
suspend general licenses for exports of source material, special nuclear
material, byproduct material, and deuterium to Russia.  
  
**Impose Sanctions on Russian Elites and their Family Members and Visa
Restrictions on Russian and Belarusian Officials Undermining the
Sovereignty, Territorial Integrity, or Political Independence of
Ukraine.** The United States imposed approximately 2,600 visa
restrictions on Russian and Belarusian officials in response to their
ongoing efforts to undermine the sovereignty, territorial integrity, or
political independence of Ukraine. Additionally, the United States
issued a new visa restriction policy that applies to Russian Federation
military officials and Russia-backed or Russia-installed purported
authorities who are believed to have been involved in human rights
abuses, violations of international humanitarian law, or public
corruption in Ukraine. The United States also sanctioned eight
executives from Sberbank– the largest financial institution in Russia
and uniquely important to the Russian economy, holding about a third of
all bank assets in Russia; twenty-seven executives from Gazprombank – a
prominent Russian bank facilitating business by Russia’s Gazprom, one of
the largest natural gas exporters in the world; and Moscow Industrial
Bank and its ten subsidiaries.

\###
