---
date: '2022-05-31'
published_time: 2022-05-31 13:03:42-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/31/joint-readout-of-meeting-between-prime-minister-ardern-and-vice-president-harris/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Joint Readout of Meeting Between Prime Minister Ardern and Vice President\_\
  Harris"
---
 
Today, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern of New Zealand and Vice President
Kamala Harris met at the White House and jointly reaffirmed the strong
and deep relationship between the United States and New Zealand, based
on shared values, people-to-people ties, and cooperation across a wide
range of bilateral, regional, and global challenges.

The Prime Minister and the Vice President welcomed the completion
of negotiations on the bilateral Space Framework Agreement, which will
be the foundation of our already robust civil space cooperation in the
years ahead. The Framework will underpin the two nations’ cooperation
including in: space science, earth science, sustainability, education,
and technology. The Prime Minister and the Vice President reviewed the
growing space partnership between the United States and New
Zealand, including in supporting space exploration and taking action on
climate change. They looked forward to future exchanges between the two
countries.

The Prime Minister and the Vice President agreed on the importance of
establishing and upholding international rules and norms to promote the
peaceful, sustainable, and responsible use of outer space. They agreed
that our two nations will work together to uphold and strengthen a
rules-based international order for space and that we will work
constructively with commercial industry, allies, and partners, and
through multilateral fora to support the safety, stability, security,
and long-term sustainability of space activities. 

The Prime Minister and the Vice President discussed mutual efforts to
combat violent extremism and radicalisation. They condemned recent mass
shootings in the United States, including in Buffalo, Laguna Woods, and
Uvalde, and agreed that we all must stand up against hate and violence.

\###
