---
date: '2022-05-31'
modified_time: 2022-05-31 13:52:42-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-31 13:50:04-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/31/united-states-aotearoa-new-zealand-joint-statement/
tags: statements-releases
title: "United\_States \u2013 Aotearoa New Zealand Joint\_Statement"
---
 
*A 21<sup>st</sup>-Century Partnership for the Pacific, the
Indo-Pacific, and the World*

President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. is honored to welcome Prime Minister
Jacinda Ardern of Aotearoa New Zealand to the White House. The leaders
reaffirmed the strategic partnership between the United States and New
Zealand, as expressed in the 2010 Wellington Declaration and the 2012
Washington Declaration.

Our peoples have served side-by-side to uphold international peace and
security for over a century; 80 years ago, during the Second World War,
U.S. Marines arrived in New Zealand before embarking for the Pacific
theatre. Together we honor that history of shared resolve in the face of
aggression, in the pursuit of peace, and in our common respect for
sovereignty, territorial integrity, and the peaceful resolution of
disputes. We note that, since then, our ties have broadened and
deepened, founded on shared values of democracy, fundamental freedoms,
and the rule of law. Today, President Biden and Prime Minister Ardern
committed to advance our longstanding partnership to meet
21<sup>st</sup>-century challenges: bolstering security and building
resilience, including to climate change, in the Pacific; promoting
prosperity in the Indo-Pacific; and combatting the climate crisis and
ensuring the responsible use of technology around the world.

We meet at a time of great challenge. The COVID-19 pandemic continues to
wreak a human and economic toll, even as the climate crisis becomes ever
more urgent. Technology brings both opportunity and threat, including
the scourge of online radicalization to violence. The rules-based
international order that has long been the foundation of peace and
prosperity is under pressure.In the Indo-Pacific, we face a challenging
landscape, where the values, norms, and rules that have fostered
stability, growth, and prosperity in recent decades are under threat. In
Europe, meanwhile, Russia continues to wage its unjustified and
unprovoked war in Ukraine. Taken together, these challenges call for
common purpose and action, across the Atlantic and the Pacific.

**I. Regional Architecture and Security**

Our partnership is global, but it is centered in the Indo-Pacific. The
United States and New Zealand are committed to realizing a region of
sovereign, resilient, and prosperous states, based on the international
rules-based order, where states, including and especially small states,
can pursue their interests free from coercion. This vision is reflected
in the Indo-Pacific Strategy of the United States, which New Zealand
welcomes; and in New Zealand’s Indo-Pacific policy as outlined by Prime
Minister Ardern in 2021.

The United States and New Zealand share a strong commitment to the
regional architecture. We jointly recognize the importance of a strong
and unified Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) to an open,
inclusive, stable, and prosperous Indo-Pacific. We reaffirm our strong
support for ASEAN centrality and the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific.
We value the Pacific Islands Forum, of which New Zealand is a member and
the United States is a Forum Dialogue Partner, as the preeminent
political regional body and a critical driver of Pacific regional
cooperation, security, and stability. We appreciate that the Quad—the
grouping of Australia, Japan, India, and the United States—plays an
important role in delivering practical support to the region, including
providing COVID-19 vaccines and improving maritime domain awareness. We
note the shared commitment among New Zealand and AUKUS partners to the
peace and stability of the Indo-Pacific region, and to upholding the
international rules-based order.

We reaffirm our steadfast commitment to the Pacific Islands region, with
a strong and united Pacific Islands Forum at the center. Prime Minister
Ardern welcomed the United States’ decision to heighten its engagement
with this vital region, reflected in its recent appointment of a Special
Presidential Envoy for Compact Negotiations and its commitments to
expand its physical diplomatic presence across the Pacific. President
Biden resolved to raise U.S. ambition in partnering with the Pacific
Islands still higher and to match that ambition with resourcing.

Throughout our engagement, the United States and New Zealand will
continue to support the Pacific region’s own priorities, which will be
reflected in the Forum’s upcoming 2050 Strategy for the Blue Pacific
Continent. At the top of this agenda is addressing the climate crisis,
which, as the Pacific Islands Forum’s *Boe Declaration* states, is the
single greatest threat to the Pacific and the health and well-being of
its residents. New Zealand and the United States also affirmed their
commitment to an approach to Pacific fisheries that is led by Pacific
countries, protecting the marine environment, livelihoods, traditions,
food security, and economic benefits.

Our countries will expand our work in the Pacific on infrastructure,
including transportation and information-communications technology;
cyber security; maritime security, including combatting illegal,
unreported, and unregulated fishing; education and skills training;
COVID-19 pandemic assistance and global health security; and economic
recovery. At the same time, we will promote democratic governance, free
and fair elections, media freedom, and transparency; we will increase
respect for human rights and the rule of law, and expand access to
justice in Pacific countries, including through a new joint program to
bolster the role of women in the justice sector. To best deliver these
and other commitments in the Pacific, President Biden and Prime Minister
Ardern committed to deepen coordination between the United States and
New Zealand, and with other likeminded allies and partners, as we work
together in support of Pacific priorities.

We are concerned with growing strategic competition in the Pacific
region, which threatens to undermine existing institutions and
arrangements that underpin the region’s security. The United States
acknowledged that Pacific Islands Forum Members have a strong commitment
to support one another to meet the broader ambitions for the region’s
security, as set out in the *Biketawa Declaration* and *Boe
Declaration*. We recognize that Pacific Islands Forum Members have
worked hard together to meet one another’s security needs, and today
have the capacity and commitment to continue doing so. In this regard,
we note with concern the security agreement between the People’s
Republic of China and the Solomon Islands. In particular, the United
States and New Zealand share a concern that the establishment of a
persistent military presence in the Pacific by a state that does not
share our values or security interests would fundamentally alter the
strategic balance of the region and pose national-security concerns to
both our countries.

A freer and more open Indo-Pacific depends on preserving the
international rules-based order in the maritime domain. To that end, we
reaffirm our support for freedom of navigation and overflight, in the
South China Sea and beyond, in accordance with the UN Convention on the
Law of the Sea (UNCLOS). We oppose unlawful maritime claims and
activities in the South China Sea that run counter to the rules-based
international order, particularly UNCLOS. We reiterate our grave
concerns regarding the human-rights violations in Xinjiang, and the
erosion of rights and freedoms in Hong Kong, which undermines the high
degree of autonomy enshrined in the Sino-British Joint Declaration and
the Basic Law. We underscore the importance of peace and stability
across the Taiwan Strait and encourage the peaceful resolution of
cross-Strait issues.

We affirm our commitment to the complete denuclearization of the Korean
Peninsula and urge the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK) to
abide by its obligations under United Nations Security Council (UNSC)
resolutions and return to negotiations. The leaders jointly condemn the
DPRK’s destabilizing ballistic missile tests this year, including
multiple launches of intercontinental ballistic missiles, as clear
violations of UNSC resolutions; they reaffirmed their commitment to work
with the international community to address DPRK sanctions violations,
including its illicit ship-to-ship transfers. We condemn the coup in
Myanmar and the military’s brutal attacks on civilians. We continue to
call for the immediate cessation of violence, the release of all who are
unjustly detained, unfettered countrywide humanitarian access, and a
swift return to democracy.  

Beyond the Indo-Pacific, the leaders strongly condemned Russian
President Vladimir Putin’s invasion of Ukraine, which is in flagrant
violation of international law. President Biden and Prime Minister
Ardern discussed the financial and military support that both countries
have provided to Ukraine, reviewed the ongoing application of sanctions
our two countries have designed to deny the Kremlin the means to
continue to prosecute its war in Ukraine, and considered what further
measures could be taken to bolster the diplomatic effort. Alongside the
European Union and international partners, our countries have condemned
the campaign of disruptive and destructive cyber activity by Russia
against Ukraine. And as food-exporting nations, we recognize the
importance of ensuring that global supply chains for food and
agricultural products remain free and open, and we are concerned by the
severe impact of Russia’s attacks on civilian infrastructure and its
blockading of Ukraine’s sea ports on global food security.

We highlight the importance of full implementation of the Nuclear
Non-Proliferation Treaty and look forward to working together to achieve
a meaningful outcome at the forthcoming Review Conference.

Today, we acknowledge that security and defense will become an
ever-more-important focus of our strategic partnership. We look to
increase the interoperability of our forces, including through personnel
exchanges, co-deployments, and defense trade. Achieving this vision will
require robust and sustained commitment to defense in the Pacific. As
New Zealand takes delivery of new capabilities, we will look for
opportunities for combined operations and to expand our cooperation in
other ways. As the security environment in the Indo-Pacific evolves, so
must our defense cooperation.

**II. Indo-Pacific Prosperity**

The United States and New Zealand will deepen our economic ties, with
each other and the region. Bilaterally, we intend to work together to
promote growth in both our economies for the benefit of all our
citizens, and to explore how we can expand bilateral trade and
investment in order to strengthen the security of our supply chains and
economic resilience. To that end, the United States and New Zealand will
resume annual Trade and Investment Framework Agreement (TIFA)
discussions.

Regionally, the United States and New Zealand look forward to working
together to progress the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework for Prosperity
(IPEF), alongside 12 other founding partners: Australia, Brunei, Fiji,
India, Indonesia, Japan, the Republic of Korea, Malaysia, the
Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, and Vietnam. President Biden and Prime
Minister Ardern warmly welcomed Fiji’s recent decision to join IPEF as a
founding member—the first Pacific Island nation to do so.

We reiterate the value of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation
(APEC)—which

New Zealand hosted in 2021 and the United States will host in 2023—as a
forum for supporting trade and economic growth in the region in
fulfilment of APEC Leaders’ vision for an open, dynamic, resilient, and
peaceful Asia-Pacific Community. We reaffirm our joint commitment to
rationalize and phase out inefficient fossil-fuel subsidies that
encourage wasteful consumption, recalling the Glasgow Climate Pact and
APEC Leaders’ commitment to this goal.  In doing so, we recognize that
inefficient fossil-fuel subsidies distort markets, disadvantage
renewable and clean energy, and undermine efforts to deal with the
threat of climate change. 

We intend to ensure that a free and open rules-based global trade system
built on high standards and long-standing principles serves the interest
of the citizens of both of our countries; to that end, we affirm our
commitment to reform and strengthen the World Trade Organization (WTO),
and to work together to secure outcomes that provide for meaningful
disciplines at the upcoming 12<sup>th</sup> WTO Ministerial Conference.

**III. 21<sup>st</sup>-Century Challenges**

Our deepening ties are vital to our ability to meet transnational
challenges. Climate change poses an existential threat, in our countries
and around the world, with the potential for devastating impacts in the
Pacific region. We are urgently pursuing efforts toward net-zero
emissions in our economies and limiting global average temperature rise
to no more than 1.5 degrees, and commit to enhanced collaborative
engagement on climate-change issues. We will work together to accelerate
the uptake of the technologies, innovation, and investment needed for
our transition to productive, sustainable, and inclusive low-emissions
economies. We commit to producing plans to reduce methane emissions to
support national and global efforts under the Global Methane Pledge. We
will enhance our efforts to support an empowered low-emissions
transition and to address climate impacts in the Pacific, including by
supporting activities that build the resilience and adaptive capacity of
small island developing states. We will also enhance our efforts to
ensure the environmental integrity of carbon markets, and to ensure the
mutual supportiveness of trade and climate policy.

As maritime democracies, we will cooperate on ocean governance. We will
work together on protection and sustainable use of the ocean;
decarbonizing the shipping sector, including by supporting the
establishment of green-shipping corridors; and promoting maritime
security, including by combatting challenges such as illegal,
unreported, and unregulated fishing. We also intend to work together on
complementary approaches to achieve the objective of protecting maritime
zones from challenge in the face of sea-level rise, through continued
dialogue between law-of-the-sea experts. Noting our longstanding and
shared interest in protecting Antarctica as a place for peace and
science, and our decades of research collaboration, we reaffirm our
commitment to the principles and the letter of the Antarctic Treaty
system.

President Biden and Prime Minister Ardern committed to helping end the
acute phase of the COVID-19 pandemic while also working to prevent,
detect, prepare for, and respond to future global health emergencies and
pandemic threats. With key partners, the United States and New Zealand
have delivered more than 200 million life-saving doses of vaccine to the
Indo-Pacific region, and we continue our efforts to address new phases
of the pandemic. We will accelerate progress on immunization and
increase access to testing, therapeutics, oxygen, and other lifesaving
measures to prevent hospitalizations and deaths. Both leaders commended
the commitments made at the recent Global COVID-19 Summit. In addition
to supporting the ongoing work of the World Health Organization and the
ACT-Accelerator, Prime Minister Ardern committed to support in-principle
the establishment of a global health security fund for pandemic
preparedness and response. Both leaders also reaffirmed their strong
support for the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria,
including as an ACT-Accelerator partner, and its Seventh Replenishment
later this year. We affirm the importance of strengthening the
resilience and responsiveness of the global health architecture, and are
committed to negotiations underway on a new instrument to strengthen
pandemic prevention, preparedness, and response, with a strengthened
World Health Organization able to fulfill its central and coordinating
role in international health work. They are also committed to working
together to improve elements of the existing system, such as the
International Health Regulations.

We must also address the virus of hate, online and offline. The leaders
emphasized the need to take action to keep our people safe from gun
violence. The Prime Minister expressed her personal condolences to
President Biden and to the American people for the tragedies in Uvalde,
Texas and Buffalo, New York.

In the face of online radicalization to violence, we share a commitment
to work together to ensure that technology is used in ways that promote
and advance human rights. As supporters of the Christchurch Call, we
pledge to continue our work alongside civil society and the technology
sector to counter terrorist and violent extremist content online,
including racially or ethnically motivated violent extremism, while
promoting human rights online and a free, open, global, interoperable,
reliable, and secure internet. We look forward to our countries
participating in the Christchurch Call Leaders’ Summit in September this
year, during which we intend to announce new measures to better
understand and address online radicalization by promoting algorithmic
transparency and data access, designing and implementing evidence-based
interventions, optimizing and closing loopholes in crisis response, and
advancing innovation by drawing on multi-stakeholder partners.

Even as we address the dangers of misuse of technology, we are committed
to working together to protect and amplify its benefits. As supporters
of the Declaration for the Future of the Internet, and members of the
Freedom Online Coalition, the Open Government Partnership, and the
Global Partnership on AI, we commit to pursuing multi-stakeholder
approaches to support an open, free, global, interoperable, reliable,
and secure internet and the responsible and ethical use of emerging
technology. We will continue to work together to build strategies and
share best practices to counter disinformation and misinformation, the
spread of which threatens our democratic values and institutions. We
also recognize the need for a diverse cohort of young people to help us
navigate a digitally enabled future in line with our shared values. We
plan to look for training and placement opportunities in both New
Zealand and the United States to support young practitioners in science
and technology broadly, and to deepen our digital technology
partnership.

Online and offline, we will advance the rights of all people in our
societies, including women, minorities, and Indigenous peoples. We share
a fervent commitment to gender equity and equality. We recognize that
online harassment and abuse, particularly when targeted at women
activists, journalists, and political figures, undermines the strength
of democracies; Prime Minister Ardern committed New Zealand to join the
Global Partnership for Action on Online Gender-Based Harassment and
Abuse. We reaffirm our commitment to promoting human rights and
democracy and countering corruption and authoritarianism globally,
including through the Summit for Democracy Year of Action.

The two leaders committed to strengthening the U.S.-New Zealand
strategic partnership across all areas of space cooperation. They
welcomed the finalization of our bilateral Space Framework Agreement,
which will facilitate future collaboration between the United States and
New Zealand on the uses of outer space for peaceful purposes. They also
looked forward to the initiation of joint feasibility studies under the
Framework Agreement in support of space exploration. 

For 80 years, our diplomatic relationship has benefited our countries,
the region, and the world. But today’s world demands new resolve and
closer cooperation between us. The United States and Aotearoa New
Zealand will strengthen our strategic partnership to meet the challenges
of the 21<sup>st</sup> century, seize the opportunities of an
interconnected economy, and work together to preserve the international
rules-based system on which our security, prosperity, and sustainability
depends. As they reaffirmed our countries’ unique partnership, President
Biden and Prime Minister Ardern recalled the words inscribed on the
Marine Corps Memorial plaque in Wellington, New Zealand: “To the people
of New Zealand: If you ever need a friend, you have one.”

\###
