---
date: '2022-05-05'
modified_time: 2022-05-05 15:38:43-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-05 15:38:42-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/05/president-biden-announces-karine-jean-pierre-as-white-house-press-secretary/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Karine Jean-Pierre as White\_House Press\_Secretary"
---
 
*Anita Dunn will return as a Senior Advisor*

Today, President Biden announced Karine Jean-Pierre has been promoted to
be Assistant to the President and White House Press Secretary. Karine
will step into the Press Secretary role replacing Jen Psaki, who will
depart from the White House on May 13.

*Statement from President Biden: *“I am proud to announce that Karine
Jean-Pierre will serve as the next White House Press Secretary.

“Karine not only brings the experience, talent and integrity needed for
this difficult job, but she will continue to lead the way in
communicating about the work of the Biden-Harris Administration on
behalf of the American people. Jill and I have known and respected
Karine a long time and she will be a strong voice speaking for me and
this Administration.

“Jen Psaki has set the standard for returning decency, respect and
decorum to the White House Briefing Room. I want to say thank you to Jen
for raising the bar, communicating directly and truthfully to the
American people, and keeping her sense of humor while doing so. I thank
Jen her service to the country, and wish her the very best as she moves
forward.”

The White House also announced the return of Anita Dunn as a Senior
Advisor and Assistant to the President. Dunn rejoins the White House
staff from her communications and political consulting firm SKDK, and
will assist in advancing the President’s policy and communications
objectives.  
  
**Karine Jean-Pierre, Press Secretary and Assistant to the President**

Karine Jean-Pierre is currently the Principal Deputy Press Secretary and
Deputy Assistant to the President. Karine is a long-time advisor to
President Biden, having served in senior communication and political
roles in the Biden Administration, the Biden campaign, and to then-Vice
President Biden in the Obama Administration.

Prior to her role on the campaign, she served as Chief Public Affairs
Officer for MoveOn.org and an NBC and MSNBC Political Analyst.
Jean-Pierre served as Regional Political Director for the White House
Office of Political Affairs during the Obama-Biden administration and as
Deputy Battleground States Director for President Obama’s 2012
re-election campaign. She served as Southeast Regional Political
Director for President Obama’s 2008 campaign, Deputy Campaign Manager
for Martin O’Malley for President, Campaign Manager for the ACLU’s
Reproductive Freedom Initiative, and Deputy Chief of Staff and Director
of Legislative and Budget Affairs for two members in the New York City
Council.

Previously, she worked at the Center for Community and Corporate Ethics,
pushing major companies to change their business practices, and is a
published author. Born in Martinique and raised in New York, Jean-Pierre
is a graduate of Columbia University.  
  
**Anita Dunn, Senior Advisor and Assistant to the President**

Anita Dunn is one of the nation’s top communications and political
strategists, and is a close advisor to President Biden. She recently
served as a Senior Advisor to President Biden, and is currently a
partner and founding member of SKDK. She brings decades of experience
advising Presidents and senior Democrats. She served as a chief
strategist to President Obama as a senior campaign advisor and as the
White House Communications Director. She has also worked in leading
roles for Tom Daschle, Bill Bradley, and Evan Bayh.

As Senior Advisor to President Biden, Anita advised on the
administration’s overall strategy and messaging, helping the President
take steps and win legislative victories that helped jumpstart the
economy after the pandemic. Prior to that, she served as a senior
advisor on the Biden-Harris campaign, advising on all aspects of the
campaign. At SKDK, Anita has worked with progressive and issue advocacy
campaigns, given strategic advice to elected officials, political
candidates, CEOs, nonprofits and corporations.

\###
