---
date: '2022-05-20'
modified_time: 2022-05-20 20:10:30-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-20 19:45:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/20/president-biden-announces-john-kirby-as-nsc-coordinator-for-strategic-communications/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces John Kirby as NSC Coordinator for Strategic\_Communications"
---
 
Today, President Biden announced that John Kirby, who is currently the
Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs, will be the
new National Security Council Coordinator for Strategic Communications
at the White House. In this role, Kirby will coordinate interagency
efforts to explain United States policy and will serve as a senior
administration voice on related matters, including as appropriate at the
White House podium. This position will be housed at the NSC and report
to the National Security Advisor.

**Statement from President Biden:**

“John Kirby is uniquely qualified for this position, and I look forward
to bringing his background, knowledge, and experience to the White
House. From his work as the Assistant Secretary and Spokesperson at the
State Department to his work at the Pentagon, most recently as Assistant
to the Secretary for Public Affairs and Press Secretary, John
understands the complexities of U.S. foreign and defense policy, and he
will ably represent the Administration on important national security
issues.”

**Statement from National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan:**

“I am proud to welcome John to the team.  I’m excited to see him get to
work on behalf of the president and the entire national security
enterprise.”

**Statement from John Kirby:**

“I am incredibly honored to be given this opportunity to continue
serving my country and this Administration. I am very grateful to
President Biden for his confidence in me and to Secretary Austin for his
tremendous support and leadership these last 18 months. Secretary Austin
has been more than just my boss; he’s been a mentor and a confidante,
and he has helped make me a better communicator. He has trusted me to
speak for the Department, and he has trusted me to speak for him. Those
are precious responsibilities, the weight of which I felt and respected
every day. I thank him for that. I also thank my entire team at OSD
Public Affairs. When I messed up, they fixed it. When I did well, they
made it so. I’ve never known a better team of professionals. I am
excited to start this next assignment very soon, but I will surely miss
each and every one of them.”

**John Kirby, NSC Coordinator for Strategic Communications**

John Kirby is currently the Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for
Public Affairs. In this role, he advises Secretary of Defense Lloyd
Austin and Deputy Secretary of Defense Kathleen Hicks and serves as the
Department’s chief spokesperson. Kirby previously served at the
Department of State, as the Assistant Secretary for the Bureau of Public
Affairs from December 2015 to January 2017 and as the State Department’s
spokesperson from May 2015 to January 2017. Prior to the State
Department, Kirby served as the Pentagon Press Secretary under Secretary
of Defense Chuck Hagel.

Kirby commissioned in the U.S. Navy in September 1986 and served in
uniform for more than 28 years, before retiring in 2015 at the rank of
Rear Admiral. He is a 1985 graduate of the University of South Florida
and holds a Master of Science degree in International Relations from
Troy State University and a Master of Arts in National Security and
Strategic Studies from the Naval War College.
