---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-08-05'
modified_time: 2021-08-05 14:31:13-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/05/fact-sheet-the-bipartisan-infrastructure-investment-and-jobs-act-advances-president-bidens-climate-agenda/
published_time: 2021-08-05 14:18:35-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: The Bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act Advances\
  \ President\_Biden\u2019s Climate\_Agenda"
---
 
Last month, the President stood with Democrats and Republicans to
announce the Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework – which makes the
largest long-term investment in our infrastructure and competitiveness
in nearly a century and is an important first investment to ensure the
U.S. can tackle the climate crisis.

Last week, the President and Senators announced details of the historic
investment, which includes historic components that will help combat
climate change, advance environmental justice, and create good-paying,
union jobs. From reducing greenhouse gas emissions across the
transportation sector, replacing lead pipes to deliver clean drinking
water, electrifying America’s power grid, and more, the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Deal embeds key provisions that advance President Biden’s
climate plan alongside his full Build Back Better Agenda.

President Biden promised to work across the aisle to deliver results for
working families, and the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal demonstrates we
can come together to take key steps towards building an economy and
country that is more sustainable, resilient, and just – all while
creating jobs, furthering environmental justice, and addressing climate
change.

President Biden believes we must invest in our country and our people by
creating good jobs, tackling the climate crisis, and sustaining
equitable economic growth for decades to come. The deal – along with his
Build Back Better Agenda – will deliver progress towards this vision for
working families across the country.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Modernize Public Transit and
Reduce Emissions</span>**

The transportation sector is the nation’s top contributor to greenhouse
gas emissions, which we must reduce to ensure we meet President Biden’s
goals to create a net-zero economy by 2050. And, America’s transit
infrastructure has a multi-billion dollar repair backlog with more than
24,000 buses, 5,000 rail cars, 200 stations, and thousands of miles of
track, signals, and power systems in need of replacement. **The
Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal makes the largest investment in public
transit in history and is the largest federal investment in passenger
rail since the creation of Amtrak – helping reduce greenhouse gas
emissions when repairing, upgrading, and modernizing the nation’s
transit infrastructure**. The bill invests $105 billion in new funding
to improve healthy, sustainable transportation options for millions of
Americans by modernizing and expanding transit and rail networks across
the country. It will replace thousands of transit vehicles, including
buses, with clean, zero emission vehicles.  And, it will benefit
communities of color since these households are twice as likely to take
public transportation and many of these communities lack sufficient
public transit options. In addition, it will help transit workers who
are disproportionally workers of color. Bus and transit workers are 31%
Black and 19% Hispanic, compared to 12% and 18% respectively of the
workforce overall.   
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Build Up EV
Infrastructure</span>**

U.S. market share of plug-in electric vehicle (EV) sales is only
one-third the size of the Chinese EV market. The President believes that
must change. **The bill invests $7.5 billion to build out the first-ever
national network of EV chargers in the United States and is a critical
element in the Biden-Harris Administration’s plan to accelerate the
adoption of EVs to address the climate crisis and support domestic
manufacturing jobs. **The bill will provide funding for deployment of EV
chargers along highway corridors to facilitate long-distance travel and
within communities to provide convenient charging where people live,
work, and shop.  Federal funding will have a particular focus on rural,
disadvantaged, and hard-to-reach communities.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Electrify America’s
Buses</span>**

American school buses play a critical role in expanding access to
education, but they are also a significant source of pollution. **The
deal will deliver thousands of electric school buses nationwide,
including in rural communities, helping school districts across the
country buy clean, American-made, zero emission buses, and replace the
yellow school bus fleet for America’s children. **The deal invests $5
billion in zero and low emission school buses, in addition to more than
$5 billion in funding for public transit agencies to adopt low- and
no-emissions buses. These investments will drive demand for
American-made batteries and vehicles, creating jobs and supporting
domestic manufacturing, while also removing diesel buses from some of
our most vulnerable communities. In addition, they will help the more
than 25 million children and thousands of bus drivers who breathe
polluted air on their rides to and from school. Diesel air pollution is
linked to asthma and other health problems that hurt our communities and
cause students to miss school, particularly in communities of color and
Tribal communities.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Reduce Emissions Across
Airports, Ports, and Waterways</span>**

The United States built modern aviation, but our airports lag far behind
our competitors. According to some rankings, no U.S. airports rank in
the top 25 of airports worldwide. Our ports and waterways need repair
and reimagination too. **The bill invests $17 billion in port
infrastructure and $25 billion in airports to address repair and
maintenance backlogs, reduce congestion and emissions near ports and
airports, and drive electrification and other low-carbon
technologies.** Modern, resilient, and sustainable port, airport, and
freight infrastructure will support U.S. competitiveness by removing
bottlenecks and expediting commerce and reduce the environmental impact
on neighboring communities.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Strengthen
Resilience</span>**

Millions of Americans feel the effects of climate change each year when
their roads wash out, airport power goes down, or schools get flooded.
Last year alone, the United States faced 22 extreme weather and
climate-related disaster events with losses exceeding $1 billion each –
a cumulative price tag of nearly $100 billion. People of color are more
likely to live in areas most vulnerable to flooding and other climate
change-related weather events. **The deal makes our communities safer
and our infrastructure more resilient to the impacts of climate change
and cyber attacks, with an investment of roughly $50 billion.** This
includes funds to protect against droughts and floods, in addition to a
major investment in weatherization. The bill is the largest investment
in the resilience of physical and natural systems in American history.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Deliver Clean Drinking
Water</span>**

Currently, up to 10 million American households and 400,000 schools and
child care centers lack safe drinking water. **The deal’s $55 billion
investment represents the largest investment in clean drinking water in
American history, including dedicated funding to replace lead service
lines and the dangerous chemical PFAS (per- and polyfluoroalkyl).** It
will replace all of the nation’s lead pipes and service lines. From
rural towns to struggling cities, the deal invests in water
infrastructure across America, including in Tribal Nations and
disadvantaged communities that need it most.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Address Legacy
Pollution</span>**

In thousands of rural and urban communities around the country, hundreds
of thousands of former industrial and energy sites are now idle –
sources of blight and pollution. 26% of Black Americans and 29% of
Hispanic Americans live within 3 miles of a Superfund site, a higher
percentage than for Americans overall. Proximity to a Superfund site can
lead to elevated levels of lead in children’s blood. **The deal invests
$21 billion in environmental remediation, making the largest investment
in addressing the legacy pollution that harms the public health of
communities and neighborhoods in American history, creating good-paying
union jobs in hard-hit energy communities and advancing economic and
environmental justice.** The bill includes funds to clean up superfund
and brownfield sites, reclaim abandoned mine land and cap orphaned gas
wells.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Electrify America’s Power
Infrastructure</span>**

As the recent Texas power outages demonstrated, our aging electric grid
needs urgent modernization. A Department of Energy study found that
power outages cost the U.S. economy up to $70 billion annually. **The
deal’s roughly $60 billion investment is the single largest investment
in clean energy transmission in American history.** It upgrades our
power infrastructure, including by building thousands of miles of new,
resilient transmission lines to facilitate the expansion of renewable
energy. It creates a new Grid Deployment Authority, invests in research
and development for advanced transmission and electricity distribution
technologies, and promotes smart grid technologies that deliver
flexibility and resilience. It invests in demonstration projects and
research hubs for next generation technologies like advanced nuclear
reactors, carbon capture, and clean hydrogen.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">BUILD BACK BETTER
AGENDA</span>**

Tackling the climate crisis and reaching President Biden’s goal of a
net-zero emissions economy by 2050 requires **consistent actionand
historic investments in sustainable, resilient, and equitable
infrastructure** – and this deal is a critical step towards realizing
these objectives.  **But we know there is more work to do** – to grow
our economy, create jobs, reduce climate pollution, and ensure more
Americans can participate fully and equally in our economy.  
  
In addition to the bipartisan deal, President Biden is dedicated to
fulfilling his entire vision to tackle the climate crisis – which
includes **advancing his full Build Back Better Agenda **that will:

-   **Create an energy efficiency and clean electricity standard **to
    send a market signal that bring additional private investment off
    the sidelines and into modernizing America’s electric grid – a key
    step towards reaching President Biden’s goal of 100% clean
    electricity by 2035.
-   **Extend and expand clean energy and EV tax credits **for businesses
    and consumers to spur demand for domestic manufacturing, accelerate
    clean energy and EV deployment, and grow our capacity to build those
    technologies in the U.S.
-   **Enlist a Civilian Climate Corps **to put a new, diverse generation
    of Americans to work conserving our public lands and waters, bolster
    community resilience, and advance environmental justice – all while
    paving the way for good-paying, union jobs.

\###
