---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-08-10'
modified_time: 2021-08-10 17:51:13-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/10/president-biden-announces-ten-key-nominations/
published_time: 2021-08-10 16:41:18-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Ten Key\_Nominations"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following ten individuals to serve in key roles:

-   María Luisa Pagán, Nominee for Deputy United States Trade
    Representative, Geneva Office
-   Christopher Wilson, Nominee for Chief Innovation and Intellectual
    Property Negotiator, Office of the United States Trade
    Representative
-   Leopoldo Martinez, Nominee for Executive Director of the
    Inter-American Development Bank
-   M. Fabiana Jorge, Nominee for Alternate Executive Director of the
    Inter-American Development Bank
-   Sasha Baker, Nominee for Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for
    Policy
-   Sean Coffey, Nominee for General Counsel of the Department of the
    Navy
-   Sarah H. Cleveland, Nominee for Legal Adviser of the Department of
    State
-   Joshua Frost, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Financial Markets,
    Department of the Treasury
-   Amy Loyd, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Career, Technical, and
    Adult Education, Department of Education
-   Sam Slater, Member of the Board of Directors of the Metropolitan
    Washington Airport Authority

**<u>María Luisa Pagán, Nominee for Deputy United States Trade
Representative, Geneva Office</u>**

María L. Pagán has spent almost three decades as a trade lawyer in the
U.S. government.  She is currently the Deputy General Counsel at the
Office of the United States Trade Representative.  In that role, she
provides legal advice to senior USTR officials on all legal aspects
regarding trade negotiations, implementation of trade agreements, and
trade related legislation and regulations.  She has been the lead U.S.
attorney for numerous trade agreement negotiations.  She was the lead
lawyer for the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, handling the legal
aspects of the negotiation, as well as the implementation package that
passed Congress in early 2020.   Before becoming Deputy General Counsel,
she specialized in providing legal advice on services, government
procurement, and the section 421 country-specific safeguard, and also
litigated several disputes before the WTO.  Prior to joining USTR in
2003, Ms. Pagán worked as an attorney advisor in the Office of the Chief
Counsel for International Commerce at the U.S. Department of Commerce.

Ms. Pagán was born and raised in Puerto Rico, and resides in Maryland. 
She received her law degree and a Master’s in Foreign Service from
Georgetown University, and a B.A. from Tufts University.  

**<u>Christopher Wilson, Nominee for Chief Innovation and Intellectual
Property Negotiator, Office of the United States Trade
Representative</u>**

Christopher Wilson is a 20-year veteran of the Office of the United
States Trade Representative, where he has served in a variety of trade
policy leadership roles, including Deputy Assistant U.S. Trade
Representative for Innovation and Intellectual Property (2006-2008) and
several Assistant U.S. Trade Representative positions.  Wilson’s USTR
experience encompasses periods focused on regional trade relationships
with Latin America, Europe and the Middle East, and South and Central
Asia.  He has represented USTR at the U.S. Mission to the European
Union, and at the U.S. Mission to the World Trade Organization as Deputy
U.S. Permanent Representative.  Prior to his USTR service, Wilson worked
at the Commerce Department’s International Trade Administration and as a
State Department Foreign Service Officer (with assignments in Africa and
Southeast Asia).  He also spent several years consulting on trade policy
issues in the private sector.  A native of Kansas and longtime resident
of Washington, D.C., Wilson is married to Mark Hegedus.

**<u>Leopoldo Martinez, Nominee for United States Executive Director of
the Inter-American Development Bank</u>**

Leopoldo Martinez Nucete is a Venezuelan-American international lawyer,
writer, and social entrepreneur. He is also a former Congressman in
Venezuela. He is the Founder of the Center for Democracy and Development
in the Americas, publishers of IQ Latino, and the Principal of LMN
Consulting, LLC. Mr. Martínez is a member the Democratic National
Committee (DNC), one of the leaders of its Hispanic Caucus, and a
founding Board Member of Latino Victory Project. 

Mr. Martinez served on the Small Business Legislative Commission of the
Commonwealth of Virginia, and currently sits on the University Of Mary
Washington Board of Visitors and the Sorensen Institute at the
University of Virginia. He also served in the Transition Committee for
Virginia Governor Ralph Northam. Leopoldo Martínez is a graduate of
Harvard Law School (‘89), Princeton University School of Public and
International Affairs (‘96), and The University of Miami Law School
(‘07). Mr. Martinez has worked with large international law and
accounting firms, and has extensive experience advising Fortune 500
companies, private equity funds, Multi-Latina corporations,
international business, and non-profit organizations.

**<u>M. Fabiana Jorge, Nominee for United States Alternate Executive
Director of the Inter-American Development Bank</u>**

M. Fabiana Jorge is the founder and president of MFJ International, a
global consulting firm based in Washington, DC that specializes in
international trade and business. Ms. Jorge has three decades of
experience in trade negotiations with a focus on intellectual property
and access to medicines.  She has been deeply involved in many trade
negotiations, including the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement
(USMCA), the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific
Partnership (CPTPP), the New Trade Policy of 2007, the Dominican
Republic-Central American Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA-DR), the EU-Canada
Comprehensive and Trade Agreement (CETA), the EU-Mercosur Trade
Agreement, and most recently in the Regional Comprehensive Economic
Partnership (RCEP). 

Ms. Jorge was previously a Principal at Verner, Liipfert, Bernhard,
McPherson and Hand, where she was the head of the Latin American Affairs
Division.  She was an adjunct professor at the University of El Salvador
in Buenos Aires, Argentina, where she was born.  She holds a Bachelor
degree in Political Science with a Specialization in International
Relations from Catholic University in Buenos Aires.  She has a Masters
in Business Administration from Columbia University.  Ms. Jorge is
fluent in Spanish and French and has working knowledge of Portuguese.
She moved to the United States over 30 years ago and resides in
Washington, DC with her husband Doug and three kids, Christopher,
Phillip and Nicole.

**<u>Sasha Baker, Nominee for Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for
Policy</u>**

Sasha Baker currently serves as a Special Assistant to the President and
Senior Director for Strategic Planning at the National Security Council.
Previously, Ms. Baker served as national security advisor for Senator
Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, and as Deputy Chief of Staff for
Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter during the Obama administration. She
was a budget analyst at the Office of Management and Budget, joining the
civil service as a Presidential Management Fellow and serving in the
Homeland Security and National Security divisions and later as Special
Assistant to the OMB Director. Ms. Baker began her public service career
with the House Armed Services Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee,
where she supported bipartisan congressional reviews on a variety of
national security topics.

A New Jersey native, Ms. Baker earned a B.A. from Dartmouth College and
a Master in Public Policy from the Harvard Kennedy School, where she was
a fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. She
is a recipient of the Department of Defense Distinguished Public Service
Medal.

**<u>John “Sean” Coffey, Nominee for General Counsel of the Department
of the Navy</u>**

John P. (“Sean”) Coffey is a retired Navy captain and former federal
prosecutor who currently serves as the Chair of Complex Litigation at
Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel LLP in New York City.  The oldest of
seven children born to Irish immigrants, Coffey is an honors graduate of
the United States Naval Academy and Georgetown University Law Center. 
After graduating from Annapolis, Coffey completed Naval Flight Officer
training and served eight years on active duty, including assignments as
a P-3C Orion mission commander, junior officer intern to the
Organization of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and personal military
assistant to Vice President George H.W. Bush.  After completing
Georgetown Law’s evening program while assigned to the Pentagon and
White House, Coffey transitioned to the Navy Reserve and returned home
to New York to begin his legal career.  Coffey has over three decades of
active, high-profile trial experience, including serving as an Assistant
United States Attorney in the Southern District of New York and, in
private practice, as co-lead trial counsel in the landmark WorldCom
securities case.  While practicing law in New York, Coffey continued to
serve for eighteen years in the Navy Reserve, where he commanded a
reserve P-3C squadron and the reserve component of the Enterprise
carrier battle group staff, and served as a staff officer in the Office
of the Secretary of Defense. He retired at the rank of Captain in 2004
after thirty years of uniformed service. 

Coffey has long been active in philanthropic and educational efforts. 
He is currently the president of the Federal Bar Foundation, a
not-for-profit that supports law-related programs located in the Second
Circuit Court of Appeals. He also serves on the boards of the Holocaust
& Human Rights Education Center, Common Cause New York, and ThanksUSA, a
not-for-profit that provides scholarships for military dependents. 
Coffey is also a member of the board of visitors at Georgetown Law,
where he has taught trial practice as an adjunct professor. 

**<u>Sarah H. Cleveland, Nominee for Legal Adviser of the Department of
State</u>**

Sarah H. Cleveland is an American law professor and expert in
international law and the constitutional law of U.S. foreign relations. 
A native of Alabama, she holds the Louis Henkin Chair in Human and
Constitutional Rights and is Faculty Co-Director of the Human Rights
Institute at Columbia Law School. She previously served as the
Co-Coordinating Reporter of the American Law Institute’s Restatement
(Fourth) of the Foreign Relations Law of the United States (2018), and
as Counselor on International Law to the Legal Adviser of the U.S.
Department of State.  She was nominated by the U.S. government and
served as an independent expert on the United Nations Human Rights
Committee (2015-18) and the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe
(2013-19). Cleveland began her career as a Skadden Fellow representing
migrant farmworkers with Florida Legal Services, and then joined the
faculty at the University of Texas School of Law. The author of numerous
publications, she also has taught at Oxford, Harvard, Michigan, Sciences
Po Paris, Paris II Panthéon-Assas, and the European University
Institute, Florence.  She earned a Bachelor’s Degree with honors at
Brown University (Junior Phi Beta Kappa); a Master’s Degree at Oxford
University, where she studied as a Rhodes Scholar; and a J.D. at Yale
University Law School.  She clerked for Judge Louis F. Oberdorfer on the
United States District Court for the District of Columbia, and then for
Supreme Court Justice Harry A. Blackmun.

**<u>Joshua Frost, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Financial
Markets, Department of the Treasury</u>**

Josh Frost has spent nearly 23 years at the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York, most recently as the co-chair of the liquidity risk program for
large bank supervision. He also oversaw the two Corporate Credit
Facilities launched in response to the pandemic. Josh is currently on a
detail assignment from the New York Fed to the U.S. Department of the
Treasury to provide temporary assistance. Prior roles at the New York
Fed included Director of Money Markets and Director of Treasury Markets,
where he was responsible for the teams that launched the Secured
Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR), and conducted auctions of debt on
behalf of the U.S. Department of the Treasury.

Mr. Frost received his MBA in Finance from New York University and his
BA in Mathematics and Psychology from Rutgers College.

**<u>Amy Loyd, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Career, Technical,
and Adult Education, Department of Education</u>**

Amy Loyd, Ed.L.D., is a Senior Advisor in the Office of the Secretary at
the U.S. Department of Education.  She oversees national programs
related to career and technical education, community colleges, adult
education and literacy, and correctional education.

Prior to joining the Biden-Harris Administration, Dr. Loyd was a Vice
President at Jobs for the Future (JFF), where she designed and led
programs across the United States that improve education and workforce
outcomes. Her work at JFF focused on state and regional policies,
practices, and cross-sector partnerships that engaged K-12 education,
community colleges, adult education, workforce development, economic
development, and employers to build systems of college and career
pathways. She also oversaw JFF’s work in workforce development with a
lens on economic advancement, state and federal policy, and diversity,
equity, and inclusion. She previously was the Director of Education at
Cook Inlet Tribal Council, leading a network of schools providing
culturally responsive education, training, and wraparound services to
the Alaska Native and Native American communities. Dr. Loyd attended
Santa Fe Community College and Northern New Mexico Community College,
and holds a bachelor’s degree from St. John’s College and a doctorate in
education leadership from the Harvard Graduate School of Education,
where she was an adjunct lecturer on building career pathways to
increase opportunity and equity.

**<u>Sam Slater, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors of the
Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority</u>**

Sam Slater is a Managing Partner at Tremont Asset Management LLC, which
owns and manages a diversified portfolio of apartments, commercial,
industrial, and agricultural properties throughout the United States and
Canada. He directly manages the acquisition, development, and finance of
all real estate assets. Slater is a co-owner of the Seattle Kraken and
the Climate Pledge Arena and serves on the board of the team. He serves
on the Board of Overseers at both The New England Aquarium and The
Boston Children’s Museum and is a director of The Slater Foundation.
Additionally, in 2012, Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick appointed
Slater to the Board of Directors of The Massachusetts Cultural Council,
a state agency that funds cultural, arts, and interpretive science
programs throughout the state.

As a Co-Founder and Partner at Burn Later Productions, Slater has
produced over thirty feature films that have been distributed by
Paramount, Sony Pictures, Universal, and Netflix, among others. He is a
member of the Producers Guild of America. In addition, he is a frequent
guest lecturer at the Communications School at Northeastern University.
Slater graduated from The George Washington University with a Bachelor
of Arts in History and earned his Master’s in Public Administration at
Suffolk University.

\###
