---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-08-17'
modified_time: 2021-08-17 09:42:08-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/17/fact-sheet-bipartisan-infrastructure-deal-and-build-back-better-agenda-present-bright-future-for-solar-power-good-jobs-and-more-affordable-energy/
published_time: 2021-08-17 09:30:00-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal and Build Back Better Agenda Present\
  \ Bright Future for Solar Power, Good Jobs, and More Affordable\_Energy"
---
 
*New Department of Energy Issue Brief Details How Solar Investments
Create Good-Paying Jobs and Reduce Consumer Costs for Energy*

Today, the Department of Energy (DOE) released a new issue brief that
details a bright future for solar power, good jobs, and affordable
energy in the United States. President Biden’s proposed investments in
the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal and Build Back Better Agenda will
invest in the infrastructure, manufacturing, innovation, and incentives
for solar energy that we need to grow good-paying, union jobs at home,
make solar energy affordable for all American families, and accelerate
the deployment of net-zero energy across the country. These critical
investments will unlock the full potential of solar and help fight the
climate crisis.  
  
To spotlight how President Biden’s plans will grow solar jobs and lower
costs for working families, Biden-Harris Administration officials are
traveling across the country to meet with industry, academia,
homeowners, and stakeholders to discuss the benefits of solar. Today,
National Climate Advisor Gina McCarthy will meet with local climate
leaders and experts at a California university to see how the school is
leveraging clean energy, while Labor Secretary Marty Walsh will tour
First Solar’s solar panel manufacturing facility in Lake Township, Ohio,
and meeting with workers. First Solar already supports 1,600 jobs in
Ohio, and this new factory expansion will create about 500 new jobs.
Yesterday, Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm was in Alaska touring
renewable energy labs and discussing game-changing clean energy
technologies with local businesses.  
  
The DOE issue brief *– [Investing in the Clean Energy Future: Solar
Energy Research, Deployment, and Workforce
Priorities](https://energy.gov/eere/investing-clean-energy-future-solar-energy-research-deployment-and-workforce-priorities)
– *details the immense growth opportunities that exist in the solar
energy industry for workers and families, and how investments like those
proposed by President Biden can supercharge the benefits of these
opportunities. In particular, the issue brief explains:

-   **Investment in Solar Deployment Supports the U.S. Clean Energy
    Revolution**. Solar will play an important role in reaching
    President Biden’s 2035 clean electricity goal – alongside other
    sources of carbon-pollution free electricity, including onshore and
    offshore wind, existing power plants retrofitted with carbon capture
    or green hydrogen, geothermal, hydropower, and nuclear. Solar is
    already the fastest-growing source of new electricity generation in
    the nation – growing nearly 4,000 percent in just over a decade,
    from about 2.5 gigawatts (GW<sub>dc</sub>) of solar capacity in 2010
    to over 100 GW<sub>dc</sub> today. The pipeline of new solar
    projects in 2021 is on pace to hit record highs. To reach a largely
    decarbonized electricity sector by 2035, solar deployment would need
    to accelerate to three to four times faster than the current rate
    by 2030. Large scale decarbonization of the electricity sector could
    move solar from 3 percent of generation today to over 40 percent by
    2035.  
      
    Realizing this potential for solar generation requires historic
    investments to accelerate deployment of residential, commercial, and
    utility-scale solar systems, including in disadvantaged and
    low-income communities. The proposed clean energy investments in the
    Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal and the Build Back Better Agenda will
    serve as this catalyst for jobs and economic opportunity. This
    includes the extension of $300 billion in tax cuts for clean
    electricity, including solar, making it cheaper to build, funding
    for new transmission and energy storage infrastructure to help
    deliver clean, reliable power to homes and businesses. President
    Biden also proposed a new Clean Energy Accelerator to leverage
    private capital for community solar projects, particularly in
    low-income and disadvantaged communities. These investments, along
    with the proposed Energy Efficiency and Clean Electricity Standard,
    can help achieve the President’s goal of 100 percent carbon
    pollution-fee power by 2035.  
     
-   ****Solar Innovation Can Lower Costs for Consumers and
    Communities**.** Thanks in part to DOE investments, solar costs have
    declined 70 percent to 80 percent since 2010 – lowering the price of
    a typical 6 kW residential system by almost $30,000. While solar
    photovoltaic (PV) is already the least expensive electricity option
    in dozens of states, it is important to bring this low-cost,
    zero-carbon electricity to more parts of the country to save
    American families money. The Biden Administration is committed to
    continually investing in solar innovation and lowering the cost of
    energy for families and communities across the country. This is why
    the Solar Energy Technology Office at DOE set a [new 2030
    goal](https://www.energy.gov/articles/doe-announces-goal-cut-solar-costs-more-half-2030) of
    cutting the cost of solar (PV) to $0.02 and $0.05 per kilowatt-hour
    without subsidies, for utility and residential scales, respectively.
    This would deliver nearly $14,000 in savings for a typical home
    system.  
      
    DOE is also celebrating the [*Summer of Solar
    2021*](https://www.energy.gov/articles/doe-kicks-summer-solar-2021-tool-fast-tracks-solar-power-communities-nationwide) to
    promote a new, free, web-based tool – the Solar Automated Permit
    Processing (SolarAPP+) – that helps local governments speed up the
    review and approval of permits for residential solar and solar plus
    storage systems. Faster permitting times will attract businesses to
    work in jurisdictions that use it. After implementing a similar tool
    to fast-track permits in San Jose, CA, residential installations
    increased by 600 percent.  
      
    Build Back Better investments proposed by President Biden can help
    DOE achieve these solar cost reductions. Investments in clean energy
    R&D, supply chains of critical materials, and tax cuts for new and
    retooled factories for advanced energy manufacturing will help lower
    costs across the solar lifecycle. Extending the tax cuts for both
    utility and residential renewable energy project can help lower the
    upfront costs of new solar and accelerate deployment so that
    everyone can benefit from the economies of scale. Lower solar costs
    overall can put downward pressure on utility energy costs for
    ratepayers, and make solar more affordable for more families while
    reducing the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions of their energy use. 
-   **Solar Energy is a Job Creator**. In 2020, there were over 300,000
    people employed in the American solar industry – 230,000 of whom
    worked in solar for a majority of their time. Employment in the
    solar industry has been one of the fastest growing sectors over the
    past decade – increasing by 150 percent between 2010 and 2020. These
    workers are employed by over 10,000 solar businesses across all 50
    states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico – many of them
    small businesses. While clean energy jobs broadly were hit by the
    economic shutdown due to the COVID19 pandemic, they have bounced
    back substantially – adding back over 300,000 jobs this past year –
    and recovering at a rate faster than most other sectors of the
    economy.  
      
    A pathway to a largely decarbonized electricity sector by 2035 can
    add millions of new jobs across clean energy technologies, including
    potentially 500,000–1,500,000 people working in solar by 2035. To
    match this demand with supply, investments are needed to expand the
    talent pipeline by increasing access to training opportunities
    across the entirety of workforce development stakeholders, such as
    labor unions, community colleges, non-profits and other training
    providers. This could include apprenticeship-based career pathways
    that contain solar work as part of a broad-based career path. The
    President’s agenda will ensure that these investments produce
    good-quality jobs with strong labor standards, including prevailing
    wages and the free and fair choice to join a union and bargain
    collectively.

The solar industry has its roots in America. The United States pioneered
the manufacturing and scale-up of solar PV technologies, and American
R&D has helped lower manufacturing costs, increase efficiency and
performance, and improve reliability of solar technologies. Since then,
solar has become a highly competitive global industry. New U.S.
investments in solar materials, solar demonstration projects, critical
material supply chains, and the building or retooling of manufacturing
facilities can help the United States lead once again in the global
solar market.  
  
As [previously
announced](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/08/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-supply-chain-disruptions-task-force-to-address-short-term-supply-chain-discontinuities/),
DOE is pursuing new policy to ensure that all innovations that are
developed with taxpayer dollars through DOE’s Science and Energy
Programs require awardees to substantially manufacture those products in
the United States, creating good-paying domestic jobs. This change will
cover more than $8 billion in clean energy and climate innovation
funding requested in the President’s Budget for Fiscal Year 2022, as
well as future fiscal year spending. DOE will implement these actions
through a Determination of Exceptional Circumstances under the Bayh-Dole
Act.  
  
This DOE issue brief underscores the immense opportunity that exists
within the solar industry and how key investments, like those proposed
in the Build Back Better Agenda, can seize that opportunity. Doing so
will create thousands of good-paying, union jobs at home, expand
manufacturing, make solar affordable for all communities, and lower
monthly utility bills – all while positioning the United States as a
leader once again in solar energy and putting us on track to meet
President Biden’s climate goals.  
  
Read the full issue brief
[here](https://www.energy.gov/sites/default/files/2021-08/investing-in-a-clean-energy-future-solar-energy.pdf).

\###
