---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-08-27'
modified_time: 2021-08-26 22:55:15-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/27/white-house-announces-john-d-porcari-as-port-envoy-to-the-biden-harris-administration-supply-chain-disruptions-task-force/
published_time: 2021-08-27 08:15:00-04:00
title: "White\_House Announces John D. Porcari as Port Envoy to the Biden-\u2060Harris\
  \ Administration Supply Chain Disruptions Task\_Force"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, the White House announced that John D. Porcari will
be the Port Envoy to the [Biden-Harris Administration Supply Chain
Disruptions Task
Force](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/08/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-supply-chain-disruptions-task-force-to-address-short-term-supply-chain-discontinuities/).  
  
The Task Force was established in June to address supply and demand
mismatches that emerged in several sectors as the economy reawakened
following the Administration’s historic vaccination and economic relief
efforts. Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg leads the Task Force
focus on ports and trucking issues. The Task Force’s leadership also
includes Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack on food and agriculture and
Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo on homebuilding and semiconductors.

“The strength of the U.S. economic recovery has tested the near-term
capacity of our supply chains, and the Administration is operating on
all fronts to ease bottlenecks and facilitate the flow of goods across
the country,” **said NEC Director Brian Deese.** “Our country’s ports
are the gateways for getting goods to market, which makes the
appointment of John Porcari as Ports Envoy an especially important step
forward in alleviating these disruptions that are impacting consumers,
workers, and businesses alike.”

Since the launch of the Task Force, Secretary Buttigieg and the
Department of Transportation have been engaged in extensive outreach and
engagement with port stakeholders including [virtual round
table](https://www.transportation.gov/briefing-room/secretary-pete-buttigieg-hosts-roundtable-port-congestion-supply-chain-disruptions)
held in July with representatives of all aspects of the ports’ supply
chain. Out of this work, it has become clear that the challenges at our
ports, some of which have existed for years, require dedicated focus by
experienced, senior leadership to drive toward outcomes that will reduce
congestion, improve operations and set us on a sustainable path for the
future. John Porcari is uniquely qualified to take on this role.

Envoy Porcari will work closely with Secretary Buttigieg and his team at
the Department of Transportation as well as the National Economic
Council to address the congestion at U.S. ports.  Disruptions in global
shipping and rapid shifts in demand have led the cost of shipping
containers between China and the West Coast to grow more than 90%
compared to 2019.  This congestion is being felt particularly acutely at
the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach, which together handle the
largest share of containerized cargo moving through U.S. ports. Port
workers and terminals have handled containerized cargo volumes that rose
40% in the first half of this year compared to the same time last
year. Envoy Porcari will work with these stakeholder and others at the
ports to address the backlog and associated delivery delays and product
shortages being experienced by American consumers and businesses.

In addition, to Porcari’s work, the Biden Administration has negotiated
an historic $17 billion in investments in port infrastructure as part of
the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal. The funding would help address
congestion and supply chains over time by investing in repair and
maintenance backlogs and reduce congestion and emissions near ports.

**<u>John D. Porcari, Port Envoy to the White House Supply Chain
Disruptions Task Force, Department of Transportation</u>**

John D. Porcari is a nationally recognized public and private sector
infrastructure leader, who has delivered some of America’s most
challenging projects and driven the adoption of equitable,
community-serving infrastructure policies and projects at the local,
state and federal levels.

As Deputy Secretary and Chief Operating Officer of the Department of
Transportation in the Obama-Biden administration (2009-2014), Porcari
was directly involved in overseeing port, intermodal, maritime policy
and maritime-related competitive grant programs throughout the United
States.

In a previous role, serving twice as Secretary of Transportation for the
State of Maryland and Chairman of the Maryland Port Commission
(1999-2003 and 2006-2009), Porcari initiated a strategic plan for the
Port of Baltimore that built it into the largest ro/ro (roll on/roll
off) port in the nation, exporting construction and agricultural
machinery from the Midwest to the world and growing the port into one of
the nation’s top ten in terms of both dollar value and tonnage.

Under Porcari’s leadership, the Port of Baltimore also entered into a
pioneering public-private partnership to expand its Seagirt container
terminal, adding a fourth, 50-foot container berth and state of the art
cranes to accommodate the newest super-post-panamax container vessels.
This 50-year, $1.3 billion dollar P3, with the strong support of labor,
has become a national model.

\###
