---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-08-19'
modified_time: 2021-08-19 10:48:59-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/19/fact-sheet-the-build-back-better-agenda-will-provide-greater-tax-fairness-for-small-businesses/
published_time: 2021-08-19 10:15:00-04:00
title: 'FACT SHEET: The Build Back Better Agenda Will Provide Greater Tax Fairness
  for Small Businesses'
---
 
Since day one in office, President Biden has focused on providing
America’s small businesses with the tools and resources they need to
reopen, rehire, and rebuild. To date, the Biden-Harris Administration
has delivered more than $300 billion in relief to Main Street and is on
track to fully forgive more than 6 million small business loans by
year-end.  
  
While Main Street is roaring back, many small businesses struggle to
grow and compete globally due to a tax code that disproportionately
benefits multinational corporations and a financial system that prevents
millions of entrepreneurs from obtaining sufficient capital to start and
expand operations. President Biden is committed to changing that.  
  
President Biden’s Build Back Better Agenda will crack down on the unfair
tax schemes that give big corporations a leg up. According to a new
Treasury Department analysis, the President’s Agenda will protect 97
percent of small business owners from income tax rate increases, while
delivering tax cuts to more than 3.9 million entrepreneurs.  
  
The revenue raised from creating a fairer tax system for Main Street
will help pay for investments that will grow our economy and create
jobs, including investments in small business. This includes creating a
national paid leave program with benefits paid by the federal government
– not the employer – leveling the playing field for small businesses
that cannot afford to provide this benefit to employees. The Build Back
Better Agenda will also increase access to contracting opportunities and
provide tens of billions of dollars in financing and technical
assistance programs for small businesses, including small manufacturers.
In short, President Biden’s plan lays the foundation for American small
businesses to win the 21<sup>st</sup> century.  
  
Specifically, President Biden’s Build Back Better Agenda will:

**Level the playing field for small business owners by reforming the tax
code**

The current tax system unfairly prioritizes large multinational
corporations over Main Street American small businesses. Small
businesses don’t have access to the army of lawyers and accountants that
allowed [55 profitable large
corporations](https://itep.org/55-profitable-corporations-zero-corporate-tax/) to
avoid paying any federal corporate taxes in 2020, and they cannot shift
profits into tax havens to avoid paying U.S. taxes like multinational
corporations can. U.S. multinationals report 60 percent of their profits
abroad in just seven low tax jurisdictions that, combined, make up less
than 4 percent of global GDP.  These corporations do not make money in
these countries; they just report it there to take a huge
tax<u> cut</u>. In 2018, married couples making about $150,000 working
at their own small business paid over 20 percent of their income in
federal income and self-employment taxes. By contrast, U.S.
multinational corporations [paid less than 10
percent](https://www.jct.gov/publications/2021/jcx-16-21/) in corporate
income taxes on U.S. profits.

Facts about the current unfair tax system are unsettling, but they are
no surprise to Main Street. Nearly [three-quarters of small
businesses](https://smallbusinessmajority.org/sites/default/files/research-reports/Aug-2021-Network-Poll.pdf) say
the current tax system favors big businesses over small businesses and
that their business is harmed when big corporations use loopholes to
avoid taxes. [About
two-thirds](https://irp-cdn.multiscreensite.com/b4559992/files/uploaded/BRTR%20Small%20Business%20Tax%20Poll%204.10.19%20FINAL.pdf) of
small business support increasing taxes on corporations.

President Biden has laid out a comprehensive tax reform plan to level
the playing field, address the concerns of small business owners, and
raise revenue that will help pay for new programs for Main Street. The
President’s plan will:

-   Raise the corporate income tax rate to 28 percent;
-   Strengthen the global minimum tax for large multinational
    corporations;
-   Reduce incentives for foreign jurisdictions to maintain ultra-low
    corporate tax rates by encouraging global adoption of robust minimum
    taxes for large corporations;
-   Enact a 15 percent minimum tax on book income of large, highly
    profitable corporations;
-   Eliminate incentives for large corporations to offshore profits and
    jobs; and
-   Ramp up enforcement to address tax avoidance among large
    corporations.

President Biden’s Build Back Better Agenda will make the tax code fairer
while protecting millions of small businesses from tax increases. For
example, President Biden’s proposal to restore the corporate tax rate
halfway back to its pre-2018 level would not affect any small businesses
that file taxes as a passthrough entity (LLCs, S-corps, and sole
proprietorships). That’s nearly every small business in America.
Similarly, the President’s proposal to restore the top income tax
bracket to its pre-2018 level – which would only raise taxes by 2.6
percentage points for the wealthiest households in America – would
affect less than 3 percent of small business owners, according to the
Treasury Department’s new analysis focused exclusively on small
businesses filing as S-corporations, partnerships, and on individual
income tax return Form 1040 Schedules C, E and F (as noted, nearly every
small business falls in this category). Across President Biden’s agenda,
smart reforms to make America’s tax code fairer are tailored to protect
Main Street small business owners from tax increases.

**Give a tax cut to 3.9 million small business owners.**

Not only will President Biden’s Build Back Better Agenda protect more
than 97 percent of small business owners from income tax increases, it
will also provide well-deserved tax cuts to Main Street entrepreneurs.
These tax cuts will give more entrepreneurs the financial security and
peace of mind they need to start or grow their own business.
Specifically, the plan will:

-   **Cut taxes for small business owners with children. **The American
    Rescue Plan (ARP) increased the Child Tax Credit (CTC) from $2,000
    per child to $3,000 per child for children over six and $3,600 for
    children under six. The Build Back Better Agenda will extend the CTC
    expansion in the ARP, providing[39 million
    households](https://www.irs.gov/newsroom/irs-treasury-announce-families-of-88-percent-of-children-in-the-us-to-automatically-receive-monthly-payment-of-refundable-child-tax-credit) and
    the families of nearly 90 percent of American children a major tax
    cut and cutting child poverty nearly in half. New research from the
    Department of the Treasury shows that more than 3 million small
    business owners with children will benefit from these historic tax
    cuts.
-   **Cut taxes for small business owners who buy coverage through
    HealthCare.gov. **Prior to the Affordable Care Act, small business
    owners and their employees
    were [overrepresented](https://www.commonwealthfund.org/publications/issue-briefs/2018/oct/affordable-care-act-impact-small-business) among
    uninsured working Americans. Today, they represent more than half of
    all Americans enrolled in the ACA marketplaces. Earlier this year,
    the ARP provided tax credits that lowered health insurance premiums
    for those buying coverage through the ACA, saving families an
    average of $50 per person per month. Since the ARP went into effect,
    34 percent of consumers have found coverage for $10 or less per
    month on HealthCare.gov. The Build Back Better Agenda will make
    these premium reductions permanent.  As a result, nine million
    people – including more than 1.2 million small business owners –
    will continue to save hundreds of dollars per year on their
    premiums, and 4 million uninsured people will gain coverage. Not
    only will Build Back Better reduce health care costs for small
    businesses and their employees, it may give aspiring entrepreneurs
    the financial security and peace of mind they need to fulfill their
    dream of starting a business. And, Build Back Better will help small
    businesses who cannot afford to provide coverage to their employees
    compete against big corporations.

**Help small businesses retain workers and compete against large
corporations through a national, federally-funded paid leave program.**

While the vast majority of small business
owners [believe](https://irp-cdn.multiscreensite.com/167e816a/files/uploaded/Paid%20Leave%20for%20All.small%20business.pdf?emci=4dc34eed-b40d-eb11-96f5-00155d03affc&emdi=ea000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001&ceid=) it
is important to establish a federal paid family and medical leave
program, the U.S. remains one of the only countries in the world that
does not provide it. As a result, nearly four out of five private sector
workers – and [95
percent](https://www.bls.gov/ncs/ebs/benefits/2020/employee-benefits-in-the-united-states-march-2020.pdf) of
the lowest wage workers – have no access to paid leave. This puts small
businesses at a disadvantage when it comes to recruiting and retaining
talented workers. Well-resourced large corporations can afford to offer
their employees paid leave programs, but small business with fewer
resources may have a harder time doing so. President Biden’s Build Back
Better Agenda will level the playing field for those small businesses.
It guarantees twelve weeks of paid parental, family, and personal
illness/safe leave by year 10 of the program, and will ensure workers
get three days of bereavement leave per year starting in year one.
Importantly, under President Biden’s proposal, wage replacement would
come from the federal government – not the employer – eliminating any
potential burden on small businesses. According to a state-level
study, [9 out of
10](https://cepr.net/documents/publications/paid-family-leave-1-2011.pdf) employers
experienced positive or no noticeable effects on productivity,
profitability, turnover, and employee morale after a paid leave program
was adopted.  
  
**Increase access to contracting, capital, technical assistance for
small firms.**

The President’s plan will increase access to federal contracts and
invest in new financing and technical assistance programs that will
directly benefit small businesses. Specifically, President Biden’s plan
will:

-   **Increase federal contracting opportunities for small
    businesses.** From upgrading Veterans Affairs medical centers to
    rehabilitating other federal buildings, the President’s plan will
    mobilize small contractors to meet the great challenges of our time.
-   **Launch a historic effort to empower small business creation and
    expansion in underserved communities. **The Build Back Better Agenda
    will create a national network of incubators and business
    development centers to help more entrepreneurs start up new
    businesses, access government contracts, and expand their customer
    bases. 
-   **Give small businesses – especially underserved small businesses –
    the tools to drive the innovation economy.** President Biden is
    calling on Congress to invest in federal programs that empower small
    firms to participate in federal research and development initiatives
    that have the potential for commercialization.
-   **Help minority-owned manufacturing businesses access capital.** The
    Build Back Better Agenda will create a new grant program through the
    Minority Business Development Agency that will help small,
    underserved manufacturers access private capital.
-   **Create a new financing facility for small
    manufacturers.** President Biden is calling on Congress to seed a
    new program to co-invest with private capital in the industrial
    base.
-   **Increase access to lending and investment capital.** The Build
    Back Better Agenda will enable small businesses to drive the
    recovery by injecting billions of dollars in funding into the Small
    Business Administration’s 7(a) loan program.
-   **Strengthen manufacturing supply chains and innovation
    ecosystems**. President Biden is also calling on Congress to bolster
    the Manufacturing Extension Partnership and Manufacturing USA;
    create a new office to monitor industrial capacity and support the
    production of critical goods; and establish regional hubs to fuel
    technology development and create new businesses.

\###
