---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-08-13'
modified_time: 2021-08-13 11:11:52-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/13/fact-sheet-how-president-bidens-build-back-better-agenda-helps-asian-american-native-hawaiian-and-pacific-islander-communities/
published_time: 2021-08-13 11:11:51-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: How President\_Biden\u2019s Build Back Better Agenda Helps Asian\
  \ American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander\_Communities"
---
 
One year ago, with the country at a crossroads, President Biden unveiled
his Build Back Better Agenda. Facing a raging pandemic, unprecedented
economic downturn, profound climate crisis, and persistent racial
injustices, President Biden outlined an ambitious agenda that would
position America not just to return to where we were, but to build back
better towards a more sustainable, resilient, equitable, and prosperous
future.  
  
The Build Back Better Agenda includes President Biden’s American
Families Plan and key elements of the American Jobs Plan that were not
included in the Bipartisan Infrastructure and Investments Act. In
Washington, this proposal is known as “reconciliation.” But the bottom
line is a plan that will **<u>create jobs</u>**, **<u>cut taxes</u>**,
and **<u>lower costs for working families</u>**—all paid for by making
the tax code fairer and making the wealthiest and large corporations pay
their fair share. President Biden and Vice President Harris have also
repeatedly expressed their strong support for including immigration
reform in upcoming reconciliation legislation to enable Dreamers, TPS
recipients, farmworkers and essential workers to gain long-awaited
pathways to citizenship.   
  
**LOWER COSTS**  
***Lower Prescription Drug Costs.*** Americans pay 2-3 times more for
their prescription drugs than people in other wealthy countries, and
nearly [1 in 4
Americans](https://www.kff.org/health-costs/press-release/poll-nearly-1-in-4-americans-taking-prescription-drugs-say-its-difficult-to-afford-medicines-including-larger-shares-with-low-incomes/)
struggle to afford prescription drugs. President Biden’s plan will lower
prescription drug costs for Americans by letting Medicare negotiate drug
prices, so consumers are no longer at the whim of pharmaceutical
companies.  
  
***Lower Child Care Costs.*** Only [57.9 percent of all three- and
four-year-old Asian
American](https://usafacts.org/articles/how-many-children-attend-preschool-us/)
children are enrolled in preschool or kindergarten programs and half of
[Asian American
women](https://www.americanprogress.org/issues/women/reports/2021/03/04/496703/economic-status-asian-american-pacific-islander-women/)
live in areas where the supply of child care is too low to meet demand.
President Biden’s plan lowers child care costs and makes universal
preschool a reality, providing parents access to high-quality programs
in the setting of their choice. The Build Back Better Agenda would also
institute 12 weeks of paid family and medical leave, to help improve the
health of new mothers and reduce wage loss.  
  
***Lower Health Care Costs.*** More than [1.5 million AA and
NHPIs](https://www.kff.org/uninsured/issue-brief/key-facts-about-the-uninsured-population/)
were uninsured in 2019 before President Biden took office, coverage
under the Affordable Care Act (even with the ACA’s premium subsidies)
was too expensive for many families, and almost [1.3 million people of
color](https://www.kff.org/policy-watch/taking-a-closer-look-at-characteristics-of-people-in-the-coverage-gap/)
were locked out of coverage because their state refused to expand
Medicaid. President Biden’s plan lowers health care costs for those
buying coverage through the ACA by extending the American Rescue Plan’s
cost savings, which helps [197,000 uninsured AAPI
people](https://aspe.hhs.gov/sites/default/files/private/pdf/265581/aspe-uninsured-trends-aapi-ib.pdf)
save an average of $50 per person per month, and allowing more than
150,000 uninsured AAPI people to gain coverage. The plan also adds
dental, vision, and hearing coverage for the more than [2.3 million
AAPIs on
Medicare](https://www.kff.org/medicare/state-indicator/medicare-beneficiaries-by-raceethnicity/?dataView=1&currentTimeframe=0&sortModel=%7B%22colId%22:%22Location%22,%22sort%22:%22asc%22%7D)
and closes the Medicaid gap for low-income Americans.  
  
***Lower Higher Education Costs.*** Education beyond high school is
increasingly important to succeed in the 21<sup>st</sup> century
economy, even as it has become unaffordable for too many families. The
Build Back Better Agenda would provide two years of free community
college—boosting the earnings of low-wage high school graduates by
nearly $6,000 per year. President Biden’s plan also increases the
maximum Pell Grant award by almost $1,500, and invests billions in
subsidized tuition for low- and middle-income students at
minority-serving institutions. The plan also invests in evidence-based
strategies to strengthen completion and retention rates at institutions
that serve high numbers of low-income students, particularly community
colleges.  
  
***Lower Housing Costs*.**[26 percent of Asian American renters and 27
percent of Native Hawaiians and Pacific Islander
renters](https://nlihc.org/resource/new-research-highlights-housing-experiences-asian-americans-and-pacific-islanders#:~:text=AAPI%20renters%20are%20severely%20cost,renters%20are%20severely%20cost%2Dburdened.&text=Bangladeshi%2C%20Vietnamese%2C%20and%20Pakistani%20renters,%2C%20and%2034%25%2C%20respectively)
pay over half their income in rent. The Plan’s investments help lower
housing costs and increases the supply of affordable housing through tax
credits and government financing, including constructing and
rehabilitating more than one million sustainable rental housing units
and more than 500,000 homes working families can afford. It will also
make investments to preserve existing public housing as well as remove
lead-based paint from housing units.  
  
**CUT TAXES**  
***Tax Cuts for Families with Children.*** [9 percent of Asian American
families and 16 percent of Native Hawaiian and other Pacific Islander
families](https://www.kff.org/infographic/health-and-health-care-for-asian-americans-native-hawaiians-and-other-pacific-islanders-nhopis-in-the-united-states/)
fall below the poverty line, struggling to pay expenses like food, rent,
health care and transportation for their families. President Biden’s
plan will extend the Child Tax Credit expansion in the American Rescue
Plan, lowering taxes for middle class families by providing [the
families of more than 66
million](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/ARP-Fact-Sheet-AAPI-Communities.pdf)
kids and nearly [600,000 AAPI
people](https://static1.squarespace.com/static/5743308460b5e922a25a6dc7/t/601acf15866c634924d12963/1612369686861/Poverty-Reduction-Analysis-Biden-Economic-Relief-CPSP-2021.pdf)
in the U.S. a major tax cut –  cutting the AAPI poverty rate by 21.7
percent.  
  
***Tax Cuts for Workers Without Children.*** The President’s agenda
permanently extends the American Rescue Plan’s increase to the
Earned-Income Tax Credit from $543 to $1,502. This will benefit roughly
17 million low-wage workers, including cashiers, cooks, delivery
drivers, food preparation workers, and child care providers.  
  
**CREATE JOBS**  
***Workforce Training.*** The U.S. has chronically underinvested in
workforce development, and millions of jobs have been going unfilled in
growing sectors such as construction and health care. Through
high-quality career and technical education pathways and Registered
Apprenticeships, President Biden’s Build Back Better Agenda will invest
in training programs that will prepare millions of American workers for
high-quality jobs in growing sectors.  
  
***Clean Energy Jobs.*** When President Biden thinks about climate
change, he thinks jobs. To position the U.S. to tackle the climate
crisis and advance environmental justice, the President’s plan would
create good-paying, union jobs, establish an energy efficiency and clean
energy standard, expand and extend clean energy and electric vehicle tax
credits, and enlist a new Civilian Climate Corps. As part of the U.S.
Innovation and Competition Act, the Build Back Better Agenda would also
restore American manufacturing with R&D investments—including critical
investments to compete on clean energy.  
  
***Investments in Teachers and Schools.*** Even before the pandemic, our
schools faced an estimated teacher shortage of 100,000, undermining the
education of our children and students of color in particular. President
Biden’s Build Back Better Agenda will upgrade school infrastructure,
address teacher shortages and improve teacher preparation, expand free
school meals to an additional 9.3 million children during the school
year and help families purchase food during the summer.

\###
