---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-08-04'
modified_time: 2021-08-04 16:55:52-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/04/president-biden-announces-11-key-nominations-2/
published_time: 2021-08-04 16:55:51-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces 11 Key\_Nominations"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following 11 individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Biniam Gebre, Nominee for Administrator for Federal Procurement
    Policy, Office of Management and Budget
-   Andrew Fois, Nominee for Chair of the Administrative Conference of
    the United States
-   Susan Tsui Grundmann, Nominee for Member of the Federal Labor
    Relations Authority
-   Kurt Rumsfeld, Nominee for General Counsel of the Federal Labor
    Relations Authority
-   Javier Saade, Nominee for Chair of the Federal Retirement Thrift
    Investment Board
-   Dana Bilyeu, Nominee for Member of the Federal Retirement Thrift
    Investment Board
-   Leona Bridges, Nominee for Member of the Federal Retirement Thrift
    Investment Board
-   Stacey Olivares, Nominee for Member of the Federal Retirement Thrift
    Investment Board
-   Kathy Im, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors of the
    Corporation for Public Broadcasting
-   Tom Rothman, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors of the
    Corporation for Public Broadcasting
-   Elizabeth Sembler, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors of
    the Corporation for Public Broadcasting

**<u>Biniam Gebre, Nominee for Administrator for Federal Procurement
Policy, Office of Management and Budget</u>**

Biniam Gebre is a Senior Managing Director at Accenture and Head of
Management Consulting for Accenture Federal Services. He has spent the
past two decades helping dozens of organizations within both the public
sector and private sector address management, operational, and
technology issues ranging from agriculture to banking to artificial
intelligence. He served in the Obama-Biden administration at the
Department of Housing and Urban Development, where he focused on access
to credit for low-income families, FHA’s financial health, and
revitalizing public housing properties.

Gebre came to the United States as a refugee at the age of nine and grew
up in public housing and on government assistance. He graduated with
Highest Honors from Williams College, where he earned a B.A. in
Chemistry and was a Goldwater Scholar. He also earned an M.B.A in
Finance and Economics from Northwestern University. Gebre sits on the
Board of Pathfinder International. 

**<u>Andrew Fois, Nominee for Chair of the Administrative Conference of
the United States</u>**

Andrew Fois is an attorney with a 36-year legal career in public
service, the non-profit sector, and private practice. He is an Attorney
Advisor in the Office of Legislative Affairs in the Administrative
Office of U.S. Courts. Prior to that position, he was the Deputy
Attorney General for Public Safety in the Office of the Attorney General
for Washington, D.C.  In 2020, Mr. Fois was appointed by the Mayor to
the D.C. Clemency Board.  He has served at the Department of Justice on
three occasions in five positions, including the Assistant Attorney
General for Legislative Affairs and Assistant United States Attorney for
the District of Columbia, where he prosecuted hundreds of cases.  His
experience on Capitol Hill includes service as the Chief Counsel of the
House Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Crime.  He has worked for
the National Crime Prevention Council as a solo practitioner and as a
partner in the Venable law firm. 

Mr. Fois also serves on the board of directors of the Catholic Coalition
for Special Education.  He has previously served on the boards of the
Washington Regional Alcohol Program and the National Association of
Children of Addiction. He served as Chairman of the D.C. Commission on
Motor Vehicle Theft Prevention and the D.C. Coalition against Drugs and
Violence.  He has been a frequent author, legal adjunct professor and
commentator on radio and television.  He is active in his parish as a
lector and Eucharistic Minister and was a founding member of the
disabilities ministry and a member of the parish council.  Mr. Fois
earned his J.D. from the Georgetown University Law Center and his B.A.
from Georgetown University.  He also holds a master’s degree in American
Government from the University of Essex in the U.K.  He lives in
Washington, D.C. with his wife and has two adult sons.

**<u>Susan Tsui Grundmann, Nominee for Member of the Federal Labor
Relations Authority</u>**

Susan Tsui Grundmann currently serves as the Executive Director and
Chief Operating Officer of the Office of Congressional Workplace Rights,
where she oversees the administrative dispute resolution process and
provides education to both employing offices and labor unions that
represent employees in the legislative branch.  Previously, she was
nominated by President Obama to serve as a Member and Chairman of the
MSPB.

Ms. Grundmann has served as General Counsel to the National Federation
of Federal Employees (NFFE), which represents 100,000 Federal workers
nationwide and is affiliated with the International Association of
Machinist and Aerospace Workers. At NFFE, she successfully litigated
cases in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia and the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. She represented NFFE
and the United Department of Defense Workers Coalition, which consists
of 36 labor unions, and served on the Coalition’s litigation team in a
coordinated response to proposed personnel changes at the Department of
Defense (DoD). In addition to DoD employees, Ms. Grundmann represented
employees in the Forest Service, Department of Agriculture, Passport
Service, Veterans Administration, General Services Administration, and
some 25 additional Federal agencies.

From 2003 to 2009, she was a regular instructor on Federal sector labor
and employment law at the William W. Winpisinger Education and
Technology Center in Hollywood, Maryland. Prior to joining NFFE, Ms.
Grundmann served as General Counsel to the National Air Traffic
Controllers Association. She began her legal career as a law clerk to
the judges of the Nineteenth Judicial Circuit of Virginia, and later
worked in both private practice and at the Sheet Metal Workers’ National
Pension Fund. Chairman Grundmann earned her undergraduate degree at
American University and her law degree at Georgetown University Law
Center.

**<u>Kurt Rumsfeld, Nominee for General Counsel of the Federal Labor
Relations Authority</u>**

Kurt Rumsfeld is currently the Chief Counsel to Ernie DuBester, the
Chairman of the Federal Labor Relations Authority.  From September 2013
through February 2019, Mr. Rumsfeld served as the Assistant General
Counsel for Operations and Legal Policy for the FLRA’s Office of General
Counsel.  His responsibilities in that role included assisting the
General Counsel and Deputy General Counsel in managing the OGC’s
regional operations and providing legal advice pertaining to the
administration of the FLRA’s governing Statute. 

Before joining the FLRA, Mr. Rumsfeld practiced labor and employment law
with a private law firm for over 17 years, and he began his career in
labor law as an attorney-advisor with the U.S. Department of Labor. Mr.
Rumsfeld received his B.A. in political science from Williams College,
and his law degree from Northeastern University Law School.  He also has
an LL.M degree in Labor and Employment Law from Georgetown University
Law Center. 

**<u>Javier Saade, Nominee for Chair of the Federal Retirement Thrift
Investment Board</u>**

Javier E. Saade is a principled leader with three decades of broad
experience as an investor, board member, founder, operating executive
and economic policymaker. He served on the Biden Transition’s Agency
Review Team for the Department of Treasury and served as Associate
Administrator of Investment & Innovation of the U.S. Small Business
Administration during the Obama Administration. He led programs that,
since their inception, have invested over $120 billion in hundreds of
thousands of American small businesses that have created millions of
jobs. Javier also served in the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commissions’ Advisory Committee on Small and Emerging Companies.

Javier is Managing Partner of Impact Master Holdings and Venture Partner
at Fenway Summer. He has served on several corporate and non-profit
boards. Prior to public service, he spent over twenty years in finance,
management and advisory roles at organizations that include McKinsey &
Company, Booz Allen & Hamilton, Bridgewater Associates and Abbott
Laboratories. He holds an MBA from Harvard Business School, an MS in
Operations & Technology from Illinois Institute of Technology, and a BS
in Industrial Management from Purdue University.

Javier grew up in Puerto Rico and resides with his family in Washington,
DC.

**<u>Dana Bilyeu, Nominee for Member of the Federal Retirement Thrift
Investment Board</u>**

Dana Bilyeu is the Executive Director of the National Association of
State Retirement Administrators (NASRA) and has been in that role since
2013. Before joining NASRA, she served as the Executive Officer of the
Public Employees’ Retirement System of Nevada (2003 – 2013). As
Executive Officer, she was responsible for all aspects of fund
management, including analysis of plan funding, investment oversight,
operational and strategic planning, and fiduciary and governance issues.
Prior to her appointment as the Executive Officer, Ms. Bilyeu served
eight years as the Operations Officer for the System, overseeing benefit
administration, including survivor, disability, and retirement programs.
Before joining Nevada PERS, Ms. Bilyeu was the System’s general counsel
in the Office of the Nevada Attorney General, representing the System in
benefits litigation, contracts analysis, board governance and fiduciary
issues.

Ms. Bilyeu is in her second term on the Federal Retirement Thrift
Investment Board (FRTIB). Ms. Bilyeu also served as a member of the
Social Security Advisory Board from 2007 through 2010. The Advisory
Board is an independent, bipartisan board created by Congress and
appointed by the President and the Congress to advise the President, the
Congress, and the Commissioner of Social Security on matters related to
Social Security and Supplemental Security Income programs.

Ms. Bilyeu is a public employee board member of the International
Foundation of Employee Benefit Plans and also serves as a board member
for the National Institute on Retirement Security. She received her
juris doctor from California Western School of Law and her bachelor’s
degree from the University of Arizona.

**<u>Leona Bridges, Nominee for Member of the Federal Retirement Thrift
Investment Board</u>**

Leona M. Bridges is a Commissioner for the San Francisco Employees’
Retirement System, where she serves as chair of the deferred
compensation committee. She is a former Director for the Municipal
Transportation Agency and Commissioner for the San Francisco Parking
Authority of the City & County of San Francisco, where she continues to
serve on the Bond Oversight Committee. For more than two decades, Ms.
Bridges was a Managing Director at Barclays Global Investors (acquired
by BlackRock in 2009), becoming the world’s largest asset manager of
combined assets. During her career in the financial services industry,
she focused on asset management as it related to global securities
lending/trading, collateral management, custody services, client
service, and business development. Additionally, she was responsible for
establishing and maintaining civic and community relationships.

Ms. Bridges holds an MBA from Golden Gate University Ageno School of
Business and a Bachelor of Arts in Business Administration from San
Francisco State University. She established an endowed scholarship in
the College of Business to support economically and educationally
disadvantaged students at San Francisco State University. Ms. Bridges
serves on various community and non-profit boards. She is the recipient
of many professional, community, and prestigious national awards.

**<u>Stacey Olivares, Nominee for Member of the Federal Retirement
Thrift Investment Board</u>**

Stacie Olivares is on the board of directors of the Mission Advancement
Corporation (NYSE: MACC) as its Audit Committee Chair, the Kroll Bond
Rating Agency (KBRA), and CalPERS. At the nexus of capital markets,
technology, and policy, Olivares works to expand markets, optimize
returns, and democratize capital to advance environmental, social, and
governance (ESG) and diversity, equity, and inclusion outcomes in our
global economy. She is one of the few Latina Chief Investment Officers
in the United States.

Olivares was the Chief Investment Officer of Lendistry, a fintech small
business lender, from 2019 through 2020, and senior advisor on
blockchain and impact investment to the world’s four-largest insurance
market from 2018 to 2019. Earlier, Stacie led ESG investments as the
Chief Investment Officer of COIN, a $29 billion ESG investment fund of
the insurance industry, from 2011 through 2018, and as an ESG-focused
portfolio manager at Morgan Stanley from 2008 through 2011. She entered
capital markets with a global lens after leading the State of
California’s economic advisory board from 2002 to 2007 and advancing
global licensing and business development for Palm, Inc., from 2000 to
2002. Olivares serves on the advisory board of SUMA Wealth and on the
board of directors of the University of California at Berkeley, College
of Letters & Science, the Hispanic Heritage Foundation, and the Latino
Community Foundation. She holds a bachelor’s degree in economics from
the University of California at Berkeley and a master’s degree in
business and government from Harvard University.

**<u>Kathy Im, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors of the
Corporation for Public Broadcasting</u>**

Kathy Im is the Director of Journalism and Media at the John D. and
Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation. She manages a $25 million annual
portfolio that is best known for supporting public media, nonprofit
journalism, and documentary storytelling. During Im’s tenure, the
program has deepened and expanded its investments in the creation,
dissemination, and amplification of accurate, just, and inclusive news
and narratives across three areas of media — professional nonprofit
reporting, nonfiction multimedia storytelling, and participatory civic
media — with the goal of informing, engaging, and activating Americans
to build a more equitable future.

Im is a recognized leader in philanthropy and media. She is a member of
the Board of Jurors for the Peabody Awards, a member of the Academy of
Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, and a former board member of Media
Impact Funders, the Center for Asian American Media, and Asian
Americans/Pacific Islanders in Philanthropy. She is the author of
several editorials and essays about press freedom, diversity in media
and journalism, and the connection between media and democracy. Kathy
earned her Master’s in Public Policy from the Harris School of Public
Policy Studies at the University of Chicago, where she is currently a
member of the Harris Council, which advises the Dean. She earned her
Bachelor’s in Government Studies from Smith College. Im lives in Chicago
with her husband, Young B. Im, and their three children.

**<u>Tom Rothman, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors of the
Corporation for Public Broadcasting</u>**

Tom Rothman, one of the global media sector’s most experienced
executives, is Chairman and CEO of Sony Pictures Entertainment’s Motion
Picture Group. Chairman since 2015, he oversees all of the studio’s
worldwide businesses, including historic Columbia Pictures. Previously,
Rothman served as Chairman and CEO of Fox Filmed Entertainment, having
spent 17 years in various positions at 20th CenturyFox, including
founding Fox Searchlight Pictures.  Earlier in his career, Rothman was
President of Worldwide Production for the Samuel Goldwyn Company and
Executive Vice President for Columbia Pictures.  Before joining
Columbia, Rothman was a partner at the New York law firm Frankfurt,
Kurnit, Klein and Selz, having clerked on the Second Circuit Court of
Appeals.  

Since 2013, Rothman has served on the Board of Directors of Booking
Holdings Inc., the world’s largest online travel agency. He is a member
of the National Council on the Arts and has received The Corwin Award
for Human Relations from the American Jewish Committee.  He is a member
of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences and serves on
multiple non-profit boards.  Rothman received lifetime achievement
recognitions from the Producers Guild of America and the IFP East, and
Columbia University honored him with the Arthur B. Krim Award for
outstanding leadership.  He graduated magna cum laude, Phi Beta Kappa,
from Brown University in 1976 and from Columbia Law School in 1980 as a
two-time James Kent Scholar, the school’s highest academic honor.

**<u>Elizabeth Sembler, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors of
the Corporation for Public Broadcasting</u>**

Elizabeth Sembler of Seminole, Florida is a retired Jewish educator and
school administrator.  She most recently served as the director of
engagement at Congregation B’nai Israel in St. Petersburg, Florida. Ms.
Sembler has previously served on the board of the Corporation for Public
Broadcasting, appointed by Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama.
She served as chair of the board from 2014-16. She has served on the
board of Tampa, Florida public television station WEDU-TV since 1993 and
was the chair of its board from 2001-2003. From 2006-2008, she served on
the board of the America’s Public Television Stations (APTS), a
nonprofit group that supports the continued growth and development of a
strong and financially sound noncommercial television service.

Ms. Sembler co-chairs the board of advisors of the Davidson Graduate
School of Education at the Jewish Theological Seminary in New York, New
York, and serves on the board of directors and is past board chair of
the Academy Prep Center of St. Petersburg in Florida, a privately funded
middle school for students qualifying for needs-based scholarships. She
serves as vice chair of the board of directors of the Florida Orchestra,
and recently joined the boards of Congregation B’nai Israel in St.
Petersburg, the Institute for Strategic Policy Solutions at St.
Petersburg College, and the Tampa Orlando Pinellas \[TOP\] Jewish
Foundation in Tampa, FL.

\###
