---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-08-11'
modified_time: 2021-08-11 09:59:49-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/11/readout-from-nsc-spokesperson-emily-horne-on-senior-administration-official-travel-to-mexico/
published_time: 2021-08-11 10:30:00-04:00
title: "Readout from NSC Spokesperson Emily Horne on Senior Administration Official\
  \ Travel to\_Mexico"
---
 
President Biden’s National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan, DHS Secretary
Alejandro Mayorkas, and Under Secretary of State Uzra Zeya traveled to
Mexico on August 10 to advance U.S.-Mexico cooperation
across our bilateral agenda.  NSC Senior Director Juan
Gonzalez, National Security Advisor to the Vice President Ambassador
Nancy McEldowney, Ambassador Julissa Reynoso, State Department Senior
Western Hemisphere Bureau Official Ricardo Zuniga, and Department of
Homeland Security Assistant Secretary David Shahoulian also traveled
with the delegation.      
  
National Security Advisor Sullivan and his team met with President
Andrés Manuel López Obrador, Foreign Secretary Marcelo Ebrard, Attorney
General Gertz, and Secretary of Finance Ramirez de la O, as well as
other senior Mexican government representatives. The visit followed a
phone call between Vice President Kamala Harris and President López
Obrador on August 9, and provided an opportunity to discuss economic and
security priorities, such as competitiveness, our shared border,
COVID-19 recovery, security cooperation, and development in southern
Mexico and Central America.

During the visit, U.S. and Mexican officials reaffirmed the strategic
relationship between our two countries. Given the strong economic ties
binding us, the delegations advanced preparations for the upcoming
relaunch of the U.S.-Mexico High-Level Economic Dialogue (HLED), which
will be held in Washington on September 9. They discussed opportunities
to better integrate our economies to make them more resilient, including
the potential to strengthen and pivot supply chains in alignment with
our domestic efforts to build back better. National Security Advisor
Sullivan also affirmed our cooperation on health security, including
assessing the current COVID-19 situation on the ground in both countries
and collaborating to manage the pandemic together.  
  
Officials underscored the importance of fostering development in
southern Mexico and Central America to address the root causes of
irregular migration, and will work toward deeper collaboration within
the Root Causes Strategy. They discussed current irregular migration
flows and committed to jointly managing safe, orderly migration that
respects human rights. The National Security Advisor and Mexican leaders
also affirmed their commitment to a regional approach to migration. In
addition, Mexican and U.S. officials spoke about plans for strategic
security cooperation, a central pillar of our relationship. They
discussed next steps toward the commitment made during Vice President
Harris’ visit in June to hold a High-Level Security Dialogue with
Mexico.  
  
During his visit, National Security Advisor Sullivan stressed that the
United States and Mexico share democratic values and joint priorities,
including improving global health, security, and economic prosperity for
all.  
  
Additional representatives of the Government of Mexico included National
Migration Institute Commissioner Francisco Garduno, Mexican Army Major
General and Southern Border Coordinator General Vicente Hernandez,
 Army Lieutenant General and Commander of Military Operations General
Guillermo Briseno, Mexican Navy Rear Admiral and Undersecretary for
Administration Vice-Admiral Benito Galeana, Undersecretary of Public
Security Ricardo Mejia, and Chief of the Secretariat of Foreign
Relations North America Unit Roberto Velasco.

 ###
