---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-08-13'
modified_time: 2021-08-16 09:45:01-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/13/fact-sheet-biden-administration-takes-steps-to-address-covid-19-in-rural-america-and-build-rural-health-back-better/
published_time: 2021-08-13 07:00:00-04:00
title: "Fact Sheet: Biden Administration Takes Steps to Address COVID- \u2060 19 in\
  \ Rural America and Build Rural Health Back Better"
---
 
Today, the Biden Administration is taking action to improve the health
of rural communities by making billions of dollars in American Rescue
Plan funding available to meet immediate COVID-19 needs. This funding,
which will also help rural hospitals stay open in the long run and
improve the care provided to rural communities, builds on efforts the
Administration has already taken to help rural communities tackle the
COVID-19 crisis and improve access to health care. And these actions are
only the beginning. President Biden’s Build Back Better agenda – also
known as the reconciliation package – will make crucial investments in
rural Americans’ health by lowering prescription drug and other health
care costs, expanding access to care, and improving maternal health, and
the bipartisan infrastructure legislation will improve the quality of
drinking water in rural communities.

**<u>NEW ACTIONS</u>**

**Helping health care providers in rural areas cover costs associated
with COVID-19 and keep their doors open.** The U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services (HHS) is providing $8.5 billion in American Rescue
Plan funding in the coming weeks to help compensate health care
providers who serve rural Medicare, Medicaid, and Children’s Health
Insurance Plan (CHIP) patients for lost revenue and increased expenses
associated with COVID-19**.** These funds will help ensure that
providers can effectively respond to the COVID-19 pandemic and will
place them on stable financial footing to continue serving their
communities into the future.

**Expanding rural hospitals and providers’ access to COVID-19 vaccines,
testing, and supplies, while helping rural health care providers stay
financially solvent in the long-term.** The U.S. Department of
Agriculture (USDA) is using $500 million in American Rescue Plan funding
to create the Emergency Rural Health Care Grant Program. The program
will provide at least $350 million to help rural hospitals and local
communities increase access to COVID-19 vaccines and testing, medical
supplies, telehealth, and food assistance, and support construction or
renovation of rural health care facilities. Applicants can also apply
for recovery funds that compensate for lost revenue or staffing expenses
due to COVID-19. In addition, the program will provide up to $125
million in grants to plan and implement models that help improve the
long-term viability of rural health care providers, including health
care networks that allow rural providers to collectively address
community challenges and develop innovative solutions.

**Training new rural health care providers, including community health
workers and respiratory therapists, and expanding telehealth.** HHS will
make $52 million from the American Rescue Plan available to train a
range of health care workers to fill in-demand professions affected by
the pandemic. Specifically, HHS is creating rural health networks by
pairing together minority-serving institutions, community colleges,
technical colleges, rural hospitals, Rural Health Clinics, community
health centers, nursing homes and substance abuse providers. Networks
will focus on cross-training and sustaining community health workers in
rural communities; expanding the workforce to support electronic health
records as well as virtual and telehealth systems; expanding the
capacity of emergency medical services reduced by pandemic-driven
service reductions by developing Community Paramedicine programs; and
training case management staff and respiratory therapists, who will play
a critical role in helping rural clinical sites better serve patients
affected by long-term COVID health challenges.The application will be
available in the coming weeks.

**Expanding access to pulmonary rehabilitation services.** HHS is
announcing that, in FY 2022, it will support a demonstration project to
enhance access to pulmonary rehabilitation services in Critical Access
Hospitals that serve rural communities with high rates of chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). COPD is one of the leading causes
of death in the U.S., and adults in rural areas are almost twice as
likely to have it compared to those in urban areas.

**Expanding Veterans Affairs training programs for rural providers.**
The Rural Interprofessional Faculty Development Initiative (RIFDI),
developed by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), is an innovative
two-year training program designed to provide teaching and training
skills for clinicians in rural settings, preparing rural clinicians to
take on faculty roles, mentor medical professionals to serve in rural
America, and grow the healthcare workforce in rural communities. By the
end of this calendar year, VA will launch a new joint initiative with
HHS, adding non-VA community clinicians to the program. This joint
initiative will benefit up to 40 rural communities each year and enable
rural clinicians to better train the next generation of clinicians who
will serve rural America.

**Increasing access to telehealth.** The National Institutes of Health
(NIH) is announcing that it will hold a virtual [public
workshop](https://prevention.nih.gov/research-priorities/research-needs-and-gaps/pathways-prevention/improving-rural-health-through-telehealth-guided-provider-provider-communication)
to identify ways to improve rural health through telehealth-guided
provider-to-provider communication as part of its ongoing Pathways to
Prevention series October 12-14th. With the rapid expansion of
telehealth during the pandemic, this workshop will bring together key
NIH partners, other federal agencies, researchers and community
stakeholders to assess the existing evidence, identify gaps and develop
plans to move telehealth forward. In addition, the Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services recently proposed a new rule to expand access to
telehealth mental health services for rural and vulnerable populations
by allowing Medicare to pay for mental health visits furnished via
telehealth when they are provided by Rural Health Clinics (RHCs) and
Federally Qualified Health Centers (FQHCs). This proposal would expand
access to Medicare beneficiaries, especially those living in rural and
other underserved areas.

**<u>BUILDING RURAL HEALTH BACK BETTER</u>**

The President’s Build Back Better agenda – also referred to as the
reconciliation package –would continue to build on these successes and
deliver lower cost, higher quality health care to rural Americans.

**Lower Health Care Costs.** More than [12% of people living in
completely rural
counties](https://www.census.gov/library/stories/2019/04/health-insurance-rural-america.html)
lacked health insurance before President Biden took office; coverage
under the Affordable Care Act (even with its premium subsidies) was too
expensive for many families; and [nearly 2.3 million
people](/aspe.hhs.gov/sites/default/files/private/pdf/265621/aspe-data-point-medicaid-expansion-new-eligible.pdf%3c)
were not afforded coverage because their state refused to expand
Medicaid. The Build Back Better agenda:

-   Extends the higher premium subsidies that were a part of the
    American Rescue plan to keep health insurance affordable for
    millions of Americans, including those living in rural communities.
-   Adds comprehensive dental, vision, and hearing coverage for Medicare
    beneficiaries, expanding coverage for millions of rural Americans.
-   Expands Medicaid coverage in all states to cover to more rural
    Americans. In 2019, the rural uninsured rate was [nearly twice as
    high](https://aspe.hhs.gov/reports/access-care-rural-america) in
    non-expansion states as expansion states.
-   Invests $3 billion in improving maternal health and tackling health
    disparities.

**Lower Prescription Drug Costs.** Americans pay 2-3 times more for
their prescription drugs than people in other wealthy countries, and
nearly 1 in 4 Americans struggle to afford prescription drugs. President
Biden’s plan would lower prescription drug costs for Americans by
letting Medicare negotiate drug prices, so consumers, including those in
rural communities, are no longer at the whim of pharmaceutical
companies.

**Keep More Rural Hospitals Open.** The President’s Build Back Better
proposal would help keep rural hospitals open by expanding Medicaid.
Three quarters of rural hospitals that are vulnerable to closure are in
states that have yet to expand Medicaid, and Medicaid expansion reduces
the risk of rural hospital closure by 62%.

**Improve the Safety of Rural Drinking Water.** The bipartisan
infrastructure legislation that recently passed the Senate deals with
aging water systems that threaten public health in thousands of
communities nationwide. An estimated six to ten million homes still
receive drinking water through lead pipes and service lines. The
legislation would upgrade and modernize America’s drinking water,
wastewater, and stormwater systems, tackle new contaminants, and support
clean water infrastructure across rural America with $56 billion in
grants and low-cost flexible loans to states, Tribes, territories, and
disadvantaged communities across the country.

**<u>PREVIOUS BIDEN ADMINISTRATION ACTIONS TO SUPPORT RURAL AMERICANS’
HEALTH</u>**

**Helped Rural Communities Fight COVID-19.** Rural communities have been
disproportionately impacted by COVID-19 and the Administration has taken
targeted steps to bolster the COVID-19 response in those areas. For
example, the Administration has allocated over $4 billion to address
COVID-19 challenges in rural communities. This funding—which includes
funds from the American Rescue Plan—supports increased testing and
mitigation efforts in small rural hospitals, Medicare-certified Rural
Health Clinics, and efforts to build vaccine confidence through targeted
educational immunization campaigns and vaccine outreach to rural
communities.

**Expanded Access to Quality Health Care in Rural Communities.** The
President’s agenda to improve health in rural America aims to expand
access to health coverage, so that families can get the care they need
at an affordable price.

-   **Lowered health insurance costs for rural Americans.** In February,
    the Administration opened a Special Enrollment Period to provide all
    Americans the opportunity to obtain quality, affordable health care.
    More than 300,000 rural Americans have enrolled in coverage as a
    result of the Special Enrollment Period. And, thanks to the American
    Rescue Plan, millions of Americans, including Americans in rural
    communities, have found lower health insurance premiums on plans
    purchased through HealthCare.gov. Uninsured rural Americans can
    still find a zero- or low-premium plan – but the last day to sign up
    at HealthCare.gov is August 15.

<!-- -->

-   Through the [Community Health Access and Rural Transformation
    (CHART)
    Model](https://innovation.cms.gov/innovation-models/chart-model),
    HHS is providing new ways for rural communities to transform their
    health care delivery systems. Participating rural providers can take
    advantage of regulatory flexibilities to structure payments in a way
    that rewards the quality of care and health outcomes instead of the
    volume of services provided.

**Initiated Actions to Keep More Rural Hospitals Open.** [138 rural
hospitals have
shuttered](https://www.shepscenter.unc.edu/programs-projects/rural-health/rural-hospital-closures/)
since 2010, with 19 hospitals closing in 2020 alone. For many rural
communities, keeping rural hospitals open means the difference between
life or death for community members. It also means jobs and economic
opportunity. In addition to the American Rescue Plan funds announced
today, the Administration has already taken several steps to help keep
rural providers open.

-   **Took initial action to establish a new provider type, Rural
    Emergency Hospitals, to fill a gap in rural care.** In response to
    the growing concern that closures of rural hospitals and Critical
    Access Hospitals are leading to a lack of services for people living
    in rural areas and the loss of access to emergency care, HHS has
    taken the initial step to determine how to [design a new provider
    type](https://www.cms.gov/newsroom/press-releases/cms-proposes-rule-increase-price-transparency-access-care-safety-health-equity),
    Rural Emergency Hospitals (REHs). In the future, REHs will be
    required to furnish emergency department services and observation
    care and may provide other outpatient medical and health services.
-   **Promoted hospital competition and price transparency.** Hospital
    consolidation has left many areas, [especially in rural
    communities](https://www.gao.gov/products/gao-21-93), without good
    options for convenient and affordable health care service. In his
    [executive order promoting
    competition](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/09/fact-sheet-executive-order-on-promoting-competition-in-the-american-economy/),
    the President underscored that hospital mergers that reduce health
    care access can be harmful to patients and encouraged the Justice
    Department and Federal Trade Commission to review and revise their
    merger guidelines to ensure patients are not harmed by such mergers.
    He also directed HHS to support existing hospital price transparency
    rules and to finish implementing bipartisan federal legislation to
    address surprise hospital billing.

**Expanded the Pipeline of Rural Health Care Workers.** Increasing the
number of rural individuals going to medical school or other health care
training programs and returning to rural communities to provide care is
critical to bolstering access to health care in rural communities.

-   **Proposed a budget that** **strengthens the rural health care
    provider pipeline.** The President’s FY22 budget request includes a
    number of investments to build the pipeline of rural health care
    providers, including:
    -   $13 million to expand the Rural Residency Planning and
        Development Program to develop new residency programs in rural
        communities to train physicians in rural practice settings, an
        increase of $2 million above FY2021 enacted levels.

    <!-- -->

    -   Continued support for loan repayment and scholarships for
        clinicians practicing in high-need rural and underserved areas
        through roughly $477 million in total program funding for the
        National Health Service Corps.

    <!-- -->

    -   $20 million above FY 2021 enacted budget to continue a
        nationwide expansion of the Community Health Aide Program to the
        lower 48 states to enhance care for tribal populations. This
        evidence-based program, which has measurably improved access to
        health care in rural Alaska, has the potential to expand access
        to high quality care in remote and rural areas in Indian
        Country.

**Provided Funding to Treat Substance Use Disorders and Address the
Opioid Epidemic in Rural Communities.** The opioid epidemic has
shattered families and ravaged communities. The Biden-Harris
Administration is committed to tackling this epidemic and ensuring
support for the full continuum of prevention, harm reduction, treatment
and recovery support services. The Administration has:

-   **Improved prevention and treatment of substance use disorder.** HHS
    announced $85.5 million in funding to rural communities to address
    the opioid epidemic and substance use issues in rural America. This
    includes 78 implementation grants to focus on prevention and
    treatment and 15 awards that will focus on communities addressing
    misuse of psycho-stimulants, such as methamphetamine.
-   **Lifted a moratorium on opioid treatment programs with a mobile
    component.** The Drug Enforcement Administration recently lifted a
    decade-long moratorium on opioid treatment programs that want to
    include a mobile component. This [rule
    change](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ondcp/briefing-room/2021/06/29/biden-harris-administration-expands-treatment-to-underserved-communities-with-mobile-methadone-van-rule-2021/)
    will help remove a critical barrier to treatment for rural and other
    underserved communities, including incarcerated individuals.
-   **Put forward a budget to address the opioid epidemic.** The
    President’s FY22 budget request includes $165 million to address the
    opioid epidemic in hard-hit rural communities, an increase of $55
    million.

**Prioritized Maternal Health in Rural America.** Maternal mortality is
rising in the U.S. Rural women experience poorer maternal health
outcomes compared to their non-rural counterparts, including [higher
pregnancy-related
mortality](https://www.hrsa.gov/sites/default/files/hrsa/advisory-committees/rural/publications/2020-maternal-obstetric-care-challenges.pdf).
Women in rural communities also experience racial, ethnic, and
socioeconomic disparities in maternal health outcomes. These disparities
are amplified for women living in tribal communities. The Administration
has:

-   **Funded improvements in rural maternal care.** HHS awarded an
    additional $3 million in funds for the Rural Maternity and
    Obstetrics Management Strategies (RMOMS) program. This program,
    which the Administration proposes to expand in its FY22 budget
    proposal, develops models and implements strategies that improve
    access to and continuity of maternal obstetrics care in rural
    communities. Applicants are required to focus on populations that
    have historically suffered from poorer health outcomes, health
    disparities, and other inequities.
-   **Put forward a budget to keep improving maternal health.** The
    President’s discretionary budget request includes more than $200
    million to reduce maternal mortality and morbidity rates nationwide,
    bolster Maternal Mortality Review Committees, and expand the RMOMS
    program, among other actions.

**Prioritized Access to Clean Drinking Water.** Across the country,
water pipes and treatment plants are aging and polluted drinking water
is endangering public health.

-   **Put forward a budget prioritizing clean drinking water in
    low-income communities.** The President’s FY22 budget proposal
    requests $22 million for the Rural Community Development Program,
    which provides grants to assist low-income communities in developing
    affordable and safe water and wastewater treatment facilities.

\###
