---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-08-06'
modified_time: 2021-08-06 16:54:25-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/06/president-biden-announces-10-key-nominations/
published_time: 2021-08-06 16:18:53-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces 10 Key\_Nominations"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following 10 individuals to serve in key roles:

-   David R. Gilmour, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Equatorial Guinea
-   Scott Miller, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Swiss Confederation and to the Principality
    of Liechtenstein
-   Marc R. Stanley, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Argentine Republic
-   Sam Bagenstos, Nominee for General Counsel, Department of Health and
    Human Services
-   Melissa Dalton, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Homeland Defense
    and Global Security Affairs, Department of Defense
-   Alexia Latortue, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for International
    Markets, Department of the Treasury
-   Brent Neiman, Nominee for Deputy Under Secretary / Designated
    Assistant Secretary for International Finance and Development,
    Department of the Treasury
-   Alice Albright, Nominee for Chief Executive Officer of the
    Millennium Challenge Corporation
-   Todd Harper, Nominee for Chairman of the National Credit Union
    Administration
-   Owen Herrnstadt, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors,
    Export-Import Bank

**<u>David R. Gilmour, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Equatorial Guinea</u>**

David R. Gilmour, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class
of Minister-Counselor, is the Chargé d’Affaires a.i. at the U.S. Embassy
in N’Djamena, Chad.  He is a former U.S. Ambassador to the Togolese
Republic.  He has served in the Bureau of African Affairs at the
Department of State as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Central Africa,
Director of East African Affairs, and Director of Public Diplomacy for
Africa.  He was Deputy Chief of Mission at the U.S. embassies in Panama
and Malawi, and Counselor for Public Affairs at the U.S. Mission in
Geneva.  Other overseas assignments include Australia, Costa Rica, South
Africa and Cameroon.  He is the recipient of numerous awards, including
Partnership Excellence Award from the Secretary of State’s Office of
Global Partnerships.  Gilmour received a B.A. from Saginaw Valley State
University in Michigan, and an M.A. from the University of Texas at
Austin.  He speaks French and Spanish.

**<u>Scott Miller, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Swiss Confederation and to the Principality of
Liechtenstein</u>**

Scott Miller is an LGBTQ rights activist and philanthropist.  As
co-chair of the Gill Foundation’s board of directors, Miller directs the
foundation’s national giving strategy to advance LGBTQ equality,
including public education campaigns to ban conversion therapy and end
discrimination against LGBTQ Americans.  At the foundation, Miller also
oversees local efforts to ensure equal opportunity for all Coloradans,
including generous support for K-12 STEM education at numerous Colorado
public schools.  During the pandemic, Miller led efforts to provide over
5.6 million meals to tens of thousands of his fellow Coloradans to
alleviate food insecurity.  Together Miller and his husband, Tim Gill,
are among the top contributors to LGBTQ equality issues in the United
States.  Previously, Miller served as an account vice president at UBS
Wealth Management in Denver, Colorado.  Miller earned a Bachelor of
Science degree with honors in business administration from the
University of Colorado Boulder.  Upon graduation, he started his career
as a management consultant for Accenture, followed by work as an event
planner for global clientele.

**<u>Marc R. Stanley, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Argentine Republic</u>**

Marc R. Stanley is President of the Stanley Law Group and a
board-certified civil trial lawyer in Dallas, Texas.  A former president
of the Texas Trial Lawyers Association and the Dallas Trial Lawyers
Association, Stanley has served in leadership positions in dozens of
local and national charitable and civic organizations throughout his
career.  He was a Council Member of the United States Holocaust Memorial
Museum in Washington, D.C. and a Member of the Board of Visitors at the
United States Air Force Air University at Maxwell Air Force Base in
Montgomery, Alabama.   He served for four years as Chairman of the Texas
Public Finance Authority and was Co-Chair of the Mayor’s Complete Count
Outreach Committee for the U.S Census (City of Dallas).  Stanley earned
a B.B.A. at George Washington University, and a J.D. at the University
of Texas-Austin.  He is the recipient of numerous awards, including the
Tikkun Olam Award by the Jewish Council for Public Affairs.

**<u>Sam Bagenstos, Nominee for General Counsel, Department of Health
and Human Services</u>**

Samuel R. Bagenstos currently serves as General Counsel to the Office of
Management and Budget.  He is on leave from his position as the Frank G.
Millard Professor of Law at the University of Michigan Law School.  From
2009 to 2011, Bagenstos served as a political appointee in the
Obama-Biden Administration’s Department of Justice, where he was
Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights.  Pursuant
to an appointment by Governor Gretchen Whitmer, he chaired the Michigan
Employment Relations Commission from 2019 to 2021.  An expert in civil
rights law, Bagenstos wrote the leading law school casebook on
disability rights law and has engaged with state Medicaid systems as a
lawyer, advocate, and consultant to promote community-based services for
individuals with disabilities.  He has argued four cases in the Supreme
Court of the United States, including key matters under the Americans
with Disabilities Act as well as Young v. UPS, a case that established
new protections for pregnant workers.  A graduate of the University of
North Carolina and the Harvard Law School, Bagenstos clerked for Judge
Stephen Reinhardt on the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit and Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg on the Supreme Court of the
United States.

**<u>Melissa Dalton, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Homeland
Defense and Global Security Affairs, Department of Defense</u>**

Melissa G. Dalton is currently the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary
of Defense for Strategy, Plans, and Capabilities at the U.S. Department
of Defense. She is responsible for advising the Secretary of Defense and
other senior defense leaders on national security and defense strategy;
the forces, contingency plans, and associated posture necessary to
implement the defense strategy; nuclear deterrence and missile defense
policy; and security cooperation plans and policies. Prior to her
appointment to the Biden-Harris Administration in January 2021, Ms.
Dalton was a senior fellow and deputy director of the Center for
Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) International Security
Program and director of the Cooperative Defense Project. Her CSIS
research focused on reinforcing the principled foundations of U.S.
defense strategy and military operations, including the responsible role
of the U.S. military in Defense Support of Civil Authorities. Prior to
joining CSIS in 2014, Ms. Dalton served for a decade as a career civil
servant in the Bush and Obama Administrations at DoD. Her assignments
included senior advisor for force planning, special assistant to the
Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, policy adviser to the commander
of the International Security Assistance Force in Kabul, Afghanistan,
and country director for Lebanon and Syria in the Office of the Under
Secretary of Defense for Policy. She also served as an intelligence
analyst at the Defense Intelligence Agency.

**<u>Alexia Latortue, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for International
Markets, Department of the Treasury</u>**

Alexia Latortue is Deputy Chief Executive Offer of the Millennium
Challenge Corporation where she helps shape MCC’s strategic vision,
oversees the agency’s operations to deliver on programmatic priorities
and leads the team. Ms. Latortue has over 20 years of experience in
international development, with a focus on development finance, policy
and making markets work for all people. Her work has covered private
sector development, financial systems development, climate,
infrastructure and economic inclusion. 

Ms. Latortue was previously Managing Director for Corporate Strategy and
a member of the Executive Committee of the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (EBRD). Prior to joining the EBRD, she
served as the Obama-Biden Administration as Principal Deputy Assistant
Secretary for International Development Policy at the Department of the
Treasury, advancing inclusive growth and poverty reduction
internationally through the multilateral development banks. Previously,
Ms. Latortue spent 10 years with the World Bank where her last
assignment was Deputy CEO of CGAP, a unit dedicated to advancing
financial inclusion. She began her career with Development Alternatives,
Inc.

Ms. Latortue earned a M.A. from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy
at Tufts University and a B.S. from Georgetown University.

**<u>Brent Neiman, Nominee for Deputy Under Secretary / Designated
Assistant Secretary for International Finance and Development,
Department of the Treasury</u>**

Brent Neiman is the Edward Eagle Brown Professor of Economics at the
University of Chicago’s Booth School of Business. His teaching and
research focus on international macroeconomics, finance, and trade. He
is a co-founder of the Global Capital Allocation Project and serves as
the director of the Initiative on International Economics at the Becker
Friedman Institute and a co-director of the Initiative for Global
Markets at Chicago Booth. He is a research associate at the National
Bureau of Economic Research, a research fellow at the Center for
Economic Policy Research, and is an associate editor of The American
Economic Review, The Quarterly Journal of Economics, and The Journal of
International Economics.

Neiman previously served as the staff economist for international
finance on the White House Council of Economic Advisers and has worked
at the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, at McKinsey and Company, and at
the McKinsey Global Institute. He earned a Bachelor of Science in
Economics and a Bachelor of Applied Science from the University of
Pennsylvania. He earned a master’s degree in mathematical modelling from
Oxford University, where he was a Thouron Scholar, and received his PhD
in economics from Harvard University.

**<u>Alice Albright, Nominee for Chief Executive Officer of the
Millennium Challenge Corporation</u>**

Alice Albright serves as the Chief Executive Officer of the Global
Partnership for Education, a multilateral partnership and fund dedicated
to improving education outcomes for the most marginalized children in
low income countries. Before joining GPE, Ms. Albright served in the
Obama-Biden Administration from 2009 to 2013 as the Executive Vice
President & Chief Operating Officer of the Export-Import Bank of the
United States. From 2001 to 2009, Ms. Albright served as the Chief
Financial and Investment Officer for the Global Alliance for Vaccines
and Immunization. While there, Ms. Albright led GAVI’s innovative
finance efforts, including the launch the International Finance Facility
for Immunization, a program to enhance GAVI’s ability to finance the
purchase of vaccines. Previously, Ms. Albright worked as a banker with a
focus on emerging markets and held a variety of positions at Citicorp,
Bankers Trust Company, JP Morgan, and the Carlyle Group.

Ms. Albright has served on a number of boards and working groups in the
development, education, and gender arenas. Currently, she serves on the
UK’s G7 Gender Equality Advisory Council, the Board of Williams College,
and the UNESCO Institute of Statistics. She is a member of the Council
on Foreign Relations. She has been decorated as an Officier de L’Order
de L’Etalon by President Kabore and a Commandeur, Ordre National du Lion
by President Macky Sall.

Ms. Albright graduated from Williams College with a BA in History, with
honors, and received an MIA from Columbia University’s School of
International and Public Affairs. She is also a Chartered Financial
Analyst.

**<u>Todd Harper, Nominee for Chairman of the National Credit Union
Administration</u>**

Todd Harper has specialized in financial services policy during his more
than 25 years of government service and has led the NCUA Board as
Chairman since January 2021. He also chairs the interagency Federal
Financial Institutions Examination Council. Mr. Harper joined the NCUA
Board in April 2019 and is the first NCUA staffer to become a Board
Member and Chairman. From 2011 to 2017, he led the agency’s Office of
Public and Congressional Affairs and served as the chief policy advisor
to two NCUA Chairmen. Previously, as staff director for the Subcommittee
on Capital Markets, Insurance and Government Sponsored Enterprises in
the U.S. House of Representatives, Mr. Harper contributed to the efforts
after the financial crisis to enact the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform
and Consumer Protection Act. As legislative director to former
Congressman Paul E. Kanjorski of Pennsylvania, he also worked on
bipartisan legislation concerning credit union capital rules, terrorism
risk insurance, auditing standards and subprime mortgage lending. A
member of the LGBTQ community, Mr. Harper earned an M.P.P. from Harvard
University’s Kennedy School of Government and a B.S. with high
distinction in business analysis from Indiana University’s Kelley School
of Business.

**<u>Owen Herrnstadt, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors,
Export-Import Bank</u>**

Owen Herrnstadt is the Chief of Staff to the International President and
Director of Trade and Globalization at the International Association of
Machinists and Aerospace Workers. As Chief of Staff, he assists in
running one of the largest manufacturing and transportation unions in
the United States. As Director of Trade and Globalization, he develops
policy for international trade, economic investment, international labor
standards, and human rights matters. He also teaches employment and
labor law at the Georgetown University Law Center and has taught
international employment and labor at American University’s Washington
College of Law.

Mr. Herrnstadt is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations,
Independent Mexico Labor Expert Board, U.S. Export-Import Bank Federal
Advisory Committee, and the U.S. State Department Federal Advisory
Committee on International Economics. He also served as Co-Chair of the
State Department’s Stakeholder Advisory Board on OECD Guidelines and  as
Chair of the Board of Directors of the Baltimore Branch of the Federal
Reserve Bank of Richmond. He has testified, written articles and made
presentations on labor and employment law, international employment and
labor law, corporate social responsibility, trade, manufacturing policy,
human rights, and industrial relations in the U.S. and abroad.

\###
