---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-08-31'
modified_time: 2021-08-31 22:45:49-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/31/readout-of-president-bidens-call-with-energy-sector-leaders-on-restoring-power-after-hurricane-ida/
published_time: 2021-08-31 22:45:48-04:00
title: "Readout of President Biden\u2019s Call with Energy Sector Leaders on Restoring\
  \ Power after Hurricane Ida"
---
 
This afternoon, President Biden convened a call with Secretary of Energy
Jennifer Granholm and the CEOs of two of the largest utilities in the
Gulf Coast, Leo Denault of Entergy and Tom Fanning of Southern Company,
as well as Tom Kuhn, the CEO of Edison Electric Institute, an
association that represents all U.S. investor-owned electric companies.
They discussed the destructive power of Hurricane Ida and its impacts on
the energy delivery infrastructure that is a lifeline for communities
across the impacted region. They assessed that although crews are
courageously racing to restore electricity, the power restoration
efforts are going to take some time. During the meeting, President Biden
committed the full weight of the Federal Government to providing support
and resources wherever needed to help expedite power restoration efforts
in Louisiana and Mississippi, noting that in Louisiana nearly one
million customers remain without power, including the city of New
Orleans. Joining the President and Secretary Granholm on the call were
Homeland Security Advisor Liz Sherwood-Randall and Director of Public
Engagement Cedric Richmond.

The White House, senior Biden Administration officials, and FEMA have
been proactively engaging with energy sector leaders in preparation for
the storm and in the days since Ida made landfall as a Category 4
hurricane. To assist with power restoration efforts, the Federal
Government is sharing aerial and satellite imagery to support damage
assessments, helping with debris removal and traffic control so
restoration workers and equipment can get access to downed wires and
poles, restoring vital communications infrastructure, and expediting
permitting for rerunning of transmission cable across the Mississippi
River and for standing up transmission towers. They talked about the
essential role of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers
(IBEW) and the President thanked the IBEW for the vital work their
members perform, especially during emergencies such as Ida where they
run toward the storm while others are being urged to evacuate. More than
25,000 linemen from 32 States and the District of Columbia are on the
ground supporting damage assessment and restoration efforts across the
region, including in New Orleans, where crews are working around the
clock to repair the transmission towers and lines that deliver power to
the city. The President has immediately approved a Major Disaster
Declaration for Louisiana and pre-disaster Emergency Declarations for
both Louisiana and Mississippi.

The CEOs also stressed the need for forward-looking infrastructure
policy and investments to harden the grid and enable its resilience
against the full spectrum of 21<sup>st</sup> century threats, including
extreme weather events. The President noted the impact that climate
change is having on communities across the country, including in storms
and wildfires, and stressed the importance of securing broad support for
his Administration’s current ambitious infrastructure investment goals
and budgetary efforts.

\###
