---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-08-14'
modified_time: 2021-08-14 16:48:03-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/14/statement-by-president-joe-biden-on-afghanistan/
published_time: 2021-08-14 15:48:04-04:00
title: "Statement by President Joe\_Biden on\_Afghanistan"
---
 
Over the past several days, I have been in close contact with my
national security team to give them direction on how to protect our
interests and values as we end our military mission in Afghanistan.

First, based on the recommendations of our diplomatic, military, and
intelligence teams, I have authorized the deployment of approximately
5,000 U.S. troops to make sure we can have an orderly and safe drawdown
of U.S. personnel and other allied personnel, and an orderly and safe
evacuation of Afghans who helped our troops during our mission and those
at special risk from the Taliban advance.

Second, I have ordered our Armed Forces and our Intelligence Community
to ensure that we will maintain the capability and the vigilance to
address future terrorist threats from Afghanistan.

Third, I have directed the Secretary of State to support President Ghani
and other Afghan leaders as they seek to prevent further bloodshed and
pursue a political settlement. Secretary Blinken will also engage with
key regional stakeholders.

Fourth, we have conveyed to the Taliban representatives in Doha, via our
Combatant Commander, that any action on their part on the ground in
Afghanistan, that puts U.S. personnel or our mission at risk there, will
be met with a swift and strong U.S. military response.

Fifth, I have placed Ambassador Tracey Jacobson in charge of a
whole-of-government effort to process, transport, and relocate Afghan
Special Immigrant Visa applicants and other Afghan allies. Our hearts go
out to the brave Afghan men and women who are now at risk. We are
working to evacuate thousands of those who helped our cause and their
families.

That is what we are going to do. Now let me be clear about how we got
here.

America went to Afghanistan 20 years ago to defeat the forces that
attacked this country on September 11th. That mission resulted in the
death of Osama bin Laden over a decade ago and the degradation of al
Qaeda. And yet, 10 years later, when I became President, a small number
of U.S. troops still remained on the ground, in harm’s way, with a
looming deadline to withdraw them or go back to open combat.

Over our country’s 20 years at war in Afghanistan, America has sent its
finest young men and women, invested nearly $1 trillion dollars, trained
over 300,000 Afghan soldiers and police, equipped them with
state-of-the-art military equipment, and maintained their air force as
part of the longest war in U.S. history. One more year, or five more
years, of U.S. military presence would not have made a difference if the
Afghan military cannot or will not hold its own country. And an endless
American presence in the middle of another country’s civil conflict was
not acceptable to me.

When I came to office, I inherited a deal cut by my predecessor—which he
invited the Taliban to discuss at Camp David on the eve of 9/11 of
2019—that left the Taliban in the strongest position militarily since
2001 and imposed a May 1, 2021 deadline on U.S. Forces. Shortly before
he left office, he also drew U.S. Forces down to a bare minimum of
2,500. Therefore, when I became President, I faced a choice—follow
through on the deal, with a brief extension to get our Forces and our
allies’ Forces out safely, or ramp up our presence and send more
American troops to fight once again in another country’s civil conflict.
I was the fourth President to preside over an American troop presence in
Afghanistan—two Republicans, two Democrats. I would not, and will not,
pass this war onto a fifth.

\###
