---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-08-29'
modified_time: 2021-08-29 16:40:26-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/29/readout-of-biden-administration-calls-with-gulf-coast-elected-officials/
published_time: 2021-08-29 16:40:25-04:00
title: "Readout of Biden Administration Calls with Gulf Coast Elected\_Officials"
---
 
This morning, Senior Advisor and Director of Public Engagement Cedric
Richmond, FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell, and National Hurricane
Center Director Ken Graham convened calls with members of the Alabama,
Louisiana, and Mississippi congressional delegations as well as with
Louisiana local leaders to update them on the Administration’s
preparations for Hurricane Ida, which made landfall today as a dangerous
major hurricane on the 16<sup>th</sup> anniversary of Hurricane Katrina.
In their calls, the officials made clear the Administration is ready to
provide assistance as needed and aid local emergency response efforts.
Additionally, Richmond spoke individually with Louisiana Senators Bill
Cassidy and John Kennedy, Mississippi Congressman Bennie Thompson,
Louisiana Congressmembers Steve Scalise, Garret Graves, and Troy Carter,
and New Orleans Mayor LaToya Cantrell to get updates and offer support.
 

This afternoon, President Biden visited FEMA’s National Response
Coordination Center to receive the latest updates on Hurricane Ida
response operations and to address the American people. In advance of
the storm’s landfall, the President approved Emergency Declarations for
the states of Louisiana and Mississippi, authorizing emergency
preparation and protective measures, including direct Federal assistance
such as power generation, air transportation assets, wildlife management
assistance, and water management for both states. The President also
spoke with the Governors of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama on
Friday to make clear that states have the full support of the Federal
government. Yesterday, the President called FEMA Administrator Deanne
Criswell to thank the staff on National Response Coordination Center,
the multiagency center that coordinates disaster response and
prioritizes the allocation of Federal government resources.

In advance of the storm, more than 2,400 FEMA employees were deployed,
and Incident Management Assistance Teams and Urban Search and Rescue
teams were activated. FEMA also prepositioned millions of meals and
liters of water, as well as tarps, generators, and additional
ambulances. The American Red Cross has opened shelters across the
impacted states with cots, blankets, comfort kits and ready-to-eat meals
as well and is implementing steps to prevent the spread of COVID-19,
including through the use of masking, rapid testing, and social
distancing. The Coast Guard proactively positioned vessels and aircraft
for search and rescue efforts. The Department of Energy is working with
private sector power providers, and power restoration crews from nearby
states and power restoration experts from the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers are prepositioned to help get the power back on as fast as
feasible. The Army Corps of Engineers has also activated planning and
response teams for debris, temporary roofing, and temporary housing.

\###
