---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-08-05'
modified_time: 2021-08-05 18:07:55-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/05/statement-by-president-joe-biden-on-the-passing-of-afl-cio-president-richard-trumka/
published_time: 2021-08-05 17:12:00-04:00
title: "Statement by President Joe\_Biden\_ on the Passing of AFL-CIO President Richard\_\
  Trumka"
---
 
I recently called Rich Trumka. It wasn’t scheduled. I just called to
check in as old friends do. We started our conversation like always. He
asked about Jill and the family and I asked about Barbara and theirs.
And then we got to work.

For Rich, work was synonymous with a word that defined his life:
dignity. In the more than thirty years of our friendship, he was a
fierce and forceful champion for the dignity of the American worker.

Whenever you heard him speak, you understood why. He was the American
worker.

A son of a Pennsylvania coal miner, he grew up to be one. He became
president of the United Mine Workers at just 33, and nearly thirty years
later, he was elected president of the AFL-CIO. Yet no matter how far
his career took him, he never forgot where he came from and the people
he started with.

For Rich, it was always about doing right by working people – fighting
for and protecting their wages, their safety, their pensions, and their
ability to build a good, decent, honorable middle-class life. It was
about workers improving their own lives and building worker power
together. And it was about America itself. It was about the American
worker being the heart of our economic might and dynamism.  I’ve always
believed that the middle class built this country and unions built the
middle class. There is no doubt that Rich Trumka helped build unions all
across America.

Perhaps the most important trait I valued in Rich is that he was never
afraid to speak truth to power, even if the power was held by people he
helped elect – myself included. He was always honest and fair. He was
always tough and trustworthy. He was as great a friend and powerful and
reliable ally as anyone could have in their corner.

I will miss him as will the countless workers whose lives he made better
and the labor movement he led with daring vision. But I know our pain is
nothing compared to what Barbara and their son Rich Jr. and their
grandchildren Richard and Taylor are feeling on this day. As I told you
on the phone after we heard the news, Jill and I send you our love –
today and always.

Rich Trumka was a dear friend, a great American, and a good man.

\###
