---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-08-05'
modified_time: 2021-08-05 09:06:36-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/05/memorandum-on-the-deferred-enforced-departure-for-certain-hong-kong-residents/
published_time: 2021-08-05 09:06:35-04:00
title: "Memorandum on the Deferred Enforced Departure for Certain Hong Kong\_Residents"
---
 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE THE SECRETARY OF HOMELAND
SECURITY  
  
SUBJECT:       Deferred Enforced Departure for Certain Hong
Kong Residents  
  
The United States supports the human rights and fundamental freedoms of
the residents of Hong Kong.  Recognizing the significant erosion of
those rights and freedoms in Hong Kong by the People’s Republic of China
(PRC), I am directing the deferral of removal of certain Hong Kong
residents who are present in the United States.  
  
By unilaterally imposing on Hong Kong the Law of the People’s Republic
of China on Safeguarding National Security in the Hong Kong Special
Administrative Region (NSL), the PRC has undermined the enjoyment of
rights and freedoms in Hong Kong, including those protected under the
Basic Law and the Sino-British Joint Declaration.  Since the imposition
of the NSL in June 2020, Hong Kong police have continued a campaign of
politically motivated arrests, taking into custody at least 100
opposition politicians, activists, and protesters on NSL-related charges
including secession, subversion, terrorist activities, and collusion
with a foreign country or external elements.  Over 10,000 individuals
have been arrested for other charges in connection with anti-government
protests.  Over the last year, the PRC has continued its assault on Hong
Kong’s autonomy, undermining its remaining democratic processes and
institutions, imposing limits on academic freedom, and cracking down on
freedom of the press.    
  
There are compelling foreign policy reasons to defer enforced departure
for Hong Kong residents presently in the United States.  The United
States is committed to a foreign policy that unites our democratic
values with our foreign policy goals, which is centered on the defense
of democracy and the promotion of human rights around the world. 
Offering safe haven for Hong Kong residents who have been deprived of
their guaranteed freedoms in Hong Kong furthers United States interests
in the region.  The United States will not waver in our support of
people in Hong Kong.  
  
Pursuant to my constitutional authority to conduct the foreign relations
of the United States, I have determined that it is in the foreign policy
interest of the United States to defer for 18 months the removal of any
Hong Kong resident subject to the conditions and exceptions provided
below.  
  
Accordingly, I hereby direct the Secretary of Homeland Security to take
appropriate measures to defer for 18 months the removal of any Hong Kong
resident who is present in the United States on the date of this
memorandum, except for those:   
  
(1)  who have voluntarily returned to Hong Kong or the PRC after the
date of this memorandum;   
  
(2)  who have not continuously resided in the United States since the
date of this memorandum;   
  
(3)  who are inadmissible under section 212(a)(3) of the Immigration and
Nationality Act (INA) (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(3)) or deportable under section
237(a)(4) of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1227(a)(4));   
  
(4)  who have been convicted of any felony or two or more misdemeanors
committed in the United States, or who meet any of the criteria set
forth in section 208(b)(2)(A) of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1158(b)(2)(A));  
  
(5)  who are subject to extradition;   
  
(6)  whose presence in the United States the Secretary of Homeland
Security has determined is not in the interest of the United States or
presents a danger to public safety; or  
  
(7)  whose presence in the United States the Secretary of State has
reasonable grounds to believe would have potentially serious adverse
foreign policy consequences for the United States.   
  
I further direct the Secretary of Homeland Security to take appropriate
measures to authorize employment for noncitizens whose removal has been
deferred, as provided by this memorandum, for the duration of such
deferral, and to consider suspending regulatory requirements with
respect to F-1 nonimmigrant students who are Hong Kong residents as the
Secretary of Homeland Security determines to be appropriate.  
  
The Secretary of Homeland Security is authorized and directed to publish
this memorandum in the *Federal Register*. 

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
