---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-08-27'
modified_time: 2021-08-27 15:45:34-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/27/statement-by-president-joe-biden-on-the-investigation-into-the-origins-of-covid-%e2%81%a019/
published_time: 2021-08-27 15:45:33-04:00
title: "Statement by President Joe\_Biden on the Investigation into the Origins of\_\
  COVID-\u206019"
---
 
This week, I received the report on the 90-day sprint I asked our
intelligence community to conduct into the origins of the COVID-19
pandemic. I am grateful for the thorough, careful, and objective work of
our intelligence professionals, and while this review has concluded, our
efforts to understand the origins of this pandemic will not rest. We
will do everything we can to trace the roots of this outbreak that has
caused so much pain and death around the world, so that we can take
every necessary precaution to prevent it from happening again.

Critical information about the origins of this pandemic exists in the
People’s Republic of China, yet from the beginning, government officials
in China have worked to prevent international investigators and members
of the global public health community from accessing it. To this day,
the PRC continues to reject calls for transparency and withhold
information, even as the toll of this pandemic continue to rise. We
needed this information rapidly, from the PRC, while the pandemic was
still new. Since taking office, my administration has renewed U.S.
leadership in the World Health Organization and rallied allies and
partners to renew focus on this critical question. The world deserves
answers, and I will not rest until we get them. Responsible nations do
not shirk these kinds of responsibilities to the rest of the world.
Pandemics do not respect international borders, and we all must better
understand how COVID-19 came to be in order to prevent further
pandemics.

The United States will continue working with like-minded partners around
the world to press the PRC to fully share information and to cooperate
with the World Health Organization’s Phase II evidence-based, expert-led
determination into the origins of COVID-19 – including by providing
access to all relevant data and evidence. We will also continue to press
the PRC to adhere to scientific norms and standards, including sharing
information and data from the earliest days of the pandemic, protocols
related to biosafety, and information from animal populations. We must
have a full and transparent accounting of this global tragedy. Nothing
less is acceptable.

\###
