---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-08-03'
modified_time: 2021-08-02 22:36:33-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/03/fact-sheet-bipartisan-infrastructure-investment-and-jobs-act-advancing-economic-and-public-health-opportunities-for-communities-of-color/
published_time: 2021-08-03 08:00:00-04:00
title: 'FACT SHEET: Bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act: Advancing Economic
  and Public Health Opportunities for Communities of Color'
---
 
A little over a month ago, the President announced the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Framework—a bipartisan agreement to make the largest
long-term investment in our infrastructure and competitiveness in nearly
a century. This week, the Senate is considering the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, a once-in-a-generation
investment in our infrastructure. The bipartisan infrastructure
agreement will grow the economy, enhance our competitiveness, and make
our economy more sustainable, resilient, and just.

The agreement will also create good-paying, union jobs. With the
remainder of the President’s Build Back Better Agenda, these investments
will add, on average, around 2 million jobs per year over the course of
the decade, while accelerating America’s path to full employment and
increasing labor force participation.

The Bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act addresses economic
disparities in our economy and the consequences of decades of
disinvestment in America’s infrastructure that have fallen most heavily
on communities of color. Through critical investments, the legislation
increases access to good-paying jobs, affordable high-speed internet,
reliable public transit, clean drinking water and other resources to
ensure communities of color get a fair shot at the American dream.

These critical investments are first steps in advancing equity and
racial justice throughout our economy. The President believes additional
investments are needed in our nation’s caregiving infrastructure,
housing supply, regional development, and workforce development programs
to ensure that communities of color and other underserved communities
can access economic opportunity and justice. And, earlier this summer in
Tulsa, OK, President Biden announced a whole-of-government effort to
increase the share of federal contracts going to small disadvantaged
businesses by 50 percent over the next five years, leveraging the
government’s purchasing power to help more Americans realize their
entrepreneurial dreams.

The Bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act:

**DELIVERS HIGH SPEED INTERNET TO EVERY AMERICAN HOUSEHOLD**

There is a stark digital divide in America. Black families are 9% less
likely to have high-speed internet than their white peers, and Latino
Americans are 15% less likely. About 35% of individuals living on Tribal
lands lack access to broadband service. Although studies suggest high
levels of digital access for Asian Americans, these studies are often
limited in scope and don’t identify key inequities. For example,
broadband access and affordability in the Pacific Islands has long been
a challenge. During the COVID-19 pandemic, there were stories of kids
sitting in McDonald’s parking lots to log on to remote school in parts
of the country. The President believes this is unacceptable.

The agreement’s $65 billion investment ensures every American has access
to reliable high-speed internet with an historic investment in broadband
infrastructure deployment, just as the federal government made a
historic effort to provide electricity to every American nearly one
hundred years ago. This includes a $2 billion investment in broadband in
Tribal communities which were hit particularly hard by the COVID-19
pandemic.

The bill will also help lower prices for internet service by requiring
funding recipients to offer a low-cost affordable plan, requiring
providers to display a “Broadband Nutrition Label” that will help
families comparison shop for a better deal, and by boosting competition
in areas where existing providers aren’t providing adequate service.

**ELIMINATES LEAD PIPES AND DELIVERS CLEAN DRINKING WATER TO EVERY
HOUSEHOLD**

Across the country, pipes and treatment plants are aging and polluted
drinking water is endangering public health. There are up to 10 million
homes with lead service lines and pipes. Children in up to 400,000
schools and child care facilities are at risk of exposure to lead.
Across the country, families of color are at the highest risk for lead
exposure at home and in schools. Communities of color in cities like
Chicago, Milwaukee, and Newark are also at particular risk. For kids,
higher exposure to lead can negatively affect academic performance, and
can lead to cardiovascular disease later in life. By some estimates,
each lead service line replaced at a cost of $5,000 per line leads to
$22,000 in health savings.

The deal makes the largest investment in clean drinking water in
American history, replacing all of the nation’s lead pipes and service
lines. From rural towns to struggling cities, the deal invests in water
infrastructure across America, including in Tribal Nations and
disadvantaged communities that need it most. The deal also includes
dedicated funding to deal with the dangerous chemical PFAS (per- and
polyfluoroalkyl).

**INVESTS IN MORE PUBLIC TRANSIT OPTIONS AND ADDRESSING THE BACKLOG OF
REPAIRS**

Asian American and African American workers commute by public transit at
nearly 4 times the rate of white workers. For example, low-wage Black
residents in Chicago spend 70 additional minutes commuting to work than
their white peers. In New York City, the average Black resident spends
110 minutes more per week commuting to work than the average white
resident.

The Framework’s historic investment in public transit—the largest
federal investment in history—will reduce commute times and create more
economic opportunities in communities of color. In addition, bus and
transit workers are 31% Black and 19% Hispanic, compared to 12% and 18%
respectively of the workforce overall.

The Bipartisan Infrastructure deal is the largest Federal investment in
public transit in history, and devotes a larger share of funds from
surface transportation reauthorization to transit in the history of the
programs. It will repair and upgrade aging infrastructure, modernize bus
and rail fleets, make stations accessible to all users, and bring
transit service to new communities. It will replace thousands of transit
vehicles, including buses, with clean, zero emission vehicles.

**CREATES A FIRST-EVER PROGRAM TO RECONNECT COMMUNITIES DIVIDED BY
INEQUITABLE TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE**

Significantportions of the interstate highway system were built through
Black neighborhoods, destroying homes, schools, churches, and parks and
causing lasting disconnection and disinvestment for residents who
stayed.More broadly, historic investments in transportation
infrastructure, especially highway construction, cut too many Americans
off from opportunity, dividing and demolishing communities, and
perpetuating economic and racial injustices. The legislation creates a
first-ever program to reconnect communities divided by transportation
infrastructure. The program will fund planning, design, demolition, and
reconstruction of street grids, parks, or other infrastructure. This is
in addition to other major grant programs that could fund elements of
these projects.

**ELECTRIFY SCHOOL BUSES, IMPROVING THE AIR QUALITY FOR CHILDREN**

The legislation will make a critical down payment on helping the more
than 25 million children and thousands of bus drivers who breathe
polluted air on their rides to and from school. Diesel air pollution is
linked to asthma and other health problems that hurt our communities and
cause students to miss school, particularly in communities of color and
Tribal communities. The legislation will deliver thousands of electric
school buses nationwide, helping school districts across the country buy
clean, American-made, zero emission buses, replacing the yellow school
bus fleet for America’s children.

**REMEDIATES BROWNFIELD AND SUPERFUND SITES**

Across America, 26% of Black Americans and 29% of Hispanic Americans
live within 3 miles of a Superfund site, a higher percentage than for
the overall population. Proximity to a Superfund site can lead to
elevated levels of lead in children’s blood. Recent studies demonstrate
that cleaning up these sites can lead to a decrease in blood levels by
approximately 13-26%.

The Bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act provides the full
American Jobs Plan funding level—$21 billion—to create good-paying union
jobs plugging orphan oil and gas wells, cleaning up abandoned mines, and
remediating Brownfield and Superfund sites. As we transition to a clean
energy future, the Bipartisan Infrastructure deal will begin to remedy
economic injustice for communities across the country that have relied
on the fossil fuel industry and have been affected most by the impacts
of climate change and pollution, including rural communities and
communities of color.

**SAFEGUARDS COMMUNITIES OF COLOR FROM CLIMATE CRISES AND EXTREME
WEATHER RISKS**

People of color are more likely to live in areas most vulnerable to
flooding and other climate change-related weather events. For example,
in the wake of Hurricane Harvey, Black and Hispanic residents were twice
as likely to report lost income. Tribal lands are significantly at risk
to the effects of climate change and Alaska Natives are particularly
vulnerable, as they face multiple climate impacts.

The legislation invests in helping communities build resilience to
wildfires and floods through investments in forest management and
upgrades to critical infrastructure—like elevating buildings, roads, and
bridges, hardening physical infrastructure, and winterizing the power
grid. And, it will fund state and local infrastructure improvements and
emergency response strategies, such as planning grants to support
development of evacuation routes or upgrading community shelters. The
legislation will also make it easier for low-income families to buy
flood insurance.

**INVESTS IN CLEAN ENERGY GRID TO MITIGATE THE DISPARATE IMPACTS OF
POLLUTION ON COMMUNITIES OF COLOR**

Black, Latino, Asian American and Pacific Islander, and Native
communities are more likely to be burdened by pollution. Black people
are almost three times more likely to die from asthma related causes
than their white counterparts. And more than one in three—or over 23
million—Latinos in the U.S. live in counties where the air doesn’t meet
EPA public health standards for smog.

The legislation’s roughly $65 billion investment is the single largest
investment in clean energy transmission in American history. It upgrades
our power infrastructure, including by building thousands of miles of
new, resilient transmission lines to facilitate the expansion of
renewable energy. It creates a new Grid Deployment Authority, invests in
research and development for advanced transmission and electricity
distribution technologies, and promotes smart grid technologies that
deliver flexibility and resilience. It invests in demonstration projects
and research hubs for next generation technologies like advanced nuclear
reactors, carbon capture, and clean hydrogen.

\###
