---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-08-23'
modified_time: 2021-08-23 13:00:56-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/23/president-biden-intends-to-appoint-members-to-the-federal-labor-relations-authority-federal-service-impasses-panel/
published_time: 2021-08-23 13:00:55-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Intends to Appoint Members to the Federal Labor Relations\
  \ Authority Federal Service Impasses\_Panel"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to appoint
the following members to the Federal Labor Relations Authority (FLRA)
Federal Service Impasses Panel:

-   Martin H. Malin, Chair
-   Wynter P. Allen, Member
-   Jeanne Charles, Member
-   Howard Friedman, Member
-   Edward F. Hartfield, Member
-   Marvin E. Johnson, Member
-   Mark G. Pearce, Member
-   Pamela Schwartz, Member
-   Joseph E. Slater, Member
-   Tamiko N.W. Watkins, Member

The Panel is a component of the FLRA that resolves impasses between
federal agencies and unions representing federal employees. If
bargaining between the parties, followed by mediation assistance, does
not result in a voluntary agreement, then either party or the parties
jointly may request the Panel’s assistance.

**<u>Martin H. Malin</u>**

Martin H. Malin is Professor Emeritus at Chicago-Kent College of Law,
Illinois Institute of Technology, where he taught for 41 years, founded
the Institute for Law and the Workplace, and served as Director of the
Institute for 25 years. He joined the Chicago-Kent faculty in 1980 after
serving as law clerk to United States District Judge Robert E. DeMascio
in Detroit and on the faculty of The Ohio State University. A renown
scholar on the law governing the workplace, he has published more than
80 articles and seven books on labor law.

Professor Malin has served as National Chair of the Labor Relations and
Employment Law Section of the Association of American Law Schools,
Secretary of the ABA Section on Labor and Employment Law, member of the
Executive Committee of the Labor Law Group, member of the Board of
Governors and Vice President of the National Academy of Arbitrators, and
member of the Board of Governors of the College of Labor and Employment
Lawyers.

In October 2009, President Obama appointed Professor Malin as a member
of the Federal Service Impasses Panel. President Obama reappointed
Professor Malin in 2014 and Malin served until May 2017. In 2016, the
ABA presented Professor Malin with the Arvid Anderson Award for lifetime
contributions to public sector labor law.

He has a B.A. from Michigan State University and a J.D. from George
Washington University.

**<u>Wynter Patrice Allen</u>**

Wynter Patrice Allen is a Partner at the Alden Law Group, PLLC in
Washington, D.C. where she practices labor and employment law. Ms. Allen
has also served as a Commissioner on the District of Columbia’s
Commission on Human Rights since 2017. From 2011 until 2013, Ms. Allen
served as the Chair of the District of Columbia’s Public Employee
Relations Board. From 2006-2010, Ms. Allen was a Staff Attorney at the
International Brotherhood of Teamsters. Ms. Allen has served as an
Adjunct Professor for the Elon Law School Externship Program and Howard
University School of Law. Ms. Allen has a law degree from Wake Forest
University School of Law and a B.A. from the University of Chicago.

**<u>Jeanne Charles</u>**

Jeanne Charles resides in Florida with a multi-state ADR practice
including arbitration, mediation and fact-finding predominantly in the
areas of workplace disputes. She earned her Juris Doctorate degree from
DePaul University College of Law in Chicago and maintains her law
license in Illinois. Ms. Charles currently serves as a labor and
employment arbitrator on various public and private sector panels
including professional sports. She is on the rosters of the American
Arbitration Association, Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, and
National Mediation Board. As a Special Magistrate for the Florida Public
Employees Relations Commission (PERC) for a number of years, Ms. Charles
has helped labor and management organizations resolve bargaining impasse
disputes regarding issues such as pay, benefits and safety. She has
served as an adjunct professor at Penn State University’s School of
Labor and Employment Relations where she has taught a graduate course in
Human Resources and Employment Relations, as well as the University of
Arizona School of Law, where she has taught advanced negotiations. Prior
to becoming an arbitrator, Ms. Charles practiced as staff counsel for a
federal sector labor union in Chicago and in private practice. Prior to
becoming an attorney, she had ten years of corporate experience was
certified in Total Quality Management and Problem Solving.

Ms. Charles is a Fellow with the College of Labor and Employment Lawyers
and has been inducted into the National Academy of Arbitrators (NAA)
where she serves on its Board of Governors. Ms. Charles was instrumental
in helping the labor-management community adapt to virtual hearings by
serving as the Chair of the NAA Videoconference Task Force over the last
year. Ms. Charles is the proud mother of three adult daughters and is a
member of various organizations in her community.

**<u>Howard Friedman</u>**

Howard Friedman served 25 years in the federal government as an attorney
and 23 years as President of the National Treasury Employees Union,
Chapter 245, at the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO). A
former chief spokesperson and negotiator for the Trademark attorneys at
the USPTO, Mr. Friedman is experienced in federal labor law, negotiating
collective bargaining agreements, labor-management and employee
relations, government operations, and mediating and resolving workplace
disputes. He was the labor co-chair of the USPTO and Department of
Commerce labor-management forum.

   
A former President of the Society of Federal Labor & Employee Relations
Professionals, Mr. Friedman teaches federal labor relations to human
resource professionals, agency managers, mediators and arbitrators, and
union officials.  As a long-standing member of the USPTO Trademark
Public Advisory Committee, he advised its director on
improving operations, performance, budget, and fee structure policies.
Mr. Friedman played an integral role in creating and growing the USPTO’s
well-known telework program, which started in 1997 with 18 Trademark
examining attorneys and now has over 11,000 employees able to work from
home. Mr. Friedman graduated from Delaware Law School and the University
of Maryland.  

**<u>Edward F. Hartfield</u>**

Edward F. Hartfield has spent his 45-year career as an impartial third
party in the roles of mediator, arbitrator, facilitator, election
administrator, and neutral convenor.  Previously, Hartfield was
appointed by Presidents Obama and Clinton to serve as a Member of the
Federal Service Impasses Panel. He has also served as Commissioner with
the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service and Mediator for the New
Jersey Office of Dispute Settlement.

Mr. Hartfield was appointed to the arbitration rosters of the Federal
Mediation and Conciliation Service, the National Mediation Board, the
Michigan Employment Relations Commission, the Ohio State Employment
Relations Board, and the Iowa Public Employment Relations Board.

Mr. Hartfield has been the International President of the Society of
Professionals in Dispute Resolution and President of the Detroit Chapter
of the Labor and Employment Research Association. Hartfield is adjunct
faculty at the Michigan State University College of Law and Wayne State
University. He received a Master’s in International Relations from the
University of Detroit and B.A. from Oberlin College.

**<u>Marvin E. Johnson</u>**

Marvin E. Johnson is the Executive Director of the Center for
Alternative Dispute Resolution, which he founded at Bowie State
University in 1986. He was Associate Professor of Labor Relations, Law,
and Dispute Resolution at Bowie State University and an Adjunct
Professor at the Catholic University School of Law. Mr. Johnson has
served three terms as a Member of the Federal Service Impasses Panel and
one term as a Member of the Foreign Service Grievance Board. He has
worked for the Department of Labor, the National Football League
Players’ Association, the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service,
the Federal Labor Relations Authority, the National Treasury Employees
Union, the National Academy of Conciliators and Accormend Associates. 
Mr. Johnson has served on numerous national dispute resolution boards,
including the Association for Conflict Resolution, the ABA-Section of
Dispute Resolution, and the International Academy of Mediators and has
served on numerous national dispute resolution panels, including the
American Arbitration Association, the Federal Mediation and Conciliation
Service, JAMS the Resolution Experts, and the CPR Institute for Dispute
Resolution.  He received a B.B.A. from Kent State University, an M.S.
from the University of Wisconsin, and a J.D. from the Catholic
University Law School.

**<u>Mark Gaston Pearce</u>**

Mark Gaston Pearce is a visiting professor and executive director of the
Georgetown University Law Center, Workers’ Rights Institute.  He is also
a panel labor arbitrator and mediator for AAA and FMCS. Formerly a Board
Member and Chairman of the National Labor Relations Board, he previously
taught at Cornell University’s School of Industrial and Labor Relations.
He is a graduate of Cornell University and State University of New York
at Buffalo Law School. He has more than 40 years of experience in the
practice in labor and employment law. His extensive experience includes
private sector practice and many years of public service with the NLRB
and as a governor appointed Board member on the New York State
Industrial Board of Appeals.  Among other honors, he was named a
Champion of Workplace Justice by the Employment Justice Center of
Washington, D.C. and placed on the National Employment Law Project Honor
Roll.

**<u>Pamela R. Schwartz</u>**

Pamela Schwartz has over 20 years of experience in federal labor
management relations. She held positions with increasing levels of
authority within the Patent Office Professional Association, an
independent federal labor union representing over 8000 patent examiners
and other patent professionals at the United States Patent and Trademark
Office (USPTO). This culminated in three years as Union President.
During her years as chief negotiator, she represented the Union on
interest-based and joint management/labor bargaining teams, and led
collective bargaining negotiations, including appearances before the
Federal Service Impasses Panel. She served as a Patent Examiner with the
USPTO for over 35 years. She received her BSChE degree from Drexel
University and her Juris Doctor degree from George Washington University
Law School.

**<u>Joseph E. Slater</u>**

Joseph Slater is a Distinguished University Professor and the Eugene N.
Balk Professor of Law and Values at the University of Toledo College of
Law. He holds a B.A. from Oberlin College, a J.D. from the University of
Michigan Law School, and a PhD in history from Georgetown University.
Before coming to Toledo in 1999, he practiced labor and employment law
in Washington, D.C. for over a decade. Since coming to Toledo, he has
published numerous books and articles on labor and employment law,
especially in the area of public-sector labor law.

In 2019, Professor Slater testified before Congress on the Public
Service Freedom to Negotiate Act and the Public Safety Employer-Employee
Cooperation Act. He has presented many papers on public-sector labor law
at conferences of academics and of practicing lawyers. He has made
numerous media appearances on public-sector labor issues. He is a member
of the Labor Law Group, a group of labor and employment law scholars,
and of the College of Labor and Employment Lawyers, a group of
practitioners and academics specializing in labor and employment law.

**<u>Tamiko N.W. Watkins</u>**

Tamiko Walker Watkins, Esq. is an Assistant General Counsel at the
Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC). In this role, Mrs. Watkins
serves as MCC’s senior legal advisor on employment and administrative
law and is responsible for managing the administrative law team. She
also oversees the MCC’s Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) program
office, whistleblower protection program, and serves as the Alternate
Designated Agency Ethics Official. Prior to MCC, she served as a Senior
Trial Attorney and Assistant Counsel for the Department of the Navy. She
provided counsel and training on labor and employment law and
represented the Navy in litigation. Mrs. Watkins began her legal career
as a Trial Attorney for Allstate Insurance Company and Judicial Law
Clerk for the Pennsylvania Court of Common Pleas.

In addition, Mrs. Watkins is an Adjunct Law Professor at Howard
University School of Law. She also has notable alternative dispute
resolution experience. She served as a Mediator for the Superior Court
of the District of Columbia, an Arbitrator for the District of Columbia
Bar’s Attorney/Client Arbitration Board, and an Arbitrator for the
Pennsylvania Court of Common Pleas. She received her Master of Laws
degree in Litigation and Dispute Resolution from the George Washington
University Law School, Juris Doctor from Widener University School of
Law, and Bachelor of Arts in Public Relations from Hampton University.

\###
