---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-08-09'
modified_time: 2021-08-09 09:45:20-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/09/fact-sheet-biden-administration-announces-nearly-5-billion-in-resilience-funding-to-help-communities-prepare-for-extreme-weather-and-climate-related-disasters/
published_time: 2021-08-09 09:45:19-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden Administration Announces Nearly $5 Billion in Resilience\
  \ Funding to Help Communities Prepare for Extreme Weather and Climate-Related\_\
  Disasters"
---
 
*New Funding Opportunities Will Target Disadvantaged Communities While
Creating Good-Paying Jobs*

Today, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is announcing
three pre-disaster funding opportunities to help states and communities
prepare for major disasters that are costing lives and livelihoods and
devastating local communities and businesses. These programs will allow
communities to apply for nearly $5 billion to increase their
preparedness in advance of climate-related extreme weather events and
other disasters, and improve their ability to recover after these
events. In particular, FEMA is announcing the following:

-   $1 billion in funding for its [**Building Resilient Infrastructure
    and Communities
    (BRIC)**](https://www.fema.gov/grants/mitigation/building-resilient-infrastructure-communities)
    program for Fiscal Year 2021. This new program, launched in 2020,
    provides grants to states, local communities, tribes, and
    territories to proactively reduce their vulnerability to natural
    hazard events before they occur, and make themselves and the nation
    more resilient. This year, the Biden Administration is doubling the
    program’s funding and implementing a number of changes to enhance
    funding opportunities for tribes and disadvantaged communities,
    including by changing program selection criteria and providing a
    larger allocation for tribes.

<!-- -->

-   $3.46 billion in funding for its [**Hazard Mitigation Grant Program
    (HMGP)**](https://www.fema.gov/grants/mitigation/hazard-mitigation).
    The 59 states, tribes, and territories that received a major
    disaster declaration in response to the COVID-19 pandemic will be
    eligible to receive 4% of the disaster costs related to their
    declaration to invest in mitigation projects that will help better
    prepare and protect communities from natural disasters and the
    impacts of climate change. The influx of funding will help
    communities prioritize mitigation needs for a more resilient future,
    including underserved communities that are often most vulnerable to
    the impacts of climate change.

<!-- -->

-   $160 million in funding for its [**Flood Mitigation Assistance
    (FMA)**](https://www.fema.gov/grants/mitigation/floods) grant
    program for Fiscal Year 2021 to reduce or eliminate the risks of
    repetitive flood damage to homes and buildings insured by the
    National Flood Insurance Program.

These new funding opportunities support the President’s Build Back
Better Agenda. This agenda includes historic investments to make our
aging infrastructure more resilient in the face of increasingly severe
floods, wildfires, droughts, hurricanes, and other risks. It also
supports the President’s [Justice40
Initiative](https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/briefing-room/2021/07/20/the-path-to-achieving-justice40/),
which set a goal of delivering at least 40% of the overall benefits of
Federal investments in climate and clean energy to disadvantaged
communities. Through these investments, we will advance environmental
justice and equity, reduce the vulnerability of communities to
disasters, promote individual and community safety, strengthen our
ability as a nation to adapt to changing conditions, and reduce the
burdens these changes place on our first responders.

***The High Costs of Extreme Weather and Climate-Related Disasters***

Climate change is a major driver for the increased frequency, duration,
and severity of extreme weather and climate-related disasters. Millions
of Americans feel the effects of these extreme events when their roads
and schools flood, and hospitals lose power. Over the past few years,
the frequency of extreme weather and climate-related disaster events
with losses exceeding $1 billion has skyrocketed. From 2000 to 2009,
these billion-dollar disasters occurred 6 times a year on average. From
2010 to 2020, that number increased to an average of 13 events per year,
causing more than $975 billion in disaster damages over the decade. Last
year alone, the United States faced $100 billion in damages to homes,
businesses, and public infrastructure due to disasters. Annual deaths
and monetary losses from these events have more than doubled.

Chronic underinvestment in American infrastructure has impacted our
resilience. Failure to properly invest in our transportation systems can
lead to disrupted service, unsafe travel conditions, severe damage, and
increased maintenance and operating costs, deficiencies which
disproportionately burden disadvantaged urban, rural, and tribal
communities. Underinvestment in resilient electrical grids and water
systems can leave people without power or clean water, create immediate
peril, cause substantial economic dislocation, and impede swift recovery
from a disaster.

Fortunately, we can decrease these human and infrastructure costs
through smart pre-disaster investments. Studies have consistently shown
FEMA hazard mitigation investments are cost effective and result in
communities that are safer and more resilient to natural hazards,
including impacts from climate change. Many of these investments will
also create jobs in building and improving our infrastructure. An
analysis of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act showed that
investments in community resilience generated 15 to 33 jobs per million
dollars spent and an economic return of $2.40 for every $1 invested.

***A Whole-of-Government Approach to Resilience and Equity***

The Biden Administration is taking steps to ensure that underserved
communities will receive access to needed funds from these programs. As
program pilots of the Justice40 Initiative, both the BRIC and FMA
programs will immediately begin enhancing benefits for disadvantaged
communities.

For example, FEMA has refined the BRIC program project selection
criteria to send more benefits to those most in need. It will double the
number of communities that can receive non-financial direct technical
assistance in FY2021, through hands-on support with project development
and other needs that help level the playing field for up to 20
disadvantaged communities. Pursuant to President Biden’s [Executive
Order 13985, on *Advancing Racial Equity and Support for Underserved
Communities through the Federal
Government*](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/20/executive-order-advancing-racial-equity-and-support-for-underserved-communities-through-the-federal-government/),
FEMA is also conducting an equity assessment for all of its hazard
mitigation grant programs to address barriers and expand access for
disadvantaged communities. In addition, the FMA program will employ the
Social Vulnerability Index to prioritize funding in disadvantaged
communities and utilize mapping assessment tools at the census tract
level.

In addition to today’s FEMA announcements, we are coordinating efforts
across agencies as part of the Biden Administration’s
whole-of-government approach to increase resilience, get funding, and
address the needs of communities across the country, including through
task forces like the Department of Homeland Security’s DHS Climate
Change Action Group. Through [Executive Order 14008, on *Tackling the
Climate Crisis at Home and
Abroad*](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/27/executive-order-on-tackling-the-climate-crisis-at-home-and-abroad/),
the President established the National Climate Task Force. The Task
Force created five interagency working groups to support communities in
addressing resilience strategies tied to
[drought](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/21/readout-of-the-third-national-climate-task-force-meeting/),
wildfires, extreme heat,
[coastal](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ceq/news-updates/2021/07/30/readout-of-the-white-house-coastal-resilience-interagency-working-group-convening/),
and flood risks. In addition, key agencies are supporting climate action
by preparing plans to outline strategies to improve climate resilience.
Under Executive Orders 14030, *Climate-Related Financial Risk,* and
14008, agencies are preparing reports on climate finance risk, improving
climate forecasting, and providing information products to the public. 

\###
