---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-08-18'
modified_time: 2021-08-18 17:04:26-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/18/president-biden-announces-five-key-nominations-4/
published_time: 2021-08-18 16:26:50-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Five Key\_Nominations"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following five individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Scott A. Nathan, Nominee for Chief Executive Officer of the United
    States International Development Finance Corporation
-   Viquar Ahmad, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Administration and
    Chief Financial Officer, Department of Commerce
-   Matthew Axelrod, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Export
    Enforcement, Department of Commerce
-   Robert Gordon, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Financial
    Resources, Department of Health and Human Services
-   Charles F. Sams, Nominee for Director of the National Park Service,
    Department of the Interior

**<u>Scott A. Nathan, Nominee for Chief Executive Officer of the United
States International Development Finance Corporation</u>**

Scott A. Nathan is an experienced investor, manager and public servant.
For nearly two decades, he worked as a partner, management committee
member, and the chief risk officer of The Baupost Group, a private
investment partnership based in Boston.  Nathan entered public service
during the Obama-Biden Administration, first as the Special
Representative for Commercial and Business Affairs at the Department of
State, where he led a team of foreign service officers and civil
servants focused on protecting U.S. economic interests abroad and
advocating on behalf of American exports. In that role, he traveled to
more than 30 countries supporting the Administration’s economic
diplomacy agenda. Later, he served as the Associate Director for General
Government Programs at the Office of Management and Budget. Nathan most
recently served as a senior advisor to the White House Office of
Presidential Personnel after having worked on the Biden-Harris
Presidential Transition’s Appointments team.

Nathan has been deeply involved with numerous environmental advocacy,
educational and other non-profit organizations. Scott graduated from
Harvard College with a BA and also has a JD from Harvard Law School and
an MBA from Harvard Business School. Additionally, he attended Emmanuel
College, Cambridge University in England as the Lionel de Jersey Harvard
Scholar.  Nathan lives with his family in Washington, DC.

**<u>Viquar Ahmad, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Administration
and Chief Financial Officer, Department of Commerce</u>**

Viquar Ahmad has held multiple leadership roles in the U.S. government
over the past two decades. He served as the Deputy Chief Financial
Officer of the U.S. House of Representatives over the past four years;
his responsibilities included management of Congress’ operating budget.
Before returning to the House, Ahmad provided counsel to the Department
of Homeland Security’s (DHS) senior leadership on the budget
decision-making, and oversight on a nearly $70 billion budget of its
component agencies. His leadership enabled DHS to successfully meet
response and recovery efforts to catastrophic natural disasters, thwart
cybersecurity threats, clean-up the largest maritime oil spill in U.S.
history, and recapitalize critical multi-billion dollar national
security assets. Previously, he served as a senior aide to the Chairman
for the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human
Services, Education and Related Agencies. In this capacity, he
facilitated Congress’ enactment of the largest domestic discretionary
spending bills, reflecting priorities outlined by a diverse constituency
of stakeholders.

Ahmad has been recognized with excellence awards, including the U.S.
Coast Guard’s Distinguished Public Service Medal. He earned a bachelor’s
degree with honors from the University of Texas at Austin and a master’s
degree in Public Administration from the George Washington University.
He was awarded an Executive Certificate in Public Leadership from the
John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University.   

**<u>Matthew Axelrod, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Export
Enforcement, Department of Commerce</u>**

Matt Axelrod is a longtime public servant with deep criminal and
national security enforcement experience, having spent over thirteen
years at the Department of Justice. During the Obama-Biden
Administration, Axelrod served as the Principal Associate Deputy
Attorney General, where he advised on the Department’s criminal and
national security enforcement matters, and supervised a staff of
twenty-five attorneys. Prior to that, Axelrod spent over a decade as a
career federal prosecutor.  From 2003 to 2009, he served as an Assistant
United States Attorney in Miami, where he prosecuted, among others, the
two founders of the Cali Cartel.  From 2009 to 2013, he was on detail to
Main Justice, where he worked as a Senior Counsel to the Assistant
Attorney General for the Criminal Division and then as an Associate
Deputy Attorney General, responsible for overseeing the Department’s
criminal enforcement work.   
  
After leaving the Department in 2017, Axelrod joined the global law firm
Linklaters as a partner, where he did internal investigations and
white-collar defense work.  Axelrod took a leave of absence from
Linklaters in the fall of 2020 to volunteer full-time as a member of the
DOJ Agency Review Team and then rejoined the Department on Inauguration
Day as Senior Counselor.  He was recently detailed to the Office of the
White House Counsel, where he serves as Special Counsel and works on
both domestic and national security matters.   
  
Axelrod graduated with a B.A. from Amherst College, *cum laude*, in
1992, and a J.D. from Yale Law School in 1997, where he was a Notes
Editor for the Yale Law Journal.  He spent two years clerking, first for
the Hon. Ralph K. Winter, Jr. on the United States Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit and then for the Hon. Janet C. Hall on the United
States District Court for the District of Connecticut.  

**<u>Robert Gordon, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Financial
Resources, Department of Health and Human Services</u>**

Robert Gordon is senior counselor at the Center on Budget & Policy
Priorities and senior advisor for Poverty Solutions at the University of
Michigan.  He has worked in key government positions across three
decades.  Most recently, Gordon served as director of the Department of
Health & Human Services for the State of Michigan, playing a central
role in the state’s pandemic response, expanding access to health care,
and addressing racial disparities. During the Obama-Biden
Administration, Gordon served as an acting assistant secretary at the
Department of Education, and as acting deputy director and executive
associate director at the Office of Management & Budget.  Among other
responsibilities, Gordon guided key early childhood and evidence-based
policy initiatives.  Earlier in his career, Gordon served as a senior
official at the New York City Department of Education, driving an
equity-focused school finance reform; a senior aide on Capitol Hill; a
law clerk for Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg; and a White House aide
helping create the AmeriCorps program. Gordon co-chaired the agency
review team for the Department of Health and Human Services for the
Biden-Harris Transition, and served on two transition teams previously. 

Gordon has also worked as senior vice president for strategy and finance
at the College Board and as a law guardian for children in abuse and
neglect proceedings. In addition to the University of Michigan, he has
been a fellow at the Urban Institute, the Brookings Institution, and the
Center for American Progress.  His writings on policy have been
published in The New York Times, Politico, and The Atlantic.  He and his
wife, Catherine Brown, have two sons.

**<u>Charles F. Sams, Nominee for Director of the National Park Service,
Department of the Interior</u>**

Charles F. Sams III currently serves as a Council Member to the
Northwest Power and Conservation Council, as appointed by Oregon
Governor Kate Brown.  Sams has worked in state and tribal governments
and the non- profit natural resource and conservation management fields
for over 25 years. Previous roles include Deputy Executive Director for
the Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservation (CTUIR),
Communications Director for the CTUIR, Environmental Health and Safety
Officer/Planner in the Tribal Planning Office for the CTUIR,
President/Chief Executive Officer of Indian Country Conservancy,
Executive Director for the Umatilla Tribal Community Foundation,
National Director of the Tribal & Native Lands Program for the Trust for
Public Land, Executive Director for the Columbia Slough Watershed
Council, Executive Director for the Community Energy Project and
President/Chief Executive Officer for the Earth Conservation Corps.  He
is also a former adjunct professor at Georgetown University and Whitman
College.  

Sams holds a bachelor of science in business administration from
Concordia University-Portland and a master of legal studies in
Indigenous Peoples Law from the University of Oklahoma. He is a veteran
of the U.S. Navy and currently serves on the boards of the Oregon
Cultural Trust and Gray Family Foundation. Chuck is an enrolled member,
Cayuse and Walla Walla, of the Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla
Indian Reservation, where also he and his wife, Lori Sams, live with
their four children.

\###
