---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-08-05'
modified_time: 2021-08-05 09:21:21-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/05/statements-on-the-biden-administrations-steps-to-strengthen-american-leadership-on-clean-cars-and-trucks/
published_time: 2021-08-05 05:00:00-04:00
title: "Statements on the Biden Administration\u2019s Steps to Strengthen American\
  \ Leadership on Clean Cars and\_Trucks"
---
 
Today, automakers, the United Autoworkers (UAW), and other leaders,
released statements on the Biden Administration’s steps to strengthen
American leadership on clean cars and trucks:  
  
**Joint Statement of Ford, GM, and Stellantis:**  
“Today, Ford, GM and Stellantis announce their shared aspiration to
achieve sales of 40-50% of annual U.S. volumes of electric vehicles
(battery electric, fuel cell and plug-in hybrid vehicles) by 2030 in
order to move the nation closer to a zero-emissions future consistent
with Paris climate goals.  Our recent product, technology, and
investment announcements highlight our collective commitment to be
leaders in the U.S. transition to electric vehicles.  This represents a
dramatic shift from the U.S. market today that can be achieved only with
the timely deployment of the full suite of electrification policies
committed to by the Administration in the Build Back Better Plan,
including purchase incentives, a comprehensive charging network of
sufficient density to support the millions of vehicles these targets
represent, investments in R&D, and incentives to expand the electric
vehicle manufacturing and supply chains in the United States.  With the
UAW at our side in transforming the workforce and partnering with us on
this journey, we believe we can strengthen continued American leadership
in clean transportation technology through electric vehicle innovation
and manufacturing.  We look forward to working with the Biden
Administration, Congress and state and local governments to enact
policies that will enable these ambitious objectives.”  
  
**Statement of UAW President Ray Curry:**  
“We are at a critical time for the auto industry as countries compete to
build the vehicles of the future. We are falling behind China and Europe
as manufacturers pour billions into growing their markets and expanding
their manufacturing. We need to make investments here in the United
States.  Fortunately, President Biden recognizes the importance of this
moment, and his Build Back Better Plan makes the bold investments in
manufacturing, consumer incentives, and infrastructure needed to ensure
vehicles of the future are made in our country.  Investments alone are
not enough.  Today’s announcement on emissions standards brings more
certainty and better planning for the auto industry and UAW member
future jobs.  While the UAW notes that the companies have made voluntary
commitments on Electric Vehicles, the UAW focus is not on hard deadlines
or percentages, but on preserving the wages and benefits that have been
the heart and soul of the American middle class.  
  
“We must be ambitious not just about retaining good union jobs, but
growing them, and about expanding U.S. manufacturing of electric
vehicles, from parts to assembly. It is incumbent that these future jobs
will be good-paying American union scale wage and benefit jobs that
protect salaries and our critical health and safety standards.  The
members of the UAW, current and future, are ready to build these
electric cars and trucks and the batteries that go in them. Our members
are America’s secret weapon in winning this global race.  That is why,
today we stand with the President and support his ambition not just to
grow electric vehicles but also our capacity to produce them
domestically with good wages and benefits and the right to bargain and
urge Congress to seize this opportunity for the sake of working people
and our country’s future.  
  
“Any auto industry transition to alternative fueled engines must be
paired with passage of the Stabenow Amendment and passage or an
agreement to adhere to the policies of the PRO Act to ensure these jobs
of the future will protect UAW members, their families, and our American
middle class. The Senate needs to pass the PRO Act and get it to the
President’s desk for signature.”  
  
**Joint Statement of BMW, Ford, Honda, Volkswagen, and Volvo**  
“We were proud to stand with California to establish progressive new
greenhouse gas regulations, and we remain committed to leading the
industry in fighting against climate change. That’s why we support the
Administration’s goal of reaching an electric vehicle future and applaud
President Biden’s leadership on reducing emissions and investing in
critical infrastructure to achieve these reductions. While the
California framework companies are driving towards 40-50% of our sales
being EVs in the next nine years, bold action from our partners in the
federal government is crucial to build consumer demand for electric
vehicles and put us on track to achieve the global commitments of the
Paris Climate Agreement. That includes a strong nationwide greenhouse
gas emissions standard, continued investments in charging
infrastructure, and broad consumer incentives for all electric vehicle
purchases.”  
  
**Statement of Alliance for Automotive Innovation President and CEO John
Bozzella:**  
“Auto manufacturers are committed to a net-zero carbon transportation
future, and we look forward to working with the Administration as we
evaluate EPA’s proposed changes to light-duty vehicle standards for
Model Years 2023-2026.  
  
“Collectively, the auto industry has committed to investing more than
$330 billion to bring exciting new electric vehicles (EVs) to market,
including plug-in hybrid, battery and fuel cell EVs. And we support
stringent GHG and fuel economy standards that are aligned and encourage
continued improvements. As we look beyond 2026, the industry’s shift to
electrified cars, trucks and SUVs will drive significant GHG reductions
to fight climate change and make a better world for future generations.
With the right complementary policies in place, the auto industry is
poised to accept the challenge of driving EV purchases to between 40 and
50 percent of new vehicle sales by the end of the decade. Federal and
state governments—and all stakeholders—will need to provide significant
support for consumers, infrastructure and innovation. The auto industry
has stepped up—investments in electrification globally will exceed $330
billion by 2025. But all levels of government will need to do their part
for this challenge to succeed.  
  
“The U.S. needs to rapidly expand its charging and hydrogen fueling
infrastructure, retool existing manufacturing facilities and build new
ones, prepare and position our workforce to lead this transition, and
provide consumer incentives to make these vehicles affordable and
accessible to a wide range of customers. Future GHG rules aligned with
industry investment, and supportive governmental policies will be
essential to significantly reducing GHG emissions, while maintaining a
vital U.S. auto manufacturing sector and the millions of jobs it
supports. We urge the Biden Administration and policymakers to continue
advancing measures that will support the broad and equitable consumer
adoption of electric-drive vehicles and that align environmental
progress, vehicle affordability, and U.S. economic competitiveness.”  
  
**Statement of California Governor Gavin Newsom:**  
“California applauds the Biden Administration’s move to boldly reduce
climate pollution from cars, inspired by California’s nation-leading
framework. The climate emergency demands no less. Today’s proposal will
help to clean the air and create a healthier future for our children and
our planet. We look forward to continuing our decades-long collaboration
with federal partners to build on California’s clean car leadership and
deliver the investments needed to support the nationwide build-out of
clean vehicle infrastructure.”  
  
**Statement of Julie Cerqueira, Executive Director, U.S. Climate
Alliance:**  
“Strong vehicle standards protect our communities from unnecessary air
pollution and fuel costs, and address the largest source of greenhouse
gas emissions in the U.S. There’s much more work to do, but these new
proposed rules are a critical step forward and will benefit our health,
economy, and planet. Our states have been driving the transition to
clean cars for many years and we look forward to working with the
administration and continuing to lead.”

\###
