---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-08-29'
modified_time: 2021-08-29 23:19:22-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/29/president-joseph-r-biden-jr-approves-louisiana-disaster-declaration-3/
published_time: 2021-08-29 23:19:21-04:00
title: President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. Approves Louisiana Disaster Declaration
---
 
Today, President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. declared that a major disaster
exists in the State of Louisiana and ordered Federal aid to supplement
State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the areas affected by
Hurricane Ida beginning on August 26, 2021, and continuing.

The President’s action makes Federal funding available to affected
individuals in the parishes of Ascension, Assumption, East Baton Rouge,
East Feliciana, Iberia, Iberville, Jefferson, Lafourche, Livingston,
Orleans, Plaquemines, Pointe Coupee, St. Bernard, St. Charles, St.
Helena, St. James, St. John the Baptist, St. Martin, St. Mary, St.
Tammany, Tangipahoa, Terrebonne, Washington, West Baton Rouge, and West
Feliciana.

Assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs,
low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses, and other programs to
help individuals and business owners recover from the effects of the
disaster.

Federal funding also is available to State, tribal, and eligible local
governments and certain private nonprofit organizations on a
cost-sharing basis for debris removal in the parishes of Ascension,
Assumption, East Baton Rouge, East Feliciana, Iberia, Iberville,
Jefferson, Lafourche, Livingston, Orleans, Plaquemines, Pointe Coupee,
St. Bernard, St. Charles, St. Helena, St. James, St. John the Baptist,
St. Martin, St. Mary, St. Tammany, Tangipahoa, Terrebonne, Washington,
West Baton Rouge, and West Feliciana and emergency protective measures
statewide.  For a period of 30 days from the start of the incident
period, assistance for debris removal and emergency protective measures,
including direct Federal assistance, is authorized at 100 percent of the
total eligible costs.

Lastly, Federal funding is available on a cost-sharing basis for hazard
mitigation measures statewide.

Deanne Criswell, Administrator, Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA), Department of Homeland Security, named John E. Long as the
Federal Coordinating Officer for Federal recovery operations in the
affected areas. 

Damage assessments are continuing in other areas, and more parishes and
additional forms of assistance may be designated after the assessments
are fully completed.

Residents and business owners who sustained losses in the designated
parishes can begin applying for assistance tomorrow by registering
online at <http://www.DisasterAssistance.gov> or by calling
1-800-621-FEMA(3362) or 1-800-462-7585 (TTY) for the hearing and speech
impaired. The toll-free telephone numbers will operate from 7 a.m. to 10
p.m. (local time) seven days a week until further notice. 

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION MEDIA SHOULD CONTACT THE FEMA NEWS DESK AT (202)
646-3272 OR
[FEMA-NEWS-DESK@FEMA.DHS.GOV](mailto:FEMA-NEWS-DESK@DHS.GOV).

\###
