---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-08-12'
modified_time: 2021-08-11 21:59:09-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/12/fact-sheet-president-biden-calls-on-congress-to-lower-prescription-drug-prices/
published_time: 2021-08-12 07:00:00-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Calls on Congress to Lower Prescription Drug\_\
  Prices"
---
 
President Biden believes that health care is a right, not a privilege.
No American should have to face difficult choices between paying for
their prescription medications or other essential needs. And yet, too
many Americans face this exact challenge. On average, Americans pay two
to three times as much as people in other countries for prescription
drugs, and one in four Americans who take prescription drugs struggle to
afford their medications. Pharmaceutical companies do ground-breaking,
life-saving work, but there is a difference between developing clinical
breakthroughs and driving up prices for the drugs Americans rely on.
Change is sorely needed.  
  
Today, President Biden is laying out his vision for reducing the high
cost of prescription drugs. As part of his Build Back Better agenda,
he’s calling on Congress to address this crisis and allow Medicare to
negotiate drug prices, significantly reducing costs for millions of
Americans.

Specifically, the President’s plan includes:

-   **Allowing Medicare to Negotiate Drug Prices.**

For every other type of health care service, Medicare works to get the
best prices for American seniors. But for prescription drugs – and only
prescription drugs – Medicare is prohibited by law from negotiating for
the best deal.  This needs to change.  Medicare should be able to
negotiate the price for a subset of expensive drugs that don’t face any
competition in the market.  Medicare negotiators would be provided a
framework for what constitutes a fair price for each drug, and there
should be powerful incentives to make sure drug companies agree to a
reasonable price.

-   **Making Other Needed Reforms to Lower Prices.**

We need to put an end to drug prices rising higher and higher with no
end in sight. Drug companies that raise their prices faster than
inflation should have to pay a penalty. Furthermore, today, seniors who
take expensive drugs can face unlimited exposure to high drug prices. We
have to fix this, and establish a firm cap on the amount that Medicare
beneficiaries have to pay out-of-pocket for drugs each year.

-   **Building on Existing Progress to Lower the Cost of Prescription
    Drugs.**

These actions would build upon steps the President has taken to make
prescription drugs more affordable for all Americans. Last month,
President Biden [signed an executive
order](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/09/fact-sheet-executive-order-on-promoting-competition-in-the-american-economy/)
calling upon each Agency to improve competition, increase wages, and
reduce prices—including for prescription drugs. Alongside other steps,
the federal government will be working with states and Tribes to import
safe, lower-cost prescription drugs from Canada and accelerating the
development and uptake of generic and biosimilar drugs that give
patients the same exact clinical benefit but at a fraction of the
price.  
  
These reforms would [lower premiums and copays for
millions](https://www.americanprogress.org/issues/healthcare/news/2021/07/20/501803/h-r-3-save-patients-thousands-dollars-prescription-drugs/)
of Americans.  Insulin prices could [fall by hundreds of
dollars](https://www.americanprogress.org/issues/healthcare/news/2021/07/20/501803/h-r-3-save-patients-thousands-dollars-prescription-drugs/)
on average.   The price for some arthritis medicines might fall by [more
than $2,000 every
month](https://oversight.house.gov/sites/democrats.oversight.house.gov/files/Committee%20on%20Oversight%20and%20Reform%20-%20AbbVie%20Staff%20Report.pdf). 
And for some of the most expensive drugs, prices would fall by tens of
thousands of dollars per year.  These price savings would put money back
in seniors’ pockets: a person taking an expensive cancer drug could see
their out of pocket costs fall by at least $9,000 a year, and even
seniors who don’t take expensive drugs could see their premiums cut.
 [On average, Medicare beneficiaries would save about
$200](https://www.cms.gov/Research-Statistics-Data-and-Systems/Research/ActuarialStudies/Downloads/HR3-Titles-I-II.pdf).
And it’s not just Medicare beneficiaries that would benefit.  If
Medicare makes the prices it negotiates available to commercial payers,
too, costs for employer health insurance would fall – reducing premiums
by tens of billions of dollars or more.

Public opinion
[polls](https://www.kff.org/health-costs/poll-finding/kff-health-tracking-poll-may-2021/)
show that the majority of Americans—Republicans and Democrats—support
this change. The Biden-Harris Administration continues to do everything
we can to make high quality health care more affordable and accessible.
By enabling Medicare to negotiate drug prices, Congress can do its part
to bring down costs and secure the health and financial security of our
nation’s seniors.

\###
