---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-08-05'
modified_time: 2021-08-04 21:36:56-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/05/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-steps-to-drive-american-leadership-forward-on-clean-cars-and-trucks/
published_time: 2021-08-05 05:00:00-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Announces Steps to Drive American Leadership\
  \ Forward on Clean Cars and\_Trucks"
---
 
*President Biden Outlines Target of 50% Electric Vehicle Sales Share in
2030 to Unleash Full Economic Benefits of Build Back Better Agenda and
Advance Smart Fuel Efficiency and Emission Standards*

President Biden’s Build Back Better Agenda and the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Deal invest in the infrastructure, manufacturing, and
incentives that we need to grow good-paying, union jobs at home, lead on
electric vehicles around the world, and save American consumers money.
Today, the President will announce a set of new actions aimed at
advancing these goals and increasing the impact of his proposed Build
Back Better investments – positioning America to drive the electric
vehicle future forward, outcompete China, and tackle the climate
crisis.  
  
Specifically, the President will sign an Executive Order that sets an
ambitious new target to make half of all new vehicles sold in 2030
zero-emissions vehicles, including battery electric, plug-in hybrid
electric, or fuel cell electric vehicles. The Executive Order also kicks
off development of long-term fuel efficiency and emissions standards to
save consumers money, cut pollution, boost public health, advance
environmental justice, and tackle the climate crisis.  
  
In addition, and consistent with the President’s [Day One Executive
Order](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/01/20/fact-sheet-president-elect-bidens-day-one-executive-actions-deliver-relief-for-families-across-america-amid-converging-crises/),
the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and U.S. Department of
Transportation (USDOT) will announce how they are addressing the
previous administration’s harmful rollbacks of near-term fuel efficiency
and emissions standards. Through these coordinated notices of proposed
rulemaking, the two agencies are advancing smart fuel efficiency and
emissions standards that would deliver around $140 billion in net
benefits over the life of the program, save about 200 billion gallons of
gasoline, and reduce around two billion metric tons of carbon pollution.
For the average consumer, this means net benefits of up to $900 over the
life of the vehicle in fuel savings.  
  
These new actions – paired with the investments in the President’s Build
Back Better Agenda – will strengthen American leadership in clean cars
and trucks by accelerating innovation and manufacturing in the auto
sector, bolstering the auto sector domestic supply chain, and growing
auto jobs with good pay and benefits. That is why today, American
automakers Ford, GM, and Stellantis and the United Auto Workers (UAW),
will stand with President Biden at the White House with aligned
ambition: supporting the President’s Build Back Better Agenda and the
automakers’ need to invest in and grow good-paying union jobs in the
United States.  
  
***Build Back Better Investment Agenda***  
  
The global market is shifting to electric vehicles and tapping their
potential to save families money, lower pollution, and make the air we
breathe cleaner. Despite pioneering the technology, the U.S. is behind
in the race to manufacture these vehicles and the batteries that go in
them.  Today, the U.S. market share of electric vehicle sales is only
one-third that of the Chinese electric vehicle market. The President
believes it is time for the U.S. to lead in electric vehicle
manufacturing, infrastructure, and innovation, by investing in:

-   Installing the first-ever national network of electric vehicle
    charging stations.
-   Delivering point-of-sale consumer incentives to spur U.S.
    manufacturing and union jobs.
-   Financing the retooling and expansion of the full domestic
    manufacturing supply chain.
-   Innovating the next generation of clean technologies to maintain our
    competitive edge.

Through the investments in the Build Back Better Agenda and Bipartisan
Infrastructure Deal, we can strengthen U.S. leadership in electric
vehicles and batteries. These once-in-a-generation investments will
position America to win the future of transportation and manufacturing
and create good-paying, union jobs, dramatically expand American
manufacturing, make electric vehicles more affordable for families, and
export our electric vehicles around the world.  
  
And, the President has already made a down payment on his vision for
U.S. leadership in auto manufacturing. Last month, the Department of
Commerce announced $3 billion in currently available American Rescue
Plan funds that can be used to advance the domestic electric vehicle
industry in communities that have historically been the backbone of our
auto industry.  
  
***Electric Vehicles Ambition for 2030***  
  
Over the last decade, we have seen a transformation in the technology
costs, performance, and availability of electric vehicles. Since 2010:

-   Battery pack costs dropped by 85 percent, paving the way to sticker
    price parity with gasoline-powered vehicles.
-   Average vehicle range increased dramatically as charging times
    shortened.
-   Electric models available to U.S. consumers expanded to over 40 last
    year – and growing.

Seeing this shift, countries are sprinting to lead. For example, China
is increasingly cornering the global supply chain for electric vehicles
and batteries with its fast-growing electric vehicle market. By setting
clear targets for electric vehicle sale trajectories, these countries
are becoming magnets for private investment into their manufacturing
sectors – from parts and materials to final assembly.    
  
President Biden is committed to changing that and delivering for the
American people. That is why he will sign an Executive Order that sets a
new target of electric vehicles representing half of new vehicles sold
in 2030. This builds on the announcements today from automakers,
representing nearly the entire U.S. auto market who have positioned
around the goal of reaching 40 to 50 percent electric vehicle sales
share in 2030. More than a deployment target, it is a goal to leverage
once-in-generation investments and a whole-of-government effort to lift
up the American autoworker and strengthen American leadership in clean
cars and trucks. The 2030 target is calibrated to provide time for
existing manufacturing facilities to upgrade without stranding assets,
upgrades that will be catalyzed by the Build Back Better Agenda, and
lean into a path that expands domestic U.S. manufacturing with union
workers.  
  
***Smart Fuel Efficiency and Emissions Standards ***  
  
Consistent with the President’s Day One Executive Order, the
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and U.S. Department of
Transportation’s National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA)
will announce how they are addressing the previous administration’s
harmful rollbacks of near-term fuel efficiency and emissions standards.
The two agencies’ standards work in a compatible fashion through model
year 2026, with the NHTSA proposed rule starting in model year 2024 and
the EPA proposed rule taking effect a year sooner with model year 2023.
 The standards build on the momentum from “California Framework
Agreement” – an agreement between the State of California and five
automakers: Ford, Honda, Volkswagen Group, BMW, and Volvo.  
  
Through these coordinated notices of proposed rulemaking, the two
agencies are advancing smart fuel efficiency and emissions standards
that would deliver around $140 billion in net benefits over the life of
the standards, including asthma attacks avoided and lives saved, save
about 200 billion gallons of gasoline, and reduce around two billion
metric tons of carbon pollution.  For the average consumer, this means
net savings of up to $900 over the life of the vehicle from fuel
savings.  
  
Building on these near-term steps, the Executive Order that the
President will sign kicks off development of long-term fuel efficiency
and emissions standards to save consumers money, cut pollution, boost
public health, advance environmental justice, and tackle the climate
crisis.  Specifically, the Executive Order lays out a robust schedule
for development of fuel efficiency and multi-pollutant emissions
standards through at least model year 2030 for light-duty vehicles and
for medium- and heavy-duty vehicles starting as early as model year
2027. The Executive Order also directs agencies to:

-   Consult with the Secretaries of Commerce, Labor, and Energy on ways
    to accelerate innovation and manufacturing in the automotive sector,
    to strengthen the domestic supply chain for that sector, and to grow
    jobs that provide good pay and benefits. 
-   Engage with California and other states leading the way in reducing
    vehicle emissions.  
-   Secure input from a diverse range of stakeholders, including
    representatives from labor unions, industry, environmental justice
    organizations, and public health experts.

Together, today’s announcements would put us on track to reduce
greenhouse gas emissions from new passenger vehicle sales by more than
60 percent in 2030 compared to vehicles sold last year, and facilitate
achieving the President’s goal of 50-52 percent net economy-wide
greenhouse gas emission reductions below 2005 levels in 2030.

\###
