---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-08-10'
modified_time: 2021-08-10 18:37:53-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/10/president-biden-announces-eight-new-nominees-to-serve-as-u-s-attorneys/
published_time: 2021-08-10 18:37:52-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Eight New Nominees to Serve as U.S.\_Attorneys"
---
 
President Biden is announcing eight new nominees to serve as U.S.
Attorneys across the country, officials who will be indispensable to
upholding the rule of law as the top federal law enforcement officials
for their districts.  
  
These individuals were chosen for their devotion to enforcing the law,
their professionalism, their experience and credentials in this field,
their dedication to pursuing equal justice for all, and their commitment
to the independence of the Department of Justice.  
  
The President has launched a comprehensive effort to take on the uptick
in gun crime that has been taking place for the last 18 months—putting
more cops on the beat, supporting community prevention programs, and
cracking down on illegal gun trafficking. Confirming U.S. Attorneys as
the chief federal law enforcement officers in their district is
important for these efforts.  
  
**Jessica D. Aber, U.S. Attorney nominee for the Eastern District of
Virginia**  
  
Jessica D. Aber is an Assistant United States Attorney in the United
States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia, where she
has served since 2009. Since 2016, Ms. Aber has been the Deputy Chief of
the Criminal Division for the office. From 2015 to 2016, she served on a
detail assignment as Counsel to the Assistant Attorney General for the
Criminal Division of the United States Department of Justice. Prior to
joining the Department of Justice, Ms. Aber was an associate at
McGuireWoods LLP from 2007 to 2008. Ms. Aber served as a law clerk for
then-Magistrate Judge Hannah Lauck on the United States District Court
for the Eastern District of Virginia from 2006 to 2007.  
  
Ms. Aber received her J.D. from William & Mary Law School in 2006 and
her B.A., *magna cum laude*, from the University of Richmond in 2003.  
  
**Carla B. Freedman, U.S. Attorney nominee for the Northern District of
New York**  
  
Carla B. Freedman is an Assistant United States Attorney in the United
States Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of New York, where
she has served since 2007. Since 2018, Ms. Freedman has served as the
Narcotics Chief for the office. From 1988 to 2004, Ms. Freedman was an
Assistant District Attorney in the New York County District Attorney’s
Office in Manhattan, where she led a unit that focused on investigating
organized crime from 1997 to 2004.  
  
Ms. Freedman received her J.D. from New York Law School in 1988 and her
B.A. from Syracuse University in 1985.  
  
**William J. Ihlenfeld, II, U.S. Attorney nominee for the Northern
District of West Virginia**  
  
William J. Ihlenfeld is a special counsel at Bowles Rice LLP, where he
is a member of the firm’s Litigation and Cybersecurity practice groups.
Since he joined Bowles Rice in 2019, Mr. Ihlenfeld has also been a
member of the West Virginia State Senate. Mr. Ihlenfeld was a partner at
Bailey Glasser LLP from 2017 to 2019, and served as United States
Attorney for the Northern District of West Virginia from 2010 to 2016.
Prior to that, from 2007 to 2010, he was a state prosecutor in Brooke
County, West Virginia. From 1997 to 2007, Mr. Ihlenfeld prosecuted
domestic violence cases in Ohio County, West Virginia. Throughout his
legal career, Mr. Ihlenfeld has advocated for victims of domestic and
sexual violence through pro bono legal representation and service to
local and statewide nonprofit organizations.  
  
Mr. Ihlenfeld received his J.D. from the West Virginia University
College of Law in 1997 and his B.S. from Ohio University, with honors,
in 1994.  
  
**Christopher R. Kavanaugh, U.S. Attorney nominee for the Western
District of Virginia**  
  
Christopher R. Kavanaugh is Senior Counsel to the Deputy Attorney
General at the Department of Justice in Washington, D.C. He is currently
on detail from the United States Attorney’s Office for the Western
District of Virginia, where he has served as an Assistant United States
Attorney since 2014. In his role as Assistant United States Attorney,
Mr. Kavanaugh is the chief national security prosecutor, senior
litigation counsel, and counsel to the United States Attorney for the
Western District of Virginia. From 2007 to 2014, Mr. Kavanaugh was an
Assistant United States Attorney for the United States Attorney’s Office
for the District of Columbia. Since 2011, Mr. Kavanaugh has been an
adjunct professor at the University of Virginia School of Law, where he
teaches federal criminal practice and trial advocacy. Mr. Kavanaugh
served as a law clerk for Judge James C. Cacheris on the United States
District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia from 2006 to 2007.  
  
Mr. Kavanaugh received his J.D. from the University of Virginia School
of Law in 2006 and his B.S. in engineering, *summa cum laude*, from
Georgia Tech in 2002.  
  
**Darcie N. McElwee, U.S. Attorney nominee for the District of Maine**  
  
Darcie N. McElwee is an Assistant United States Attorney in the United
States Attorney’s Office for the District of Maine, where she has served
since 2002. She has served as the Project Safe Neighborhoods Coordinator
for the office since 2005. Between 2005 and 2008, Ms. McElwee was an
adjunct professor of advanced trial advocacy at the University of Maine
School of Law.  Ms. McElwee began her legal career as an Assistant
District Attorney for the Penobscot and Piscataquis Counties in Maine
from 1998 to 2002.  
  
Ms. McElwee received her J.D. from the University of Maine School of Law
in 1998 and her A.B. from Bowdoin College in 1995.  
  
**Breon S. Peace, U.S. Attorney nominee for the Eastern District of New
York**  
  
Breon S. Peace has been a partner at Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton
LLP in New York since 2007, and previously worked as an associate at the
firm from 1996 to 1997, 1998 to 1999, and from 2003 to 2007. He was an
Acting Assistant Professor of Clinical Law at New York University School
of Law from 2002 to 2003. Mr. Peace previously served as an Assistant
United States Attorney in the United States Attorney’s Office for the
Eastern District of New York from 2000 to 2002. Pearce served as a law
clerk for Judge Sterling Johnson, Jr. on the United States District
Court for the Eastern District of New York from 1997 to 1998.  
  
Mr. Peace received his J.D. from New York University School of Law in
1996 and his B.A. from the University of California, Berkeley in 1993.  
  
**William S. Thompson, U.S. Attorney nominee for the Southern District
of West Virginia**  
  
Judge William S. Thompson is a judge for the 25th Judicial Circuit of
West Virginia. He was appointed to that position in 2007 and re-elected
in 2008 and 2016. As a part of his duties, Judge Thompson presides over
several treatment courts, including the first family treatment court in
West Virginia. Prior to his appointment, he was an associate at the law
firm of Cook and Cook in Madison, West Virginia from 1995 to 2007. His
primary focus was litigation, which included representing several
hundred indigent clients in criminal defense and other matters. Judge
Thompson also served as President of Madison Healthcare, Incorporated
from 1997 to 2007, and as Vice President of Danville Lumber Company from
1994 to 2007.  
  
Judge Thompson received his J.D. from West Virginia University in 1995
and his B.S. from West Virginia University in 1992.  
  
**Damian Williams, U.S. Attorney nominee for the Southern District of
New York**  
  
Damian Williams is an Assistant United States Attorney for the United
States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York, where he
has served since 2012. He has served as a Chief of the Securities and
Commodities Fraud Task Force for the office since 2018. From 2009 to
2012, he was a litigation associate at Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton &
Garrison LLP. Mr. Williams served as a law clerk for Justice John Paul
Stevens on the United States Supreme Court from 2008 to 2009 and Judge
Merrick B. Garland on the United States Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia Circuit from 2007 to 2008.  
  
Mr. Williams received a J.D. from Yale Law School in 2007, a M.Phil. in
International Relations from the University of Cambridge in 2003, and an
A.B. in Economics from Harvard University in 2002.

\###
