---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-08-18'
modified_time: 2021-08-18 17:44:59-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/18/fact-sheet-president-biden-to-announce-new-actions-to-protect-americans-from-covid-19-and-help-state-and-local-leaders-fight-the-virus/
published_time: 2021-08-18 16:06:01-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden to Announce New Actions to Protect Americans\
  \ from COVID-\u206019 and Help State and Local Leaders Fight the\_Virus"
---
 
Since taking office, President Biden has mobilized a whole-of-government
effort to provide states and communities the support they need to fight
COVID-19, get Americans vaccinated and end the pandemic. As we face the
more transmissible Delta variant that is driving a rise in cases,
particularly in communities with low vaccination rates, the
Administration is announcing additional steps to ensure that we are
staying ahead of the virus and getting more people vaccinated.

These steps include a plan for COVID-19 booster shots; new vaccination
requirements for long-term care workers; a directive to ensure state and
local leaders are providing students a safe return to in-person
learning; and an extension of federal support for state, Tribal and
territorial response efforts.

**Today the President will highlight the following actions:**

**Planning to Offer COVID-19 Booster Shots Starting the Week of
September 20:** Today, public health and medical experts from the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) announced a plan for
administering booster shots later this fall, pending final Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) evaluation and recommendations from the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention’s (CDC’s) Advisory Committee on
Immunization Practices (ACIP). Under this plan, a booster would be
administered, eight months after an individual’s second dose, beginning
the week of September 20—at which point those individuals who were fully
vaccinated earliest in the vaccination rollout will be eligible,
including many health care providers, nursing home residents, and other
seniors.

Thanks to the aggressive actions the President has taken to secure
enough vaccine supply for every American and dramatically increase the
number of places to get a shot, it will be just as easy and convenient
for a person to get their booster as it is for an unvaccinated American
to get their first shot today. We will also continue to expand our
efforts to send vaccines to other countries, building on the more than
600 million doses we have already committed to donate globally.

**Requiring COVID-19 Vaccinations for Long-Term Care Workers Who Serve
Medicare and Medicaid Enrollees.** Today, President Biden is announcing
that HHS will develop new regulations requiring nursing homes to require
that all of their workers be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 as a
condition of participating in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Some
states have already taken similar steps to protect nursing home
residents, and this action will ensure consistent and equitable
standards across the country. These new regulations would apply to
nearly 15,000 nursing home facilities, which employ approximately 1.6
million workers and serve approximately 1.3 million nursing home
residents.

Since the spread of the Delta variant, there has been a rise in the
number of COVID-19 cases, especially in those states that have low rates
of vaccinated workers. Both CDC and Centers for Medicare & Medicaid
Services (CMS) data confirm a strong relationship between the increase
of COVID-19 cases among nursing home residents and the rate of
vaccination among nursing home workers.

**Directing the Department of Education to Use All Available Tools to
Safely Reopen Schools:** Today, President Biden will issue a memorandum
to the Secretary of Education directing him to use all available tools
to ensure that governors and other officials are providing a safe return
to in-person learning for the nation’s children. Students have
experienced tremendous disruptions in their learning over the past two
school years, but with increased access to vaccinations for school staff
and students age 12 and older, proven disease prevention and mitigation
strategies, and unprecedented resources from the American Rescue Plan
(ARP), all schools can and should open safely this Fall for full-time,
in-person learning. However, some state governments have adopted
policies and laws that interfere with the ability of schools and
districts to keep our children safe during in-person learning, with some
going as far as to try to block school officials from adopting safety
protocols aligned with recommendations from the CDC. State and local
leaders must do everything they can to put student health and safety
first and comply with their legal obligations to their communities.
Today’s Presidential Memorandum will ensure the Department of Education
is doing everything it can to prevent anything from standing in the way
of local leaders and school leaders taking steps to keep all students
safe in full-time, in-person learning, without compromising students’
health or the health of their families or communities.

**Extending 100% federal reimbursement to states for eligible COVID-19
emergency response costs.** President Biden will highlight that earlier
this week he directed his Administration to continue to fully reimburse
states for eligible COVID-19 emergency response costs—including
emergency medical care, non-congregate sheltering and vaccination
operations—through December 31, 2021. This extends the order the
President issued on his second day in office directing Federal Emergency
Management Administration (FEMA) to fully reimburse states for emergency
response costs associated with COVID-19 from January 2020 to September
30, 2021. The extension, which was ordered yesterday, also allows states
to receive retroactive 100 percent federal reimbursement for costs
associated with the safe opening and operation of facilities, such as
schools, health care facilities, and child care facilities—dating back
to the start of the pandemic in January 2020.

Thanks in part to the ARP, the Administration has made available over
$25 billion to support COVID-19 response, including more than $17
billion to support life-saving activities like emergency medical care,
non-congregate sheltering, and emergency feeding, and nearly $6 billion
to support and enhance vaccination operations. The extension will ensure
states, Tribes, territories and localities continue to have the
resources they need to fight the virus.

**Extending 100% federal reimbursement to states for mobilizing National
Guard personnel to support COVID-19 response efforts.** President Biden
will also highlight that his Administration will continue to fully
reimburse states for governors’ deployments of the National Guard to
support their COVID-19 response – through December 31, 2021. This
extends the order the President issued on his second day in office
directing FEMA to fully reimburse states for pandemic-related work
performed by National Guard troops from January 20, 2020 through
September 30, 2021.

Thanks in part to the ARP, the Biden Administration has already fully
funded over 30,000 National Guard members who have supported
vaccinations, direct patient care, contact tracing and testing, and food
and PPE distribution in communities across the country. National Guard
troops have played a key role in the pandemic response, and the
extension will ensure states can continue to have these key personnel in
place to support their response.

\# \# \#
