---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-08-02'
modified_time: 2021-08-09 17:08:43-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/02/updated-fact-sheet-bipartisan-infrastructure-investment-and-jobs-act/
published_time: 2021-08-02 22:05:48-04:00
title: "UPDATED FACT SHEET: Bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs\_Act"
---
 
On July 28, the President and the bipartisan group announced agreement
on the details of a once-in-a-generation investment in our
infrastructure, which was immediately taken up in the Senate for
consideration. The legislation includes around $550 billion in new
federal investment in America’s roads and bridges, water infrastructure,
resilience, internet, and more. The bipartisan Infrastructure Investment
and Jobs Act will grow the economy, enhance our competitiveness, create
good jobs, and make our economy more sustainable, resilient, and just.

The legislation will create good-paying, union jobs. With the
President’s Build Back Better Agenda, these investments will add, on
average, around 2 million jobs per year over the course of the decade,
while accelerating America’s path to full employment and increasing
labor force participation.

President Biden believes that we must invest in our country and in our
people by creating good-paying union jobs, tackling the climate crisis,
and growing the economy sustainably and equitably for decades to come.
The bipartisan legislation will deliver progress towards those
objectives for working families across the country. The bipartisan
Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act:

-   Makes the largest federal investment in public transit ever
-   Makes the largest federal investment in passenger rail since the
    creation of Amtrak
-   Makes the single largest dedicated bridge investment since the
    construction of the interstate highway system
-   Makes the largest investment in clean drinking water and waste water
    infrastructure in American history, delivering clean water to
    millions of families
-   Ensures every American has access to reliable high-speed internet
-   Helps us tackle the climate crisis by making the largest investment
    in clean energy transmission and EV infrastructure in history;
    electrifying thousands of school and transit buses across the
    country; and creating a new Grid Deployment Authority to build a
    resilient, clean, 21<sup>st</sup> century electric grid

The President promised to work across the aisle to deliver results for
working families. He believes demonstrating that democracies can deliver
is a critical challenge for his presidency. Today’s agreement shows that
we can come together to position American workers, farmers, and
businesses to compete and win in the 21st century.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Roads, Bridges, and Major
Projects  
**</span>  
One in five miles, or 173,000 total miles, of our highways and major
roads and 45,000 bridges are in poor condition. Bridges in poor
condition pose heightened challenges in rural communities, which often
may rely on a single bridge for the passage of emergency service
vehicles. The bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act will
invest $110 billion of new funds for roads, bridges, and major projects,
and reauthorize the surface transportation program for the next five
years building on bipartisan surface transportation reauthorization
bills passed out of committee earlier this year. This investment will
repair and rebuild our roads and bridges with a focus on climate change
mitigation, resilience, equity, and safety for all users, including
cyclists and pedestrians. The bill includes a total of $40 billion of
new funding for bridge repair, replacement, and rehabilitation, which is
the single largest dedicated bridge investment since the construction of
the interstate highway system. The bill also includes around $16 billion
for major projects that are too large or complex for traditional funding
programs but will deliver significant economic benefits to communities.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Safety**</span>  
  
America has one of the highest road fatality rates in the industrialized
world. The legislation invests $11 billion in transportation safety
programs, including a new, $5 billion Safe Streets for All program to
help states and localities reduce crashes and fatalities in their
communities, especially for cyclists and pedestrians. It includes a new
program to provide grants to community owned utilities to replace leaky
and obsolete cast iron and bare steel natural gas pipelines, some of
which are over 100 years old. It will more than double funding directed
to programs that improve the safety of people and vehicles in our
transportation system, including highway safety, truck safety, and
pipeline and hazardous materials safety.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Public Transit  
</span>**  
America’s transit infrastructure is inadequate – with a
multibillion-dollar repair backlog, representing more than 24,000 buses,
5,000 rail cars, 200 stations, and thousands of miles of track, signals,
and power systems in need of replacement. The legislation includes $39
billion of new investment to modernize transit, and improve
accessibility for the elderly and people with disabilities. That is in
addition to continuing the existing transit programs for five years as
part of surface transportation reauthorization. In total, the new
investments and reauthorization provide $89.9 billion in guaranteed
funding for public transit over the next five years. This is the largest
Federal investment in public transit in history, and devotes a larger
share of funds from surface transportation reauthorization to transit in
the history of the programs. It will repair and upgrade aging
infrastructure, modernize bus and rail fleets, make stations accessible
to all users through a new program with $1.75 billion in dedicated
funding, and bring transit service to new communities with an additional
$8 billion for Capital Investment Grants. It will replace thousands of
transit vehicles, including buses, with clean, zero emission vehicles
through an additional $5.75 billion, of which 5 percent is dedicated to
training the transit workforce to maintain and operate these vehicles.
And, it will benefit communities of color since these households are
twice as likely to take public transportation and many of these
communities lack sufficient public transit options.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Passenger and Freight Rail  
</span>**  
Unlike highways and transit, rail lacks a multi-year funding stream to
address deferred maintenance, enhance existing corridors, and build new
lines in high-potential locations. The legislation positions Amtrak and
rail to play a central role in our transportation and economic
future. This is the largest investment in passenger rail since the
creation of Amtrak 50 years ago. The legislation invests $66 billion in
rail to eliminate the Amtrak maintenance backlog, modernize the
Northeast Corridor, and bring world-class rail service to areas outside
the northeast and mid-Atlantic. Within these totals, $22 billion would
be provided as grants to Amtrak, $24 billion as federal-state
partnership grants for Northeast Corridor modernization, $12 billion for
partnership grants for intercity rail service, including high-speed
rail, $5 billion for rail improvement and safety grants, and $3 billion
for grade crossing safety improvements.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">EV Infrastructure  
</span>**  
U.S. market share of plug-in electric vehicle (EV) sales is only
one-third the size of the Chinese EV market. The President believes that
must change. The bill invests $7.5 billion to build out the first-ever
national network of EV chargers in the United States and is a critical
element in the Biden-Harris Administration’s plan to accelerate the
adoption of EVs to address the climate crisis and support domestic
manufacturing jobs. The bill will provide funding for deployment of EV
chargers along highway corridors to facilitate long-distance travel and
within communities to provide convenient charging where people live,
work, and shop. Federal funding will have a particular focus on rural,
disadvantaged, and hard-to-reach communities.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Electric Buses</span>**  
  
American school buses play a critical role in expanding access to
education, but they are also a significant source of pollution. The
legislation will deliver thousands of electric school buses nationwide,
including in rural communities, helping school districts across the
country buy clean, American-made, zero emission buses, and replace the
yellow school bus fleet for America’s children. The legislation also
invests $5 billion in zero emission and clean buses and $2.5 billion for
ferries. These investments will drive demand for American-made batteries
and vehicles, creating jobs and supporting domestic manufacturing, while
also removing diesel buses from some of our most vulnerable communities.
In addition, they will help the more than 25 million children and
thousands of bus drivers who breathe polluted air on their rides to and
from school. Diesel air pollution is linked to asthma and other health
problems that hurt our communities and cause students to miss school,
particularly in communities of color and Tribal communities.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Reconnecting
Communities</span>**  
  
Too often, past transportation investments divided communities – like
the Claiborne Expressway in New Orleans or I-81 in Syracuse – or it left
out the people most in need of affordable transportation options. In
particular, significant portions of the interstate highway system were
built through Black neighborhoods. The legislation creates a first-ever
program to reconnect communities divided by transportation
infrastructure. The program will fund planning, design, demolition, and
reconstruction of street grids, parks, or other infrastructure through
$1 billion of dedicated funding in addition to historic levels of major
projects funding, for which these investments could also qualify.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Airports, Ports, and
Waterways  
</span>**  
The United States built modern aviation, but our airports lag far behind
our competitors. According to some rankings, no U.S. airports rank in
the top 25 of airports worldwide. Our ports and waterways need repair
and reimagination too. The bill invests $17 billion in port
infrastructure and $25 billion in airports to address repair and
maintenance backlogs, reduce congestion and emissions near ports and
airports, and drive electrification and other low-carbon technologies.
Modern, resilient, and sustainable port, airport, and freight
infrastructure will support U.S. competitiveness by removing bottlenecks
and expediting commerce and reduce the environmental impact on
neighboring communities.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Resilience and Western Water
Infrastructure  
</span>**  
Millions of Americans feel the effects of climate change each year when
their roads wash out, airport power goes down, or schools get flooded.
Last year alone, the United States faced 22 extreme weather and
climate-related disaster events with losses exceeding $1 billion each –
a cumulative price tag of nearly $100 billion. People of color are more
likely to live in areas most vulnerable to flooding and other climate
change-related weather events. The legislation makes our communities
safer and our infrastructure more resilient to the impacts of climate
change and cyber-attacks, with an investment of over $50 billion. This
includes funds to protect against droughts, floods and wildfires, in
addition to a major investment in weatherization. The bill is the
largest investment in the resilience of physical and natural systems in
American history.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Clean Drinking Water  
</span>**  
Currently, up to 10 million American households and 400,000 schools and
child care centers lack safe drinking water. The legislation’s $55
billion investment represents the largest investment in clean drinking
water in American history, including dedicated funding to replace lead
service lines and the dangerous chemical PFAS (per- and
polyfluoroalkyl). It will replace all of the nation’s lead pipes and
service lines. From rural towns to struggling cities, the legislation
invests in water infrastructure across America, including in Tribal
Nations and disadvantaged communities that need it most.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">High-Speed Internet  
</span>**  
Broadband internet is necessary for Americans to do their jobs, to
participate equally in school learning, health care, and to stay
connected. Yet, by one definition, more than 30 million Americans live
in areas where there is no broadband infrastructure that provides
minimally acceptable speeds – a particular problem in rural communities
throughout the country. The legislation’s $65 billion investment – which
builds on the billions of dollars provided for broadband deployment in
the American Rescue Plan – will help ensure every American has access to
reliable high-speed internet with an historic investment in broadband
infrastructure deployment, just as the federal government made a
historic effort to provide electricity to every American nearly one
hundred years ago.  
  
The bill will also help lower prices for internet service by requiring
funding recipients to offer a low-cost affordable plan, by requiring
providers to display a “Broadband Nutrition Label” that will help
families comparison shop for a better deal, and by boosting competition
in areas where existing providers aren’t providing adequate service. It
will also help close the digital divide by passing the Digital Equity
Act (which creates new grant programs for digital inclusion), by
requiring the Federal Communications Commission to adopt rules banning
digital redlining, and by creating a new, permanent program to help more
low-income households access the internet. Over one in four households
will be eligible for this new Affordable Connectivity Benefit.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Environmental
Remediation</span>**  
  
In thousands of rural and urban communities around the country, hundreds
of thousands of former industrial and energy sites are now idle –
sources of blight and pollution. 26% of Black Americans and 29% of
Hispanic Americans live within 3 miles of a Superfund site, a higher
percentage than for Americans overall. Proximity to a Superfund site can
lead to elevated levels of lead in children’s blood. The legislation
invests $21 billion in environmental remediation, making the largest
investment in addressing the legacy pollution that harms the public
health of communities and neighborhoods in American history, creating
good-paying union jobs in hard-hit energy communities and advancing
economic and environmental justice. The bill includes funds to clean up
Superfund and brownfield sites, reclaim abandoned mine land and cap
orphaned gas wells.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Power
Infrastructure</span>**  
  
As the recent Texas power outages demonstrated, our aging electric grid
needs urgent modernization. A Department of Energy study found that
power outages cost the U.S. economy up to $70 billion annually. The
legislation’s roughly $65 billion investment includes the single largest
investment in clean energy transmission in American history. It upgrades
our power infrastructure, including by building thousands of miles of
new, resilient transmission lines to facilitate the expansion of
renewable energy. It creates a new Grid Deployment Authority, invests in
research and development for advanced transmission and electricity
distribution technologies, and promotes smart grid technologies that
deliver flexibility and resilience. It invests in demonstration projects
and research hubs for next generation technologies like advanced
nuclear, carbon capture, and clean hydrogen.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Offsets</span>**  
  
In the years ahead, the legislation will generate significant economic
benefits. It is financed through a combination of redirecting unspent
emergency relief funds, targeted corporate user fees, strengthening tax
enforcement when it comes to crypto currencies, and other bipartisan
measures, in addition to the revenue generated from higher economic
growth as a result of the investments. In addition, the White House
intends to move forward with planning for the auction of new spectrum,
in coordination with DOD, under the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs
Act.

\###
