---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-08-10'
modified_time: 2021-08-10 18:08:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/10/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-lowers-health-care-costs/
published_time: 2021-08-10 18:07:37-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Lowers Health Care\_Costs"
---
 
*Vice President Harris Outlines How Build Back Better Lowers Health Care
Costs, Announces 2.5 Million Americans Signed Up for Health Insurance
Ahead of Aug. 15 Deadline*

  
Like President Biden, Vice President Harris believes that health care is
a right, not a privilege. Together, they promised to ensure that every
American has access to quality, affordable health care and the peace of
mind that health insurance brings.  As part of that promise, just weeks
after taking office, the Biden-Harris Administration opened a special
enrollment period through HealthCare.gov to provide all Americans the
opportunity to sign up for health insurance.  
  
Today, during an event at Unity Health Care’s Brentwood Health Center in
Washington D.C., Vice President Harris is announcing that 2.5 million
people have newly signed up for health insurance during the 2021 Special
Enrollment Period as she delivers remarks on how the Build Back Better
Agenda will lower health care costs for Americans.  That is millions
more people who can now rest easy knowing they are covered, and who join
the [over 30 million
people](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=0ae7f75ebacfaef55ba39fcdb&id=d315d409ab&e=60572324a0)
who have health coverage through the Affordable Care Act (ACA). With six
days left in the Special Enrollment Period, Vice President Harris
encourages all Americans who need access to quality, affordable health
insurance to visit
[HealthCare.gov](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=0ae7f75ebacfaef55ba39fcdb&id=bcfdacc4d4&e=60572324a0)
to sign up for coverage before the August 15 deadline.  
  
Health insurance is now more affordable than ever thanks to the American
Rescue Plan.  Because of the law’s enhanced tax credits, nine million
Americans who buy their coverage through the Affordable Care Act have
lower premiums, saving families an average of $40 per person per month —
that’s nearly $2,000 per year for a typical family of four.  Since April
1, [over one-third
of](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=0ae7f75ebacfaef55ba39fcdb&id=8fbc2a4971&e=60572324a0)
new and returning HealthCare.gov customers have found a quality plan
with a premium of $10 or less per month, and returning HealthCare.gov
consumers have seen their premiums drop, on average, [by 40
percent.](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=0ae7f75ebacfaef55ba39fcdb&id=b3ac929e08&e=60572324a0)  
  
This success is why it is so critical to pass the Build Back Better
Agenda through budget reconciliation: to ensure that Americans can
continue to take advantage of these savings.  

-   **Reducing Health Care Costs.**

The Build Back Better Agenda will extend the enhanced tax credits that
lower premiums. Those lower costs helped drive more than 2.5 million
people to enroll in coverage since the beginning of this
Administration.  Extending these lower premiums will allow [nine
million](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=0ae7f75ebacfaef55ba39fcdb&id=e2953fed6c&e=60572324a0) people
to continue to save hundreds of dollars per year on their premiums,
and [four
million](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=0ae7f75ebacfaef55ba39fcdb&id=056fb4cf92&e=60572324a0) uninsured
people will gain coverage.  At a time when health care costs are too
high, extending enhanced ACA tax credits is critically important to
families.

-   **Passing the Build Back Better Agenda Is Urgent.**

The premium reductions in the American Rescue Plan have provided a
critical lifeline for millions of people and buoyed our work to enroll
consumers to date.  We cannot let this critical assistance come to an
end.  If it expires, millions of Americans will see their premiums
increase. On average, premiums would nearly double, and some Americans
(particularly those in the their 50s and 60s), could see their premiums
increase by thousands of dollars per year.  That’s just not right;
Americans should be able to continue to count on the lower premiums
available today.   
  
President Biden and Vice President Harris are committed to building on
this progress through the Build Back Better Agenda, which will expand on
these efforts and make health care more accessible and affordable. 
Specifically, the President’s Build Back Better Agenda includes:

-   **Expanding Medicare Coverage.** 

Medicare today doesn’t cover dental, vision, or hearing services, with
very limited exceptions.  Many beneficiaries have to pay out of pocket,
often costing them thousands of dollars per year. Americans who can’t
afford that are forced to go without these critical services instead.
That’s why it’s critical we add comprehensive dental, vision, and
hearing services to Medicare, so that all beneficiaries will have
affordable access to these vital health services.

-   **Lowering Prescription Drug Costs.**

For every other type of health care service, Medicare works to get the
best prices for American seniors. But for prescription drugs – and only
prescription drugs – Medicare is prohibited by law from negotiating for
the best deal. Medicare should be able to negotiate the prices it pays
for prescription drugs, and drug companies that raise their prices
faster than inflation should have to pay a penalty.  We must also cap
the amount that Medicare beneficiaries have to pay out-of-pocket for
drugs each year, so that seniors with expensive drugs can still make
ends meet.

-   **Closing the Medicaid Coverage Gap.**

The Affordable Care Act created new pathways to health coverage by
expanding Medicaid. Yet, [nearly 4 million
people](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=0ae7f75ebacfaef55ba39fcdb&id=5851324a81&e=60572324a0)
can’t get covered because they live in states that refuse to expand
Medicaid. The Biden-Harris Administration believes people deserve to
have the peace of mind that health insurance brings, which is why we
must close the Medicaid gap by providing federally-administered coverage
for people in states that refuse to expand, and therefore can’t get
covered through no fault of their own.  
  
The Biden-Harris Administration continues to do everything we can to
make high quality health care more affordable and accessible. By
lowering health care costs, expanding access to coverage, and enabling
Medicare to negotiate prescription drugs, Congress can do its part to
bring down costs and secure the health and financial security of the
American people.  
 

\###
