---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-08-13'
modified_time: 2021-08-13 11:14:53-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/13/fact-sheet-president-bidens-build-back-better-agenda-will-deliver-historic-investments-in-american-families-and-communities/
published_time: 2021-08-13 11:14:52-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden\u2019s Build Back Better Agenda Will Deliver\
  \ Historic Investments in American Families and\_Communities"
---
 
One year ago, with the country at a crossroads, President Biden unveiled
his Build Back Better Agenda. Facing a raging pandemic, unprecedented
economic downturn, profound climate crisis, and persistent racial
injustices, President Biden outlined an ambitious agenda that would
position America not just to return to where we were, but to build back
better towards a more sustainable, resilient, equitable, and prosperous
future.  
  
The Build Back Better Agenda includes President Biden’s American
Families Plan and key elements of the American Jobs Plan that were not
included in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal. In Washington, this
proposal is known as “reconciliation.” But the bottom line is a plan
that will **<u>create jobs</u>, <u>cut taxes</u>, and <u>lower costs for
working families</u>**—all paid for by making the tax code fairer and
making the wealthiest and large corporations pay their fair share.  
  
**<u>**LOWER COSTS**</u>**  
***Lower Child Care Costs.*** For 57 percent of children under six,
there are no good choices for child care where they live. Only 44
percent of four-year-olds are served by public preschool programs.
Nearly four in five private sector workers have no access to paid family
leave. The President’s plan would ensure that no middle-class family
pays more than 7 percent of their income for high-quality child care up
to age 5—and that working families most in need won’t pay
anything—saving the average family $14,800 per year. President Biden
will also make universal preschool a reality, partnering with states to
offer every parent access to high-quality preschool for 3- and 4-
year-olds in the setting of their choice. Fully implementing this
investment is projected to benefit five million families and save the
average American family $13,000 per year. And the Build Back Better
Agenda would institute 12 weeks of paid family and medical leave, to
help improve the health of new mothers and reduce wage loss.  
  
***Lower Higher Education Costs.*** Education beyond high school is
increasingly important to succeed in the 21<sup>st</sup> century
economy, even as it has become unaffordable for too many families. The
Build Back Better Agenda would provide two years of free community
college—boosting the earnings of low-wage high school graduates by
nearly $6,000 per year. President Biden’s plan will also increase the
maximum Pell Grant award by almost $1,500, and invest billions in
subsidized tuition for low- and middle-income students at Historically
Black Colleges and Universities, Tribal Colleges and Universities, and
minority-serving institutions. The plan also invests in evidence-based
strategies to strengthen completion and retention rates at institutions
that serve high numbers of low-income students, particularly community
colleges.  
  
***Lower Prescription Drug Costs.*** Americans pay 2-3 times more for
their prescription drugs than people in other wealthy countries, and
nearly [1 in 4
Americans](https://www.kff.org/health-costs/press-release/poll-nearly-1-in-4-americans-taking-prescription-drugs-say-its-difficult-to-afford-medicines-including-larger-shares-with-low-incomes/)
struggle to afford prescription drugs. President Biden’s plan will lower
prescription drug costs for Americans by letting Medicare negotiate drug
prices, so consumers are no longer at the whim of pharmaceutical
companies.  
  
***Lower Health Care Costs.*** The Build Back Better Agenda would reduce
health insurance premiums, saving 9 million people an average of $50 per
person per month, and add dental, vision, and hearing coverage to
Medicare. By closing the Medicaid gap for low-income Americans, the
President’s plan would help 4 million uninsured people gain coverage.
President Biden’s agenda would also expand home care for older and
disabled Americans, while improving the jobs and the pay of the home
care workers who care for them.  
  
***Lower Housing Costs.*** Driven by the largest shortfall of new
housing units in 50 years, rents and housing prices continue to
increase—with some 10.5 million renters paying more than half their
incomes in rent. The Build Back Better Agenda will use tax credits and
government financing to bolster affordable and resilient housing,
supporting the construction or rehabilitation of more than two million
homes.  
  
**<u><span style="text-decoration: underline">CUT TAXES</span></u>**  
***Tax Cuts for Families with Children.*** One third of all adults with
children struggle to pay their usual expenses. The American Rescue Plan
increased the Child Tax Credit from $2,000 per child to $3,000 per child
for children over six and $3,600 for children under six. The Build Back
Better Agenda will extend the Child Tax Credit expansion in the American
Rescue Plan, providing 39 million households and nearly 90 percent of
American children a major tax cut and cutting child poverty nearly in
half.  
  
***Tax Cuts for Workers Without Children.*** The President’s agenda
permanently extends the American Rescue Plan’s increase to the
Earned-Income Tax Credit from $543 to $1,502. This will benefit roughly
17 million low-wage workers, including cashiers, cooks, delivery
drivers, food preparation workers, and child care providers.  
  
**<u>CREATE JOBS</u>**  
***Workforce Training.*** The U.S. has chronically underinvested in
workforce development, and millions of jobs have been going unfilled in
growing sectors such as construction and health care. Through
high-quality career and technical education pathways and Registered
Apprenticeships, President Biden’s Build Back Better Agenda will invest
in training programs that will prepare millions of American workers for
high-quality jobs in growing sectors.  
  
***Clean Energy Jobs.*** When President Biden thinks about climate
change, he thinks jobs. To position the U.S. to tackle the climate
crisis and advance environmental justice, the President’s plan would
create good-paying, union jobs, establish an energy efficiency and clean
energy standard, expand and extend clean energy and electric vehicle tax
credits, and enlist a new Civilian Climate Corps.  
  
***Investments in Teachers and Schools.*** Even before the pandemic, our
schools faced an estimated teacher shortage of 100,000, undermining the
education of our children and students of color in particular. President
Biden’s Build Back Better Agenda will address teacher shortages and
improve teacher preparation, including through teacher residencies and
Grow Your Own programs that produce better outcomes and develop more
teachers of color. It would expand free school meals to an additional
9.3 million children during the school year and help families purchase
food during the summer. And the President’s plan also invests in
upgrading school infrastructure, so that we have cutting-edge,
energy-efficient, resilient school buildings with technology and labs
that will prepare students for the jobs of the future.

\###
