---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-08-28'
modified_time: 2021-08-28 19:29:16-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/28/readout-of-president-bidens-conversations-with-fema-and-national-hurricane-center/
published_time: 2021-08-28 19:29:15-04:00
title: "Readout of President\_Biden\u2019s Conversations with FEMA and National Hurricane\_\
  Center"
---
 
This afternoon, President Biden convened conversations with the National
Hurricane Center and the Federal Emergency Management Agency to discuss
the Administration’s ongoing preparations for Hurricane Ida, which is
projected to make landfall on the Gulf Coast as a dangerous major
hurricane tomorrow on the 16th anniversary of Hurricane Katrina’s
landfall.

National Hurricane Center Director Kenneth Graham provided the President
with a briefing on Ida’s projected path and reported that the Gulf Coast
was already beginning to feel the effects of the storm. They talked
about how Ida will likely be very strong and destructive, with
dangerous, life-threatening storm surge and significant rainfall that
would impact both coastal and inland areas. The President thanked the
Hurricane Hunters, who fly the specially equipped aircraft into
hurricanes to enable accurate forecasting, as well as the entire
National Hurricane Center team.

The President then called FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell by
videoconference. Administrator Criswell was in the National Response
Coordination Center, the multiagency center that coordinates disaster
response and prioritizes the allocation of Federal government resources.
The President began by thanking the 200 Federal personnel on the watch
floor who have been working nights and weekends for a long time to
assist with the COVID-19 response, Tropical Storm Henri, the tragic
flooding in Tennessee, other extreme weather events, and now Hurricane
Ida. They discussed ongoing evacuation efforts of Parishes in the
storm’s path, as well as the voluntary evacuation of New Orleans.
Administrator Criswell told the President that 13 Urban Search and
Rescue teams are in place to respond to the needs of people who are not
able to get out. The President asked about preparations for nursing
homes, and Administrator Criswell said that more than 100 ground
ambulances and 20 air ambulances have been deployed to support
evacuations of nursing homes in the storm’s path. They discussed the
precautions that are being taken at the mega shelters the American Red
Cross is opening to prevent the spread of COVID-19, including masking,
rapid testing, and social distancing.

They also talked about the impact of anticipated hurricane force winds
and concerns about widespread power outages, and Administrator Criswell
described how the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has prepositioned power
restoration experts and hundreds of generators. The President
acknowledged the significant assistance the utility sector is prepared
to provide to help get the power back on as fast as feasible, though it
may take time given the intensity of the storm. The President urged
people to prepare thoroughly now, including by visiting Ready.gov,
stocking up on supplies for their household, and following guidance from
local authorities. The President concluded the call by reiterating his
thanks to the FEMA team for its extraordinary efforts and recognizing
the importance of the pre-positioning of resources, including FEMA’s
deployment of an additional 500 emergency response personnel, one
million meals, 1.6 million liters of water, and generators, and the
Coast Guard’s proactive advance positioning of vessels for deep water
search and rescue efforts.

Yesterday, President Biden spoke with the Governors of Louisiana,
Mississippi, and Alabama to make clear that States have the full support
of the Federal government to provide assistance as needed and to aid
local emergency response efforts. The President approved an Emergency
Disaster Declaration for the State of Louisiana, authorizing emergency
preparation and protective measures, including direct Federal assistance
such as power generation, air transportation assets, wildlife management
assistance, and water management for all 64 parishes in Louisiana.

\###
