---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-08-30'
modified_time: 2021-08-30 17:51:58-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/30/statement-by-president-joe-biden/
published_time: 2021-08-30 17:50:46-04:00
title: "Statement by President Joe\_Biden"
---
 
I want to thank our commanders and the men and women serving under them
for their execution of the dangerous retrograde from Afghanistan as
scheduled – in the early morning hours of August 31, Kabul time – with
no further loss of American lives. The past 17 days have seen our troops
execute the largest airlift in US history, evacuating over 120,000 US
citizens, citizens of our allies, and Afghan allies of the United
States. They have done it with unmatched courage, professionalism, and
resolve. Now, our 20-year military presence in Afghanistan has ended.  
  
Tomorrow afternoon, I will address the American people on my decision
not to extend our presence in Afghanistan beyond August 31. For now, I
will report that it was the unanimous recommendation of the Joint Chiefs
and of all of our commanders on the ground to end our airlift mission as
planned. Their view was that ending our military mission was the best
way to protect the lives of our troops, and secure the prospects of
civilian departures for those who want to leave Afghanistan in the weeks
and months ahead.

I have asked the Secretary of State to lead the continued coordination
with our international partners to ensure safe passage for any
Americans, Afghan partners, and foreign nationals who want to leave
Afghanistan. This will include work to build on the UN Security Council
Resolution passed this afternoon that sent the clear message of what the
international community expects the Taliban to deliver on moving
forward, notably freedom of travel. The Taliban has made commitments on
safe passage and the world will hold them to their commitments. It will
include ongoing diplomacy in Afghanistan and coordination with partners
in the region to reopen the airport allowing for continued departure for
those who want to leave and delivery of humanitarian assistance to the
people of Afghanistan.  
  
For now, I urge all Americans to join me in grateful prayer tonight for
three things. First, for our troops and diplomats who carried out this
mission of mercy in Kabul and at tremendous risk with such unparalleled
results: an airlift that evacuated tens of thousands more people than
any imagined possible. Second, to the network of volunteers and veterans
who helped identify those needing evacuation, guide them to the airport,
and provide support along the way. And third, to everyone who is now –
and who will – welcome our Afghan allies to their new homes around the
world, and in the United States.

Finally, I want to end with a moment of gratitude for the sacrifice of
the 13 service members in Afghanistan who gave their lives last week to
save tens of thousands: Marine Corps Staff Sgt. Darin T. Hoover, Marine
Corps Sgt. Johanny Rosariopichardo, Marine Corps Sgt. Nicole L. Gee,
Marine Corps Cpl. Hunter Lopez, Marine Corps Cpl. Daegan W. Page, Marine
Corps Cpl. Humberto A. Sanchez, Marine Corps Lance Cpl. David L.
Espinoza, Marine Corps Lance Cpl. Jared M. Schmitz, Marine Corps Lance
Cpl. Rylee J. McCollum, Marine Corps Lance Cpl. Dylan R. Merola, Marine
Corps Lance Cpl. Kareem M. Nikoui, Navy Hospitalman Maxton W. Soviak and
Army Staff Sgt. Ryan C. Knauss.

\###
