---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-08-29'
modified_time: 2021-08-30 10:06:39-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/29/memorandum-on-the-designation-of-the-department-of-homeland-security-as-lead-federal-department-for-facilitating-the-entry-of-vulnerable-afghans-into-the-united-states/
published_time: 2021-08-29 20:30:44-04:00
title: Memorandum on the Designation of the Department of Homeland Security as Lead
  Federal Department for Facilitating the Entry of Vulnerable Afghans into the United
  States
---
 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE HEADS OF EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES

SUBJECT:       Designation of the Department of Homeland Security as
Lead Federal Department for Facilitating the Entry of Vulnerable Afghans
into the United States

Pursuant to the Homeland Security Act of 2002 and Homeland Security
Presidential Directive-5 (Management of Domestic Incidents), and as
further complemented by other Presidential policy directives, the
President has directed the Secretary of Homeland Security (the
Secretary) to lead the coordination of ongoing efforts across the
Federal Government to resettle vulnerable Afghans, including those who
worked on behalf of the United States.  This process includes but is not
limited to initial immigration processing, COVID-19 testing, separation
of COVID-positive individuals for anticipated quarantine, and
resettlement support for evacuees who are neither American citizens nor
lawful permanent residents and who will be temporarily accommodated at
select U.S. military bases before relocating to communities across the
country.

The President has further directed the Secretary to establish a Unified
Coordination Group.  The Secretary will identify a Senior Response
Official, subject to the oversight, direction, and guidance of the
Secretary, who shall lead and coordinate the Unified Coordination
Group.  The Senior Response Official will employ the National Response
Framework to enhance unity of effort; develop strategic objectives and
priorities; coordinate with senior Federal, state, local, tribal, and
territorial officials, as well as representatives of private sector and
nongovernmental entities; elevate and resolve national-level resource
and policy issues through the National Security Memorandum-2 process;
and lead communication efforts with affected parties and the public.

All relevant Federal departments and agencies are directed to provide
their full and prompt cooperation, resources, and support, consistent
with their own responsibilities for addressing the situation, and shall
cooperate with the Secretary and the Senior Response Official to ensure
a unified Federal response.  The President’s expectation is clear:  the
Department of Homeland Security shall serve as the lead Federal agency,
coordinating the effort with other Federal agencies with the full
support of the entire Cabinet.

Nothing in this memorandum abrogates, alters, or impedes the ability of
Federal departments and agencies or Federal officials to perform their
responsibilities under law.

JAKE SULLIVAN
