---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-08-19'
modified_time: 2021-08-19 10:04:45-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/19/statement-by-president-joseph-r-biden-jr-on-world-humanitarian-day/
published_time: 2021-08-19 10:04:44-04:00
title: Statement by President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. on World Humanitarian Day
---
 
On this World Humanitarian Day, we pay tribute to the humanitarian
workers and everyone on the ground – from all walks of life and
nationalities – advocating for and delivering life-saving aid to the
most vulnerable every day. We also reaffirm our commitment to put human
rights at the center of our foreign policy – not through endless
military deployments, but with our diplomacy, our economic tools,
supporting aid workers and organizations, and rallying the world to join
us.

This year, more than 235 million people in over 56 countries are in need
of humanitarian assistance and protection. Aid workers have responded to
historic numbers of people fleeing political repression,
persecution, armed conflict, gender-based violence, and natural
disasters. Add to that the difficulties of facing down a global pandemic
and an accelerating climate crisis. Extreme weather can exacerbate
forced displacement globally, and climate-related impacts increase the
risk to marginalized communities already displaced by conflict. 

Yet, even faced with the unprecedented scope and scale of challenges,
humanitarian aid workers across the globe distinguished themselves
through their courage, commitment, and drive to help their fellow humans
in need – often at extreme personal risk to themselves. Last year, 475
aid workers lost their lives or were injured or kidnapped. The United
States stands with our partners around the world to condemn the killing,
kidnapping, or any other attack against humanitarian aid workers and we
honor the noble service of the many continuing to serve in the face of
these threats. Health workers across the globe, disproportionately
women, have worked tirelessly on the front lines of the COVID-19
pandemic, delivering care in some of the most challenging environments.
When a second major earthquake rocked Haiti, aid workers responded to
the call.In Afghanistan, the United States is supporting humanitarians
working around the clock to protect the most vulnerable, including women
and girls. Aid workers rushed in to provide relief items to those
displaced in northern Mozambique as violence reached unprecedented
levels. People facing persecution and fleeing the coup and subsequent
violence in Burma are receiving critical protection services from aid
workers. In Venezuela, Ethiopia and other conflict-afflicted regions,
aid workers serve at the frontlines, often at great personal risk, to
deliver supplies to the hundreds of thousands of people experiencing
famine conditions.  

On this World Humanitarian Day and every day, we stand in solidarity
with aid workers and recognize their tremendous service and sacrifice.
We celebrate their tireless efforts to save lives, preserve human
dignity, and alleviate suffering. Their selfless commitment and actions
stand as an example to us all. We will also make sure to have their
backs as crises and conflicts arise by leading with our diplomacy and
our humanitarian aid.

\###
