---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-08-05'
modified_time: 2021-08-05 08:42:55-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/05/president-biden-names-sixth-round-of-judicial-nominees/
published_time: 2021-08-05 08:45:00-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Names Sixth Round of Judicial\_Nominees"
---
 
As he continues to move at an historic pace with respect to judicial
nominees, the President is announcing three new candidates for the
federal bench and one new nominee to the D.C. Court of Appeals, all of
whom are extraordinarily qualified, experienced, and devoted to the rule
of law and our Constitution.

These choices also continue to fulfill the President’s promise to ensure
that the nation’s courts reflect the diversity that is one of our
greatest assets as a country — both in terms of personal and
professional backgrounds.

For example, this slate includes:

-   A woman currently serving as Vermont’s first openly LGBT Supreme
    Court justice, who would also be the first openly LGBT woman to
    serve on any federal circuit court.
-   A woman who would be the first openly LGBT federal judge in Colorado
    and the first openly LGBT woman to serve as a federal district court
    judge in any state west of the Mississippi.

This is President Biden’s sixth round of names for federal judicial
positions, bringing the number of announced federal judicial nominees to
35.

President Biden has spent decades committed to strengthening the federal
bench, which is why he continues to move at an unparalleled speed with
respect to judicial nominations. His first judicial nominations
announcement was made faster than that of any new President in modern
American history, and today’s announcement continues that trend.

**<u>CIRCUIT COURT</u>**

<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Justice Beth Robinson:
Nominee for the United States Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit**  
</span>  
Justice Beth Robinson has served as an Associate Justice on the Vermont
Supreme Court since 2011. Prior to her appointment, Justice Robinson
served as counsel to Vermont Governor Peter Shumlin from 2010 to 2011.
From 1993 to 2010, Justice Robinson was a civil litigator in private
practice at Langrock Sperry & Wool where she focused on civil litigation
including employment law, workers’ compensation, contract disputes, and
family law.  She also represented LGBTQ+ individuals in civil and civil
rights cases, including leading the freedom to marry movement in
Vermont.  From 1990 to 1991, Justice Robinson was an associate at
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom in Washington, D.C., focusing on
white-collar criminal defense. Justice Robinson served as a law clerk
for Judge David B. Sentelle on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia from 1989 to 1990.  
  
Justice Robinson received her J.D. from the University of Chicago Law
School in 1989 and her B.A. from Dartmouth College in 1986.

**<u>DISTRICT COURTS</u>**

<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Judge Mary Katherine Dimke:
Nominee for the United States District Court for the Eastern District of
Washington**  
</span>  
Judge Mary Katherine Dimke has served as a U.S. Magistrate Judge for the
Eastern District of Washington since 2016. Prior to becoming a judge,
she was an Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of
Washington from 2012 to 2016 and for the Western District of Washington
from 2008 to 2012. Judge Dimke joined the U.S. Department of Justice
through its Honors Program in 2004 where she served as an attorney in
the Fraud Section of the Criminal Division in Washington, D.C. until
2007. Judge Dimke served as a law clerk for Judge Richard C. Tallman on
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in Seattle, Washington
from 2003 to 2004. She also served as a law clerk for Judge Alan B.
Johnson on the U.S. District Court for the District of Wyoming in
Cheyenne from 2002 to 2003.  
  
Judge Dimke received her J.D. from Vanderbilt University Law School in
2002 as a member of the Order of the Coif and her B.A., *magna cum
laude*, from Pepperdine University in 1999.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Charlotte Sweeney: Nominee
for the United States District Court for the District of Colorado**  
</span>  
Charlotte Sweeney is currently a partner at Sweeney & Bechtold, LLC,
where she has practiced since 2008. Her law practice is devoted to
representing individuals in employment law cases. Ms. Sweeney was
previously a partner with LaFond & Sweeney, LLC from 1999 to 2008 and
LaFond & Bove, LLC from 1997 from 1999. Ms. Sweeney began her career as
an associate with LaFond & Clausen, LLC in 1995 and was named a partner
at the firm in 1998.  
  
Ms. Sweeney received her J.D. from the University of Denver College of
Law in 1995 and her B.S. from California Lutheran University in 1991.

**<u>D.C. COURT OF APPEALS</u>**

<span style="text-decoration: underline">**John P. Howard III: Nominee
for the District of Columbia Court of Appeals**  
</span>  
Judge John P. Howard III currently serves as an Administrative Law Judge
with the District of Columbia Office of Administrative Hearings. Prior
to his appointment to the bench in 2018, Judge Howard served as an
Administrative Law Judge with the District of Columbia Commission on
Human Rights from 2014 to 2018, where he adjudicated discrimination
claims in the areas of employment, housing, education, and public
accommodations. From 2012 to 2014, Judge Howard practiced law as a solo
practitioner and with a small firm, where he focused on civil litigation
and family law. Judge Howard was previously an associate in the D.C.
office of Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer & Feld LLP from 2011 to 2012. Judge
Howard served as a law clerk for Judge Alexander Williams, Jr. on the
U.S. District Court for the District of Maryland, and for the Honorable
David C. Simmons of the D.C. Commission on Human Rights in 2010.  
  
Judge Howard received his J.D. from the Georgetown University Law Center
in 2010 and his B.A. from Howard University in 2006.

\###
