---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-08-20'
modified_time: 2021-08-20 15:57:23-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/20/president-biden-announces-his-intent-to-nominate-three-individuals-to-serve-as-ambassadors/
published_time: 2021-08-20 15:57:22-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces His Intent to Nominate Three Individuals to Serve\
  \ as\_Ambassadors"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following three individuals to serve as U.S. ambassadors:

-   Michael Battle, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the United Republic of Tanzania
-   R. Nicholas Burns, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the People’s Republic of China
-   Rahm Emanuel, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to Japan

**<u>Michael Battle, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the United Republic of Tanzania</u>**

Dr. Michael Battle had a distinguished career of public service spanning
four decades as a diplomat, in academia, in the faith community and as a
military chaplain. Battle was Executive Vice President/Provost at the
National Underground Railroad Freedom Center in Cincinnati, Ohio. Prior
to that, he served as a Senior Advisor to the Bureau of African Affairs
at the U.S. Department of State for the U.S. Africa Leader’s Summit in
2014. He also was the United States Representative to the United Nations
Economic Commission for Africa and the U.S. Ambassador to the African
Union in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Earlier in his career Battle’s positions
included service as the President of the Interdenominational Theological
Center in Atlanta, Georgia and chair of The Robert W. Woodruff Library
of The Atlanta University.  Additionally, he served for 20 years as a
Chaplain in the United States Army Reserve, retiring with the rank of
Lieutenant Colonel in 1997. Battle received a Bachelor of Arts degree
from Trinity College, a Master of Divinity degree from Duke University,
and a Doctor of Ministry degree from Howard University. 

**<u>R. Nicholas Burns, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the People’s Republic of China</u>**

Ambassador (ret.) Nicholas Burns, a respected former career member of
the Foreign Service, currently serves as Professor of the Practice of
Diplomacy and International Relations at Harvard University’s Kennedy
School of Government. He is also Executive Director of the Aspen
Strategy Group and Security Forum and Senior Counselor at the Cohen
Group. During his State Department career, Burns served as Under
Secretary of State for Political Affairs, Ambassador to NATO and to
Greece, State Department Spokesman, and on the National Security Council
staff on Soviet and Russian Affairs. As Under Secretary, he worked with
the Chinese government on issues as diverse as Afghanistan, United
Nations Sanctions against Iran, North Korea ,and U.S. policy in the
Indo-Pacific. At the Aspen Strategy Group, he organized a policy
dialogue with the Chinese government’s Central Party School.  He has
taught, written, and spoken on current U.S.-China relations. Burns
earned his B.A. degree from Boston College and an M.A. from the Johns
Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies. His numerous awards
include a Presidential Distinguished Service Award and the Secretary of
State’s Distinguished Service Award. He speaks fluent French and has
familiarity with Arabic and Greek.

**<u>Rahm Emanuel, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to Japan</u>**

Rahm Emanuel, former Mayor of the City of Chicago and White House Chief
of Staff to President Obama, has had a distinguished career in public
service. As Mayor, he oversaw increased economic development that
revitalized the city and helped solidify its status as a global hub of
culture and commerce. He ensured Chicago was a leader on the global
stage, hosting the 2012 NATO summit, leading the continent in foreign
direct investment for six consecutive years, convening mayors worldwide
to commit to the Chicago Climate Charter of 2017 and helping establish
the Chicago Council on Global Affairs Mayors Forum on Global Cities. He
previously served as Chief of Staff to President Obama, where he helped
secure the passage of landmark legislation, including Dodd-Frank and the
Affordable Care Act, and advised President Obama on all key national
security decisions during the President’s first two years. From 2003 to
2009, Mr. Emanuel served in the U.S. House of Representatives where he
held a number of leadership positions. Mr. Emanuel also served President
Clinton as Assistant to the President for Political Affairs and Senior
Advisor for Policy and Strategy. He is currently national chair of the
Advisory Council of Youth Guidance’s Becoming a Man (BAM) mentoring
program. He graduated with a B.A. from Sarah Lawrence College and an
M.A. from Northwestern University. 

\###
