---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-08-27'
modified_time: 2021-08-27 21:28:19-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/27/readout-of-president-joseph-r-biden-jr-s-meeting-with-prime-minister-naftali-bennett-of-israel/
published_time: 2021-08-27 21:28:18-04:00
title: "Readout of President Joseph R. Biden, Jr.\u2019s Meeting with Prime Minister\
  \ Naftali Bennett of\_Israel"
---
 
President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. met today at the White House with Prime
Minister Naftali Bennett of Israel to reaffirm the historic partnership
between the United States and Israel and consult on the full range of
global and regional challenges facing the two countries. The President
expressed appreciation for Israel’s condolences for yesterday’s attack
in Kabul that killed U.S. service members and Afghan civilians.

The President conveyed his ironclad support for Israel’s security and
right to self-defense. As part of this extraordinary bilateral defense
and security cooperation, the President underscored his administration’s
full support for replenishing Israel’s Iron Dome system.

The leaders discussed the most critical challenges facing the Middle
East, including the threat posed by Iran. The President made clear his
commitment to ensure Iran never develops a nuclear weapon. The leaders
reviewed steps to deter and contain Iran’s dangerous regional behavior.
They reiterated their commitments to work constructively and deepen
cooperation to address all aspects of Israel’s security against Iran and
other threats.

The President and Prime Minister Bennett shared their perspectives on
the unprecedented challenges presented by the COVID-19 pandemic, both at
home and around the world, and agreed that their respective teams would
remain closely engaged to share expertise on this urgent global
challenge.

The President expressed his full support for strong and expanding
relations among Israel, its Arab neighbors, and Muslim states globally.
The two leaders noted that Israel’s historic partnerships with Egypt and
Jordan remain crucial to regional stability. They discussed ways to
further deepen Israel’s relationships with Bahrain, Morocco, Sudan, and
the United Arab Emirates, and their goal of identifying new
opportunities to expand such partnerships.

The President and Prime Minister Bennett also exchanged views on efforts
to advance peace, security, and prosperity for both Israelis and
Palestinians. The President underscored the importance of steps to
improve the lives of Palestinians and support greater economic
opportunities for them. He also noted the importance of refraining from
actions that could exacerbate tensions, contribute to a sense of
unfairness, and undermine efforts to build trust. President Biden
reaffirmed his view that a negotiated two-state solution is the only
viable path to achieving a lasting resolution to the Israeli-Palestinian
conflict.

President Biden also emphasized that his administration would strengthen
bilateral cooperation with Israel in ways that would benefit both U.S.
citizens and Israeli citizens, including by working together towards
Israel’s inclusion in the Visa Waiver Program. The leaders directed
their teams to enhance consultations as Israel works on addressing the
program’s requirements.

\###
