---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-08-02'
modified_time: 2021-08-01 19:24:21-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/02/fact-sheet-reopening-schools-and-rebuilding-with-equity/
published_time: 2021-08-02 06:00:00-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Reopening Schools and Rebuilding With\_Equity"
---
 
The Administration has taken decisive action to support the safe
reopening of schools for in-person instruction and to address [the
pandemic’s disparate impact on students of color and other underserved
students](https://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/docs/20210608-impacts-of-covid19.pdf).
As families across the country eagerly anticipate a return to school,
the Administration is determined to ensure that our schools and students
not only recover from the pandemic, but that we Build Back Better for
the future.  
  
**<u>Prioritizing safe reopening</u>**  
  
The President made clear on [Day One of this
Administration](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/21/executive-order-supporting-the-reopening-and-continuing-operation-of-schools-and-early-childhood-education-providers/)
that safely reopening schools was a national priority, signing the
[Executive Order on Supporting the Reopening and Continuing Operation of
Schools and Early Childhood Education
Providers,](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/21/executive-order-supporting-the-reopening-and-continuing-operation-of-schools-and-early-childhood-education-providers/)
which launched a comprehensive effort across the White House, Department
of Education, and Department of Health and Human Services to safely
reopen schools for in-person instruction. The Department released two
volumes of its COVID-19 Handbook focused on safely reopening schools and
meeting the needs of students, and [launched a
clearinghouse](https://bestpracticesclearinghouse.ed.gov/) of best
practices for safely operating in-person and addressing the needs of
students and staff. Secretary Cardona’s National Safe School Reopening
Summit highlighted best practices from districts across the country to
support safe in-person learning.  
  
Vaccination is our leading strategy to end the pandemic, and—combined
with the layered mitigation strategies recommended by the CDC—has the
greatest potential to allow schools to reopen fully this fall and stay
open for in-person learning. That’s why, in March the President
prioritized teachers and school staff for access to the COVID vaccine.
As a result, almost 90 percent of educators and school staff are now
vaccinated. To get more of our students ages 12 and older vaccinated,
the President is now calling on school districts nationwide to host at
least one pop-up vaccination clinic over the coming weeks and directing
pharmacies in the federal pharmacy program to prioritize this and to
work with school districts across the country to host vaccination
clinics at schools and colleges.  
  
Heroic efforts from teachers, parents, and school staff, combined with
the Administration’s aggressive vaccination push, has demonstrated that
safe in-person learning is possible. [Since January, the percentage of
K-8 schools offering remote-only instruction decreased from 23 percent
in January to only 2 percent in
May.](https://ies.ed.gov/schoolsurvey/)  
  
However, there is still work to be done. [During the pandemic, students
of color have been less likely to be enrolled in in-person
instruction](https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/volumes/70/wr/mm7026e2.htm). Data
shows that on [average students in remote learning report poorer
well-being than those in in-person
instruction](https://journals.sagepub.com/stoken/default+domain/CIGQDAR3XPJUMKYTSTDX/full).
A continued reliance on remote learning threatens to further widen
disparities. The Administration will continue to address the concerns of
families, and provide support to states in creating safe, inclusive, and
supportive learning environments.  
  
**<u>Investing historic resources in equitable reopening</u>**  
  
With the passage of the American Rescue Plan, the Biden-Harris
Administration has invested a historic $130 billion to support schools
safely reopening and addressing the needs of students, including $122
billion through the [American Rescue Plan’s Elementary and Secondary
School Emergency Relief
Fund](https://oese.ed.gov/offices/american-rescue-plan/american-rescue-plan-elementary-and-secondary-school-emergency-relief/)
(ARP ESSER). ARP ESSER funding supports efforts to get students back in
the classroom safely for in-person learning, to safely keep schools open
once students are back, and to address the social, emotional, mental
health, and academic needs of all students. This funding is being used
to help [schools safely operate, implement high-quality summer learning
and enrichment programs, hire nurses and counselors, support the
vaccination of students and staff, and invest in other measures to take
care of
students.](https://oese.ed.gov/offices/american-rescue-plan/american-rescue-plan-elementary-and-secondary-school-emergency-relief/stateplans/)  
  
**Ensuring funds address the needs of students.** ** Districts and
states must spend a combined minimum of 25 percent of the state’s total
ARP ESSER funds, totaling nearly $30.5 billion, to address the impact of
lost instructional time through summer learning or enrichment, extended
day instruction, comprehensive afterschool programs, or other
evidence-based practices. Funded strategies must also respond to
students’ social and emotional needs and account for the
disproportionate impact of the coronavirus on underserved students. The
Administration recognizes that the communities that support our students
have a critical understanding of what their students need and are key to
ensuring funds have the greatest impact on students. As they put
together their plans for the use of funds, states and school districts
are required to engage a wide range of stakeholders during the planning
process, including educators, school leaders and staff, students,
families, civil rights organizations, and stakeholders representing the
interests of students with disabilities, English learners, students
experiencing homelessness, children in foster care, migratory students,
students who are incarcerated and other underserved students.  
  
**Protecting high-poverty districts from funding cuts. **The American
Rescue Plan’s ARP ESSER program includes a first-of-its-kind
[maintenance of
equity](https://oese.ed.gov/offices/american-rescue-plan/american-rescue-plan-elementary-and-secondary-school-emergency-relief/resources/)
requirement to ensure that high-poverty school districts and schools are
protected in the event of funding cuts. These requirements will ensure
that school districts and schools serving a large share of students from
low-income backgrounds will not experience disproportionate budget
cuts—and that the school districts with the highest poverty levels do
not experience any decrease in state per-pupil funding below their
pre-pandemic level.  
  
**Ensuring states continue to fund education*. ***The Department has
emphasized the importance of the American Rescue Plan’s [maintenance of
effort
requirement](https://oese.ed.gov/files/2021/04/MOE-Chart_with-waiver-FAQs_FINAL_4.21.21Update.pdf),
which ensures that states continue to fulfill their commitments to fund
their education systems, and has worked with states to ensure that they
meet these requirements. The maintenance of effort requirement helps
protect students by making sure that federal pandemic relief funds are
used to meet the immediate needs and impacts of the pandemic on students
and schools to the greatest extent possible, rather than to supplant
general state funding for K-12 education.

**Supporting effective implementation. ** The Department of Education
has worked aggressively to support states and school districts in
implementing education relief funding. This includes providing
[resources on how ARP ESSER funds can be
used](https://oese.ed.gov/offices/american-rescue-plan/american-rescue-plan-elementary-and-secondary-school-emergency-relief/resources/),
including to [support effective ventilation in
schools](https://www.ed.gov/coronavirus/improving-ventilation),
[vaccination efforts](https://oese.ed.gov/files/2021/07/FAQ-21.pdf),
creating and expand [full-service community
schools](https://oese.ed.gov/files/2021/07/21-0138-ARP-Community-Schools-OMB-and-OS-Approved-071421-1.pdf)
, hiring nurses and counselors, and providing high-quality summer
programs and high-dosage tutoring to students. With critical partners
like the National Governors Association and Council of Chief State
School Officers, the Department launched the [Summer Learning and
Enrichment
Collaborative](https://www.ed.gov/news/press-releases/us-department-education-launches-national-summer-learning-enrichment-collaborative-help-students-most-impacted-pandemic)
to support states providing high-quality summer learning and
enrichment.   
  
**Stabilizing and ensuring access to child care. ** High-quality early
care and education helps ensure that children can take full advantage of
education and training opportunities later in life. The pandemic
[significantly
disrupted](https://www.americanprogress.org/issues/early-childhood/reports/2020/09/03/489900/true-cost-providing-safe-child-care-coronavirus-pandemic/)
the child care sector, threatening access to this critical support and
threatening economic security for childcare workers, who are
disproportionately women of color. The American Rescue Plan invested $24
billion in stabilizing the child care sector, and is helping to provide
this essential industry—which provides vital opportunities for
children—with more flexible funding to help more low-income working
families access high-quality care, increase compensation for early
childhood workers, and help parents to work.     
***  
*Addressing the needs of students experiencing homelessness.** The
pandemic [increased housing
insecurity](https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_Housing_insecurity_and_the_COVID-19_pandemic.pdf),
and disproportionately impacted the education of students experiencing
homelessness, who were less likely to be able to successfully engage in
remote learning due to lack of reliable access to the internet. The
Department of Education has released all $800 million in American Rescue
Plan [funds for identifying and addressing the needs of students
experiencing
homelessness](https://www.ed.gov/news/press-releases/education-department-announces-state-allocations-800-million-american-rescue-plan-funds-support-students-experiencing-homelessness),
including by providing wraparound services and support ranging from
afterschool to mental health services.  
*  
**Supporting students with disabilities.*** **** The pandemic created
serious challenges for many students with disabilities, who struggled to
access special education and related services according to their
individualized services plan. The American Rescue Plan provides support
to students with disabilities and infants and toddlers with disabilities
through the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act. To ensure
states can deliver the necessary services and supports to young children
and youth with disabilities, the American Rescue Plan devotes nearly
$2.6 billion in grants to states to support elementary and secondary
education students with disabilities, $200 million for preschool
children with disabilities, and $250 million for infants and toddlers
with disabilities and their families.  
  
**Bolstering Tribal education.** The Bureau of Indian Education (BIE) is
using $535 million in American Rescue Plan funds to support 183
BIE-funded K-12 schools, providing much-needed financial support to help
Tribal communities recover more quickly from the pandemic’s wide-ranging
impact.  
  
**Funding COVID testing.** The American Rescue Plan includes $10 billion
to support COVID-19 testing in schools. This funding will help to reopen
schools, including in communities of color, which have been
disproportionately impacted by the pandemic.   
  
**Protecting the rights of students.***** ***Protecting the rights of
students to equal opportunity is an essential part of ensuring
educational equity. The Department of Education has provided resources
to school leaders, students, families and other stakeholders to ensure
students’ rights are protected, including information about [civil
rights and school
reopening](https://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/docs/qa-reopening-202105.pdf)
and [confronting COVID-19-related
harassment](https://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/correspondence/stakeholders/educator-202105-aapi.pdf)
against AAPI students. The Department of Education has moved swiftly to
implement the [President’s Executive Order on Guaranteeing an
Educational Environment Free from Discrimination on the Basis of Sex,
Including Sexual Orientation or Gender
Identity](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/03/08/executive-order-on-guaranteeing-an-educational-environment-free-from-discrimination-on-the-basis-of-sex-including-sexual-orientation-or-gender-identity/);
implement a [comprehensive
plan](https://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/correspondence/stakeholders/20210406-titleix-eo-14021.pdf)
to address sexual harassment, including sexual violence, in schools; and
make clear that it will enforce Title IX to [prohibit discrimination
based on sexual orientation and gender
identity](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2021/06/22/2021-13058/enforcement-of-title-ix-of-the-education-amendments-of-1972-with-respect-to-discrimination-based-on),
including for [LGBTQ+
students](https://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/lgbt.html). The
Department has also worked to address [the disproportionately high rates
of school discipline for students of color and students with
disabilities that removes them from the
classroom](https://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/docs/crdc-exclusionary-school-discipline.pdf).
The Department held a [public convening on school
discipline](https://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/conferences/brown-67yl.html)
in May and launched a major, [ongoing effort to address racial,
disability-based and other disparities in the administration of school
discipline](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2021/06/08/2021-11990/request-for-information-regarding-the-nondiscriminatory-administration-of-school-discipline).  
*  
**Closing the digital divide.*** The American Rescue Plan included $7.2
billion for the E-Rate program, which helps support American schools by
funding programs to help ensure K-12 students and teachers have the
appropriate internet connections and devices for distance learning, a
particular challenge in low-income and rural communities.  
  
**Supporting nutrition security.** It is hard for students to learn
successfully when they are experiencing hunger. Black and Latino
households face food insecurity at [twice the
rate](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5823283) of white
households. The American Rescue Plan [guards against food
hardship](https://www.fns.usda.gov/coronavirus) among students this
summer by allowing states to continue the Pandemic-EBT program, which
provides grocery benefits to replace meals for students who are eligible
for free and reduced priced meals when schools are closed. It also
increases SNAP benefits by 15 percent through September 2021,
maintaining the increase through the summer, when [childhood hunger
spikes](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/26203095/) due to a lack of
school meals. The U.S. Department of Agriculture likewise acted to offer
flexibility for the 2021-2022 school year by providing waivers that
allow schools to serve free meals to all students.    
  
For more information on how President Biden’s Build Back Better agenda
builds on this work by investing historic and vitally-needed resources
that unlock opportunity for millions of Americans, please see the [White
House Fact Sheet on How the Biden-Harris Administration is Advancing
Educational
Equity](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/23/fact-sheet-how-the-biden-harris-administration-is-advancing-educational-equity/).

\###
