---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-01-25'
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/01/25/remarks-by-president-biden-at-signing-of-executive-order-on-strengthening-american-manufacturing/
published_time: 2021-01-25 19:06:47-05:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at Signing of Executive Order on Strengthening\
  \ American\_Manufacturing"
---
 
South Court Auditorium

3:42 P.M. EST  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, folks.  I’m going to make some
brief remarks, sign an executive order, and then take your questions, if
that’s okay with you all.  
  
     Last week, we immediately got to work to contain the pandemic and
deliver economic relief to millions of Americans who need it the most. 
And today we’re getting to work to rebuild the backbone of America:
manufacturing, unions, and the middle class.   
  
It’s based on a simple premise: that we’ll reward work, not wealth, in
this country.  And the key plank of ensuring the future will be “Made in
America.”  I’ve long said that I don’t accept the defeatist view that
the forces of automation and globalization can’t keep — can keep union
jobs from growing here in America.  We can create more of them, not
fewer of them.   
  
I don’t buy for one second the — that the vitality of the American
manufacturing is a thing of the past.  American manufacturing was the
arsenal of democracy in World War Two, and it must be part of the engine
of American prosperity now.  That means we are going to use taxpayers’
money to rebuild America.  We’ll buy American products and support
American jobs, union jobs.   
  
For example, the federal government every year spends approximately $600
billion in government procurement to keep the country going safe and
secure.  And there’s a law that’s been on the books for almost a century
now: to make sure that that money was spent — taxpayers’ dollars for
procurement is spent to support American jobs and American businesses.  
  
But the previous administration didn’t take it seriously enough. 
Federal agencies waived the Buy American requirement without much
pushback at all.  Big corporations and special interests have long
fought for loopholes to redirect American taxpayers’ dollars to foreign
companies where the products are being made.  The result: tens of
billions of American taxpayers’ dollars supporting foreign jobs and
foreign industries.  
  
In 1918 — excuse me, in 2018 alone, the Department spent $3 billion —
the Defense Department — on foreign construction contracts, leaving
American steel and iron out in the cold.  It spent nearly $300 million
in foreign engines and on vehicles instead of buying American vehicles
and engines from American companies, putting Americans to work.  
  
Under the previous administration, the federal government contract
awarded directly to foreign companies went up 30 percent.  That is going
to change on our watch.   
  
Today I’m taking the first steps in my larger Build Back Better Recovery
Plan that invests in American workers, unions, and businesses up and
down the supply chain.  And I know that previous presidents entered
office by promising to buy America and instituting the Buy American
policy, but here’s why this is different and not the same:  
  
I’ll be signing an executive order in just a moment, tightening the
existing Buy American policies, and go further.  We’re setting clear
directives and clear explanations.  We’re going to get to the core issue
with a centralized, coordinated effort.  
  
Look, today I’m creating a director of Made in America at the White
House Office of Management and Budget who will oversee our
all-of-government Made in America initiative.  That starts with stopping
federal agencies from waiving Buy American requirements with impunity,
as has been going on.  If an agency wants to issue a waiver to say
“We’re not going to buy an American product as part of this project;
we’re going to buy a foreign product,” they have to come to the White
House and explain it to us.   
  
We’re going to require that waivers be publicly posted; that is, if
someone is seeking a waiver to build this particular vehicle or facility
and is going to buy the following foreign parts, that waiver — the
request for it — is going to be posted.  Then we’ll work with small
American manufacturers and businesses to give them a shot to raise their
hand and say, “Yeah, I can do that here in my shop, in my town.”  
  
It’s about — as you’ve heard me say before, I used to have a friend who
was a great athlete, who’d say, “You got to know how to know.”  These
small businesses don’t even know they can compete for making the product
that is attempting to be waived and being able to be bought abroad.  
  
And I’m directing the Office of Management and Budget to review waivers
to make sure they are only used in very limited circumstances.  For
example, when there’s an overwhelming national security, humanitarian,
or emergency need here in America.  This hasn’t happened before. It will
happen now.  
  
Here’s what else we’re going to be doing.  Under the Build Back Better
Recovery Plan, we’ll invest hundreds of billions of dollars in buying
American products and materials to modernize our infrastructure, and our
competitive strength will increase in a competitive world.  That means
millions of good-paying jobs, using American-made steel and technology,
to rebuild our roads, our bridges, our ports, and to make them more
climate resilient, as well as making them able to move faster and
cheaper and cleaner to transport American-made goods across the country
and around the world, making us more competitive.  
It also means replenishing our stockpiles to enhance our national
security.  As this pandemic has made clear, we can never again be in a
position where we have to rely on a foreign country that doesn’t share
our interest in order to protect our people during a national
emergency.  We need to make our own protective equipment, essential
products and supplies.  And we’ll work with our allies to make sure they
have resilient supply chains as well.   
We’ll also make historic investments in research and development —
hundreds of billions of dollars — to sharpen America’s innovative edge
in markets where global leadership is up for grabs — markets like
battery technology, artificial intelligence, biotechnology, clean
energy.   
The federal government also owns an enormous fleet of vehicles, which
we’re going to replace with clean, electric vehicles made right here in
America by American workers, creating millions of jobs — a million
autoworker jobs in clean energy — and vehicles that are net-zero
emissions.  
And together, this will be the largest mobilization of public investment
in procurement, infrastructure, and R&D since World War Two.   
And with the executive order I’ll be signing today, we’ll increase Buy
American requirements for these kinds of projects and improve the way we
measure domestic content requirements.  For example, right now, if you
manufacture a vehicle for the federal government, you need to show that
at least 50 percent of the components of that vehicle were made in
America.  But because of loopholes that have been expanded over time,
you can count the least valuable possible parts as part of that 50
percent to say “Made in America,” while the most valuable parts — the
engines, the steel, the glass, the manufac- — are manufactured
abroad.   
So basically — but basically we’re batting zero for two.  The content
threshold of 50 percent aren’t high enough.  And the way we measure the
content doesn’t account for U.S. jobs and economic activity.  We’re
going to change that as well.  
The executive action I’m signing today will not only require that
companies make more of their components in America, but that the value
of those components is contributing to our economy, measured by things
like a number of American jobs created and/or supported.   
At the same time, we’ll be committed to working with our trading
partners to modernize international trade rules, including those
relating to government procurement, to make sure we can use — we can all
use our taxpayer dollars to spur investment that promotes growth and
resilient supply chains.  
And here’s what else the action does.  When we buy America, we’ll buy
from all of America.  That includes communities that have historically
been left out of government procurement — black, brown, Native American
small businesses and entrepreneurs in every region of the country.   
We will use a national network of manufacturers — called a Manufacturing
Extension Partnership — that’s in all 50 states and Puerto Rico, to help
government agency connect with new domestic suppliers across the
country.   
This is a critical piece of building our economy back better and
including everyone in the deal this time, especially small businesses
that are badly hurting in this economy.  
  
The executive action I am taking also reiterates my strong support for
the Jones Act and American vessels, you know, and our ports, especially
those important for America’s clean energy future and the development of
offshore renewable energy.  
  
I’ll close with this: The reason we need to do this is America can’t sit
on the sidelines in the race for the future.  
Our competitors aren’t waiting.  To ensure the future is made in
America, we need to win not just the jobs of today, but the jobs and
industries of tomorrow.  And we know that the middle class built this
country, and we also know unions built the middle class.  So let’s
invest in them once again.  I know we’re ready, despite all of the — all
we’re facing.  I have never been more optimistic about the future of
America than I am today.  
  
Given even just half a chance, the American people,  
the American worker, has never, ever let the country down.  Imagine if
we give them a full chance.  That’s what we’re going to do.  
  
I’ll stop here and sign the executive order, and then come back and take
some of your questions.  
  
     This executive order is entitled “Ensuring the Future Is Made in
America, by Americans — All of American Workers.”  
  
(The executive order is signed).  
  
There you go.  Now I’d now be happy to take your questions.  
  
Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  Jonathan Lemire with the Associated
Press.  Two topics, if I may.  The first: You have made reopening
schools a central part of your first 100 Days agenda, and you’ve long
portrayed yourself as an ally to the teachers and the unions.  Right
now, the Chicago Teachers Union has refused.  They defied an order to
return to in-person classing — for in-person classrooms because of a
lack of vaccinations.  Do you believe, sir, that teachers should return
to schools now?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I believe we should make school classrooms safe and
secure for the students, for the teachers, and for the help that’s in
those schools maintaining the facilities.  We need new ventilation
systems in those schools.  We need testing for people coming in and out
of the classes.  We need testing for teachers, as well as students.  And
we need the capacity — the capacity to know that, in fact, the cic-
\[sic\] — or the circumstance in the school is safe and secure for
everyone.  
  
For example, there is no reason why the clear guidance will be that
every school should be thoroughly sanitized, from the lavatories to the
hallways.  And so this is about making — and none of the school
districts that I’m aware of — there may be some, of public school
districts — have insisted that all of those pieces be in place.  
  
And, I might add, it’s the same kind of thing I hope we can do with
small businesses and businesses, making sure they have the capacity to
test their workers when they come in; to make sure they have plastic
dividers between their booths in their — in their restaurants, et
cetera; to make sure they can sanitize.   
  
So it’s not so much about the idea that teachers aren’t going to work. 
The teachers I know, they want to work.  They just want to work in a
safe environment and as safe as we can rationally make it.  And we can
do that, and we should be able to open up every — every school,
kindergarten through eighth grade, if, in fact, we administer these
tests.   
  
And it’ll have the added advantage, I might add, of putting millions of
people back to work – all those mothers and fathers that are home taking
care of their children, rather than go to work.  Even when they can
work, they’re not able to do it unless they have the luxury of working
distance-wise, like many of us do.  They’re not able to do it.  And so
this is about generating economic growth overall as well.  
  
WHITE HOUSE AIDE:  Great.  Alex from Reuters.     
  
Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  I’m Alex Alper from Reuters.  I wanted
to ask a question about Navalny — if you are considering imposing
sanctions on any of the individuals involved in his attempted poisoning
and/or his arrest when he returned from Germany.  And if not, is that
related to your concerns about it potentially derailing a New START
extension?  Thank you.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I find that we can both operate in the mutual
self-interest of our countries as a New START agreement, and make it
clear to Russia that we are — we are very concerned about their
behavior, whether it’s Navalny, whether it’s the SolarWinds, or whether
it’s the reports of bounties on the heads of Americans in Afghanistan.  
  
I have asked the agencies in question to do a thorough — a thorough read
for me on every one of those issues, to update me on precisely where
they are.  And I will not hesitate to raise those issues with the
Russians.  
  
WHITE HOUSE AIDE:  Jeff from NBC.   
  
Q    President Biden, Vice President Harris, a question about your COVID
relief deal.  On Friday, you said the nation is “in a national emergency
\[and\] we should act like it.”  Given that — given the scale and the
severity of the need, how long are you willing to get sufficient
Republican support before you would greenlight Democrat attempts to use
reconciliation, for instance, to pass that bill?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, look, the decision on reconciliation will be one
made by the leaders of the House and the Senate.  But here’s the deal: I
have been doing legislative negotiations for a large part of my life.  I
know how the system works.  And what I’m not — I can’t guarantee
anything at all, but I can say that what I’m going to be doing — and
we’ve already begun — is making it clear to the leadership in the House
and the Senate, as well as the — the group of 16, the group — the
bipartisan group, as well as Republican individuals who have an interest
in the issues that are in package, and saying “Here’s what I’m doing,
and here’s why I want to do it, here’s why I think we need to do it, and
what kind of support can or can’t you give to that?”  And then we go on
to the way in which we deal with legislation all the time.  
  
You know, we — we didn’t have any votes for the recovery package when
Barack and I came into office.  We were short three votes.  We didn’t
know we had the votes until the day of the –- the day of the — of the —
bringing it up.   
  
And — but here’s the deal: You know, it’s interesting — and I know you
ask a lot of these questions.  You know the answers, but you have to —
to help educate the public as well; I’m not suggesting you don’t know
what I’m about to say.  No one wants to give up on their position until
there’s no other alternative.  They either have to make a decision that
they don’t do what — they don’t support what is being proposed, or they
insist on what they have, or they let it all go away, fall down.  I
think we’re far from that point right now.   
  
The decision to use reconciliation will depend upon how these
negotiations go.  And let me make clear about negotiations: I’ve always
believed part of negotiation — on the part of a President and/or a
chairman of a committee trying to get a major piece of legislation
passed — is about consultation.   
  
It’s not enough for me just to come up to you and say, “I like this.  I
expect you to support it.”  I want to explain to you why I think it’s so
important in this package that we have to provide for money for
additional vaccines, why I think it’s so important why we provide for
money to extend unemployment benefits, why I think it’s so important
that we provide money to provide for the ability of people not to be
thrown out of their apartments during this pandemic because they can’t
afford their rent, and to make the case to you why I think and what I
think the priorities within this piece — that we think the priorities
are — I apologize — were within this legislation.   
  
And I don’t expect we’ll know whether we have an agreement or to what
extent the entire package will be able to pass or not pass until we get
right down to the very end of this process, which will be probably in a
couple of weeks.  But the point is, this is just the process
beginning.  
  
WHITE HOUSE AIDE:  Annie, the Washington Post.  
  
Q    Thank you, Mr. President, Annie Linskey with the Washington Post.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Hi, Annie.   
  
Q    I wanted to ask you a little bit about one of the, sort of, major
themes of your campaign, and how you sort of intend to measure and enact
it — and that is the idea of unity.  If you could talk a little bit
about what you see unity as being?  There are some people who are
defining it as being bipartisan.  Others are saying it is what most of
the people in the country, defined by some poll, might believe, or any
sort of number of other — or perhaps it’s 50 plus 1, or 50 plus 2, or 75
percent.   
  
So, given that it is such a key part of your message and your promise,
can you talk and reflect a little bit more about what is unity when you
see it and as you define it?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, Annie, I think it makes up several of the issues —
the points you made.  One is: Unity requires you to take away —
eliminate the vitriol, make anything that you disagree with about the
other person’s personality or their lack of integrity or they’re not
decent legislators and the like — so we have to get rid of that.  And I
think that’s already beginning to change, but God knows where things go,
number one.   
  
Unity also is: trying to reflect what the majority of the American
people — Democrat, Republican, and independent — think is within the
fulcrum of what needs to be done to make their lives and the lives of
Americans better.  For example, if you look at the data — and I’m not
claiming the polling data to be exact, but if you look at the data, you
have — I think it’s — I hope I’m saying this correct –- you may correct
me if I get the number wrong, I think it’s 57, 58 percent of the
American people — including Republicans, Democrats, and independents —
think that we have to do something about the COVID vaccine; we have to
do something about making sure that people who are hurting badly, can’t
eat, don’t have food, are in a position where they’re about to be thrown
out of their apartments, et cetera, being able to have an opportunity to
get a job — that they all think we should be acting, we should be doing
more.   
  
Unity also is trying to get, at a minimum — if you pass a piece of
legislation that breaks down on party lines but it gets passed, it
doesn’t mean there wasn’t unity; it just means it wasn’t bipartisan. 
I’d prefer these things to be bipartisan, because I’m trying to generate
some consensus and take sort of the — how can I say it? — the vitriol
out of all of this.  Because I’m confident — I’m confident, from my
discussions, there are a number of Republicans who know we have to do
something about the food insecurity for people in this pandemic.  I’m
confident they know we have to do something about figuring out how to
get children back in school.  
  
There’s just — there’s easy ways to deal with this.  One, if you’re
anti-union, you can say it’s all because of teachers.  If you want to
make a case though that it’s complicated, you say, “Well, what do you
have to do to make it safe to get in those schools?”  And we’re going to
have arguments.  
  
For example, you know I proposed that we — because it was bipartisan, I
thought it would increase the prospects of passage — the additional
$1,400 in direct cash payment to folks.  Well, there’s legitimate reason
for people to say, “Do you have the lines drawn the exact right way? 
Should it go to anybody making over X-number of dollars or why?”  I’m
open to negotiate those things.  That’s all.   
  
I picked it because I thought it was rational, reasonable, and it had
overwhelming bipartisan support in the House when it passed.  But this
is all a bit of a moving target in terms of the precision with which
this goes.  You’re asking about unity: 51 votes, bipartisan, et
cetera.  
  
The other piece of this is that the one thing that gives me hope that
we’re not only going to, sort of, stay away from the ad hominem attacks
on one another, is that there is an overwhelming consensus among the
major economists at home and in the world that the way to avoid a
deeper, deeper, deeper recession, moving in the direction of losing our
competitive capacity, is to spend money now to — from — from across the
board, every major institution has said, “If we don’t invest now, we’re
going to lose so much altitude, in terms of our employment base and our
economic growth, it’s going to be harder to reestablish it.”  We can
afford to do it now.  As a matter of fact, the — I think the response
has been, “We can’t afford not to invest now.  We can’t afford to fail
to invest now.”  
  
And I think there’s a growing realization of that on the part of all but
some very, very hard-edged partisans, maybe on both sides, but I think
there is a growing consensus.  Whether we get it all done exactly the
way I want it remains to be seen, but I’m confident that we can work our
way through.   
  
We have to work our way through because, as I’ve said 100 times, there
is no ability in a democracy for it to function without the ability to
reach consensus.  Other- — otherwise it just becomes executive fiat or
battleground issues that are — get us virtually nowhere.  
  
I don’t want to hold the — my colleague may know, the Vice President —
but, you know, I think there were very few debates on the Senate floor
the whole last year —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s correct.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  — on almost any issue.  
  
Well, that benefits no one.  It doesn’t inform anybody.  It doesn’t
allow the public to make judgments about who they think is right or
wrong.  
  
So I am — I am optimistic that it may take some time, but over the year,
the way — if we treat each other with respect — and we’re going to argue
like hell.  I’m confident of that.  Believe me, I know that.  I’ve been
there.  But I think we can do it in a way that we can get things done
for the American people.  
  
WHITE HOUSE AIDE:  Great.  Last question.  Josh from Bloomberg.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Josh, they don’t trust you with the mic, huh?  I don’t
know, man.  
  
Q    No, that’s fine.  I wouldn’t either.  (Laughter.)  Thank you, Mr.
President.  I appreciate you taking the questions.   
  
You mentioned just now that you might know in a couple of weeks.  Can I
ask whether it’s more important for you to get something passed in a
short timeframe like that or would you be willing to wait longer to get
more bipartisan support?  
  
And might I also ask that — one of the pillars is the vaccine funding —
when do you think any American who wants to get the shot will be able to
get the shot?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I’ll try to answer the three parts to your
question as I heard them.  
  
One, time is of the essence.  Time is of the essence.  And I must tell
you, I’m reluctant to cherry pick and take out one or two items here,
and then have to go through it again to — because these all are kind of
— they go, sort of, hand in glove, each of these issues.  Number one.  
  
Number two, we are optimistic that we will have enough vaccine and in
very short order.  We, as you know, we came in office without knowledge
of how much vaccine was held — being held in abeyance or available.  Now
that we’re here — we’ve been around a week or so — we now have that. 
And we’ve gotten commitments from some of the producers that they will,
in fact, produce more vaccine in a relatively short period of time and
then continue that down the road.  
  
So I’m quite confident that we will be in a position, within the next
three weeks or so, to be vaccinating people at the range of a million a
day or in excess of that.  That is my — I promised that we would get at
least 100 million vaccinations — that’s not people, because sometimes
you need more than one shot of the vaccination.  But 100,000 — 100
million shots in people’s arms of the vaccine.   
  
I think, with the grace of God, and the goodwill of the neighbor, and
the creek not rising, as the old saying goes, I think we may be able to
get that to 150 thou- — 1.5 million a day, rather than 1 million a day. 
But we have to meet that goal of a million a day.   
  
And everything points that we’re going to have: A, the — enough vaccine;
B, enough syringes and all the paraphernalia needed to store, keep,
inject, move into your arm the vaccine; three, a number of vaccinators,
people administering the vaccine, which is not an easy task of those who
have — those facilities, like the nursing homes and hospitals — they
have people do it, but they don’t have the capacity to do everyone.  And
so I think we’re going to have — we’re leaning hard on — into areas
where we can produce more vaccinators.  We feel confident we can do
that.   
  
And thirdly, it’s really important that we have the fora, the place, the
facility, the circumstance where people can show up, stand in line, and
get their vaccine without having to stand in line for eight hours —
being able to pick up the phone, call the pharmacy, and get your name on
the list, et cetera.   
  
All those mechanical things are really — they sound simple, but they’re
all consequential when we’re trying to get out a minimum of 100 million
vaccinations in 100 days and move in the direction where we are well
beyond that in the next 100 days so we can get to the point where we
reach herd immunity in a country of over 300 million people.  Did that
answer your question?  
  
Q    Well, my question was at what date — or, roughly, when do you think
anyone who wants one would be able to get it?  Summer?  Is it
(inaudible)?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Oh, I — no, I think it’ll be this spring.  I think we’ll
be able to do that this spring.  And — but it’s going to be a logistical
challenge that exceeds anything we’ve ever tried in this country, but I
think we can do that.  
  
I feel confident that, by summer, we’re going to be well on our way to
heading toward herd immunity and increasing the access for people who
aren’t on the first — aren’t on the list, all the way going down to
children and how we deal with that.   
But I feel good about where we’re going, and I think we can get it
done.   
  
WHITE HOUSE AIDE:  Thank you, guys.  
  
Q    One more.  One more on vaccines.  Mr. President, one more on
vaccines.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Now, wait, wait, wait.  I know he always asks me tough
questions, and he always has an edge to them, but I like him anyway.  So
go ahead and answer — ask the question.  
  
Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  So you just said that you think within
three weeks or so we’ll be at the point where there are a million
vaccines per day, but it seems like —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  No, I think we’ll get there before that.  I said, “I
hope…” — I misspoke.  I hope we’ll be able to increase as we go on until
we get to the million-five a day.  That’s my ex- — my hope.  
  
Q    And then my — the follow-up to that would be: Now that you’re
President and you’re saying, “There is nothing we can do to change the
trajectory of the pandemic in the next several months,” what happened to
two months ago when you were talking declaratively about “I’m going to
shut down the virus”?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I’m going to shut down the virus, but not — I
never said I’d do it in two months.  I said it took a long time to get
here; it’s going take a long time to beat it.  And so we have millions
of people out there who are — who have the virus.   
  
We’re just, for the first day, I think — correct me if I’m wrong; I’ve
been doing other things this morning, speaking with foreign leaders. 
But one of the things — I think this is one of the first days that the
number has actually come down — the number of deaths — and the number on
a daily basis, and the number of hospitalizations, et cetera.  
  
It’s going to take time.  It’s going to take a heck of a lot of time. 
And we still have — as Dr. Fauci constantly points out, it’s one thing
when we have mass — how can I say it politely? — mass disregard of the
warnings about not wearing masks and wearing masks, and social
distancing and failure to social distance, and people getting together
on holidays in ways that weren’t recommended, et cetera.  
  
We see — the first thing that happens is we see the number of infections
go up.  Then you see the hospitalizations go up.  Then you see the
deaths go up.  And so we’re in this for a while.  I mean, we’re — what
are we now?  At about 410,000 deaths.  And there’s going to be more. 
The prediction, as I said from the very beginning to getting here as —
after being sworn in, was — the predictions were: We’re going to see
somewhere between a total of 600,000 and 660,000 deaths before we begin
to turn the corner in a major way.  
  
So — and again, remember: The vaccine — most of the people taking the
vaccine — a vast, significant number — required two shots, and they’re
an average of three weeks apart.  And it takes time for it to be sure
that you’re — you get to that 95 percent assurance rate.   
  
And so it’s beginning to move.  But I’m confident we will beat this.  We
will beat this.  But we’re still going to be talking about this in the
summer.  We’re still going to be dealing with this issue in the — in
early fall.  
  
And last point I’ll make — and I know you’re tired of hearing me saying
it, particularly — you may be tired of me saying it.  (Laughs.)  And
that is that if we wear masks between now and the end of April, the
experts tell us we can save 50,000 lives — 50,000 people who otherwise
would die.   
  
Thank you so very much.   
  
                              END                 4:14 P.M. EST
