---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-01-26'
modified_time: 2021-01-26 18:16:18-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/01/26/remarks-by-president-biden-at-signing-of-an-executive-order-on-racial-equity/
published_time: 2021-01-26 18:16:17-05:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at Signing of an Executive Order on Racial\_Equity"
---
 
State Dining Room

2:06 P.M. EST   
     THE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, folks.  I thank the Vice President
for being with me today as well.  In my campaign for President, I made
it very clear that the moment had arrived as a nation where we face deep
racial inequities in America and system- — systemic racism that has
plagued our nation for far, far too long.   
  
     I said it over the course of the past year that the blinders had
been taken come off the nation of the American people.  What ma- — what
many Americans didn’t see,  
or had simply refused to see, couldn’t be ignored any longer.  
  
Those 8 minutes and 46 seconds that took George Floyd’s life opened the
eyes of millions of Americans and millions of people around — all over
the world.  It was the knee on the neck of justice, and it wouldn’t be
forgotten.  It stirred the conscience of tens of millions of Americans,
and, in my view, it marked a turning point in this country’s attitude
toward racial justice.   
  
When his six-years-old — six-year-old daughter, Gianna, who I met with
when I met with the family — I leaned down to say hi to her, and she
said — looked at me, and she said, “Daddy changed the world.”  That’s
what Gianna said — his daughter.  “Daddy changed the world.”  And I
believe she is right, not because this kind of injustice stopped — it
clearly hasn’t — but because the ground has shifted, because it’s
changed minds and mindsets, because it laid the groundwork for
progress.   
  
COVID-19 has further ripped a path of destruction through every
community in America, but no one has been spared, but the devastation in
communities of color has been nothing short of stunning.  Just look at
the numbers: 40 percent of frontline workers — nurses, first responders,
grocery store workers — are Americans of color, and many are still
living on the edge.  One in ten black Americans is out of work today. 
One in eleven Latino Americans is out of work today.  One in seven
households in America — about one in four black, one in five Latino
households in America — report that they don’t have enough food to eat
in the United States of America.   
  
Black and Latino Americans are dying of COVID-19 at rates nearly three
times that of white Americans.  And it’s not white Americans’ fault, but
it’s just a fact.  And the Americans now know it, especially younger
Americans.   
  
One of the reasons I’m so optimistic about this nation is that today’s
generation of young Americans is the most progressive, thoughtful,
inclusive generation that America has ever seen.  And they are pulling
us toward justice in so many ways, forcing us to confront the huge gap
in economi- — excuse me, economic inequity between those at the top and
everyone else, forcing us to confront the existential crisis of climate;
and, yes, forcing us to confront systemic racism and white supremacy.   
  
It’s just been weeks since all of America witnessed a group of thugs,
insurrectionists, political extremists, and white supremacists violently
attack the Capitol of our democracy.  And so now — now is the time to
act.  It’s time to act because that’s what the faith and morality calls
us to do.  
  
Across nearly every faith, the same principles hold: We’re all God’s
children; we should treat each other as we would like to be treated
ourselves.  And this is time to act — and this time to act is because
it’s what the core values of this nation call us to do.  And I believe
the vast majority of Americans — Democrats, Republicans, and
independents — share these values and want us to act as well.   
  
We have never fully lived up to the founding principles of this nation,
to state the obvious, that all people are created equal and have a right
to be treated equally throughout their lives.  And it’s time to act now,
not only because it’s the right thing to do, but because if we do, we’ll
all be better off for it.  
  
For too long, we’ve allowed a narrow, cramped view of the promise of
this nation to fester.  You know, we’ve — we’ve bought the view that
America is a zero-sum game in many cases: “If you succeed, I fail.”  “If
you get ahead, I fall behind.”  “If you get the job, I lose mine.” 
Maybe worst of all, “If I hold you down, I lift myself up.”   
  
We’ve lost sight of what President Kennedy told us when he said, “A
rising tide lifts all boats.”  And when we lift each other up, we’re all
lifted up.  You know, and the corollary is true as well: When any one of
us is held down, we’re all held back.  More and more economic studies in
recent years have proven this, but I don’t think you need economic
studies to see the truth.  
  
Just imagine if instead of consigning millions of American children to
under-resourced schools, we gave each and every three- and four-year-old
child a chance to learn, to go to school — not daycare, school — and
grow and thrive in school and throughout.  When they’ve done that — the
places it’s been done, it shows they have an exponentially greater
chance of going all the way through 12 years of school and doing it
well.  
  
But, you know, does anyone — does anyone in this whole nation think
we’re not all better off if that were to happen?   
  
Just imagine if instead of denying millions of Americans the ability to
own a home and build generational wealth — who made it possible for them
buy a home, their first home — and begin to build equity to provide for
their families and send their children off to school, does anyone doubt
that the whole nation will be better off?   
  
Just imagine: Instead of denying millions of young entrepreneurs the
ability to access capital, we made it possible to take their dream to
market, create jobs, reinvest in their own communities.  Does anyone
doubt this whole nation wouldn’t be better off?  
  
Just imagine if more incredibly creative and innovative — how much more
creative and innovative we’d be if this nation held — held the historic
black colleges and universities to the same opportunities — and
minority-serving institutions — that had the same funding and resources
of public universities to compete for jobs and industries of the
future.  You know, just ask the first HBCU graduate elected as Vice
President if that’s not true.   
  
But to do this, I believe this nation and this government need to change
their whole approach to the issue of racial equal- — equity.  Yes, we
need criminal justice reform, but that isn’t nearly enough.  We need to
open the promise of America to every American.  And that means we need
to make the issue of racial equity not just an issue for any one
department of government; it has to be the business of the whole of
government.   
  
That’s why I issued, among the first days, my whole-of-government
executive order that will, for the first time, advance equity for all
throughout our federal policies and institutions.  It focuses on the
full range of communities who have been long underserved and overlooked:
people of color; Americans with disabilities; LGBTQ Americans; religious
minorities; rural, urban, suburban communities facing persistent
poverty.   
  
And I’ve asked Ambassador Susan Rice to lead the administration’s charge
through the White House and Domestic Policy Council because I know
she’ll see it through.  Every White House, every White House component,
and every agency will be involved in this work because advancing equity
has to be everyone’s job.   
  
Today, I’ll be shortly signing an additional package of executive
actions to continue this vital work.  Housing, for example: Housing is a
right in America, and homeownership is an essential tool to wealth
creation and to be passed down to generations.   
  
Today, I’m directing the Department of Housing and Urban Affairs — and
Urban Development to redress historical racism in federal housing
policies.  Today, I’m directing the federal agency to reinvigorate the
consultation process with Indian tribes.  Respect the tribal sovereignty
— respect for tribal sovereignty will be a cornerstone of our engaging
with Native American communities.   
  
This builds on the work we did last week to expand tribes’ access to the
Strategic National Stockpile for the first time, to ensure they receive
help from the Federal Emergency Management Agency, FEMA, to fight this
pandemic.   
  
Today, I’m directing federal agencies to combat resurgence of
xenophobia, particularly against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders,
that we’ve seen skyrocket during this pandemic.  This is unacceptable
and it’s un-American.  I’ve asked the Department of Justice to
strengthen its partnership with the Asian American and Pacific Islander
community to prevent those hate crimes.  
  
I’ve also asked the Department of Health and Human Services to put out
best practices for combatting xenophobia in our national response to
COVID.  
  
Look, in the weeks ahead, I’ll be reaffirming the federal government’s
commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion and accessibility,
building on the work we started in the Obama-Biden administration. 
That’s why I rescinded the previous administration’s harmful ban on
diversity and sensitivity training, and abolished the offensive,
counter-factual 1776 Commission.  Unity and healing must begin with
understanding and truth, not ignorance and lies.  
  
Today, I’m also issuing an executive order that will ultimately end the
Justice Department’s use of the private prison indus- — private prisons,
an industry that houses pretrial detrainees \[sic\] — detainees and
federal prisoners.   
  
The executive order directs the Attorney General to decline to renew
contracts with privately operated criminal facilities — a step we
started to take at the end of the Obama administration and was reversed
under the previous administration.  
  
This is the first step to stop corporations from profiteering off of
incarcerating — incarceration that is less humane and less safe, as the
studies show.  And it is just the beginning of my administration’s plan
to address systemic problems in our criminal justice system.  
  
Here’s another thing that we need to do: We need to restore and expand
the Voting Rights Act — named after our dear friend, John Lewis — and
continue to fight back against laws that many states are engaged in to
suppress the right to vote, while expanding access to the ballot box for
all eligible voters.  
  
Because here’s the deal, and I’ll close with this: I ran for President
because I believe we’re in a battle for the soul of this nation.  And
the simple truth is, our soul will be troubled as long as systemic
racism is allowed to persist.  We can’t eliminate it if — it’s not going
to be overnight.  We can’t eliminate everything.   
  
But it’s corrosive, it’s destructive, and it’s costly.  It costs every
American, not just who have felt the sting of racial injustice.  We
aren’t just less of a — we are not just a nation of morally deprived
because of systemic racism; we’re also less prosperous, we’re less
successful, we’re less secure.   
  
So, we must change, and I know it’s going to take time.  But I know we
can do it.  And I firmly believe the nation is ready to change, but
government has to change as well.  We need to make equity and justice
part of what we do every day — today, tomorrow, and every day.  
  
Now I’m going to sign these executive actions to continue the work to
make real the promise of America for every American.  Again, I’m not
promising we can end it tomorrow, but I promise you: We’re going to
continue to make progress to eliminate systemic racism, and every branch
of the White House and the federal government is going to be part of
that effort.  
  
Thank you.  
  
This first executive order is a memorandum for the Secretary of Housing
and Urban Development to redress our nation’s and the federal
government’s history of discriminatory housing practices and policies.  
  
(The executive order is signed.)  
  
The next executive order is reforming the incarceration system by
eliminating the use of privately operated criminal detention
facilities.  
  
(The executive order is signed.)  
  
The third executive order is a memorandum for the heads of executive
departments and agencies on tribal consultation, and strengthening
nation-to-nation relationships.  
  
(The executive order is signed.)  
  
The last executive order is condemning and combatting racism,
xenophobia, and intolerance against Asian Americans and Pacific
Islanders in the United States.  
  
(The executive order is signed.)  
  
I think the country is ready, and I know this administration is ready. 
Thank you.  
  
Q    Mr. President, what did you talk to Vladimir Putin about?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  You.  (Laughter.)  He sent his best.  
  
                        END                2:21 P.M. EST
