---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-01-26'
modified_time: 2021-01-26 19:00:58-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/01/26/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-fight-to-contain-the-covid-19-pandemic/
published_time: 2021-01-26 19:00:57-05:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the Fight to Contain the COVID-\u206019\_Pandemic"
---
 
State Dining Room

4:50 P.M. EST  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you for taking the time to be here.  Good
afternoon.  I’m accompanied by Jeff Zients, who is heading up our whole
COVID team.  And today, what I’d like to do is to upgrade — update you
on where we are.  Tomorrow, we’re going to begin the briefings that are
going to occur on a regular basis with Mr. Zients and his team.  So
we’re bringing back the pros to talk about COVID in an unvarnished way. 
Any questions you have, that’s how we’ll handle them because we’re
letting science speak again.   
  
And so, I — I’d like to update you on the aggressive steps we’re taking
to meet our goal of administering 100 million COVID-19 vaccine shots
within — within a hundred days, and to ramp up the vaccine supply as
fast as we can.  
  
This will be one of the most difficult operational challenges we’ve ever
undertaken as a nation.  I’ve said that before, but I must say it again
because we’re going to do — we’re going to do everything we can to get
it done.  But a lot of things can go wrong along the way.   
  
And so, I’ve — as I’ve said in the past, we want to give credit to
everyone involved in this vaccine effort and the prior administration
and the science community and the medical sphere — (technical equipment
falls to the floor) — for getting the program — I didn’t do it, I
promise — (laughter) — for getting the program off the ground.  And that
credit is absolutely due.  
  
But it’s also no secret that we have recently discovered, in the final
days of the transition — and it wasn’t until the final days we got the
kind of cooperation we needed — that once we arrived, the vaccine
program is worse shape than we anticipated or expected.  A lot of you
who follow this — and nobody is — I mean this sincerely, the press is
the smartest group of people in town; you hone this stuff down, clearly
— I think you found the same thing.   
  
Even before I took office, I announced a new vaccine — a vaccination
strategy which centers on federal leadership and execution for our whole
country.  And that’s why I directed my COVID team to go to work
immediately, and how we could step up the vaccination efforts and the
vaccinations.   
  
I’m pleased to announce the first progress in that work today on day
seven of my presidency.  First, after review of the current vaccine
supply manufacturing plants, I can announce that we will increase
overall weekly vaccination distribution to states, tribes, and
territories from 8.6 million doses to a minimum of 10 million doses,
starting next week.  That’s an increase of 1.4 million doses per
week.   
  
And you all know — if I may note, parenthetically — you all know — know
that the vaccines are distributed to states based on population. 
They’re based on population.  And so the smaller the state, the less
vaccine; the bigger the state, the more they get.  And so this is going
to allow millions of more Americans to get vaccinated sooner than
previously anticipated.  We got a long way to go, though.  
  
The second thing: We’re increasing the transparency with states, cities,
and tribes, and local partners when it comes to the vaccine supply. 
This is something we’ve heard over and over again from both Democrats
and Republicans, state and local leaders: that they need a plan in order
to what — they didn’t know what they had to plan on.  They need to know
what the order is going to be.   
  
Jeff had a meeting with the governors on Zoom and — and others.  And I
think we’re getting this coordinated in a way that there’s increased
cooperation and confidence.   
  
But until now, we’ve had to guess how much vaccine to expect for the
next week.  And that’s what the governors had to do: “How much am I
getting next week?”  This is unacceptable.  They — you know, the lives
are at stake here.   
  
From this week forward, God willing, we’ll ensure that states, tribes,
and territories will now always have a reliable three-week forecast on
what the supply they’re going to get.  So they’ll know, three weeks
ahead of time, what’s going to be there in the third week.   
  
This is going to help make sure governors, mayors, and local leaders
have greater certainty around supply so they can carry out their plans
to vaccinate as many people as possible.  
  
So, we will both increase the supply in the short term by more than 15
percent and give our states and local partners more certainty about when
the deliveries will arrive.  These two steps are going to help increase
our prospects of hitting and — or exceeding, God willing, the ambitious
goal of 100 million shots in 100 days.   
  
But I also want to be clear: 100 million shots in 100 days is not the
endpoint; it’s just the start.  We’re not stopping there.  The end goal
is to beat COVID-19.  And the way we do that is to get more people
vaccinated, which means we have to be ready, after we hit the ground
\[sic\] — after we hit the goal of 100 million shots in 100 days.   
  
Now, that means fewer than 100 million people getting totally
vaccinated; it means 100 \[million\] shots, and it means somewhere
between 60 — maybe less, maybe more — million people will have the —
because it requires two shots in many cases — not always.  
  
So today, I’m directing COVID-19 Response Coordinator Jeff Zeints, here,
to work with the Department of Health and Human Services to increase our
total supply of vaccine for the American people.  And we believe that
we’ll soon be able to confirm the purchase of an additional
100 <s>billion</s> \[million\] doses for each of the two FDA-authorized
vaccines: Pfizer and Moderna.  That’s 100 million more doses of Pfizer
and 100 million more doses of Moderna — 200 million more doses than the
federal government had previously secured.  Not in hand yet, but
ordered.   
  
We expect these additional 200 million doses to be delivered this
summer.  And some of it will come as early — begin to come in early
summer, but by the mid- — by the mid-summer, that this vaccine will be
there.  And the order — and that increases the total vaccine order in
the United States by 50 percent — from 400 million ordered to 600
million.   
  
This is enough vaccine to fully vaccinate 300 Americans by the end of
the summer, beginning of the fall.  But we want to make — look, that’s —
I want to repeat: It’ll be enough to fully vaccinate 300 \[million\]
Americans to beat this pandemic — 300 million Americans.  And this is
aggregate plan that doesn’t leave anything on the table or anything to
chance, as we’ve seen happen in the past year.   
  
I’ve said before: This is a wartime effort.  When I say — when I say
that, people ask, “Wartime?”  I say, “Yeah, more than 400,000 Americans
have already died.”  I think it’s four hundred eleven or twelve
\[thousand\] have died in one year of this pandemic — more than all the
people who died in all of — Americans who died in World War Two.  This
is a wartime undertaking; it’s not hyperbole.   
  
And as such, I directed the team to be ready to exercise all the
authorities I have under the Defense Production Act, and expedite these
vaccines.  And we’re using the Defense Production Act to launch a
full-scale, wartime effort to address the supply shortages we inherited
from the previous administration.  
  
We’re going to be working across the government, with private industry,
to ramp up production of vaccine and protective equipment — the
syringes, the needles, the gloves, the swabs, and the masks — everything
that’s needed to protect, test, vaccinate, and take care of our people. 
Well, we’ve already identified suppliers, and we’re working with them to
move our plan forward.   
  
The biggest problem — I hope you’re all asking me by the end of the
summer that, “You have too much vaccine left over.  You have too much
equipment leftover.”  That’s not my worry.  I hope that becomes the
problem, rather than we somehow find interruptions in supply or
access.  
  
These aggressive steps to increase vaccine supply come on top of the
steps we took last week to get more people vaccinated for free, to
create more places for them to get vaccinated, and to mobilize more
medical teams to get shots in people’s arms.  
  
We’ve directed FEMA, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, to stand
up the first federally supported community vaccination centers, and that
work is underway.  We’re working to make vaccines available to thousands
of local pharmacies,  
beginning in early February; it’s a couple weeks off.  And we — that
will enormously expand our reach.  
  
Last week, I also signed a declaration to immediately begin reimbursing
states 100 percent for the uses of their National Guard to help the
COVID relief effort, both getting people — getting the sites set up and
even using some of their personnel to administer some of the vaccines. 
And I think it’s something Democrats and Republicans and governors alike
have called for.   
  
We’re also expanding testing, which will help schools and  
businesses reopen safely and protect the most vulnerable.  
  
And we formalized the Health Equity Task Force to ensure that equity is
at the core of everything we do in urban and rural communities alike, to
make sure those people most significantly damaged have — have access. 
Access.  We have to change.  We have move in a direction for those
communities that are hard to get to.  
  
But the brutal truth is: It’s going to take months before we can get the
majority of Americans vaccinated.  Months.  In the next few months,
masks — not vaccines — are the best defense against COVID-19.  Experts
say that wearing masks from now just until April would save 50,000 lives
who otherwise will pass away if we don’t wear these masks.  That’s why
I’m asking the American people to mask up for the first 100 days.  I’ve
issued executive orders requiring masks on federal property and  
interstate travel — trains and planes and buses.  
  
     One congressman pointed out — I could — well, he used a very,
anyway, colorful term to say wearing a mask — “I tell him to kiss my
ear; I’m not going to wear a mask.”  Well, guess what?  Not very
American.  The fact is, you want to be patriotic; you’re going to
protect people.  And new COVID-19 variants are — we are instituting new
measures to deal with these individuals flying into the United States
from other countries.   
  
You’ve all hold — if you could hold a second — you’ve all heard about
the strain — the British strain, the Brazilian strain, the South African
strain.  And they are — they seem to be more transmittable more easily. 
So, in addition to wearing masks, everyone flying to the United States
from another country, we need to test before they get on that plane and
self-quarantine when they arrive in America.  
  
I’m going to close with this: I now have a national — we now have a
national strategy to beat COVID-19.  It’s comprehensive.  It’s based on
science, not politics.  It’s based on truth, not denial.  And it is
detailed.  It’s going to require Congress to pass the American Rescue
Plan to provide funding to administer the vaccines, to ramp up testing,
to help schools and businesses reopen, and to deliver immediate  
economic relief to Americans who are badly in need of it through no
fault of their own.   
  
And our plan will take time.  Progress from our plan will take time to
measure, as people getting infected today don’t show up in case counts
for weeks, and those who perish from those — from the disease die weeks
after that exposure.  You know, despite the best — our best intentions,
we’re going to face setbacks, which I will always explain to you and
acknowledge.   
  
And let me be clear: Things are going to continue to get worse before
they get better.  The death toll, experts tell us, is likely to top
500,000 by the end of next month — February — and cases will continue to
mount.  We didn’t get into this mess overnight, and it’s going to take
months for us to turn things around.  But let me be equally clear: We’re
going to get through this.  We will defeat this pandemic.   
  
And to a nation waiting for action, let me be clearest on this point:
Help is on the way.  We can do this if we come together, if we listen to
the scientists.  And as I said: Tomorrow, I say to the press, the entire
team will be back in the business of — my COVID team — of answering all
your detailed questions.  
  
So, thank you very much for your patience.  Keep the faith.  We’re going
to get this done.  And I’ll always level with you about the state of
affairs.   
  
Thank you.  
  
                        END                5:04 P.M. EST
