---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-01-27'
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/01/27/remarks-by-president-biden-before-signing-executive-actions-on-tackling-climate-change-creating-jobs-and-restoring-scientific-integrity/
published_time: 2021-01-27 18:35:21-05:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden Before Signing Executive Actions on Tackling Climate\
  \ Change, Creating Jobs, and Restoring Scientific\_Integrity"
---
 
State Dining Room

1:37 P.M. EST

     THE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, everybody.  I know the press has
just had a long session with — with the team here about what I’m going
to be talking about today and this afternoon. 

And let me just start by saying, I can’t tell you how much I appreciate
the three people standing next to me here for what they’ve agreed to do
to help, particularly my best buddy, John Kerry.  Asking a former
Secretary of State to come back and do this has been a — I know it was a
big ask on the part of myself.  I was going to — I was going to blame
Kamala for it as well, but for both of us. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Why not?  (Laughs.)

THE PRESIDENT:  And — but John has been deeply involved; the Secretary
has been deeply involved in climate issues as a senator and one of the
leaders, legislatively, as well.  And I don’t think anybody knows more
about the issue and the damage that’s been done by some of the executive
orders of the previous administration. 

And Gina — you run everything, Gina.  Thank you very much. 

Let me get to it.  Today is “Climate Day” at the White House and — which
means that today is “Jobs Day” at the White House.  We’re talking about
American innovation, American products, American labor.  And we’re
talking about the health of our families and cleaner water, cleaner air,
and cleaner communities.  We’re talking about national security and
America leading the world in a clean energy future. 

It’s a future of enormous hope and opportunity.  It’s about coming to
the moment to deal with this maximum threat that we — that’s now facing
us — climate change — with a greater sense of urgency.  In my view,
we’ve already waited too long to deal with this climate crisis and we
can’t wait any longer.  We see it with our own eyes, we feel it, we know
it in our bones, and it’s time to act. 

And I might note, parenthetically: If you notice, the attitude of the
American people toward greater impetus on focusing on climate change and
doing something about it has increased across the board — Democrat,
Republican, independent. 

It’s — that’s why I’m signing today an executive order to supercharge
our administration ambitious plan to confront the existential threat of
climate change.  And it is an existential threat. 

Last year, wildfires burned more than 5,000 acres in the West — as no
one knows better than the Vice President, a former Senator from
California — an area roughly the size of the entire state of New
Jersey.  More intense and powerful hurricanes and tropical storms
pummeled states across the Gulf Coast and along the East Coast — I can
testify to that, from Delaware.  Historic floods, severe droughts have
ravaged the Midwest.  More Americans see and feel the devastation in big
cities, small towns, coastlines, and in farmlands, in red states and
blue states.  And the Defense Department reported that climate change is
a direct threat to more than two thirds of the military’s operational
critical installations.  Two thirds.  And so this could — we could —
this could well be on the conservative side. 

And many climate and health calamities are colliding all at once.  It’s
not just the pandemic that keeps people inside; it’s poor air quality. 
Multiple studies have shown that air pollution is associated with an
increased risk of death from COVID-19.  And just like we need a unified
national response to COVID-19, we desperately need a unified national
response to the climate crisis because there is a climate crisis. 

We must keep — we must lead global response because neither challenge
can be met, as Secretary Kerry has pointed out many times, by the United
States alone.  We know what to do, we’ve just got to do it. 

When we think of climate change, we think of it — this is a case where
conscious and convenience cross paths, where dealing with this
existential threat to the planet and increasing our economic growth and
prosperity are one in the same.  When I think of climate change, I think
of — and the answers to it — I think of jobs. 

A key plank of our Build Back Better Recovery Plan is building a modern,
resilient climate infrastructure and clean energy future that will
create millions of good-paying union jobs — not 7, 8, 10, 12 dollars an
hour, but prevailing wage and benefits. 

You know, we can put millions of Americans to work modernizing our water
systems, transportation, our energy infrastructure to withstand the
impacts of extreme climate.  We’ve already reached a point where we’re
going to have to live with what it is now.  That’s going to require a
lot of work all by itself, without it getting any worse. 

When we think of renewable energy, we see American manufacturing,
American workers racing to lead the global market.  We see farmers
making American agriculture first in the world to achieve net-zero
emissions and gaining new sources of income in the process. 

And I want to parenthetically thank the Secretary of Agriculture for
helping to put together that program during the campaign. 

We see small business and master electricians designing, installing, and
innovating energy-conserving technologies and building homes and
buildings.  And we’re going to reduce electric consumption and save
hundreds of thousands of dollars a year in energy costs in the process. 

And when the previous administration reversed the Obama-Biden vehicle
standard and picked Big Oil companies over American workers, the
Biden-Harris administration will not only bring those standards back,
we’ll set new, ambitious ones that our workers are ready to meet. 

We see these workers building new buildings, installing 500,000 new
electric vehicle charging stations across the country as we modernize
our highway systems to adapt to the changes that have already taken
place.  We see American consumers switching to electric vehicles through
rebates and incentives, and the residents of our cities and towns

breathing cleaner air, and fewer kids living with asthma and dying from
it.

And not only that, the federal government owns and maintains an enormous
fleet of vehicles, as you all know.  With today’s executive order,
combined with the Buy American executive order I signed on Monday, we’re
going to harness

the purchasing power of the federal government to buy clean,

zero-emission vehicles that are made and sourced by union workers right
here in America.

With everything I just mentioned, this will mean one million new jobs in
the American automobile industry.  One million.  And we’ll do another
thing: We’ll take steps towards my goal of achieving 100 percent
carbon-pollution-free electric sector by 2035.  Transforming the
American electric sector to produce power without carbon pollution will
be a tremendous spur to job creation and economic competitiveness in the
21st century, not to mention the benefits to our health and to our
environment. 

Already, 84 percent of all new electric capacity

planned to come onto the electric grid this is year is clean energy. 
Clean energy.  Why?  Because it’s affordable;

because it’s clean; because, in many cases, it’s cheaper.  And it’s the
way we’re keeping up — they’re keeping up.  We’re going to need
scientists, the national labs, land-grant universities, historical black
colleges and universities to innovate the technologies needed to
generate, store, and transmit clean electric — clean electricity across
distances, and battery technology, and a whole range of other things.

We need engineers to design them and workers to manufacture them.  We
need iron workers and welders to install them.  Technologies they
invent, design, and build will ultimately become cheaper than any other
kind of energy, helping us dramatically expand our economy and create
more jobs with a cleaner, cleaner environment.  And we’ll become the
world’s largest exporter of those technologies, creating even more
jobs. 

You know, we are also — we’re going to build 1.5 million

new energy-efficient homes and public housing units that are going to
benefit communities three times over: one, by alleviating the affordable
housing crisis; two, by increasing energy efficiency; and, three, by
reducing the racial wealth gap

linked to home ownership.

We’re also going to create more than a quarter million jobs to do things
like plug the millions of abandoned oil and gas wells that pose an
ongoing threat to the health and safety of our communities.  They’re
abandoned wells that are open now, and we’re going to put people to
work.  They’re not going to lose jobs in these areas; they’re going to
create jobs.  They’re going to get prevailing wage to cap those over a
million wells.  These aren’t pie-in-the-sky dreams.  These are concrete,

actionable solutions, and we know how to do this.

The Obama-Biden administration reduced the auto industry — rescued the
auto industry and helped them retool.  We need solar energy
cost-competitive with traditional energy, weatherizing more — we made
them cost-competitive, weatherizing more than a million homes.

The Recovery Act of our administration — the last admin- — our admin- —
the Democratic administration made record clean energy investments: $90
billion.  The President asked me to make sure how that money was spent,
on everything from smart grid systems to clean energy manufacturing.

Now, the Biden-Harris administration is going to do it again and go
beyond.  The executive order I’ll be signing establishes a White House
Office of Domestic Climate Policy.  And it’ll be led by one of America’s
most distinguished climate leaders, former EPA Director Gina McCarthy. 
As the head of the new office and my National Climate Advisor, Gina will
chair a National Climate Task Force, made up of many members of our
Cabinet, to deliver a whole-of-government approach to the climate
crisis.

This is not — it’s not time for small measures; we need to be bold.  So,
let me be clear: That includes helping revitalize

the economies of coal, oil, and gas, and power plant communities.  We
have to start by creating new, good-paying jobs, capping those abandoned
wells, reclaiming mines, turning old brownfield sites into new hubs of
economic growth, creating new, good-paying jobs in those communities
where those workers live because they helped build this country.

We’re never going to forget the men and women who dug the coal and built
the nation.  We’re going to do right by them 

and make sure they have opportunities to keep building the nation and
their own communities and getting paid well for it.

While the whole-of-government approach is necessary, though, it’s not
sufficient.  We’re going to work with mayors and governors and tribal
leaders and business leaders who are stepping up, and the young people
organizing and leading the way.  My message to those young people is:
You have the full capacity and power of the federal government.  Your
government is going to work with you. 

Now, today’s executive order also directs the Secretary of the Interior
to stop issuing new oil and gas leases on public lands and offsh- — and
offshore waters, wherever possible.  We’re going to review and reset the
oil and gas leasing program. 

Like the previous administration, we’ll start to properly manage —
unlike it, we’re going to start to properly manage lands and waterways
in ways that allow us to protect, preserve them — the full value that
they provide for us for future generations. 

Let me be clear, and I know this always comes up: We’re not going to ban
fracking.  We’ll protect jobs and grow jobs, including through stronger
standards, like controls from methane leaks and union workers in —
willing to install the changes. 

Unlike previous administrations, I don’t think the federal government
should give handouts to big oil to the tune of $40 billion in fossil
fuel subsidies.  And I’m going to be going to the Congress asking them
to eliminate those subsidies.

We’re going to take money and invest it in clean energy jobs in America
— millions of jobs in wind, solar, and carbon capture.  In fact, today’s
actions are going to help us increase renewable energy production from
offshore wind and meet our obligation to be good stewards of our public
lands. 

It establishes a new, modern-day Civilian Climate Corps — that I called
for when I was campaigning — to heal our public lands and make us less
vulnerable to wildfires and floods.

Look, this executive order I’m signing today also makes it official that
climate change will be at the center of our national security and
foreign policy. 

As Secretary Kerry — as our Special Presidential Envoy for Climate —
with him, the world knows how serious I am about one of America’s — by
appointing one of America’s most distinguished statesmen and one of my
closest friends, speaking for America on one of the most pressing
threats of our time.  John was instrumental in negotiating the Paris
Climate Agreement that we started to — that we rejoined — this
administration rejoined on day one, as I promised.

And today’s executive order will help strengthen that commitment by
working with other nations to support the most vulnerable to the impact
of climate change and to increase our collective resilience.  That
includes a summit of world leaders that I’ll convene to address this
climate crisis on Earth Day, this year.

In order to establish a new effort to integrate the security
implications of climate change as part of our national security and risk
assessment and analysis will also be included.

With this executive order, environmental justice will be at the center
of all we do addressing the disproportionate health and environmental
and economic impacts on communities of color — so-called “fenceline
communities” — especially those communities — brown, black, Native
American, poor whites.  It’s hard — the hard-hit areas like Cancer Alley
in Louisia- — Cancer Alley in Louisiana, or the Route 9 corridor in the
state of Delaware. 

That’s why we’re going to work to make sure that they receive 40 percent
of the benefits of key federal investments in clean energy, clean water,
and wastewater infrastructure.  Lifting up these communities makes us
all stronger as a nation and increases the health of everybody.

Finally, as with our fight against COVID-19, we will listen to the
science and protect the integrity of our federal response to the climate
crisis.

Earlier this month, I nominated Dr. Eric Lander, a brilliant scientist
who is here today, to be the Director of the Office of Science and
Technology.  I also nominated another brilliant scientist, Dr. Frances
Arnold and Dr. Maria Zuber, to co-chair the President’s Council of
Advisors on Science and Technology — so-called “PCAST” — that President
Eisenhower started six weeks after the launch of Sputnik.

It’s a team of America’s top scientists charged with asking the most
American of questions: “What next?  What’s the next big breakthrough?” 
And then helping us make the impossible possible. 

Today, I’m signing a presidential memorandum making it clear that we
will protect our world-class scientists from political interference and
ensure they can think, research, and speak freely and directly to me,
the Vice President, and the American people.

To summarize, this executive order — it’s about jobs — good-paying union
jobs.  It’s about workers building our economy back better than before. 
It’s a whole-of-government approach to put climate change at the center
of our domestic, national security, and foreign policy.  It’s advancing
conservation; revitalizing communities and cities and in the fa– on the
farmlands; and securing environmental justice.

Our plans are ambitious, but we are America.  We’re bold.  We are
unwavering in the pursuit of jobs and innovation, science and
discovery.  We can do this, we must do this, and we will do this.

I’m now going to sign the executive order to meet the climate crisis
with American jobs and American ingenuity.  And I want to thank you
all.  I’m going to go over and sign that now.

The first order I’m signing is tackling the climate crisis at home and
abroad.

(The executive order is signed.)

This next one: Restoring trust in government through science and
integrity and evidence-based policy making.

(The executive order is signed).

One more here.  And this last one is the President’s Council of Advisors
on Science and Technology established.

(The executive order is signed).

I thank you all for your time.

                        END                  1:55 P.M. EST
