---
date: '2025-07-02'
modified_time: 2025-07-02 16:26:31-04:00
published_time: 2025-07-02 16:19:09-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/07/160th-anniversary-of-the-united-states-secret-service-2025/
tags: presidential-actions
title: 160th Anniversary of the United States Secret Service, 2025
---
 
By the President of the United States of America

A Proclamation

On April 14, 1865, President Abraham Lincoln signed legislation
authorizing the creation of the United States Secret Service, the very
same day an assassin’s bullet tragically took his life.  Ironically, the
agency he established likely could not have saved him.  Its original
purpose was not protection, but preservation, tasked with ending the
widespread counterfeiting that threatened to destabilize the post-Civil
War economy.  Less than 3 months later, on July 5, 1865, the Secret
Service officially began operations within the Department of the
Treasury. 

Over time, the agency’s mission began to expand.  Following the
assassination attempt of William McKinley in 1901, the Congress
entrusted the Secret Service with the solemn duty of protecting the
President of the United States.  What began as an effort to defend
America’s currency became a lasting commitment to defend its highest
office.  Today, the Secret Service stands among the Nation’s most elite
and storied law enforcement agencies, defined by honor, vigilance, and
its enduring motto:  “Worthy of Trust and Confidence.”

More than 8,000 men and women serve in the Secret Service, united by a
mission that demands excellence, resilience, and steadfast loyalty. 
They protect the President and Vice President, their families, former
presidents, major presidential candidates, and visiting foreign
dignitaries.  Their watch extends to the White House, the Vice
President’s residence, National Special Security Events, and critical
sites around the world.  Agents undergo intense and rigorous training to
earn their post, ensuring that only the most disciplined and determined
are entrusted with this sacred duty.  Even in moments of grave danger,
these warriors stand firm, confronting threats with unshakable resolve,
unmatched skill, and the quiet strength that defines the very best of
American law enforcement.  

The United States Secret Service has stood as an unflinching shield
against violence and mayhem, answering the call whenever danger arises
to protect our national leadership.  Agents have placed themselves in
harm’s way to protect against the attempted assassinations of
President-elect Franklin Roosevelt in 1933, President Harry Truman in
1950, President Gerald Ford in 1975, President Ronald Reagan in 1981,
and two attempts against my own life in 2024.  In each of these moments,
they acted with split-second courage and absolute devotion to duty.  I
witnessed their bravery firsthand — calm under pressure, fearless in the
face of danger, and wholly committed to the mission.  Behind these
historical incidents stand countless additional threats, lives protected
without fanfare, and sacrifices made without recognition.  To risk
laying down one’s life for another is the most selfless act of
patriotism and humanity, and I am forever indebted to the agents who
risk everything to guard me from harm.

As we commemorate the 160th anniversary of the United States Secret
Service, our Nation proudly honors the heroism, discipline, and
unwavering commitment of every agent who have placed their lives in the
line of fire so that our Republic, our freedom, and our glorious
constitutional order may endure.  Their bravery stands as a powerful
testament to the spirit of America, undaunted in the face of danger and
resolute in the defense of liberty.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim July 5, 2025, as the
160th Anniversary of the United States Secret Service.  I call upon all
Americans to offer our unending gratitude and respect to the 8,000
employees of the United States Secret Service in more than 150 offices
across the country and abroad that serve on the edge of danger to defend
the safety and security of our communities and uphold the sovereignty
and strength of our Republic.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this second day of July,
in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                               DONALD J. TRUMP
