---
date: '2025-07-24'
modified_time: 2025-07-24 16:40:18-04:00
published_time: 2025-07-24 16:39:36-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/07/saving-college-sports/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Saving College Sports
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered:

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section</span>
<span style="text-decoration: underline">1</span>. 
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Purpose and Policy</span>*.* 
College sports are a uniquely American institution that provide
life-changing educational and leadership-development opportunities to
more than 500,000 student-athletes through almost $4 billion in
scholarships each year.  College athletics also provide substantial
support to local economies and form an indelible part of family
activities, pastimes, and culture in many communities. 

While major college football games can draw tens of millions of
television viewers and attendees, they feature only a very small sample
of the many athletes who benefit from the transformational opportunities
that college athletics provide.  Sixty-five percent of the 2024 United
States Olympic Team members were current or former National Collegiate
Athletic Association (NCAA) varsity athletes, and approximately
seventy-five percent were collegiate athletes.  The 2024 United States
Olympic Team earned 126 total medals, leading the overall medal count
for the eighth consecutive Summer Olympic Games. 

Beyond driving our unrivaled success in international competition,
college athletes are more likely to report better outcomes in important
respects during college and after graduation.  A substantial majority of
female executives at the largest American companies participated in
sports during adolescence, many at the high school or collegiate level,
and examples of business leaders and former Presidents who played
college sports are legion.  It is no exaggeration to say that America’s
system of collegiate athletics plays an integral role in forging the
leaders that drive our Nation’s success.

Yet the future of college sports is under unprecedented threat.  Waves
of recent litigation against collegiate athletics governing rules have
eliminated limits on athlete compensation, pay-for-play recruiting
inducements, and transfers between universities, unleashing a sea change
that threatens the viability of college sports.  While changes providing
some increased benefits and flexibility to student-athletes were overdue
and should be maintained, the inability to maintain reasonable rules and
guardrails is a mortal threat to most college sports.

To illustrate, following a 2021 antitrust ruling from the United States
Supreme Court striking down NCAA restrictions, the NCAA changed its
rules to permit players to receive compensation for their name, image,
and likeness (NIL) from third parties.  But guardrails designed to
ensure that these were legitimate, market-value NIL payments for
endorsements or similar services, rather than simply pay-for-play
inducements, were eliminated through litigation.  Other limits on player
transfers among schools were also taken down through litigation. 

This has created an out-of-control, rudderless system in which competing
university donors engage in bidding wars for the best players, who can
change teams each season.  Meanwhile, more than 30 States have passed
their own NIL laws in a chaotic race to the bottom, sometimes to gain
temporary competitive advantages for their major collegiate teams.  As a
result, players at some universities will receive more than $50 million
per year, mostly for the revenue-generating sports like football. 
Entering the 2024 season, players on the eventual college football
national champion team were being paid around $20 million annually.  By
the 2025 season, football players at one university will reportedly be
paid $35-40 million, with revenue-sharing included. 

This not only reduces competition and parity by creating an oligarchy of
teams that can simply buy the best players — including the best players
from less-wealthy programs at the end of each season — but the
imperative that university donors must devote ever-escalating resources
to compete in the revenue-generating sports like football and basketball
siphons away the resources necessary to support the panoply of
non-revenue sports.  Absent guardrails to stop the madness and ensure a
reasonable, balanced use of resources across collegiate athletic
programs that preserves their educational and developmental benefits,
many college sports will soon cease to exist.

A national solution is urgently needed to prevent this situation from
deteriorating beyond repair and to protect non-revenue sports, including
many women’s sports, that comprise the backbone of intercollegiate
athletics, drive American superiority at the Olympics and other
international competitions, and catalyze hundreds of thousands of
student-athletes to fuel American success in myriad ways.

Attempting to create some guardrails and shelter from litigation,
colleges have adopted a new regime, deciding to pay athletes directly
and simultaneously limit the total number of athletes on their
campuses.  Given that the new roster limits, by exceeding the
scholarship limits they replace, will increase the potential number of
scholarships available in many sports, this opportunity must be utilized
to strengthen and expand non-revenue sports.  Simultaneously, the
third-party market of pay-for-play inducements must be eliminated before
its insatiable demand for resources dries up support for non-revenue
sports.  Otherwise, a crucial American asset will be lost.

It is the policy of my Administration that all college sports should be
preserved and, where possible, expanded.  My Administration will
therefore provide the stability, fairness, and balance necessary to
protect student-athletes, collegiate athletic scholarships and
opportunities, and the special American institution of college sports. 
It is common sense that college sports are not, and should not be,
professional sports, and my Administration will take action accordingly.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">2</span>. 
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Protecting and Expanding
Women’s and Non-Revenue Sports and Prohibiting Third-Party Pay-for-Play
Payments</span>.  (a)  It is the policy of the executive branch that
opportunities for scholarships and collegiate athletic competition in
women’s and non-revenue sports must be preserved and, where possible,
expanded, including specifically as follows with respect to the
2025-2026 athletic season and future athletic seasons:

\(i\)    collegiate athletic departments with greater than $125,000,000
in revenue during the 2024-2025 athletic season should provide more
scholarship opportunities in non-revenue sports than during the
2024-2025 athletic season and should provide the maximum number of
roster spots for non-revenue sports permitted under the applicable
collegiate athletic rules;

\(ii\)   college athletic departments with greater than $50,000,000 in
revenue during the 2024-2025 athletic season should provide at least as
many scholarship opportunities in non-revenue sports as provided during
the 2024-2025 athletic season and should provide the maximum number of
roster spots for non-revenue sports permitted under the applicable
collegiate athletic rules; and

\(iii\)  college athletic departments with $50,000,000 or less in
revenue during the 2024-2025 athletic season or that do not have any
revenue-generating sports should not disproportionately reduce
scholarship opportunities or roster spots for sports based on the
revenue that the sport generates.

     (b)  It is the policy of the executive branch that any
revenue-sharing permitted between universities and collegiate athletes
should be designed and implemented in a manner that preserves or expands
scholarships and collegiate athletic opportunities in women’s and
non-revenue sports.

(c)  To preserve the critical educational and developmental benefits of
collegiate athletics for our Nation, it is the policy of the executive
branch that third-party, pay-for-play payments to collegiate athletes
are improper and should not be permitted by universities.  This policy
does not apply to compensation provided to an athlete for the fair
market value that the athlete provides to a third party, such as for a
brand endorsement. 

(d)  Within 30 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of
Education, in consultation with the Attorney General, the Secretary of
Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Education, and the Chairman
of the Federal Trade Commission, shall develop a plan to advance the
policies set forth in subsections (a)-(c) of this section through all
available and appropriate regulatory, enforcement, and litigation
mechanisms, including Federal funding decisions, enforcement of Title IX
of the Education Amendments Act of 1972, prohibiting unconstitutional
actions by States to regulate interstate commerce, and enforcement of
other constitutional and statutory protections, and by working with the
Congress and State governments, as appropriate. 

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">3</span>. 
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Student-Athlete Status</span>. 
The Secretary of Labor and the National Labor Relations Board shall
determine and implement the appropriate measures with respect to
clarifying the status of collegiate athletes, including through
guidance, rules, or other appropriate actions, that will maximize the
educational benefits and opportunities provided by higher education
institutions through athletics.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">4</span>. 
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Legal Protections for College
Athletics from Lawsuits</span>.  (a)  The Attorney General and the
Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission shall work to stabilize and
preserve college athletics through litigation, guidelines, policies, or
other actions, as appropriate, by protecting the rights and interests of
student-athletes and the long-term availability of collegiate athletic
scholarships and opportunities when such elements are unreasonably
challenged under antitrust or other legal theories.

(b)  Within 60 days of the date of this order, to advance the purposes
of subsection (a) of this section, the Attorney General and the Chairman
of the Federal Trade Commission shall:

\(i\)   review, and as necessary revise, litigation positions,
guidelines, policies, or other actions; and

\(ii\)  develop a plan to implement appropriate future litigation
positions, guidelines, policies, or other actions.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">5</span>. 
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Protecting Development of the
United States Olympic Team</span>.  The Assistant to the President for
Domestic Policy and the Director of the White House Office of Public
Liaison shall consult the United States Olympic and Paralympic Committee
and other appropriate organizations of American athletes about
safeguarding the integral role and competitive advantage that American
collegiate athletics provide in developing athletes to represent our
Nation in international athletic competitions.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">6</span>. 
<span style="text-decoration: underline">General Provisions</span>. 
(a)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise
affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

     (d)  The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by the
Department of Education.

                              DONALD J. TRUMP

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    July 24, 2025.
