---
date: '2025-07-30'
published_time: 2025-07-30 14:47:22-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/07/adjusting-imports-of-copper-into-the-united-states/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Adjusting Imports of Copper into the United States
---
 
 BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
   
A PROCLAMATION

1.  On June 30, 2025, the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary) transmitted
to me a report on his investigation into the effects of imports of
copper in all forms (copper), including copper ores, copper
concentrates, refined copper, copper alloys, scrap copper, and
derivative products, on the national security of the United States under
section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended, 19 U.S.C.
1862 (section 232).  Based on the facts considered in that
investigation, the Secretary found and advised me of his opinion that
copper is being imported into the United States in such quantities and
under such circumstances as to threaten to impair the national security
of the United States.  

2.  The Secretary found that the present quantities of copper imports
and the circumstances of global excess capacity for producing copper are
weakening our economy, resulting in the persistent threat of further
closures of domestic copper production facilities and the shrinking of
our ability to meet national security production requirements.  Because
of these risks, and taking into account the close relation of the
economic welfare of the Nation to our national security and other
relevant factors, *see *19 U.S.C. 1862(d), the Secretary found that the
present quantities and circumstances of copper imports threaten to
impair the national security as provided in section 232.  

3.  In reaching this conclusion, the Secretary found that copper is
essential to the manufacturing foundation on which United States
national and economic security depend.  Copper is the second most widely
used material by the Department of Defense and is a necessary input in a
range of defense systems, including aircraft, ground vehicles, ships,
submarines, missiles, and ammunition.  Copper also plays a central role
in the broader United States industrial base.  The metal’s exceptional
electrical conductivity and durability also make it indispensable to
critical infrastructure sectors that support the American economy,
national security, and public health.  Alternatives to copper are
insufficient substitutes for these vital industries and products in many
circumstances.  

4.  The Secretary found that the United States was a world leader across
the value chain of copper production (mining, refining, semi-finished
goods, and finished goods containing copper) for most of the 20th
century.  But despite copper being a crucial material in manufacturing
and for the national and economic security of the United States, United
States copper production has plummeted.  Today, a single foreign country
dominates global copper smelting and refining, controlling over 50
percent of global smelting capacity and holding four of the top five
largest refining facilities.  

5.  The Secretary found that unfair trade practices abroad, exacerbated
by overly burdensome environmental regulations at home, have hollowed
out United States copper refining and smelting, caused the United States
to be overly reliant on foreign copper imports, and prevent a path
forward without strong corrective action.  Foreign competitors leverage
state subsidies and overproduction to flood international markets with
artificially low-priced copper products, driving United States producers
out of business.  The United States is now dangerously dependent on
foreign imports of semi-finished copper, intensive copper derivative
products, and copper-containing products, and imbalances in the global
markets make domestic investment increasingly unviable.  

6.  The Secretary found that United States dependency on foreign sources
of copper is a national security vulnerability that could be exploited
by foreign countries, weakens United States industrial resilience,
exposes the American people to supply chain disruptions, economic
instability, and strategic vulnerabilities, and jeopardizes the United
States defense industrial base.   

7.  In light of these findings, the Secretary recommended a range of
actions to adjust the imports of copper so that such imports will not
threaten to impair the national security.  For example, the Secretary
recommended an immediate universal 30 percent import duty on
semi-finished copper products and intensive copper derivative products. 
The Secretary also recommended a phased universal tariff on refined
copper of 15 percent starting in 2027 and 30 percent starting in 2028. 
The Secretary further recommended a domestic sales requirement for
copper input materials starting at 25 percent in 2027, a domestic sales
requirement of 25 percent for high-quality copper scrap, and export
controls for high-quality copper scrap.   

8.  After considering the Secretary’s report, the factors in section
232(d), 19 U.S.C. 1862(d), and other relevant factors, among other
things, I concur with the Secretary’s finding that copper is being
imported into the United States in quantities and under circumstances
that threaten to impair the national security of the United States.  In
my judgment, and in light of the Secretary’s report, the factors in
section 232(d), 19 U.S.C. 1862(d), and other relevant factors, among
other things, I also determine that it is necessary and appropriate to
impose tariffs, as described below, to adjust imports of copper and its
derivatives so that such imports will not threaten to impair the
national security of the United States.  

9.  To ensure that the tariffs on copper in this proclamation are not
circumvented and that the purpose of this action to address the threat
to impair the national security of the United States posed by imports of
copper is not undermined, I also deem it necessary and appropriate to
set up a process to identify and impose tariffs on certain derivatives
of copper, as further described below.  

10.  In my judgment, the action in this proclamation will, among other
things, help increase domestic production of semi-finished copper
products and intensive copper derivative products, thereby reducing our
Nation’s reliance on foreign sources.  It will ensure that domestic
fabricators are able to supply sufficient quantities of copper products
essential for infrastructure, defense systems, and advanced
manufacturing.  This action will also promote investment, employment,
and innovation in the domestic copper fabrication sector, strengthen
supply chains, enhance industrial resilience, and generate meaningful
economic benefits.  This action will adjust the imports of semi-finished
copper products, intensive copper derivative products, and certain other
copper derivatives and is necessary and appropriate to address the
threat to impair the national security of the United States posed by
imports of such articles.  

11.  Section 232 authorizes the President to adjust the imports of an
article and its derivatives that are being imported into the United
States in such quantities or under such circumstances as to threaten to
impair the national security so that such imports will not threaten to
impair the national security.   

12.  Section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended, 19 U.S.C. 2483,
authorizes the President to embody in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of
the United States (HTSUS) the substance of statutes affecting import
treatment, and actions thereunder, including the removal, modification,
continuance, or imposition of any rate of duty or other import
restriction.  

13.  Consistent with the General Terms for the United States of America
and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland Economic
Prosperity Deal (May 8, 2025), the United States intends to coordinate
with the United Kingdom to adopt a structured, negotiated approach to
addressing the national security threat in the copper sector.

  
NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws
of the United States of America, including section 232; the
International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq*.);
section 101 of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (DPA), as amended, 50
U.S.C. 4511; section 301 of title 3, United States Code; and section 604
of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended, 19 U.S.C. 2483, do hereby proclaim
as follows:  
(1)  Except as otherwise provided in this proclamation, all imports of
semi-finished copper products and intensive copper derivative products,
as set forth in the Annex to this proclamation, shall be subject to a 50
percent tariff.  This tariff shall be effective with respect to goods
entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on
or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on August 1, 2025, and shall
continue in effect, unless such action is expressly reduced, modified,
or terminated.  This tariff is in addition to any other duties, fees,
exactions, and charges applicable to such imported semi-finished copper
products and intensive copper derivative products, unless stated
otherwise below.  
(2)  The Secretary, in consultation with the United States International
Trade Commission and U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP), shall
determine whether any modifications to the HTSUS are necessary to
effectuate this proclamation and shall make such modifications through
notice in the *Federal Register* if needed.  
(3)  Within 90 days after the date of this proclamation, the Secretary
shall establish a process for including additional derivative copper
articles within the scope of the duties of this proclamation, consistent
with the processes established pursuant to Proclamation 10895 of
February 10, 2025 (Adjusting Imports of Aluminum Into the United States)
and Proclamation 10896 of February 10, 2025 (Adjusting Imports of Steel
Into the United States).  
(4)  The non-copper content of all copper articles subject to this
proclamation shall be subject to tariffs pursuant to Executive Order
14257 of April 2, 2025 (Regulating Imports With a Reciprocal Tariff To
Rectify Trade Practices That Contribute to Large and Persistent Annual
United States Goods Trade Deficits), and any other applicable duties,
including those imposed by Executive Order 14193 of February 1, 2025
(Imposing Duties To Address the Flow of Illicit Drugs Across Our
Northern Border), as amended, Executive Order 14194 of February 1, 2025
(Imposing Duties To Address the Situation at Our Southern Border), as
amended, and Executive Order 14195 of February 1, 2025 (Imposing Duties
To Address the Synthetic Opioid Supply Chain in the People’s Republic of
China), as amended.  The additional duties described in clauses 1
through 3 of this proclamation shall apply only to the copper content of
articles subject to this proclamation.  CBP shall issue authoritative
guidance mandating strict compliance with declaration requirements for
copper content in imported articles and outlining maximum penalties for
noncompliance, including that importers who submit underreported
declarations may be subject to severe consequences, such as significant
monetary penalties, loss of import privileges, and criminal liability,
consistent with United States law.  
(5)  If any product is subject to tariffs under both this proclamation
and Proclamation 10908 of March 26, 2025 (Adjusting Imports of
Automobiles and Automobile Parts Into the United States), as amended,
the product shall be subject to the duties imposed pursuant to
Proclamation 10908, as amended, and not those imposed pursuant to this
proclamation.  
(6)  Any product described in clause 1 of this proclamation, except
those eligible for admission as “domestic status” as described in 19 CFR
146.43, that is subject to a duty imposed by this proclamation and that
is admitted into a United States foreign trade zone on or after the
effective date of this proclamation must be admitted as “privileged
foreign” status as described in 19 CFR 146.41, and will be subject upon
entry for consumption to any *ad valorem* rates of duty related to the
classification under the applicable HTSUS subheading.   
(7)  The Secretary shall continue to monitor imports of copper and its
derivatives.  The Secretary shall, from time to time, in consultation
with any senior executive branch officials the Secretary deems
appropriate, review the status of copper and copper derivative imports
with respect to national security.  The Secretary shall inform the
President of any circumstances that, in the Secretary’s opinion, might
indicate the need for further action by the President under section
232.  By June 30, 2026, the Secretary shall provide the President with
an update on domestic copper markets, including refining capacity and
the market for refined copper in the United States, so that the
President may determine whether imposing a phased universal import duty
on refined copper of 15 percent starting on January 1, 2027, and 30
percent starting on January 1, 2028, as recommended by the June 30,
2025, report, is warranted to ensure that copper imports do not continue
to threaten to impair the national security.  The Secretary shall also
inform the President of any circumstance that, in the Secretary’s
opinion, might indicate that the duty rate provided for in this
proclamation, or any actions modifying this proclamation, is no longer
necessary.  
(8)  Separately, I find that copper input materials and high-quality
copper scrap meet the criteria specified in section 101(b) of the DPA,
50 U.S.C. 4511(b).  Pursuant to the authority delegated to the Secretary
in Executive Order 13603 of March 16, 2012 (National Defense Resources
Preparedness), the Secretary shall take all appropriate action to
implement the domestic sales requirements that he recommended in the
June 30, 2025, report.  
(9)  The Secretary may issue regulations, rules, guidance, and
procedures consistent with the purpose of this proclamation, including
to address operational necessity.  
(10)  No drawback shall be available with respect to the duties imposed
pursuant to this proclamation.  
(11)  CBP may take any necessary or appropriate measure to administer
the tariff imposed by this proclamation.  
(12)  Any provision of previous proclamations and Executive Orders that
is inconsistent with the actions taken in this proclamation is
superseded to the extent of such inconsistency.  If any provision of
this proclamation, or the application of any provision to any individual
or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this
proclamation and the application of its provisions to any other
individuals or circumstances shall not be affected.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of
July, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
fiftieth.  
   
   
   
                               DONALD J. TRUMP
