---
date: '2025-07-25'
modified_time: 2025-07-25 13:11:49-04:00
published_time: 2025-07-25 13:05:11-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/07/captive-nations-week-2025/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Captive Nations Week, 2025
---
 
By the President of the United States of America

A Proclamation

This Captive Nations Week, I offer my heartfelt support to every person
living under a totalitarian regime and I reaffirm my commitment to
advancing a new era of peace where freedom is cherished, sovereignty is
respected, and every nation can live without fear of tyranny or
oppression.

In 1959, President Dwight D. Eisenhower first proclaimed Captive Nations
Week to counter the emerging threat of communism and declare America’s
resolve to defend the fundamental rights of free speech, religious
liberty, and self-government.  As President, I continue that work today,
as far too often, oppressive regimes still silence dissent and persecute
their own citizens for practicing their faith. 

The Religious Liberty Commission, the White House Faith Office, and the
Department of State’s Office of International Religious Freedom are
working together to expand and strengthen America’s efforts to defend
religious freedom around the world.  In the United States, we will
always uphold the simple truth that our rights do not come from
Government, but from God in Heaven.  We believe that legitimate
governments derive their power from the consent of the governed and that
freedom of religion forms the foundation of free Government. 

Guided by these truths, my Administration continues to work for a more
stable and peaceful world.  We remain fiercely committed to working with
our allies and adversaries alike to pursue strong diplomacy, resolve
conflicts, and forge lasting peace everywhere.

America stands with all people who resist tyranny, defend their faith,
and fight for the God-given rights of every human being.  We will
continue to lead with strength, speak truth in the face of oppression,
and advance the cause of peace, liberty, and human dignity across the
globe. 

The Congress, by Joint Resolution approved July 17, 1959 (73 Stat. 212),
has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation
designating the third week of July of each year as “Captive Nations
Week.”

NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim July 20 through July
26, 2025, as Captive Nations Week.  I call upon all Americans to
reaffirm our commitment to supporting those around the world striving
for liberty, justice, and the rule of law with appropriate ceremonies
and activities.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fifth day of
July, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
fiftieth.  
  
  
                              DONALD J. TRUMP
