---
date: '2025-07-25'
modified_time: 2025-07-25 13:09:05-04:00
published_time: 2025-07-25 13:09:04-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/07/made-in-america-week-2025/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Made in America Week, 2025
---
 
By the President of the United States of America  
   
A Proclamation  
  

Since the earliest days of our history, our Nation’s future has been
forged by skilled American hands and proud American hearts.  From the
settlers at Jamestown to the titans of industrialization and
manufacturing, America has understood that, in order to be a great
Nation, we must be a Nation that builds, creates, innovates, and fights
for the needs of our own workers, families, and industries first.  This
Made in America Week, my Administration recommits to furthering this
legacy — and we pledge to embolden our workers, reenergize our
industries, and bring back those beautiful words:  “Made in the
U.S.A.”  

Though the United States has long been a hub of manufacturing and an
epicenter of ingenuity, over the decades, a globalist ruling class
closed our factories, shipped away our jobs, and stripped our families
and our communities of their homes, fortunes, and dreams. They hollowed
out America as they built up China, and American citizens suffered as a
result.

  
Every day, my Administration is once again reclaiming American
sovereignty by modernizing and improving existing trade agreements,
negotiating new deals based on the principles of fairness and
reciprocity, and taking strong enforcement actions against trading
partners that break the rules.  We are putting our Nation’s interests
first.

  
In March, I proudly signed an Executive Order to create the United
States Investment Accelerator, establishing an office within the
Department of Commerce tasked with facilitating investments higher than
$1 billion in America.  I also signed a Presidential Memorandum to
bolster foreign investment while defending our national security
interests.  To further unleash domestic production, with the enactment
of the historic One Big Beautiful Bill earlier this month, we delivered
interest deduction for loans on new American-made vehicles, as well
as 100 percent expensing for new factories, equipment, and machinery. 
These pro-worker, pro-family policies are leveling the playing field for
American businesses and boosting production on American shores.

  
I have also directed the Federal Trade Commission to crack down on
sellers who falsely claim their products are “Made in the U.S.A.”
 Americans want to support their fellow citizens rather than send their
money overseas in exchange for poor-quality goods.  The “Made in the
U.S.A.” label is not just a slogan, but a sign that a product truly
connects us with the ingenuity, quality craftmanship, and livelihood of
our Nation.

  
As a result of my Administration’s leadership and America First vision,
companies are lining up to do business with the United States.  Already,
we have attracted trillions of dollars’ worth of foreign and domestic
investments — and our work is only just beginning.  These historic
investments are drastically increasing our domestic manufacturing
capabilities, reinvigorating struggling industries, and unleashing a new
wave of American innovation.  Thanks to my Administration’s commonsense
policies, for 4 months in a row, job numbers have beat market
expectations, with American-born workers accounting for all of the job
gains since I took office.

  
Together, we are rebuilding our Nation with American heart, hands, and
grit.  We are bringing back a culture of boldness and creativity that
will empower the next generation of innovators, unleash the full
strength of the American spirit, and ensure our economy, our culture,
and our way of life remain the envy of the world.  Above all, under my
leadership, we are proudly building, inventing, and creating in the
United States of America once again.

  
NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim this week, July 20
through July 26, 2025, as Made in America Week.  I call upon all
Americans to pay special tribute to the builders, the ranchers, the
crafters, the entrepreneurs, and all those who work with their hands
every day to make America great.

  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fifth day of
July, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
fiftieth.  
  
                               DONALD J. TRUMP
