---
date: '2025-07-07'
modified_time: 2025-07-07 17:44:33-04:00
published_time: 2025-07-07 17:44:32-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/07/ensuring-accountability-and-prioritizing-public-safety-in-federal-hiring/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Ensuring Accountability and Prioritizing Public Safety in Federal Hiring
---
 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE HEADS OF EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES

SUBJECT:       Ensuring Accountability and Prioritizing Public Safety in
Federal Hiring

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, the following policy shall govern
the hiring of Federal civilian employees within the Executive Branch
through October 15, 2025:  no Federal civilian position that is
presently vacant may be filled, and no new position may be created,
except as otherwise provided for in this memorandum or required by
applicable law.  In addition, any hiring shall be consistent with the
Merit Hiring Plan that was issued by the Office of Personnel Management
(OPM) on May 29, 2025, pursuant to Executive Order 14170 of January 20,
2025 (Reforming the Federal Hiring Process and Restoring Merit to
Government Service).

Except as provided below, this policy applies to all executive
departments and agencies (agencies) regardless of their sources of
operational and programmatic funding. 

This memorandum does not apply to military personnel of the Armed Forces
or to positions related to immigration enforcement, national security,
or public safety, and does not apply to the Executive Office of the
President or the components thereof.  Positions that fall within these
categories do not require review by OPM.  Moreover, nothing in this
memorandum shall adversely impact the provision of Social Security,
Medicare, or veterans’ healthcare or benefits.  In addition, the
Director of OPM may continue to grant exemptions from this policy where
those exemptions are otherwise necessary.  Further, the following
process shall apply to (1) each executive department and (2) each
independent establishment authorized by OPM to use the process:  hires
that have been approved in writing by the executive department or
independent establishment head, the executive department or independent
establishment chief of staff, or an officer appointed by the President
may proceed one business day after such official has transmitted a copy
of such approval to OPM.  Exemptions previously granted by OPM shall
remain in effect unless withdrawn by OPM.  For the purposes of this
memorandum, the term “executive department” means a department listed in
section 101 of title 5, United States Code, and “independent
establishment” has the meaning given that term in section 104(1) of
title 5, United States Code.

Contracting outside the Federal Government to circumvent the intent of
this memorandum is prohibited.

In carrying out this memorandum, the heads of agencies shall seek
efficient use of existing personnel and funds to improve public services
and the delivery of those services.  Accordingly, this memorandum does
not prohibit making staff reallocations or reassignments to meet the
highest priority needs, maintain essential services, and protect
national security, homeland security, and public safety. 

This memorandum does not restrict the nomination and appointment of
officials to positions requiring Presidential appointment or Senate
confirmation; the appointment of officials to non-career positions in
the Senior Executive Service or to Schedule A or C positions in the
Excepted Service; the appointment of officials through temporary
organization hiring authority pursuant to section 3161 of title 5,
United States Code; or the appointment of any other non-career employees
or officials if approved by the head of an agency appointed by the
President or another official appointed by the President.  Moreover, it
does not limit the hiring of personnel where such a limit would conflict
with applicable law. 

This memorandum does not abrogate any collective bargaining agreement in
effect on the date of this memorandum.

                              DONALD J. TRUMP
