---
date: '2025-07-30'
modified_time: 2025-07-30 16:04:21-04:00
published_time: 2025-07-30 16:00:49-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/07/suspending-duty-free-de-minimis-treatment-for-all-countries/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Suspending Duty-Free De Minimis Treatment for All Countries
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including the International
Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq.*) (IEEPA), the
National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq.*), section 604 of the
Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2483), and section 301 of title
3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered:

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section</span>
<span style="text-decoration: underline">1</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Background</span>.  In
Executive Order 14193 of February 1, 2025 (Imposing Duties To Address
the Flow of Illicit Drugs Across Our Northern Border), I declared a
national emergency regarding the unusual and extraordinary threat to the
safety and security of Americans, including the public health crisis
caused by fentanyl and other illicit drugs and the failure of Canada to
do more to arrest, seize, detain, or otherwise intercept drug
trafficking organizations, other drug and human traffickers, criminals
at large, and illicit drugs.  In that order, I determined that it was
necessary and appropriate to, among other things, suspend duty-free *de
minimis* treatment under 19 U.S.C. 1321(a)(2)(C) for articles described
in section 2(a) and section 2(b) of that order.  In Executive Order
14226 of March 2, 2025 (Amendment to Duties To Address the Flow of
Illicit Drugs Across Our Northern Border), I paused the suspension of
duty-free *de minimis* treatment on such articles until I received a
notification from the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary) that adequate
systems are in place to fully and expeditiously process and collect
duties for such articles that would otherwise be eligible for duty-free
*de minimis* treatment.

In Executive Order 14194 of February 1, 2025 (Imposing Duties To Address
the Situation at Our Southern Border), I declared a national emergency
regarding the unusual and extraordinary threat to the safety and
security of Americans, including the public health crisis caused by
fentanyl and other illicit drugs and the failure of Mexico to do more to
arrest, seize, detain, or otherwise intercept drug trafficking
organizations, other drug and human traffickers, criminals at large, and
illicit drugs.  In that order, I determined that it was necessary and
appropriate to, among other things, suspend duty-free *de minimis*
treatment under 19 U.S.C. 1321(a)(2)(C) for articles described in
section 2(a) of that order.  In Executive Order 14227 of March 2, 2025
(Amendment to Duties To Address the Situation at Our Southern Border), I
paused the suspension of duty-free *de minimis* treatment on such
articles until I received a notification from the Secretary that
adequate systems are in place to fully and expeditiously process and
collect duties for such articles that would otherwise be eligible for
duty-free *de minimis* treatment.

In Executive Order 14195 of February 1, 2025 (Imposing Duties To Address
the Synthetic Opioid Supply Chain in the People’s Republic of China), I
declared a national emergency regarding the unusual and extraordinary
threat from the failure of the Government of the People’s Republic of
China (PRC) to arrest, seize, detain, or otherwise intercept chemical
precursor suppliers, money launderers, other transnational criminal
organizations, criminals at large, and illicit drugs.  In that order, I
determined that it was necessary and appropriate to, among other things,
suspend duty-free *de minimis* treatment under 19 U.S.C. 1321(a)(2)(C)
for articles described in section 2(a) of that order.  In Executive
Order 14200 of February 5, 2025 (Amendment to Duties Addressing the
Synthetic Opioid Supply Chain in the People’s Republic of China), I
paused the suspension of duty-free *de minimis* treatment for articles
described in section 2(a) of Executive Order 14195 until I received a
notification from the Secretary that adequate systems are in place to
fully and expeditiously process and collect duties for such articles
that would otherwise be eligible for duty-free *de minimis* treatment.

I subsequently received notification from the Secretary that adequate
systems have been established to process and collect duties for articles
of the PRC and Hong Kong that would otherwise be eligible for duty-free
*de minimis* treatment, and in Executive Order 14256 of April 2, 2025
(Further Amendment to Duties Addressing the Synthetic Opioid Supply
Chain in the People’s Republic of China as Applied to Low-Value
Imports), I suspended duty-free *de minimis* treatment under 19 U.S.C.
1321(a)(2)(C) for products of the PRC and Hong Kong described in section
2(a) of Executive Order 14195, as amended by Executive Order 14228
(Further Amendment to Duties Addressing the Synthetic Opioid Supply
Chain in the People’s Republic of China).  In addition, I instructed the
Secretary to submit a report regarding the impact of Executive Order
14256 on American industries, consumers, and supply chains and to make
recommendations for further action as he deems necessary.

In Executive Order 14257 of April 2, 2025 (Regulating Imports With a
Reciprocal Tariff To Rectify Trade Practices That Contribute to Large
and Persistent Annual United States Goods Trade Deficits), I declared a
national emergency with respect to underlying conditions indicated by
the large and persistent annual U.S. goods trade deficits.  I also
provided that duty-free *de minimis* treatment under 19 U.S.C.
1321(a)(2)(C) would remain available for products described in section
3(a) of that order until I received a notification by the Secretary that
adequate systems are in place to fully and expeditiously process and
collect duties applicable for articles otherwise eligible for duty-free
*de minimis* treatment.

The Secretary has notified me that adequate systems are now in place to
fully and expeditiously process and collect duties for articles
otherwise eligible for duty-free *de minimis* treatment on a global
basis, including for products described in section 2(a) and section 2(b)
of Executive Order 14193, section 2(a) of Executive Order 14194, and
section 3(a) of Executive Order 14257.

In my judgment, I determine that it is still necessary and appropriate
to suspend duty-free *de minimis* treatment under 19 U.S.C.
1321(a)(2)(C) in the manner and for the articles described below to deal
with the unusual and extraordinary threats, which have their source in
whole or substantial part outside the United States, to the national
security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States. 

I determine that it is necessary and appropriate to suspend duty-free
*de minimis* treatment under 19 U.S.C. 1321(a)(2)(C) for certain
Canadian goods to deal with the emergency declared in Executive Order
14193, as amended.  In my judgment, this suspension is necessary and
appropriate to ensure that the tariffs imposed by Executive Order 14193,
as amended, are effective in addressing the emergency declared in
Executive Order 14193 and that the purpose of this action and other
actions to address the emergency declared in Executive Order 14193 is
not undermined.  For example, many shippers go to great lengths to evade
law enforcement and hide illicit substances in imports that go through
international commerce.  These shippers conceal the true contents of
shipments sent to the United States through deceptive shipping
practices.  Some of the techniques employed by these shippers to conceal
the true contents of the shipments, the identity of the distributors,
and the country of origin of the imports include the use of re-shippers
in the United States, false invoices, fraudulent postage, and deceptive
packaging.  The risks of evasion, deception, and illicit-drug
importation are particularly high for low-value articles that have been
eligible for duty-free *de minimis* treatment.

Independently, I determine that it is necessary and appropriate to
suspend duty-free *de minimis* treatment under 19 U.S.C. 1321(a)(2)(C)
for certain Mexican goods to deal with the emergency declared in
Executive Order 14194, as amended.  In my judgment, and for
substantially similar reasons as above, this suspension is necessary and
appropriate to ensure that the tariffs imposed by Executive Order 14194,
as amended, are effective in addressing the emergency declared in
Executive Order 14194 and that the purpose of this action and other
actions to address the emergency declared in Executive Order 14194 is
not undermined.

Independently, and after considering information newly provided by the
Secretary, among other things, I determine that it is still necessary
and appropriate to continue to suspend duty-free *de minimis* treatment
under 19 U.S.C. 1321(a)(2)(C) for certain goods of the PRC and Hong Kong
to deal with the emergency declared in Executive Order 14195, as
amended.  In my judgment, and for substantially similar reasons as
above, this suspension is still necessary and appropriate to ensure that
the tariffs imposed by Executive Order 14195, as amended, are effective
in addressing the emergency declared in Executive Order 14195 and that
the purpose of this action and other actions to address the emergency
declared in Executive Order 14195 is not undermined.

Also independently, I determine that it is necessary and appropriate to
suspend duty-free *de minimis* treatment under 19 U.S.C. 1321(a)(2)(C)
on a global basis to deal with the emergency declared in Executive Order
14257, as amended.  In my judgment, this suspension is necessary and
appropriate to ensure that the tariffs imposed by Executive Order 14257,
as amended, are not evaded and are effective in addressing the emergency
declared in Executive Order 14257 and that the purpose of this action
and other actions to address the emergency declared in Executive Order
14257 is not undermined.

Each of my determinations to suspend or continue to suspend duty-free
*de minimis* treatment under 19 U.S.C. 1321(a)(2)(C) are independent
from the other.  And each determination is made only for the purpose to
deal with the respective emergency and not for the purpose of dealing
with another emergency.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">2</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Suspension of Duty-Free *de
minimis* Treatment</span>.  (a)  The duty-free *de minimis* exemption
provided under 19 U.S.C. 1321(a)(2)(C) shall no longer apply to any
shipment of articles not covered by 50 U.S.C. 1702(b), regardless of
value, country of origin, mode of transportation, or method of entry.
 Accordingly, all such shipments, except those sent through the
international postal network, shall be subject to all applicable duties,
taxes, fees, exactions, and charges.  International postal shipments not
covered by 50 U.S.C. 1702(b) shall be subject to the duty rates
described in section 3 of this order.  Entry for all shipments that —
prior to the effective date of this order — qualified for the *de
minimis* exemption, except for shipments sent through the international
postal network, shall be filed using an appropriate entry type in the
Automated Commercial Environment (ACE) by a party qualified to make such
entry.

(b)  Shipments sent through the international postal network that would
otherwise qualify for the *de minimis* exemption under 19 U.S.C.
1321(a)(2)(C) shall pass free of any duties except those specified in
section 3 of this order, and without the preparation of an entry by U.S.
Customs and Border Protection (CBP), until such time as CBP establishes
a new entry process and publishes that process in the *Federal
Register*.  

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">3</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Duty Rates for International
Postal Shipments</span>.  (a)  Transportation carriers delivering
shipments to the United States through the international postal network,
or other parties if qualified in lieu of such transportation carriers,
must collect and remit duties to CBP using the methodology described in
either subsection (b) or (c) of this section.  Each transportation
carrier shall apply the same methodology across all covered shipments
during any given period but may change its methodology no more than once
per calendar month, or on another schedule determined to be appropriate
by CBP, upon providing at least 24 hours’ notice to CBP.

(b)  A duty equal to the effective IEEPA tariff rate applicable to the
country of origin of the product shall be assessed on the value of each
dutiable postal item (package) containing goods entered for consumption.

(c)  A specific duty shall be assessed on each package containing goods
entered for consumption, based on the effective IEEPA tariff rate
applicable to the country of origin of the product as follows:

\(i\)    Countries with an effective IEEPA tariff rate of less than 16
percent:  $80 per item;

\(ii\)   Countries with an effective IEEPA tariff rate between 16 and 25
percent (inclusive):  $160 per item; and

(iii)  Countries with an effective IEEPA rate above 25 percent:  $200
per item.

(d)  For all international postal shipments subject to the methodologies
described in subsections (b) and (c) of this section, the country of
origin of the article must be declared to CBP.

\(e\)  The specific duty methodology provided for in subsection (c) of
this section shall be available for transportation carriers to select
for a period of 6 months from the effective date of this order.  After
such time all shipments to the United States through the international
postal network must comply with the *ad valorem* duty methodology in
subsection (b) of this section.

\(f\)  Shipments sent through the international postal network that are
subject to antidumping and countervailing duties or a quota must
continue to be entered under an appropriate entry type in ACE to the
extent required by all applicable regulations.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">4</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Implementation</span>.  (a) 
The requirements and procedures established by sections 2 and 3 of this
order shall be effective with respect to goods entered for consumption,
or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m.
eastern daylight time on August 29, 2025.

(b)  The provisions of this order supersede section 2 of Executive Order
14256, as amended, with respect to goods entered for consumption, or
withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern
daylight time on August 29, 2025.

(c)  Consistent with applicable law, the Secretary of Homeland Security
is directed and authorized to take all necessary actions to implement
and effectuate this order — including through temporary suspension or
amendment of regulations or through notices in the *Federal Register*
and by adopting rules, regulations, or guidance — and to employ all
powers granted to the President by IEEPA as may be necessary to
implement and effectuate this order.  The Secretary of Homeland
Security, in consultation with the United States International Trade
Commission (ITC), shall determine whether modifications to the
Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States are necessary to
effectuate this order and may make such modifications through notice in
the *Federal Register*.  The Secretary of Homeland Security shall
consult with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, the
Attorney General, the Secretary of Commerce, the United States Trade
Representative, the ITC, and the Postmaster General, where appropriate. 
The Secretary of Homeland Security may, consistent with applicable law,
redelegate any of these functions within the Department of Homeland
Security.  All executive departments and agencies shall take all
appropriate measures within their authority to implement this order.

(d)  To ensure remittance of duties in accordance with this order, and
to assure compliance with other legal requirements, CBP is authorized to
require a basic importation and entry bond as described in 19 C.F.R.
113.62 for informal entries valued at or less than $2,500.  Any carrier
that transports international postal shipments to the United States, by
any mode of transportation, must have an international carrier bond as
described in 19 C.F.R. 113.64 to ensure payment of the duties described
in section 3 of this order.  CBP is authorized to ensure that the
international carrier bonds required by this subsection are sufficient
to account for the duties described in section 3 of this order.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">5</span>. 
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Definition</span>.  As used in
this order, the term “effective IEEPA tariff rate” means the total duty
rate imposed on articles to address a national emergency declared under
IEEPA, including Executive Order 14257, as amended; Executive Order
14193; as amended, Executive Order 14194, as amended; and Executive
Order 14195, as amended, in accordance with the stacking rules set out
in Executive Order 14289 of April 29, 2025 (Addressing Certain Tariffs
on Imported Articles), and any subsequent order or proclamation
addressing stacking or the applicability of tariffs imposed under IEEPA.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">6</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Severability</span>.  (a)  If
any provision of this order or the application of any provision of this
order to any individual or circumstance is held to be invalid, the
remainder of this order and the application of its provisions to any
other individuals or circumstances shall not be affected.

(b)(i)  If the additional duties imposed under Executive Order 14193, as
amended, Executive Order 14194, as amended, Executive Order 14195, as
amended, or Executive Order 14257, as amended, are held to be invalid,
the suspension of, or continued suspension of, duty-free *de minimis*
treatment, as detailed in this order, shall not be affected.  Duty-free
*de minimis* treatment would still be suspended, whether pursuant to my
authority under 50 U.S.C. 1702(a)(1)(B) to “regulate . . . importation”
or my authority under that provision to “nullify” or “void” “exercising
any right . . . or privilege with respect to . . . any property,” in the
way and to the extent explained in this order, to deal with the
emergencies declared in Executive Order 14193, as amended, Executive
Order 14194, as amended, Executive Order 14195, as amended, or Executive
Order 14257, as amended.  Such suspensions are still necessary and
appropriate to address the unusual and extraordinary threats to the
national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States.
 Each determination to suspend or continue to suspend duty-free *de
minimis* treatment is still independent from the other determination and
made only with the purpose to deal with the respective emergency and not
for the purpose of dealing with another emergency.  CBP is directed and
authorized to take all necessary actions consistent with applicable law
to implement and effectuate this order in line with this section
‑- including through temporary suspension or amendment of regulations or
through notices in the *Federal Register* and by adopting rules,
regulations, or guidance — and to employ all powers granted to the
President by IEEPA as may be necessary to implement and effectuate this
order in line with this section.

\(ii\)  Duty-free *de minimis* treatment under 19 U.S.C. 1321(a)(2)(C)
shall remain available for postal shipments until notification by the
Secretary to the President that adequate systems are in place to fully
and expeditiously process and collect duties applicable for postal
shipments otherwise eligible for duty-free *de minimis* treatment.
 After such notification, duty-free *de minimis* treatment under 19
U.S.C. 1321(a)(2)(C) shall not be available for postal shipments.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span style="text-decoration: underline">7</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">General Provisions</span>.
 (a)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise
affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive

department or agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d)  The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by the
Department of Homeland Security.

                             DONALD J. TRUMP

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    July 30, 2025.
