---
date: '2024-10-24'
published_time: 2024-10-24 19:42:17-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/24/2022-and-2023-national-medal-of-arts-and-national-humanities-medal-citations/
tags: statements-releases
title: "2022 and 2023 National Medal of Arts and National Humanities Medal\_Citations"
---
 
On Monday, October 21<sup>st</sup>, President Biden held an East Room
ceremony at the White House to present the 2022 and 2023 *National
Medals of Arts* and the 2022 and 2023 *National Humanities Medals*.

The *National Medal of Arts* is the highest award given to artists, arts
patrons, and groups by the United States Government and honors exemplary
individuals and organizations that have advanced the arts in America and
offered inspiration to others through their distinguished achievement,
support, or patronage. The *National Humanities Medal* honors
individuals or groups whose work has deepened the nation’s understanding
of the humanities and broadened our citizens’ engagement with history,
literature, languages, philosophy, and other humanities subjects.

Below are the citations presented to the 2022 and 2023 medal recipients:

**<u>National Medal of Arts – Class of 2022</u>**

**Ruth Asawa *(Posthumously)***

For groundbreaking modernism and championing art for everyone. From a
family of Japanese immigrants separated in incarceration camps, Ruth
Asawa emerged to become a renowned educator and artist, bringing her
distinctive wire sculptures to the Nation’s museums, homes, and
classrooms, and leaving a legacy as powerful and profound as her
portfolio.

**Randy A. Batista**

For focusing the lens on human nature. Born in Tampa, Florida, to
Italian and Cuban immigrants and raised on both sides of the Straits of
Florida, Randy Batista is known as the people’s photographer. With the
camera as his sixth sense of deep empathy, he captures people’s pain and
challenges us to respect their inherent dignity.

**Clyde Butcher**

For focusing the lens on Mother Nature. From humble beginnings as a
self-taught photographer, Clyde Butcher is considered America’s most
acclaimed landscape photographer today. From the Rocky Mountains to the
Everglades, and countless pristine places in between, his images inspire
and challenge us to respect and defend our natural wonders.

**Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum**

For cataloging one of the Nation’s great homegrown art forms. As the
world’s largest repository of country music history, in the country
music capital of Nashville, Tennessee, the Country Music Hall of Fame
and Museum preserves history, honors giants of the genre, and inspires
future generations to write their own songs about the American story.

**Melissa “Missy” Elliott**

For shattering glass ceilings with timeless beats. From a child singing
in the church choir to becoming a best-selling female rapper and
pioneering hip-hop icon, Missy Elliott’s genre-defying music and rhymes
have elevated an industry into a global powerhouse and inspired
generations to push the sound and movement of America.

**Leonardo “Flaco” Jiménez**

For harnessing heritage to enrich American music. The son of a musical
family in Texas, Flaco Jiménez mastered the accordion and Spanglish
lyrics as a trailblazer of Conjunto. Blending Norteño, Tex Mex, and
Tejano music with the Blues, Rock n’ Roll, and Pop Music, he sings the
soul of America’s Southwest.

**Eva Longoria**

For recognizing the strength of our diversity and the full talents of
our Nation. Actor, producer, director, and proud Mexican American, Eva
Longoria has broken barriers on screen and uses her power to lift up
Latino voices all across American life — challenging stereotypes and
instilling Latino pride in our Nation.

**Idina Menzel**

For magical songs that lift our spirits and stir our souls. From
Broadway stages to movie screens, Idina Menzel’s powerful voice has sold
out shows, topped Billboard charts, and above all, empowered millions of
Americans of all ages and backgrounds to be strong, use their voice, and
lead with their hearts.

**Herbert I. Ohta**

For redefining ukulele music as a deeply moving American sound. The
Hawaiian son of Japanese immigrants, Herb Ohta learned his first chords
as a child and played through his service as a United States Marine. A
musical innovator and mentor, he has bridged cultures and genres,
spreading the peace and hope of aloha spirit.

**Bruce Sagan**

For seeking the truth as a true public citizen. A Chicago, Illinois,
journalism legend and lifelong supporter of the performing arts, Bruce
Sagan’s seven decades of leadership and stewardship in building,
protecting, and uplifting local newspapers, voices, artists, and dancers
have inspired his beloved city and enriched the tapestry of American
life and culture.

**Carrie Mae Weems**

For capturing the resilience and dignity of Black America and our deeper
humanity.

Over three decades at the forefront of American expression, Carrie Mae
Weems has honed her craft as a renowned artist whose photography, film,
video, and art confront hard truths about power and prejudice, while
celebrating the indomitable human spirit.

**<u>National Medal of Arts – Class of 2023</u>**

**Mark Bradford**

For revealing the full history of the Nation through groundbreaking art.
Inspired by the diverse cultures of Southern California, Mark Bradford’s
paper-on-canvas storytelling reveals the interwoven hopes, sorrows, and
joys of communities of color, with each layer challenging convention,
shining light, and reminding us all of the full potential of America.

**Ken Burns**

For documenting the hope and history of our Nation. From his home in
rural New Hampshire and deep from his imagination, Ken Burns´ pioneering
documentaries of diverse people, places, and histories have shaped our
understanding of the American experience, and defined him as one of the
most respected filmmakers of our time.

**Bruce Cohen**

For championing the arts to express our highest ideals of freedom,
justice, and equality.

An entertainment industry icon ahead of his time, Bruce Cohen has
produced our biggest moments on screen and stage by lifting up people
and stories that need to be seen and heard, making real the promise of
America for all Americans.

**Alex Katz**

For conjuring an enduring portrait of America. Born in Brooklyn, New
York, to Russian immigrants, Alex Katz is among the most prolific and
distinctive artists in our history. With a ferocious work ethic and
visionary style, he continues to condense the complexities of everyday
life into iconic faces and landscapes that reveal the essence of who we
are as Americans.

**Jo Carole Lauder**

For devoted support of the arts, culture, and civic causes in America. A
renowned philanthropist leading an array of causes — from supporting the
White House Historical Association to refurbishing and preserving United
States embassies abroad to inspiring participation in Jewish life
worldwide —Jo Carole Lauder channels her creative talents to beautify
the spirit of our Nation.

**Spike Lee**

For revolutionizing American cinema and culture. One of the most
thought-provoking filmmakers of our time, Spike Lee honors his Brooklyn,
New York, roots by daring to capture the depth of the Black experience
and lifting up Black culture on the world stage through vibrant films
and courtside pride that shapes our Nation’s collective conscience.

**Queen Latifah**

For leading the Nation as a champion of women’s empowerment. A natural
storyteller and one of the first ladies of hip-hop, Queen Latifah breaks
the mold for women in entertainment — rapping about overcoming loss and
abuse of power to exuding cool and confidence as a critically-acclaimed
actor and activist, showing how infinite love is the only hope for
unity.

**Selena Quintanilla *(Posthumously)***

For cementing Tejano music into the heart of the Nation. The youngest of
the Quintanilla music family, Selena brought Latin music to the masses
as the Queen of Tejano music and one of the most celebrated entertainers
in our history. Her young life was tragically cut short, but her voice
and spirit endure for the ages.

**Steven Spielberg**

For filmmaking that entertains, educates, and inspires. Growing up moved
by the power of films, Steven Spielberg is considered one of the
greatest filmmakers ever, using his gift of storytelling to stretch our
imaginations, confront the horrors of history, and inspire us to be the
characters of our Nation and the world’s future — full of courage,
honor, and dignity.

**<u>National Humanities Medal – Class of 2022</u>**

**Wallis Annenberg**

For transforming philanthropy in our Nation. The daughter of a
groundbreaking media family in Los Angeles, California, Wallis Annenberg
is a visionary giver and innovator who has donated to thousands of
organizations in the arts, education, environment, medical research,
social justice, and more — transforming countless lives by advancing,
healing, and inspiring communities across America.

**Appalshop**

For amplifying the voices of Appalachia. Located in Kentucky’s
Appalachian Mountains for 50 years, Appalshop is home to the world’s
largest collection of creative work on Appalachia — a hub for new
generations of artists, filmmakers, musicians, and playwrights to share
their stories of pride and promise of their American roots.

**Joy Harjo**

For shining the light on the sacred traditions of Native American
storytelling. A member of the Muscogee Nation in Oklahoma, and the first
Native American Poet Laureate of the United States, Joy Harjo’s
distinguished poetry and award-winning music about art, justice, and
healing honors ancestral generations and empowers those that follow.

**Robin Harris**

For educating our youngest students to be dreamers and doers of our
Nation. As an elementary school teacher and trailblazing principal in
Massachusetts, Robin Harris is redefining K-12 education to empower
students, embrace parents, and extend learning and leadership beyond the
walls of the classroom and into the free spirit of the mind.

**Juan Felipe Herrera**

For poeticism that captures America’s imagination. The son of California
farm workers, Juan Felipe Herrera takes readers across countries and
cultures, genres, and disciplines as a towering figure in Chicano poetry
and the first Latino Poet Laureate of the United States, using the power
of his pen to give life to our identities and common bonds.

**Robert Martin**

For dedicating his career to the academic achievement of Native American
students. A member of the Cherokee Nation of Oklahoma, Dr. Robert Martin
has led Tribal colleges and launched Indian Studies programs at
institutions of higher learning across the country to strengthen Tribal
self-determination and empower future Native American leaders.

**Jon Meacham**

For drawing wisdom from history to shape the future of America. A proud
son of Tennessee and celebrated historian and biographer, Jon Meacham
chronicles the journey of America with an unmatched mix of historical
context, parables from Scripture, and unyielding faith in the goodness
of the American people that makes us a truly great Nation.

**Ruth J. Simmons**

For pioneering equity in our Nation’s higher education system. One of
twelve children born into a sharecropper family in Texas, Dr. Ruth
Simmons blazed trails in academia as a distinguished professor of
literature and the first African American woman president of an Ivy
League institution—showing how an education makes one free and fearless.

**Pauline Yu**

For a lifetime of advocacy for the humanities in America. The daughter
of Chinese immigrants raised in Rochester, New York, Dr. Pauline Yu is a
respected scholar of Chinese poetry and renowned advocate for the
humanities, who has deepened cross-cultural understanding through
language and literature, and advanced core democratic values of truth,
reason, and free inquiry.

**<u>National Humanities Medal – Class of 2023</u>**

**Anthony Bourdain *(Posthumously)***

For making food a gateway to understanding the world and one another. A
beloved chef, writer, and social commentator, Anthony Bourdain is
remembered across the globe for his empathy, openness, and
humor—approaching every table with equal reverence for the people it
convened, and embodying the best of American curiosity and exploration.

**LeVar Burton**

For imagining a more optimistic and enlightened America for everyone. A
celebrated actor, advocate, and storyteller, LeVar Burton confronted the
trauma of history, took us to the depths of space, and transformed
literacy in America by sharing the gift of reading with generations of
children, unlocking our imaginations and spirit of discovery.

**Roz Chast**

For healing a Nation with humor and observation. One of the most
prolific cartoonists of our time, Roz Chast has wielded pen and
watercolor for over 45 years to make ordinary things extraordinary,
blaze a trail for women in her field, and define an era of American wit
and wisdom.

**Nicolás Kanellos**

For amplifying Hispanic voices in America’s past, present, and future.
Raised between Puerto Rico and Jersey City, New Jersey, Nicolás Kanellos
channeled a childhood love for Spanish literature into a distinguished
literary career in Houston, Texas, leading the Nation’s oldest and
largest Hispanic publishing house and elevating the diversity of
American literature.

**Robin Wall Kimmerer**

For sharing Indigenous wisdom in America’s natural sciences. A citizen
of Potawatomi Nation and a renowned scientist and writer, Robin Wall
Kimmerer has transformed our understanding of environmental science by
incorporating Indigenous knowledge into college curriculum and critical
efforts to heal a climate in crisis, offering new hope for generations
to come.

**Mellon Foundation**

For charting an unparalleled course for the arts and humanities in
America. For over 50 years, the Mellon Foundation has been the trusted
benefactor for thousands of people and organizations harnessing the
power of ideas and imagination to advance social justice and freedom,
and defend the arts as essential to American democracy.

**Dawn Porter**

For documenting the good, the bad, and the truth of our Nation.
Beginning her career as a lawyer, Dawn Porter pursued filmmaking to
showcase the vibrancy of Black culture and history. By chronicling the
lives of America’s everyday heroes and legendary leaders, her
award-winning documentaries remind us that the work of perfecting our
Union is essential and never-ending.

**Aaron Sorkin**

For trademark storytelling in America. Drawn to theatre at a young age,
Aaron Sorkin found his calling as a groundbreaking writer and creator,
scripting and show-running iconic films and television shows that
inspired an entire generation to believe in the possibilities of our
Nation and walk, talk, and answer “what’s next?”

**Darren Walker**

For showing us hope is the oxygen of democracy. With boundless passion
and enduring purpose, Darren Walker harnesses empathy from his modest
upbringing in the South to advance the most ambitious philanthropic
goals of our Nation, as a visionary leader whose commitment to improving
the human condition has fortified justice and good governance in America
and around the world.

**Rosita Worl**

For embodying the resilient community spirit of Native American culture.
As a child in Alaska, Dr. Rosita Worl survived the brutalities of
Federal Indian boarding school that took her from her family and Nation.
As an anthropologist and advocate, she has since spent her life pushing
to right wrongs and build a new era of understanding and healing.

**<u>Additional information</u>**

**National Endowment for the Arts**

The National Endowment for the Arts (NEA), established by Congress in
1965, is an independent Federal agency that is the largest public funder
of the arts and arts education in communities nationwide and a catalyst
of public and private support for the arts. The NEA’s mission is based
on an abiding conviction that the arts play an integral role in our
national life and public discourse. The arts strengthen and promote the
well-being and resilience of people and communities. By advancing
equitable opportunities for arts participation and practice, the NEA
fosters and sustains an environment in which the arts belong to and
benefit everyone in the United States.

**National Endowment for the Humanities**

Created in 1965 as an independent Federal agency, the National Endowment
for the Humanities (NEH) supports learning in history, literature,
philosophy, and other humanities subjects by funding selected,
peer-reviewed proposals from around the Nation that support research in
the humanities, foster education, nurture humanities infrastructure, and
expand the reach of the humanities. Since 1965, NEH has awarded over six
billion dollars to cultural institutions, individual scholars, and
communities throughout the United States. The Endowment serves and
strengthens the country by bringing high-quality historical and cultural
experiences to large and diverse audiences in all 50 States, the
District of Columbia, and five territories; providing opportunities for
lifelong learning, expanding access to cultural and educational
resources, and preserving the human stories that connect all Americans.

**The President’s Committee on the Arts and the Humanities**

The President’s Committee on the Arts and the Humanities (PCAH) was
founded in 1982 by Executive Order to advise the President on cultural
policy. The First Lady has historically served as Honorary Chair of the
Committee, which is composed of members appointed by the President.
Private committee members include prominent artists, scholars, and
philanthropists who have demonstrated a serious commitment to the arts
and humanities. Public members represent the heads of key Federal
agencies with a role in culture, including the Chairs of the National
Endowments for the Arts and the Humanities, the Librarian of Congress,
the Secretary of the Smithsonian, and the Director of the Institute of
Museum and Library Services among others. The PCAH facilitates
public-private partnerships, promotes interagency cooperation, and
proposes programs that enhance arts, humanities, museums, and library
services across the country. Over the past 40 years, PCAH has catalyzed
Federal programs and played a vital role in the advancement of arts and
humanities education, cultural diplomacy, and the creative economy.

\###
