---
date: '2024-10-25'
modified_time: 2024-10-25 14:53:41-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-25 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/25/joint-readout-of-the-trilateral-national-security-advisors-meeting-between-the-united-states-the-republic-of-korea-and-japan/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Joint Readout of the Trilateral National Security Advisors meeting between\
  \ the United\_States, the Republic of Korea and\_Japan"
---
 
On Friday, October 25, National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan, Republic
of Korea National Security Advisor Shin Wonsik, and Japanese National
Security Advisor Akiba Takeo met in Washington, D.C., for the second
trilateral National Security Advisors meeting since their leaders met at
Camp David in August 2023 and the fifth of the Biden Administration. 
The three National Security Advisors reaffirmed their commitment to
address common regional and global challenges and promote security and
prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region and beyond.  
   
In particular, National Security Advisors Sullivan, Shin, and Akiba
expressed grave concern over troop deployments by the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK) to Russia, potentially for use on the
battlefield against Ukraine. This deployment is the latest in a series
of concerning indicators of deepening military cooperation between the
DPRK and Russia, including arms and ballistic missile transfers in
direct violation of United Nations Security Council (UNSC) resolutions.
The National Security Advisors call on Russia and the DPRK to cease
these actions that only serve to expand the security implications of
Russia’s brutal and illegal war beyond Europe and into the Indo-Pacific.
The National Security Advisors reiterated the firm commitment of the
United States, the Republic of Korea, and Japan to help Ukraine defend
itself, and they committed to coordinate support for Ukraine’s energy
infrastructure, recovery and reconstruction, and efforts to hold Russia
accountable for its actions.

Furthermore, the National Security Advisors reviewed progress on a wide
range of trilateral initiatives announced in the Spirit of Camp David
statement.  They welcomed several notable achievements over the past
year, including the operationalization of a trilateral missile warning
data sharing mechanism, the establishment of a cutting-edge trilateral
quantum workforce training program, and the launch of the first
multi-domain trilateral exercise—FREEDOM EDGE—and a multiyear exercise
plan. They also highlighted numerous high-level trilateral dialogues
this year, including the first trilateral commerce and industry
ministerial meeting, the first trilateral defense ministers meeting in
Tokyo, and two trilateral foreign minister and two vice foreign minister
meetings.

The three National Security Advisors discussed next steps on trilateral
cooperation, including efforts to strengthen technology cooperation and
economic security such as critical minerals supply chains and promoting
trusted telecommunications networks across the Indo-Pacific region,
improve maritime security coordination, expand cyber security
cooperation and advance closer trilateral ties between the U.S., Korean,
and Japanese business communities.

The National Security Advisors condemned the DPRK’s illicit arms
transfers, malicious cyber activities, and dispatch of workers abroad to
fund its unlawful weapons of mass destruction and ballistic missile
programs, and committed to continue trilateral efforts focused on
combatting them. They welcomed the recent launch of the Multilateral
Sanctions Monitoring Team (MSMT) by their respective Vice Foreign
Ministers and likeminded partners in Seoul last week, which will
reinstate a comprehensive and effective monitoring and reporting
mechanism for UN sanctions on the DPRK. They acknowledged their support
for President Yoon’s vision of a free, peaceful, and prosperous Korean
Peninsula and reiterated their support for a unified Peninsula that is
free and at peace.

The National Security Advisors strongly opposed any unilateral attempts
to change the status quo by force or coercion in the waters of the
Indo-Pacific and underscored their commitment to the global maritime
order based on international law as reflected in the United Nations
Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), including freedom of
navigation and overflight. They reaffirmed the importance of maintaining
peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait and called for the peaceful
resolution of cross-Strait issues. The National Security Advisors also
agreed to increase coordination of efforts to combat pervasive threats
in the cyber domain. They expressed concern over the deteriorating
situation in the Middle East and called on all parties to de-escalate
tensions and work toward a sustainable ceasefire. National Security
Advisor Sullivan, National Security Advisor Shin, and National Security
Advisor Akiba resolved to institutionalize efforts to build a new era of
trilateral partnership that will be a force for peace and stability in
the Indo-Pacific and beyond for years to come. They committed to work
toward holding another Trilateral Leaders’ Summit at the earliest
opportunity.  

\###
