---
date: '2024-10-23'
modified_time: 2024-10-23 15:34:41-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-23 09:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/23/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-110-million-in-awards-from-arpa-hs-sprint-for-womens-health-to-accelerate-new-discoveries-and-innovation/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces $110 Million in Awards\
  \ from ARPA-H\u2019s Sprint for Women\u2019s Health to Accelerate New Discoveries\
  \ and\_Innovation"
---
 
President Biden and First Lady Jill Biden created the White House
Initiative on Women’s Health Research to fundamentally change how our
nation approaches and funds women’s health research. Despite making up
more than half the population, women have historically been understudied
and underrepresented in health research. Since its launch in November
2023, the Initiative has made significant investments to close gaps in
research on women’s health—from menopause-related conditions to
endometriosis to auto-immune conditions to cardiovascular disease—so
that we can improve prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of diseases and
conditions that affect women uniquely, disproportionately, and
differently.

Today in Las Vegas, Nevada, the First Lady will announce $110 million in
[awards from the Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health
(ARPA-H)](https://arpa-h.gov/news-and-events/sprint-womens-health-awards-aim-close-gaps-womens-health-research)
to accelerate transformative research and development in women’s health.
President Biden established ARPA-H, a new research and development
funding agency, with bipartisan Congressional support to generate
high-impact biomedical and health breakthroughs. In February 2024, the
First Lady launched [ARPA-H’s Sprint for Women’s
Health](https://arpa-h.gov/engage-and-transition/sprint), the first
major deliverable of the White House Initiative on Women’s Health
Research. Over the last 10 months, ARPA-H received an unprecedented
response to this call for solutions for women’s health, with over 1,700
submissions across 45 states and D.C. as well as 34 countries.

In less than a year, the White House Initiative on Women’s Health
Research has galvanized nearly a billion dollars in funding for women’s
health research, including the First Lady’s [recent
announcement](https://www.defense.gov/News/Releases/Release/Article/3913913/dod-commits-500-million-for-womens-health-research-supports-better-care-for-all/)
of $500 million from the U.S. Department of Defense and $200 million
from the National Institutes of Health. Additionally, in his State of
the Union address, President Biden [called
on](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/06/fact-sheet-president-biden-takes-new-steps-to-lower-prescription-drug-and-health-care-costs-expand-access-to-health-care-and-protect-consumers/)
Congress to make a bold, transformative investment of $12 billion in new
funding for women’s health research. President Biden also signed a
first-of-its-kind [Executive Order on Advancing Women’s Health Research
and
Innovation](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/18/fact-sheet-president-biden-issues-executive-order-and-announces-new-actions-to-advance-womens-health-research-and-innovation/),
directing the most comprehensive set of executive actions ever taken to
expand and improve research on women’s health. Through the
[Initiative](https://www.whitehouse.gov/womenshealthresearch/), federal
agencies have committed to taking over 100 actions to prioritize
investments in women’s health research and integrate women’s health
across the federal research portfolio.

**Accelerating Progress in Women’s Health Research**

Today’s ARPA-H awardees will spur innovation and advance high-impact,
novel approaches to diseases and conditions that affect women uniquely,
disproportionately, and differently. Today’s awardees are working across
a range of women’s health issues—from pursuing new ways to prevent,
detect, and treat cardiovascular conditions, ovarian cancer,
endometriosis, neurological diseases, and pain in women to developing
next-generation approaches to menopause, migraines, obstetrics, and
gynecological care.

One-quarter of today’s awardees are pursuing “launchpad” projects,
meaning those projects have the potential for commercialization within
two years. The remaining awardees are pursuing “spark” projects that are
in the early stage of research. ARPA-H’s support for these projects will
help ensure that women and their health care providers can soon benefit
from the research investments being made today.

The $110 million in ARPA-H awards announced today across 23 teams fund
bold and transformative women’s health solutions, including:

-   Aspira Women’s Health Inc. of Shelton, Connecticut will receive $10
    million to create a first-of-its-kind definitive, non-invasive blood
    test to diagnose endometriosis. Endometriosis is a debilitating
    condition that affects about 1 in 10 women and often takes years and
    surgery to be diagnosed. Aspira Women’s Health Inc. aims to reduce
    the time it takes to diagnose endometriosis from years to days while
    helping health care providers identify the most appropriate
    treatment option for each woman’s needs.

<!-- -->

-   Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Inc. of Boston, Massachusetts
    will receive $9.1 million to improve our ability to assess brain
    disorders in women through a novel non-invasive MRI imaging
    biomarker. Even though conditions such as Alzheimer’s disease,
    dementia, and multiple sclerosis disproportionately affect women,
    there are significant gaps in our knowledge about how to prevent,
    detect, and treat these conditions in women. By developing a novel
    and non-invasive MRI technology to measure a specific brain protein,
    Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Inc. will advance our
    understanding of, and improve treatments for, brain disorders in
    women.

<!-- -->

-   Children’s Research Institute of Washington, DC—through its research
    arm on families—will receive $8.1 million to develop a novel way to
    assess chronic pain in women. Women experience pain differently than
    men which can lead health care providers to underestimate and
    undertreat this pain, resulting in prolonged suffering, delayed
    diagnosis and treatment, and a reluctance to seek medical care.
    Despite this need, there is currently no objective, quantitative
    indicator of chronic pain in women. Children’s Research Institute
    aims to fill this gap by studying how a woman’s eyes react to
    external stimulation, which is directly related to how she perceives
    pain.

<!-- -->

-   Gravidas Diagnostics, Inc. of Los Angeles, California will receive
    $3 million to create a first-of-its-kind at-home test to
    revolutionize our ability to detect early preeclampsia, a leading
    cause of maternal mortality and morbidity. By making it easier to
    identify preeclampsia quickly, Gravidas Diagnostics Inc.’s new
    low-cost fingerstick test would help women and their doctors get the
    information they need sooner to reduce pregnancy-related
    complications and improve maternal and child health.

<!-- -->

-   The University of Iowa will receive $10 million to revolutionize the
    treatment for late-stage and metastatic ovarian cancer by using
    personalized nanoparticles to boost a woman’s immune system. More
    than half of women with ovarian cancer are diagnosed only after the
    cancer has metastasized, making it harder to treat and reducing
    survival rates. Leveraging nanotechnology, the University of Iowa
    will engineer personalized nanoparticles to use a woman’s own immune
    system to attack multiple cancers and help more women get the
    treatment they need to live longer.

<!-- -->

-   The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (UNC-Chapel Hill)
    will receive $3 million to improve our ability to treat migraines in
    women. Women are more likely than men to suffer from migraines,
    which can be extremely debilitating. UNC-Chapel Hill will study the
    lymphatic system to better understand why women are more susceptible
    to migraines than men—with the goal of treating migraines with new
    drugs specifically targeting the brain lymphatics and developing
    personalized treatments to reduce women’s debilitating migraines.

Additional information and a full list of awardees is available
[here](https://arpa-h.gov/engage-and-transition/sprint).

\###
