---
date: '2024-10-03'
published_time: 2024-10-03 17:25:46-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/03/white-house-appoints-2024-2025-class-of-white-house-fellows/
tags: statements-releases
title: "White\_House Appoints 2024-2025 Class of White\_House\_Fellows"
---
 
The President’s Commission on White House Fellows is pleased to announce
the appointment of the 2024-2025 class of White House Fellows. Founded
in 1964, the White House Fellows program offers exceptional young
leaders first-hand experience working at the highest levels of the
Federal government. Fellows spend a year working with senior White House
Staff, Cabinet Secretaries, and other top-ranking Administration
officials, and leave the Administration equipped to serve as better
leaders in their communities. Fellowships are awarded on a non-partisan
basis.

This year’s Fellows advanced through a highly competitive selection
process, and they are a remarkably gifted, passionate, and accomplished
group. These Fellows bring experience from across the country and from a
broad cross-section of professions, including from the private sector,
state government, academia, non-profits, medicine, and the armed forces.

Applications for the 2025-2026 Fellowship year will be accepted starting
November 1, 2024. The application link and additional information is
available at: <https://www.whitehouse.gov/get-involved/fellows/>.

Class of 2024-2025 White House Fellows  
  
**Patrick Branco** **is from Kailua, Hawai‘i, and is placed at the
Department of the Navy.** He has been the Director of External Affairs
with Hawai‘i Green Growth, a United Nations (UN) hub catalyzing action
on the UN Sustainable Development Goals for the Asia-Pacific region.
Branco is the first from Hawai‘i to receive the Congressman Rangel
International Affairs Fellowship, funding his master’s degree at Johns
Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies. He served at the State
Department in Colombia, Pakistan, Venezuela and the Secretary of State’s
Operations Center. In 2020, he was elected to the Hawai‘i State House of
Representatives. Branco currently serves as a U.S. Navy officer
reservist and is proficient in Spanish, Korean, and Hawaiian.  
  
**Nicholas Dockery is from Indianapolis, Indiana, and is placed at the
Office of the First Lady: Joining Forces Initiative.** With a
distinguished career in the Infantry and Special Operations Community,
Nick has deployed to numerous combat zones and operational areas
worldwide. For bravery and wounds in combat, Nick was awarded two Silver
Stars and two Purple Hearts. His military experience is complemented by
his academic and advisory roles; he served as a research fellow at the
Modern War Institute and as an advisor to the Military Times Charitable
Foundation. Nick has received the West Point Nininger Award for Valor at
Arms, the General Douglas MacArthur Leadership Award, and the title of
2022 Soldier of the Year. An advocate for equine therapy, Nick
passionately supports its use in helping veterans cope with PTSD. Nick
holds a Master of Public Policy from Yale University and a Bachelor of
Science from the United States Military Academy at West Point.  
  
**Tawny Holmes Hlibok, Esq. is from West Palm Beach, Florida, and is
placed at the Domestic Policy Council.** As a third-generation Deaf
person and attorney, she is a dedicated advocate for deaf children’s
education rights and language equity including access to sign languages.
Tawny is a tenured associate professor in Deaf Studies at the world’s
only university for the Deaf, Gallaudet University, where she recently
won $3.75 million funding to lead a national implementation and change
center for early intervention with deaf babies and their families in
partnership with HRSA and NICHQ. She also serves as the executive
director of the Conference of Educational Administrators of Schools and
Programs for the Deaf.  
  
**DeAnna** **Hoskins is from Cincinnati, Ohio, and is placed at the
Department of the Army.** She has served as President/CEO of
JustLeadershipUSA (JLUSA), a national nonprofit that empowers people
directly impacted by the criminal justice system. DeAnna is a
nationally- recognized advocate and policy expert who has shifted the
national narrative on the disparities and limitations of having a
criminal background. She has served as Senior Policy Advisor and as
Deputy Director of the Federal Interagency Reentry Council at the U.S.
Department of Justice. DeAnna was also the founding Director of Reentry
for Hamilton County Board of County Commissioners in Ohio.  
  
**Michael Kennedy is from Morehead City, North Carolina, and is placed
at the United States Coast Guard.** As a nurse practitioner, her career
involves direct patient care while leading process improvement in rural
and underserved settings. Michael attended Lenoir Community College to
become a Registered Nurse and later earned a B.S. Nursing from Barton
College. Witnessing disparities in practice led Michael to East Carolina
University for an M.S. Adult Nurse Practitioner, Post-M.S. Nursing
Leadership, Doctorate of Nursing Practice, and Post-DNP Nursing
Education. To better serve her community, Michael completed a Post-M.S.
Adult-Gerontological Acute Care NP and Post-DNP Psychiatric-Mental
Health NP at Duke University. Michael is a Great 100 Nurse and Bonnie
Jones Friedman Humanitarian Award recipient.  
  
**Hoa Nguyen** **is from Silver Spring, Maryland, and is placed at the
National Economic Council and the United States Coast Guard.** At
Montgomery College, she is an associate professor and chair of the
business department, where she helped implement a zero-textbook-cost
Business degree, saving students thousands of dollars in education
costs. Under her leadership, faculty and students have won multiple
local, state and national awards and recognitions. Hoa also co-led
numerous initiatives that led to the launch of the Asian American Native
American Pacific Islander Taskforce at the college. Hoa received a Ph.D.
in economics from the University of Arizona.  
  
**Amnahir Peña-Alcántara is from Bronx, New York, and is placed at the
Department of Commerce: National Institute of Standards and
Technology.** She is pursuing a Ph.D. in Materials Science and
Engineering at Stanford University funded by the NSF’s Graduate Research
Fellowship Program and the Knight-Hennessy Scholarship. Her research
focuses on polymer blends for stretchable electronics. She graduated
from MIT with a bachelor’s degree in materials science and engineering,
and was a researcher at Northwestern University, Oxford University, and
MIT. She has interned in wearable technology and textile fabrication
companies in the U.S., Canada, Puerto Rico, and India.  
  
**Padmini Pillai is from Newton, Massachusetts, and is placed at the
Social Security Administration.** Padmini is an immunoengineer bridging
the gap between discoveries in immunology and advances in biomaterial
design to treat human disease. She has led a team at MIT developing a
tumor-selective nanotherapy to eliminate hard-to-treat cancers. During
the COVID-19 pandemic, Padmini was featured in several media outlets
including CNBC, *The Atlantic*, and *The New York Times* to discuss
vaccination, immunity, and the disproportionate impact of the pandemic
on vulnerable communities. Padmini received her Ph.D. in immunobiology
from Yale University and a B.A. in biochemistry from Regis College.  
  
**Maddy Sharp is from San Diego, California, and is placed at the Office
of the Second Gentleman.** She is a physician leader committed to
securing a healthier and more equitable future for all Americans. She
has served as a health policy fellow for Senator Amy Klobuchar and a
policy research fellow for Secretary John Kerry. Madison has performed
clinical work and research in Nicaragua, Jordan, and the Navajo Nation
to reduce health disparities and championed policies to enhance
healthcare delivery. She completed her obstetrics and gynecology
residency at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania. Madison
holds an M.D. from the Yale School of Medicine and B.A. from Yale
University, where she captained the NCAA Division I field hockey team.  
  
**Jason Spencer** **is from Medford, New York, and is placed at the
Department of Commerce.** Jason is a Lieutenant Commander in the U.S.
Navy serving as an Information Warfare and Intelligence Officer. At sea,
he was assigned to aircraft carriers and destroyers deployed to the
Middle East and Europe. Ashore, Jason served as Targeting Officer and
Aide-de-Camp to the Commander of U.S. Fifth Fleet in Bahrain and later
as Aide-de-Camp to the Commander of U.S. Pacific Fleet in Hawaii. At the
Pentagon, he served as Senior Intelligence Briefer for the Chief of
Naval Operations – Intelligence Plot and as an Executive Officer to the
Joint Staff’s Director for Intelligence. Jason earned a B.A. in
international studies and political science from Virginia Military
Institute, an M.A. from the Department of War Studies at King’s College
London, and an M.P.A. from the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard
University.  
  
**Nalini Tata** **is from New York City, New York, and is placed at the
White House Office of Cabinet Affairs.** She is a neurosurgery resident
at New York-Presbyterian Weill Cornell Medical Center/Memorial Sloan
Kettering Cancer Center, where she helps treat the spectrum of emergency
and elective neurosurgical conditions between a level I trauma center
and a world-renowned cancer institute. Her published work spans clinical
and non-scientific journals with a focus on advancing equity in access
to care. Her career in neurosurgery and long-standing interest in public
policy are closely bound by a deep-rooted dedication to public service.
She received her BSc in neurobiology from Brown University, MPhil from
the University of Cambridge, M.D. from Northwestern Feinberg School of
Medicine, and MPP in Democracy, Politics, and Institutions from the
Harvard Kennedy School of Government.  
  
**Alexander Tenorio is from Los Angeles, California, and is placed at
the Department of Veterans Affairs.** He is a neurological surgery
resident at the University of California, San Diego. He is the proud son
of Mexican immigrants and dedicated to improving health disparities. He
has led a research team investigating neurological traumatic injuries at
the U.S.-Mexico border with his published work featured in the *Los
Angeles Times* and *New York Times*. In his commitment for health
equity, he partnered with Hospital General de Tijuana in Mexico to
improve their neurosurgical care. He earned an M.D. from the University
of California, San Francisco and B.A. from the University of California,
Berkeley.  
  
**Zachary White II is from Birmingham, Alabama, and is placed at the
Department of Veterans Affairs.** He is a Radiation Oncology resident
physician and cancer researcher at Stanford University. Passionate about
health equity, Zach co-chairs Stanford Medicine’s GME Diversity
Committee, promoting diverse medical trainees’ recruitment and
development, and provides health education to communities to improve
health literacy. Zach graduated summa cum laude from Tuskegee University
with a B.S. in biology and earned an M.S. in biomedical and health
sciences from the University of Alabama at Birmingham. He received his
M.D. from the University of South Alabama, where he served as class
president.  
  
**Ryan Wisz** **is from Aiken, South Carolina, and is placed at the
Central Intelligence Agency.** He is a Lieutenant Commander in the
United States Navy serving as a Submarine Warfare officer. At sea, he
has served aboard Attack and Ballistic Missile submarines and has
deployed seven times, including missions vital to national security.
Ashore, he has served as aide-de-camp to the Commander Submarine Force,
U.S. Pacific Fleet, and as the Submarine Squadron Engineer in San Diego,
California. Prior to military service, he was a Page in the South
Carolina House of Representatives and Senate. He received his B.S. in
economics from the University of South Carolina and is a Distinguished
Graduate from the Naval Postgraduate School with his MBA and published
master’s thesis. He has received numerous personal and unit awards
during his Navy service, is active in local tutoring, and passionate
about financial education and physical fitness.  
  
**Mark York is a seventh-generation farmer from Lake Wilson, Minnesota,
and is placed at the Department of Defense Office of Strategic
Capital.** He is a Ph.D. candidate in computer science at Harvard, where
he researches crowdsourcing and reinforcement learning algorithms in
collaboration with MIT. He is the co-founder and President of Farm Yield
Africa, a non-profit providing tractor services and microcredit to 1,500
farmers in Ghana since 2016. Mark has worked as a consultant, and before
that he led a data science team at a startup building agricultural risk
models. He began his career at Cargill as a commodity trader and data
scientist. Mark studied agronomy and mathematics at South Dakota State
University, where as Student Body President he introduced legislation at
the state and local level.

\###
