---
date: '2024-10-08'
modified_time: 2024-10-08 17:32:47-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-08 17:32:45-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/08/fact-sheet-update-biden-harris-administration-continues-life-saving-preparations-for-hurricane-milton/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: UPDATE: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Continues Life-Saving\
  \ Preparations for Hurricane\_Milton"
---
 
The Biden-Harris Administration continues to mobilize a
whole-of-government effort to [prepare for the
impacts](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/07/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administrations-pre-landfall-preparations-for-hurricane-milton/)
of Hurricane Milton, including pre-positioning resources and personnel
and expediting debris removal efforts in Florida. These actions
supplement the [ongoing response and recovery
efforts](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/06/fact-sheet-update-biden-harris-administration-sparing-no-resource-to-support-communities-impacted-by-hurricane-helene/)
to the impacts of Hurricane Helene across the Southeast and Appalachia.

Today, President Biden was briefed by members of his Administration who
are driving preparations for Hurricane Milton and recovery efforts for
Hurricane Helene. The President directed his team to do everything
possible to save lives and help communities before, during, and after
these extreme weather events.

**The President urges everyone to be aware of the evacuation orders that
are in effect in multiple Florida counties. Shelters are open, and
evacuation assistance is available. If you are told to evacuate, do so
immediately for your safety and that of your loved ones. If you need a
safe place to go nearby, text SHELTER & your zip code to 43362 to get a
list of open shelters near you.**

Yesterday, President Biden had calls with Florida Governor Ron DeSantis
and Tampa Mayor Jane Castor to get firsthand reports on recovery efforts
for Hurricane Helene and to discuss preparations for Hurricane Milton.
The President also spoke with National Weather Service Director Ken
Graham, who briefed the President in detail on the forecast and expected
impacts of Hurricane Milton for the State of Florida. 

At the direction of President Biden, FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell
was on the ground in Tampa, Florida, yesterday, where she met with local
leaders to coordinate preparations ahead of Milton’s landfall.

Yesterday, President Biden quickly approved the Governor of Florida’s
request for a pre-landfall emergency declaration. Under an emergency
declaration, FEMA provides direct Federal support to states for
life-saving activities and other emergency protective measures, such as
evacuation, sheltering, and search and rescue. Earlier today, the
President also approved an emergency declaration request from the
Chairman of the Seminole Tribe of Florida.

The Administration has been in touch with officials from the State of
Florida, as well as more than 60 local officials in cities and counties
along the likely path of impact, to ensure needs are met in advance of
the storm. The Administration has also been in touch with officials from
the Seminole and Miccosukee Tribes. The Administration has also reached
out to state officials in South Carolina and Georgia and will continue
outreach efforts based on Hurricane Milton’s latest trajectory.

FEMA has sufficient funding to both support the response to Hurricane
Milton and continue to support the ongoing response to and recovery from
Hurricane Helene– including funding to support first responders and
provide immediate assistance to disaster survivors.

Additional updates include:

**Pre-Staging Personnel and Resources**

FEMA is pre-staging a full slate of response capabilities in Florida and
the region, including seven FEMA Incident Management Assistance Teams,
eight FEMA Urban Search & Rescue and swift water rescue teams, three
U.S. Coast Guard Swift Water Rescue teams, four Health Care System
Assessment Teams, five Disaster Medical Assistance Teams and an Incident
Management Team from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.

Additional pre-staged capabilities include U.S Army Corps of Engineers
temporary power teams, debris experts and a roofing team, U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency debris removal and wastewater experts,
and 300 ambulances. In addition, the U.S. Department of Defense is
posturing and staging forces to support FEMA and state partners
including helicopters for search-and-rescue operations and to enable
movement of personnel, equipment and commodities; and High Water
Vehicles.  

FEMA has five incident staging bases with commodities including food and
water. Right now, FEMA currently has 20 million meals and 40 million
liters of water in the pipeline to deploy as needed to address ongoing
Helene and Milton response efforts and can expand as needed.

**Protecting Public Health and Health Care Systems**

Today, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary
Xavier Becerra declared a Public Health Emergency for Florida to address
the health impacts of Hurricane Milton, the second public health
emergency declaration for the state to aid in a hurricane response
within the past two weeks.

The Department’s Administration for Strategic Preparedness and Response
(ASPR) pre-positioned approximately 100 responders in Atlanta along with
medical equipment and supplies to support the delivery of health care
services in Florida following the landfall of Hurricane Milton. The
deployed personnel include ASPR Health Care Situational Assessment Teams
who stand ready to work with state officials to assess the storm’s
impacts on hospitals, nursing homes, dialysis centers, and other health
care facilities and a Disaster Medical Assistance Team (DMAT) from
ASPR’s National Disaster Medical System (NDMS) for rapid response
following health care assessments. A second DMAT is being pre-positioned
in Atlanta to support additional response to either Hurricane Helene or
Hurricane Milton, as needed.

In addition to the assessment teams and disaster medical system
personnel, ASPR deployed personnel from an Incident Management Team and
Regional Emergency Coordinators who integrate with FEMA, state health
authorities, and emergency response officials to anticipate and assist
Florida in meeting public health and medical needs in the wake of the
storm. Logisticians and security personnel are also pre-positioned to
provide support. ASPR is prepared to facilitate Public Health
Emergencies for Hurricane Milton upon request. ASPR has also supported
the HHS emPOWER program, which is available to identify the number of
Medicare beneficiaries in affected zips codes who rely on
electricity-dependent durable medical equipment and certain healthcare
services, such as dialysis, oxygen tank, or home health, to help
anticipate, plan for, and respond to the needs of at-risk citizens in
potentially impacted areas.

**Preparing for Impacts to Infrastructure**

The Department of Transportation is deploying a Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA) Air Traffic Field Incident Response (FIR) team to
Florida and pre-staging operations in Jacksonville to prepare support
for any impacted towers and airports. The team will work with the state
and local authorities and the Department of Defense within the
established Emergency Operations Center. The Department of
Transportation is also deploying the FAA Communication Support Team
(CST), which plays a critical role in supporting communication
restoration at impacted airports. Specifically, the CST will set up
Starlink and Mobile Phone Bonding kits, which increase signal stability
and data throughout the region. The FAA is placing aircraft on standby
to transport personnel from various agencies, mobilize resources, and
support damage assessments to infrastructure.

In addition, similar to the approach on Hurricane Helene, the FAA will
continue to closely coordinate with the Department of Defense, the Armed
Services, including Active Duty and National Guard units, and State
Emergency Operations Centers to support their use of drones to support
response and recovery.  Drones can play a critical role in supporting
search and rescue operations and damage assessments by providing real
time video, imagery, and sensor capabilities in hard-to-reach
places.       The Department of Transportation’s Federal Highway
Administration is coordinating with the Florida Department of
Transportation and monitoring the situation to be prepared to support.

The Environmental Protection Agency is working closely with Federal,
state, local, and Tribal partners to support water systems, prepare for
debris management, and ensure facilities, including Superfund sites,
maintain critical public health and environmental protections while they
recover from Hurricane Helene and prepare for Hurricane Milton. The
agency has personnel on the ground in regional and national operations
centers who are continuing to respond to Hurricane Helene and are
preparing to offer support, guidance, and assistance to the State of
Florida and everyone in the new storm’s path.

**Additional Pre-Landfall Preparations**

The Department of the Interior’s U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) is
deploying wave sensors at eight locations in Florida between Naples and
Crystal River to measure the coastal waves caused by the storm. USGS
Field crews are also installing one rapid-deployment gauge on the
Sunshine Skyway bridge in St. Petersburg, Florida. This specialized
piece of equipment is a fully-functional streamgage designed to be
deployed quickly and temporarily to measure and transmit real-time water
level data in emergency situations. This data can be used by decision
makers and emergency managers to monitor water levels as they work to
save lives and property.

The Department of Energy’s Energy Response Organization remains
activated to respond to storm impacts. Via the Electricity Sub-Sector
Coordinating Council and Oil and Natural Gas Sub-Sector Coordinating
Council, the Department of Energy has been coordinating continuously
with energy sector partners on both the ongoing Hurricane Helene
response and potential impacts from Hurricane Milton.

The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has notified
local public housing authorities and owners of its assisted multifamily
and heath care properties within the State of Florida to immediately
implement all appropriate safety protocols for residents and workers.
HUD is committed to ensuring that residents of its assisted homes and
properties receive critical information that can save lives during
extreme weather events. HUD is also conducting outreach and
communications on the programmatic flexibilities and waivers that can be
utilized to assist communities and survivors.

The Export-Import Bank of the United States (EXIM) announced it is
extending measures to assist customers, U.S. exporters, and financial
institutions impacted by Hurricane Helene and forecasted to be impacted
by Hurricane Milton. EXIM is offering assistance to allow businesses and
financial institutions that participate in EXIM’s programs to return to
their business concerns when appropriate and without penalty due to
missed deadlines or other timeliness issues.

\###
