---
date: '2024-10-14'
published_time: 2024-10-14 15:56:38-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/14/statement-by-president-joe-biden-marking-one-year-since-the-killing-of-wadee-alfayoumi/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement by President Joe\_Biden Marking One Year Since the Killing of Wadee\_\
  Alfayoumi"
---
 
On October 14<sup>th</sup>, one year ago today, six-year-old Wadee
Alfayoumi, a bright and cheerful American Muslim boy of Palestinian
descent, was brutally killed in his family’s home in Plainfield,
Illinois. The attacker also repeatedly stabbed and seriously wounded
Wadee’s mother, Hanan Shaheen, resulting in murder, attempted murder,
and hate crime charges in Illinois. After this heinous attack, Jill and
I spoke with their family, as did Vice President Harris. We joined
Americans from across the country in expressing our horror and offering
our condolences and prayers.

One year later, we continue to think about them. We are grateful for
Hanan’s recovery and her powerful voice for peace. But we know the hole
in their heart that remains without their beloved son. Days like this
are hard because it brings it all back. We keep them in our hearts.

On this day, let us all take steps that honor Wadee’s memory and
reaffirm together that there is no place for hate in America, including
hatred of Palestinians, Arabs, and Muslims. We can all reject hatred and
expose misinformation and disinformation that is cynically aimed at
turning us against one another. We can all reach across divides of
background and belief to create greater understanding and unity in our
country. No one in this country should be subjected to violence or
hateful and dehumanizing rhetoric simply because of who they are. No one
of any background in this country should be made to feel unsafe in
America.  

Today, we also reaffirm our commitment to mobilize government to counter
hate in all its forms. In May 2021, I signed into law the COVID-19 Hate
Crimes Act, which includes the Khalid Jabara and Heather Heyer NO HATE
Act, to enhance hate crime data collection and provide
community-centered solutions to assist hate crime victims and their
communities. The Federal Bureau of Investigation has elevated hate
crimes and criminal civil rights violations to its highest-level
national threat priority, which has increased the resources for hate
crimes prevention and investigations and made hate crimes a focus for
all of the Bureau’s field offices. My Administration will continue to
spare no effort in countering hate in all its forms.

Together, we must work to end acts of senseless violence and stand
united in support of all of our fellow Americans, no matter their race,
ethnicity, or creed. May we summon the courage and the strength to do
so. 

May God bless Wadee Alfayoumi and his family.

\###
