---
date: '2024-10-29'
published_time: 2024-10-29 15:00:36-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/29/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-democratic-backsliding-in-the-country-of-georgia/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on Democratic Backsliding in the Country\
  \ of\_Georgia"
---
 
The United States has long stood with the Georgian people and supported
the country of Georgia’s sovereignty, territorial integrity, and
Euro-Atlantic aspirations. That is why I have been deeply alarmed by the
country’s recent democratic backsliding, including the enactment of
legislation mirroring Russian laws that restrict fundamental freedoms
and limit the space for independent civil society organizations. Most
recently, Georgia’s October 26 parliamentary elections were marred by
numerous recorded misuses of administrative resources as well as voter
intimidation and coercion. Georgian citizens have a right to peacefully
express their views regarding the conduct of these elections, which
independent international and domestic observers have not said were free
and fair. We call on the Georgian government to transparently
investigate all election irregularities, to repeal laws such as the
so-called “Foreign Influence Law” that limit freedoms of assembly and
expression, and to begin an immediate, inclusive dialogue with all
political forces in Georgia about restoring election integrity. We call
for all parties to strictly respect the rule of law and fundamental
freedoms, which remain the foundation for Georgia’s Euro-Atlantic
future. 

\###
