---
date: '2024-10-10'
published_time: 2024-10-10 21:50:59-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/10/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-supports-life-saving-and-life-sustaining-response-efforts-following-hurricane-milton/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Supports Life-Saving and Life-Sustaining\
  \ Response Efforts following Hurricane\_Milton"
---
 
Before Hurricane Milton made landfall, the Federal government
[pre-staged personnel and
resources](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/09/fact-sheet-hurricane-helene-recovery-continues-as-biden-harris-administration-prepares-for-hurricane-milton/)
to ensure a robust and immediate response effort could begin once the
storm passed. Following Hurricane Milton’s impact on Florida, the
Biden-Harris Administration is working alongside State and local
officials to carry out life-saving response efforts. As conditions on
the ground begin to improve, first responders have begun assessing
damage and assisting communities. The top response priorities include
search and rescue, power restoration, route clearance, and debris
clean-up.

President Biden and Vice President Harris have been regularly briefed
about the initial impacts of Hurricane Milton, as well as the Federal
government’s ongoing support to State and local officials for their
rescue and response efforts. This morning, President Biden spoke to
Governor Ron DeSantis and FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell about the
initial impacts of Hurricane Milton. The President reiterated that he
will provide any Federal support the State needs to speed response and
recovery.

**President Biden directed FEMA to immediately open disaster recovery
centers across the impacted communities so there are one-stop-shops for
residents to learn about all the Federal support that is available to
them and apply for assistance in person.**

Additionally, the Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation
Administration authorized Florida Power and Light to fly large drones to
quickly assess the damage to the power grid, so ground crews can restore
power more quickly.

The President directed Coast Guard and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to
assess how fast they can re-open the Port of Tampa to get fuel, food,
water, and basic goods flowing into the area again.

More than 50,000 workers from 42 states, the District of Columbia, and
Canada already are dedicated to the power restoration efforts, beginning
that work as soon as it was safe to do so. Additionally, three U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers Temporary Power teams are staged in the region to
provide temporary power to critical facilities, such as hospitals.

FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell has been on the ground in Florida
since last night, and today she surveyed the damage alongside her State
and local counterparts. She will continue working closely with them to
determine any unmet needs. She is joined on the ground by more than
1,000 Federal responders.

Since last night, the President has spoken with numerous Florida
officials, including: Senator Rick Scott; Representatives Gus Bilirakis,
Kathy Castor, and Anna Paulina Luna; Gainesville Mayor Harvey Ward; Fort
Myers Mayor Kevin Anderson; Orange County Mayor Jerry Demings; Orlando
Mayor Buddy Dyer; Pasco County Chair Ron Oakley; and Sarasota Mayor Liz
Alpert. The President told each of them to call him directly if they
need additional assistance on rescue, response, and recovery efforts.
The President also emphasized that he will be with them and their
communities before, during, and after the storm. The Vice President has
also spoken to officials from impacted areas.

These urgent efforts are in addition to the [expansive Federal response
and recovery
efforts](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/09/fact-sheet-hurricane-helene-recovery-continues-as-biden-harris-administration-prepares-for-hurricane-milton/)
underway across the Southeast and Appalachia following Hurricane Helene.

\###
