---
date: '2024-10-17'
modified_time: 2024-10-17 14:09:43-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-17 14:09:42-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/17/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-the-death-of-yahya-sinwar/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on the Death of Yahya\_Sinwar"
---
 
Early this morning, Israeli authorities informed my national security
team that a mission they conducted in Gaza likely killed Hamas leader
Yahya Sinwar.  DNA tests have now confirmed that Sinwar is dead.  This
is a good day for Israel, for the United States, and for the world. 

As the leader of the terrorist group Hamas, Sinwar was responsible for
the deaths of thousands of Israelis, Palestinians, Americans, and
citizens from over 30 countries.  He was the mastermind of the October
7th massacres, rapes, and kidnappings.  It was on his orders that Hamas
terrorists invaded Israel to intentionally – and with unspeakable
savagery – kill and massacre civilians, a Holocaust survivor,
children in front of their parents, and parents in front of their
children. 

Over 1,200 people were killed on that day, the deadliest day for Jews
since the Holocaust, including 46 Americans.  More than 250 were taken
hostage, with 101 still missing. That number includes seven Americans,
four of whom are believed to still be alive and held by Hamas
terrorists.  Sinwar is the man most responsible for this, and for so
much of what followed.  

Shortly after the October 7 massacres, I directed Special Operations
personnel and our intelligence professionals to work side-by-side with
their Israeli counterparts to help locate and track Sinwar and other
Hamas leaders hiding in Gaza. 

With our intelligence help, the IDF relentlessly pursued Hamas’s
leaders, flushing them out of their hiding places and forcing them onto
the run.  There has rarely been a military campaign like this, with
Hamas leaders living and moving through hundreds of miles of tunnels,
organized in multiple stories underground, determined to protect
themselves with no care for the civilians suffering above ground. 
Today, however, proves once again that no terrorists anywhere in the
world can escape justice, no matter how long it takes.

To my Israeli friends, this is no doubt a day of relief and
reminiscence, similar to the scenes witnessed throughout the United
States after President Obama ordered the raid to kill Osama Bin Laden in
2011.

Israel has had every right to eliminate the leadership and military
structure of Hamas. Hamas is no longer capable of carrying out another
October 7.

I will be speaking soon with Prime Minister Netanyahu and other Israeli
leaders to congratulate them, to discuss the pathway for bringing the
hostages home to their families, and for ending this war once and for
all, which has caused so much devastation to innocent people.  

There is now the opportunity for a “day after” in Gaza without Hamas in
power, and for a political settlement that provides a better future for
Israelis and Palestinians alike.  Yahya Sinwar was an insurmountable
obstacle to achieving all of those goals. That obstacle no longer
exists. But much work remains before us.

\###
