---
date: '2024-10-29'
modified_time: 2024-10-29 15:08:46-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-29 15:08:35-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/29/readout-of-white-house-discussion-on-ai-and-advanced-software-solutions-to-accelerate-clean-energy-grid-integration/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of White\_House Discussion on AI and Advanced Software Solutions to\
  \ Accelerate Clean Energy Grid\_Integration"
---
 
Today, the [White House Task Force on AI Datacenter
Infrastructure](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/12/readout-of-white-house-roundtable-on-u-s-leadership-in-ai-infrastructure/)
convened experts from power companies, grid operators, software
companies, NGOs, and other stakeholders to explore how advanced
computing and software solutions, including artificial intelligence
(AI), can accelerate grid integration of clean energy. Maintaining U.S.
leadership of AI globally is a national security and an economic
imperative. That is why the Biden-Harris Administration is focused on
maintaining the strongest AI ecosystem in the world here in the United
States and ensuring AI datacenters run on clean energy and without
raising costs for American consumers. Secretary of Energy Jennifer
Granholm, National Economic Advisor Lael Brainard, Senior Advisor to the
President for International Climate Policy John Podesta, and National
Climate Advisor Ali Zaidi encouraged participants to invest in
innovative solutions that further accelerate deployment and ensure we
reliably meet our energy needs, keep electricity costs low, and achieve
U.S. climate targets.

Participants discussed efforts underway to get more sources of supply on
the grid by addressing the backlog of projects to power the grid
currently waiting in “interconnection queues,” situations where
additional computing solutions can make the biggest difference, and
strategies on how to pursue those opportunities.

Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Chairman Willie Phillips joined the
convening and explained how stakeholders would benefit from the
Commission’s July 2023
[rule](https://www.ferc.gov/explainer-interconnection-final-rule) on
interconnecting new generation resources.

The Department of Energy (DOE) announced a forthcoming new program that
will use AI to help clean energy project developers submit applications
that grid operators can evaluate more quickly. DOE also highlighted
an investment [announced earlier this
month](https://www.energy.gov/articles/biden-harris-administration-announces-additional-2-billion-protect-grid-against-growing) to
help transmission owners and grid operators replace fragmented data
management systems with a standardized, cloud-based software solution
that supports a faster interconnection process.

Moreover, participants discussed DOE initiatives unveiled earlier this
year as part of its novel [Interconnection Innovative
e-Xchange](https://www.energy.gov/eere/i2x/interconnection-innovation-e-xchange),
or i2X, program, highlighting
[roadmaps](https://www.energy.gov/articles/doe-releases-first-ever-roadmap-accelerate-connecting-more-clean-energy-projects-nations)
with recommended solutions to implement a simpler, faster, and fairer
interconnection process and opportunities for stakeholders to [get
involved](https://www.energy.gov/eere/i2x/i2x-events).

The Biden-Harris Administration’s Investing in America agenda has
accelerated hundreds of billions of dollars of investments in clean
electricity generation across the country and enabled historic actions
to get energy projects funded, permitted, and deployed across the
country –
[fueling](https://www.energy.gov/sites/default/files/2024-10/2024%20USEER%20EXEC%201002_0.pdf)
over 250,000 new, good-paying energy jobs in 2023, which are growing at
twice the rate of the rest of the economy. Applications for nearly 2,600
gigawatts of generation and battery storage capacity – twice current
U.S. generation capacity – are waiting in interconnection queues to be
connected to the grid. Accelerating the process by which grid operators
study, determine, and approve needed grid upgrades to interconnect
projects will enable clean energy to come online faster – energy America
needs to fuel our economic growth, from our expanding manufacturing
sector to datacenters that ensure U.S. leadership in AI to electric
vehicles and more.

\###
