---
date: '2024-10-21'
modified_time: 2024-10-20 20:37:52-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-21 09:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/21/first-lady-jill-biden-unveils-enhanced-and-expanded-white-house-tour/
tags: statements-releases
title: "First Lady Jill\_Biden Unveils Enhanced and Expanded White\_House\_Tour"
---
 
***New Educational and Engaging Elements Added to the White House Public
Tour Route; Aimed at Enhancing Civics Education for Students of All
Ages; First Significant Improvement to Tour in Decades***

*****New Expanded Public Tour Will Now Include the Diplomatic Reception
Room, where President Franklin D. Roosevelt held his famous fireside
chats, and Further Entry Access to Rooms*****

For photos of the enhanced tour elements, please visit the [White House
FLICKR page](https://www.flickr.com/photos/whitehouse/).

**Washington, DC** – First Lady Jill Biden is unveiling today a new
enhanced, educational White House public tour for visitors. A classroom
teacher for 40 years, Dr. Biden knows that learning has to be engaging
and interactive. The public tour, which accommodates approximately
10,000 visitors per week, is a significant opportunity to educate
students of all ages about the living history of the White House. The
public tour of the White House has not seen significant improvements in
decades, until now.

“I’ve been a classroom teacher for 40 years, and I know learning has to
be interactive and engaging. It has to evoke the senses, and you have to
meet students where they are, giving them what they need to spark their
curiosity and imagination,” **said First Lady Jill Biden.** “We hope the
tour inspires everyone who visits the White House to learn more about
our shared history.”

****The enhanced White House public tour will now:****

-   include more educational and engaging elements along the tour route;
-   incorporate more story-telling in the tour using technology and
    digital components;
-   provide visitors with more historic context to their tour;
-   entreat the senses with compelling and tactile content; and
-   present more opportunities for learning about our nation’s history,
    civics, and the lives of Presidents and first families, past and
    present.

The enhanced tour elements are supported by The History Channel, in
partnership with ESI Design, which is known for its educational
improvements to the Liberty Island and Ellis Island museums, which like
the White House are also cared for by the National Park Service. The
History Channel has previously produced short films for historic sites
across the country including the Smithsonian’s National Museum of
American History, the Statue of Liberty, the Gettysburg National
Military Park Museum and Visitor Center, and more.

“Preserving our country’s history, investing in education, and engaging
the next generation is at the heart of the new expanded White House
tour,” **said Paul Buccieri, President & Chairman, A+E Networks Group,
which includes The History Channel.** “We are honored to join First Lady
Jill Biden on this special initiative to enhance the White House tour
experience for the American public and visitors from around the globe.”

“More than 10,000 visitors come through these doors each week on the
public tour and it’s such an opportunity for students of all ages to
learn about our country’s history, civics, and the lives of Presidents
and their families,” **said First Lady Jill Biden.** “When Joe became
President, I took a look at the public tour, which I’m told hasn’t seen
any significant improvements in decades, and thought there  
has to be a way to reimagine this tour experience, add more educational
content and story-telling, while also preserving and protecting its
history. So, we did.”

**The First Lady added:** “Throughout the past two years, we’ve been
working with the National Park Service, White House Curator’s Office,
White House Historical Association, presidential libraries, and The
History Channel to enhance and expand the public tour of the White
House. We’ve added flexible, versatile, and dynamic tools of learning to
the tour; created more pathways in the house to bring people further
into the rooms; expanded the tour to now include the Diplomatic
Reception Room where President Roosevelt hosted his famous fireside
chats; and we’ve included more educational content that visitors can
touch, hear, and see up close.”

“The White House, like all national parks, are living classrooms that
provide the public with inspirational and educational opportunities to
connect with our nation’s shared heritage,” **National Park Service
Director Chuck Sams said.** “The National Park Service is honored to
support these tour and exhibit enhancements that will elevate the thrill
level of walking the halls of the White House and experiencing firsthand
the rooms where history has been, and continues to be, made.”

**Stewart D. McLaurin, President of the White House Historical
Association said:** “Dr. Biden’s passion for  
education inspired this deeper engagement every visitor will now have
with the White House. It has been a privilege to work with her and her
team to deploy innovative and creative tools to better share the lessons
and stories of White House history.”

**The following enhancements have been made to the new expanded White
House public tour route:**

**More Educational Story-telling and Civics Education Incorporated
Throughout the Public Tour:** The enhanced public tour now contains more
historic, educational content, and story-telling elements throughout the
visitor experience. For example, the Diplomatic Reception Room, used to
welcome foreign dignitaries and home to President Franklin Delano
Roosevelt’s famous fireside chats, will be open to the general public
for the first time. One reader rail highlights the room’s panoramic
wallpaper, *Views of North America*, and hosts a recreation of a 1939
Philco radio that plays snippets of various fireside chats given by FDR
during his presidency.

**Educational, Experiential Signage, and Video Greetings:** New signage
along the tour route will augment visitors’ educational experience,
helping to set expectations for the tour and guiding visitors to more
points of interest. The new educational content updates the 18 existing
room introduction signs, with an additional six signs to mark new tour
elements and critical views. As guests enter the public tour through the
East Wing, they will be welcomed by a video message from the First Lady.
A video from the President will greet visitors in the East Room, giving
further historic context and depth to the tour.

**“A Living Timeline” of White House History:** Previously, the East
Colonnade contained static photo collages, which were arduous to update
and lacked key historic context or information. Visitors will now
approach the East Colonnade and see a long corridor punctuated by
permanent digital displays nestled below archways, embracing the design
and feel of the previous collages. The graphic and media displays at
each archway will showcase various “eras” of American history, segmented
to capture historic moments of the White House and the presidency.

The Living Timeline accommodates various experience modes ranging from
Tour Mode, to Residential Mode, and Special Events Mode. These modes
ensure the Living Timeline is a versatile tool that can evolve with the
White House and moments across history.

**Three-Dimensional Architectural Model of the White House:** After
passing through the East Colonnade, visitors enter into the East Garden
Room, where they will be greeted by a new 3D architectural model of
White House’s 18-acre complex. Four supporting models depict the White
House at key stages in its evolution. The dynamic model takes guests
through the architectural history of the White House, beginning in 1792
and encompassing significant architectural milestones. The model is
internally illuminated. Lighting cues are choreographed with a
supplemental media screen that highlights important milestones
pertaining to the architectural history of the White House. Over the
course of the experience, visitors gain an appreciation of how the White
House has evolved over time.

**More Access to White House Rooms:** Previously, several rooms on the
public tour of the White House were roped off and visitors could only
look inside. Now, visitors will be able to go further inside each room
and learn more about the room and its history.

**Expanded Tour Route to Now Include the Diplomatic Reception Room:**
Previously, the public tour route on the ground floor of the White House
only included the Library, Vermeil Room, and China Room. Now, visitors
will get to see the Diplomatic Reception Room, the location of President
Franklin D. Roosevelt’s (FDR) historic “fireside chats” during the Great
Depression and World War II. Audio of some of FDR’s fireside chats will
play for visitors as they come through the room.

**Multi-sensory Reader Rails:** Once visitors go further into each room,
they will be treated to multi-sensory “reader rails,” full of
educational information and tactile, engaging content. These reader
rails detail the historic uses of each room and highlight pertinent
artifacts. Additionally, these rails offer opportunities for visitors to
touch replicas of the materials in various room. This not only provides
a new sensory experience for visitors, it also improves the
accessibility of the experience for those who are blind or have low
vision. The White House Historical Association currently provides an
audio guide to the White House tour through their app, the WHExperience,
which is available on whitehousehistory.org.

**Dynamic Digital Partition Panel:** As guests exit the Diplomatic
Reception Room, they will see a dynamic digital partition panel on the
left, before ascending the stairs to the State Floor. This panel is a
versatile large photo frame, presenting educational content and imagery
of the White House beyond the areas visible to the public tour.

**East Room Welcome Pillar and Reader Rails:** Speaking to visitors from
the same room where Presidents have so often addressed the nation, a
video from the President provides an introduction to the State Floor via
a dedicated Welcome Pillar. Supporting reader rails provide educational
information about the purpose and history of the East Room, the special
items on display, such as the George and Martha Washington portraits
featured in the center of the room, and the many momentous events that
have happened there.

**Additional Educational Content in the State Dining Room:** As visitors
enter the State Dining Room, they will be surrounded with educational
content, with three reader rails. One rail exhibit highlights the
history of the room itself, including the numerous State Dinners.
Another rail features a quote inscribed on the mantel taken from a
letter John Adams wrote to his wife, Abigail, on his first night at the
White House. A tactile replica of the mantel’s inscription is positioned
at the center of the rail, inviting visitors to feel the carving and
reflect on Adams’ hope for the future. A final rail highlights art and
artifacts in the room, such as the famous Lincoln Portrait, which rarely
moves from its revered position over the room’s mantel.

**Grand Staircase Frame:** Positioned near the landing of the Grand
Staircase, the Grand Frame serves as a window into special events at the
White House, featuring rotating imagery of First Families at the
staircase during State Dinners, holidays, or other special occasions.

\###
