---
date: '2024-10-10'
published_time: 2024-10-10 15:01:18-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/10/first-lady-jill-biden-announces-2024-girls-leading-change-honorees/
tags: statements-releases
title: "First Lady Jill\_Biden Announces 2024 \u201CGirls Leading Change\u201D\_Honorees"
---
 
*In celebration of International Day of the Girl, the First Lady is
honoring ten young women who are leading change and shaping a brighter
future in their communities* 

In honor of International Day of the Girl, First Lady Jill Biden will
celebrate ten young women leaders, selected by the White House Gender
Policy Council, who are leading change and shaping a brighter future in
their communities across the United States.    

As an educator for more than 40 years, Dr. Biden has continued to be a
champion for young people here in the United States and abroad. Together
with the White House Gender Policy Council, Dr. Biden is hosting the
second “Girls Leading Change” event at the White House to recognize the
profound impact young women are having on their communities and their
efforts to strengthen our country for generations to come.     

*“Everywhere I travel, I see inspiring girls leading change in their
communities,” **said First Lady Jill Biden**. “These
incredible honorees are meeting the challenges they see in the world by
developing innovative new technologies, expanding access to education,
erasing silence through the power of art and poetry and more. It is an
honor to celebrate these young leaders at the White House and I hope
that their courage and determination inspires the next generation.” * 

The Biden-Harris Administration is committed to ensuring that girls can
pursue their dreams free from fear, discrimination, violence, or abuse;
and to advancing the safety, education, health, and wellbeing of girls
everywhere. Investing in young people means investing in our future;
they should have the opportunity and resources they need to succeed.
Since day one in office, this Administration has taken actions to
advance the safety, education, health, and well-being of girls. A full
summary of these actions can be found via a White House Fact Sheet
released
today [HERE](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/10/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-celebrates-international-day-of-the-girl-and-continues-commitment-to-supporting-youth-in-the-u-s-and-abroad/).  

*“Girls Leading Change” will begin at 5:30 PM ET today, Thursday,
October 10th, and be available via livestream at whitehouse.gov/live * 

  **<u>2024 Girl Leading Change Honorees </u>**  

**Cheyenne Anderson (Albuquerque, New Mexico)** 

Cheyenne Anderson, Iztac Citlali (White Star), age 17, is an artist and
photographer who aims to lift up underrepresented communities, including
those of her own Chicana, Mexica, and Apache heritage, through creative
art forms. In ninth grade, Cheyenne created and co-edited a book,
titled *South Valley,* which features poetry and artwork from fellow
youth poets and local community members that showcase the beauty and
spirit of Albuquerque’s South Valley. Through her art and elevating the
art of others, Cheyenne hopes to inspire people of all backgrounds to
share their unique stories. 

**Emily Austin (Alcabideche, Portugal)** 

Emily Austin, age 17, is a proud daughter of a U.S. Navy service member.
Emily and her family have moved to seven different duty stations. She
has attended seven different schools, over the course of her education.
She currently serves as the Chief of Staff at Bloom, an organization
started by military-connected teens dedicated to empowering teens from
military families and elevating their voices. Emily started the Bloom
Ambassador program to directly connect teens from military families to
Bloom staff members and opportunities in their region, cultivating a
sense of community and providing peer support through the shared joys
and challenges of the military lifestyle. 

**Sreenidi Bala (Farmington, Connecticut)** 

Sreenidi Bala, age 16, is an advocate for the accessibility of science,
technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education for students
of all abilities. After recognizing a gap in STEM education for
neurodivergent students in her school district, Sreenidi developed an
elective to fill that gap called ASPIRE Adaptive STEM. Sreenidi also
founded Code for All Minds—a free online platform offering educators and
families comprehensive lessons in coding, digital citizenship, and
essential technology skills tailored for students with learning
disabilities. Through partnerships with neurodiversity advocacy groups
and local college access programs, Code for All Minds has created and
distributed adaptive STEM curriculums to schools across the country. 

**Noel Demetrio (Lake Forest, Illinois)** 

Noel Demetrio, age 17, is dedicated to supporting refugee and immigrant
communities. Noel is the founder of Project Xenia, a local program that
aims to educate students about displacement and show how they can
support and welcome refugees into their community. Project Xenia has
also helped fund scholarships for Ukrainian refugees in her local
community. Noel serves as a Girl Delegate of the Greek Orthodox
Archdiocese of America to the United Nations and attended the 68th
United Nations Commission on the Status of Women to advocate for the
rights of girls all over the world. 

**Serena Griffin (Oakland, California)** 

Serena Griffin, age 17, is passionate about empowering youth through
poetry, songwriting, and storytelling, and using creative expression as
a tool for social change. She is the founder of EmpowHer Poets, a free
afterschool program that provides writing workshops to local Bay Area
youth, particularly young girls of color, to encourage them to find
power in their voices. In addition, Serena is the current Berkeley Vice
Youth Poet Laureate. She also serves as a member of the California
Commission on the Status of Women and Girls Youth Advisory Council,
advising on the impact of state legislation on youth and its
implementation in schools.  

**Pragathi Kasani-Akula (Cumming, Georgia)** 

Pragathi Kasani-Akula, age 17, is a scientist and innovator dedicated to
developing novel solutions that make health care more accessible to
people across the world. Following her mother’s breast cancer diagnosis,
she developed a prototype for a low-cost, less invasive test to detect
triple negative breast cancer. During the COVID-19
pandemic, Pragathi also worked with the ScioVirtual Foundation to teach
an online course on epidemiology to students across the nation,
including education on how to advance public health. 

**Meghna “Chili”** **and Siona “Dolly” Pramoda (Guaynabo, Puerto
Rico)** 

Meghna “Chili” Pramoda, age 17, and Siona “Dolly” Pramoda, age 16, are
advocates for digital safety for all. As co-founders
of SafeTeensOnline (STO), the Pramoda sisters have educated and
empowered over 5 million teens worldwide. STO’s work consists of
year-round online awareness campaigns through social media and teen-led
large-scale survey and research initiatives on topics such as internet
usage and patterns of cyber incidents. During the COVID-19 pandemic when
the world moved online, the Pramoda sisters noticed that older members
of their community often felt isolated due to a lack of digital
literacy. As a result, STO expanded from a teen-focused organization to
one that also educates parents, teachers, and grandparents on safe
digital practices and on how to build judgment-free spaces online. 

**Kira Tiller (Gainesville, Virginia)** 

Kira Tiller, age 18, is a disability rights activist who aims to expand
accessibility and amplify the voices of young people with disabilities.
After Kira discovered that the flashing lights during school fire drills
posed a seizure risk for her due to her epilepsy, she dedicated herself
to advocating for legislation to ensure students with disabilities are
fully accommodated and protected during emergency situations at school.
Kira founded and is the executive director of a national, student-led
organization called Disabled Disrupters, which advocates for state and
federal disability rights legislation and helps students take action to
advance disability equity. 

**Morgaine Wilkins-Dean (Denver, Colorado)** 

Morgaine Wilkins-Dean, age 18, is a Gold Award Girl Scout who is working
to eliminate gun violence in her community and across the country. 
Morgaine’s high school experienced three firearm-related incidents in a
single year that resulted in the loss of two of her classmates. As a
result, Morgaine worked with the Denver Public School Board on gun
violence prevention and safe gun storage policies. Due in part to
Morgaine’s advocacy, this school year, for the first time, Denver Public
Schools are required to educate families about the risks associated with
unsecured firearms at home. 

\### 
