---
date: '2024-10-02'
modified_time: 2024-10-03 09:00:04-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-02 10:59:58-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/02/fact-sheet-update-biden-harris-continues-life-saving-response-efforts-in-response-to-hurricane-helene/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: UPDATE: Biden-\u2060Harris Continues Life-Saving Response Efforts\
  \ in Response to Hurricane\_Helene"
---
 
***Today, President Biden is announcing 1,000 active-duty troops will be
immediately deployed to assist with response and recovery efforts***

President Biden and Vice President Harris continue to mobilize an
intensive Federal response to the impacts of Hurricane Helene. The
Administration is prioritizing life-saving and life-sustaining response
efforts in impacted communities, as well as ensuring people displaced
from the storm have prompt access to Federal resources that will enable
them to both purchase essential items and begin their road to recovery
and rebuilding.

**As part of this coordinated response, today, President Biden is
announcing he has directed the Department of Defense to deploy up to
1,000 active-duty soldiers to support the delivery of food, water, and
other critical commodities to communities impacted by Hurricane Helene.
The announcement is effective immediately, and these forces will be
available for deployment starting today. This action will provide
additional manpower and logistics capabilities, enabling FEMA and other
interagency partners to reach the hardest hit areas as quickly as
possible.**

This comes as the President is traveling to North Carolina and South
Carolina. He will take an aerial tour of areas impacted by Hurricane
Helene in Western North Carolina, receive operational briefings, and
meet with first responders and local officials. He will also engage with
first responders and officials in South Carolina. The President will
also visit Florida and Georgia in the coming days. The Vice President
will travel to Georgia today. She will receive operational briefings,
meet with residents impacted by the storm, and provide updates to local
officials on actions that are being taken to support emergency response
and recovery efforts in Georgia. She will also travel to North Carolina
in the coming days.

Yesterday, President Biden received a briefing from his Homeland
Security Advisor Liz Sherwood-Randall and leaders across his
Administration, including Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg,
Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas, Environmental Protection
Agency Administrator Michael Regan, Department of Defense Deputy
Secretary Kathleen Hicks, Department of Commerce Deputy Secretary Don
Graves, Department of Energy Deputy Secretary David Turk, U.S. Army
Corps of Engineer LTG William H. (Butch) Graham Jr., Small Business
Administration Deputy Administrator Dilawar Syed, Department of
Agriculture Under Secretary Robert Bonnie, and Department of Health and
Human Services Assistant Secretary Dawn O’Connell.

Additional updates on the Administration’s response efforts include:

**Mobilizing Defense Department Resources to Support Prompt and
Effective Hurricane Response**

Today, the President is announcing he has directed the Department of
Defense to deploy up to 1,000 active-duty soldiers to support response
efforts. These soldiers are part of an Infantry Battalion Task Force,
based out of Fort Liberty, North Carolina, which includes a Forward
Support Company with the necessary support structure (fuel, water,
mechanics, etc.) to conduct operations.

These soldiers are in addition to the support the Department of Defense
is already providing to FEMA for the response to Hurricane Helene
including:

-   US Army and US Navy helicopters, soldiers, and sailors to provide
    critical capability to move personnel and supplies in areas where
    access via roads is not available or viable.
-   US Air Force aircraft, helicopters, and airmen to provide
    search-and-rescue capabilities.
-   US Army soldiers and high wheeled vehicles to move personnel and
    supplies over roads and terrain damaged or impassable to normal
    vehicles.
-   The Army Corps of Engineers is supporting with response efforts with
    Temporary Power Teams and subject matter experts to support for
    debris removal, water and wastewater management, and bridge
    inspections. 

At the President’s direction, the Department of Defense has activated 22
helicopters to aid in search and rescue operations and provided dozens
of high-water vehicles. The National Guard, in its state capacity, is
also aiding these efforts. 700 National Guard from North Carolina are
supporting debris removal, air lifts, and search and rescue. They are
accompanied by National Guard from eight additional states under
Emergency Mutual Assistance Compacts, with helicopters and rescue
vehicles to further assist with road clearance, commodities, transport,
and search and rescue.

Although not operating under Department of Defense authority, over 6,000
National Guard personnel from 12 states are spearheading the response
effort across the impacted region in support of their Governors,
providing critical life-saving and life-sustaining support to the
victims of this unprecedented natural disaster.

**Supporting On-The-Ground Response and Emergency Efforts**

More than 4,800 personnel from across the Federal workforce are deployed
and supporting state-led response efforts across the region. FEMA and
other agencies have more than 1,200 personnel in North Carolina, with
more resources and staff arriving daily.

Search and rescue efforts by state, local, and Federal partners are
ongoing, and nearly 600 additional personnel are arriving in the region
in the coming days, increasing the total number of Urban Search and
Rescue personnel to over 1,250.

The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Xavier
Becerra declared Public Health Emergencies for South Carolina,
Tennessee, Florida, Georgia, and North Carolina. These declarations give
the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services’ health care providers and
suppliers greater flexibility in meeting emergency health needs of
Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries. HHS has established a National
Disaster Medical System medical treatment site at the Mission Hospital
campus in Asheville and Blue Ridge Regional Hospital in Spruce Pines,
North Carolina. HHS Health and Medical Task Force Teams are supporting
state medical needs shelters in Hickory and Mills Springs, North
Carolina. An HHS Incident Management Team is working closely with state
officials to identify health care needs including in rural communities
and areas which may be cut off from transportation systems. HHS has also
deployed two Disaster Mortuary Assistance Team (DMORT) to assist state
mortuary services in mortuary care of victim identification. HHS has
made 9 DMORT teams available nationwide. Additionally, 200 Federal
ambulances have been provided to North Carolina.

In total, FEMA has shipped over 8.5 million meals, more than 7 million
liters of water, 150 generators and over 220,000 tarps to aid response
efforts for this historic storm.

**Restoring Power and Communications to Impacted Communities**

Power outage numbers are improving as restoration teams from across the
nation gain access to communities and debris is removed, although much
more work remains to bring power back to badly impacted areas across the
region. As of this morning, approximately 1.6 million customers are
still without power, which is a reduction of more than 65% from the
region-wide peak of 4.6 million on September 27.

In addition to intensive efforts to restore power, crews are working
around the clock to restore cell service and communications to impacted
communities. FEMA, the FCC, and private telecommunications providers are
working together to help restore temporary communications as quickly as
possible by establishing temporary cell sites and allowing for roaming
where possible, where a resident can connect to any network available,
even if they aren’t subscribed to that network.

FEMA has provided 50 Starlink satellite systems to help with responder
communications and 65 satellite phones have been shipped to assist with
communications.

**Restoring Road Access**

The Department of Transportation activated its 24-hour toll-free Routing
Assistance Hotline to provide routing assistance for first responders
conducting relief missions. The Hotline supports the movement of
Federal, state, local, Tribal, and Territorial response personnel and
contractors, equipment, and goods by providing recommended safe routes
using a variety of data sources. To reach the Hotline, responders can
call 511 from their mobile phones or 833–99-ROADS (833-997-6237).  The
Department of Transportation also announced that with the President’s
approval of Emergency Disaster Declarations it has initiated a 14-day
period of emergency regulatory relief from Federal Motor Carrier Safety
regulations, including maximum driving time for property- and
passenger-carrying vehicles from the date of declaration. This allows
truck drivers to get essential supplies to affected areas. 

**Extending Housing Aid to Impacted Families**

Following President Biden’s approval of a Major Disaster declaration in
North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia and Florida, the Department of
Housing and Urban Development (HUD) began implementing supplemental
assistance, which includes a 90-day moratorium on foreclosures of
FHA-insured mortgages and mortgages guaranteed under the Section 184
Indian Home Loan Guarantee program, as well as an automatic 90-day
extension for Home Equity Conversion Mortgages.

Anyone whose home has been destroyed or severely damaged is also
eligible to apply for HUD [mortgage
insurance](https://www.hud.gov/program_offices/housing/sfh/ins/203h-dft).
HUD is also enabling homeowners to
[finance](https://www.hud.gov/program_offices/housing/sfh/203k/203k--df)
rehabilitation and repairs for damaged homes.

To support households and communities through disaster recovery, HUD
will provide Housing Counseling assistance and offer waivers and
additional flexibilities to Public Housing Agencies, Tribes, and
recipients of designated federal funding to allow communities to use
existing resources to aid in response and recovery
efforts. Additionally, HUD offered a suite of waivers and alternative
requirements to allow impacted communities to use existing community
development and homelessness assistance funds to aid in response and
recovery efforts.  

**Approving Additional Emergency Assistance**

President Biden has now also approved Major Disaster Declarations for
Georgia and Virginia, allowing individuals in 41 counties in Georgia and
6 in Virginia to apply for FEMA assistance. Administration officials are
in touch with Georgia emergency management officials, and based on their
ongoing assessments of impacts on the ground, FEMA is in the process of
approving federal assistance for additional counties. This is in
addition to approving Major Disaster declarations for Florida, North
Carolina, and South Carolina earlier in the weekend.

To date, more than $10 million in Individual Assistance has been
provided to survivors who have been affected by Hurricane Helene, and we
expect that number to increase over the coming days. In North Carolina,
through the expedited Serious Needs Assistance program, FEMA has paid
out more than $1 million to over 1,400 households in less than 24 hours.

FEMA assistance in Florida, Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and
Virginia can include a one-time $750 payment to help with essential
items like food, water, baby formula and other emergency supplies. After
registering for disaster assistance, individuals may also qualify to
receive disaster-related financial assistance to repair storm-related
damage to homes and replace personal property, as well as assistance to
find a temporary place to stay. Homeowners and renters with damage to
their home or personal property from previous disasters, whether they
received FEMA funds or not, are still eligible to apply for and receive
assistance for Hurricane Helene.

FEMA Disaster Survivor Assistance teams are deployed to Florida and
North Carolina to help survivors register for disaster assistance,
visiting shelters and going door to door to help people get Federal
assistance where they need it as quickly as feasible.

\###
