---
date: '2024-10-23'
modified_time: 2024-10-22 14:33:37-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-23 18:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/23/president-biden-names-fifty-fifth-round-of-judicial-nominees/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Names Fifty-Fifth Round of Judicial\_Nominees"
---
 
The President is announcing his intent to nominate two individuals to
federal district courts—both of whom are extraordinarily qualified,
experienced, and devoted to the rule of law and our Constitution.

These choices also continue to fulfill the President’s promise to ensure
that the nation’s courts reflect the diversity that is one of our
greatest assets as a country—both in terms of personal and professional
backgrounds.

This will be President Biden’s fifty-fifth round of nominees for federal
judicial positions, bringing the number of announced federal judicial
nominees to 259.  
  

**<u>United States District Court Announcements</u>**

1.  **<u>Judge Benjamin J. Cheeks: Nominee for the United States
    District Court for the Southern District of California</u>**

<!-- -->

Judge Benjamin J. Cheeks has been a United States Magistrate Judge for
the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of California since
July 2024. Prior to joining the bench, Judge Cheeks was a criminal
defense lawyer in private practice at the Law Offices of Benjamin J.
Cheeks, A.P.C. in San Diego from 2013 to 2024. From 2010 to 2013, Judge
Cheeks served as an Assistant U.S. Attorney in the U.S. Attorney’s
Office for the Southern District of California. Earlier in his career,
he served as an Assistant District Attorney in the New York County
District Attorney’s Office from 2003 to 2010. Judge Cheeks received his
J.D. from the American University, Washington College of Law in 2003 and
his B.A. from the University of Miami, Florida in 2000.

2\. **<u>Judge Serena Murillo: Nominee for the United States District
Court for the Central District of California</u>**

Judge Serena Murillo has been a judge on the Los Angeles Superior Court
since 2015. She also served by appointment of the Chief Justice of the
California Supreme Court as an Associate Justice pro tem on the
California Court of Appeal from 2018 to 2019. Prior to joining the
bench, Judge Murillo served as a Deputy District Attorney in the Los
Angeles County District Attorney’s Office from 1997 to 2014. Earlier in
her career, she worked as an associate attorney at McNicholas &
McNicholas in Los Angeles in 1997 and as a law clerk at Shernoff,
Bidart, and Echeverria in Claremont, California in 1996. Judge Murillo
received her J.D. from Loyola Law School in 1996 and her B.A. from the
University of California, San Diego in 1993.

\###
