---
date: '2024-10-27'
modified_time: 2024-10-26 17:23:26-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-27 06:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/27/statement-from-president-joe-biden-marking-6-years-since-the-tree-of-life-synagogue-attack-in-pittsburgh/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden Marking 6 Years Since the Tree of Life\
  \ Synagogue Attack in\_Pittsburgh"
---
 
Six years ago, as congregants prayed at the Tree of Life Synagogue in
Pittsburgh on a quiet Shabbat morning, a gunman armed with an AR-15,
multiple handguns, and hate in his heart, opened fire and killed 11
Jewish worshippers and wounded six more, in the deadliest act of
Antisemitism in our history. It shattered families, pierced the heart of
the Jewish community, and struck the soul of our nation.

For the families of the victims and the survivors, this difficult day of
remembrance brings it all back like it just happened – and our country
holds them and their loved ones close in our hearts. As we grieve the
precious lives stolen on that day, we draw strength from the memory of
the beautiful lives they lived, and from the hope of the Pittsburgh
community that came together from all faiths to support their Jewish
neighbors. In the years since, the Jewish community has also shown the
country how to courageously turn pain into purpose. They have launched a
global initiative to counter hate and hate-fueled violence. This summer,
at the site of the synagogue, the nation’s first museum and education
center on the history of Antisemitism in America broke ground. It is a
symbol of the enduring spirit of Jewish resilience despite centuries of
suffering, persecution, and pain.

Of course, this year’s remembrance of the Tree of Life attack falls just
days after Jews observe the sacred holiday of Simchat Torah and the
first Hebrew calendar anniversary of the October 7th attack in Israel,
during which Hamas killed more than 1,200 people, took another 250
hostage, and committed horrific acts of sexual assault. One year later,
the trauma and losses from that day and its aftermath are not only raw,
but exacerbated by the appalling surge of Antisemitism against Jews in
America and around the world. 

Even before October 7<sup>th</sup>, I launched the first National
Strategy to Counter Antisemitism in American history, and together with
Vice President Harris, the Second Gentleman, and our entire
Administration, we are aggressively implementing it. Since I have taken
office, we have secured a record of $1.2 billion for the physical
security of nonprofits including synagogues, Jewish Community Centers
and Jewish day schools. We have put colleges on notice that Antisemitism
is discrimination and is prohibited under Title VI of the 1964 Civil
Rights Act. The Department of Justice is investigating and prosecuting
Antisemitic hate crimes. Globally, we have mobilized over 40 countries
and international organizations to support our new guidelines for
countering Antisemitism. And to take on the scourge of gun violence, I
signed the most significant gun safety law in nearly 30 years and
created the first-ever White House Office of Gun Violence Prevention.

There is more to do, but my Administration will continue to condemn and
combat Antisemitism at every turn. As the Talmud says, “It is not your
duty to finish the work but neither are you at liberty to neglect it.”
On this solemn day of remembrance for the attack in the Tree of Life
Synagogue, let us come together as Americans to ensure Antisemitism and
hate in all its forms have no safe harbor in America – for all the lives
we have lost and all those we can still save.

\###
