---
date: '2024-10-02'
modified_time: 2024-10-02 12:03:30-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-02 12:03:29-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/02/international-counter-ransomware-initiative-2024-joint-statement/
tags: statements-releases
title: "International Counter Ransomware Initiative 2024 Joint\_Statement"
---
 
The 68 members of the International Counter Ransomware Initiative
(CRI)—Albania, Argentina,  Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Belgium, Brazil,
Bulgaria, Cameroon, Canada, Chad, Colombia, Costa Rica, the Council of
Europe, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, the Dominican Republic,
the ECOWAS Commission, Egypt, Estonia, the European Union, Finland,
France, Germany, Greece, the Global Forum on Cyber Expertise, Hungary,
India, INTERPOL, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kenya,
Lithuania, Mexico, Morocco, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria,
Norway, the Organization of American States, Papua New Guinea, the
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Korea, the Republic of
Moldova, Romania, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia,
South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Switzerland, Ukraine, the United
Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom, the United States, Uruguay, Vanuatu,
and Vietnam—met in Washington, D.C. from September 30 – October 3, 2024
for the Fourth CRI Gathering. Previously participating members welcomed
Argentina, Bahrain, Cameroon, Chad, the Council of Europe, Denmark, the
ECOWAS Commission, Finland, the Global Forum on Cyber Expertise,
Hungary, Morocco, the Organization of American States, the Philippines,
the Republic of Moldova, Slovenia, Sri Lanka, Vanuatu, and Vietnam as
new CRI members.

During the Fourth CRI Gathering, members reaffirmed our joint commitment
to develop collective resilience to ransomware, support members if they
are faced with a ransomware attack, pursue the actors responsible for
ransomware attacks and not allow safe haven for these actors to operate
within our jurisdictions, counter the use of virtual assets as part of
the ransomware business model, partner with the private sector to advise
and support CRI members, and forge international partnerships so we are
collectively better equipped to counter the scourge of ransomware.

Over the past year, this coalition has grown and continues to build upon
the commitments made at the Third CRI Gathering in 2023. The United
States launched a new fund for CRI members to strengthen members’
cybersecurity capabilities through both rapid assistance in the wake of
a cyber attack, as well as targeted support to improve cybersecurity
skills, policies, and response procedures.

The Policy Pillar, led by Singapore and the United Kingdom, spearheaded
efforts to build resilience against ransomware attacks and leverage the
ecosystem to disrupt the ransomware criminal industry. These efforts
seek to undercut the business model that underpins the ransomware
ecosystem by driving forward work on secure software and labeling,
methods to counter the use of virtual assets as part of the ransomware
business model, policies to reduce ransom payments, increase and improve
reporting, cyber insurance, and a playbook to guide businesses on how to
prepare for, deal with, and recover from a ransomware attack. Of note,
CRI members and insurance bodies have endorsed guidance to help
organizations experiencing a ransomware attack. The guidance underscores
the important role cyber insurance can play in helping to build
resilience to cyber attacks and highlights actions organizations should
explore during an incident. In addition, the Pillar held a
table-top-exercise to assist members in identifying gaps in their
processes, learning best practices and supporting members develop
effective responses to ransomware attacks on the healthcare sector.

The Diplomacy and Capacity Building Pillar, led by Germany and Nigeria,
expanded the CRI’s partnerships with the addition of 18 new members to
the coalition and mapped out the capacity building assets and needs of
members. To foster collaboration, forge new partnerships, and recruit
new members into the Initiative, CRI members hosted regional events
throughout the year.

Under the leadership of Australia and Lithuania, the ICRTF focused its
work on building resilience against malicious cyber attacks through
international cooperation. Lithuania and Australia, as ICRTF co-chairs,
worked to develop governance for information sharing and increase
onboarding of members to the information sharing platforms led by
Lithuania and Belgium as well as Israel and UAE. These platforms will
allow members to easily share threat information and indicators of
compromise. In a project led by INTERPOL and Australia, a comparative
report was produced analyzing Ransomware Interventions and Remediation
in CRI members’ jurisdictions. Australia launched a website and member
portal so CRI members can easily share information and best practices,
foster collaboration, and use as a mechanism to request assistance from
the CRI community when experiencing a ransomware attack. The ICRTF
co-chairs presented a statement for members to join that calls for
responsible behavior in cyberspace and encourages members to hold
malicious actors accountable and deny them safe haven using all of the
cyber diplomacy and law enforcement tools at their disposal.

Canada established a new Public-Private Sector Advisory Panel to advise
and support CRI members in combating ransomware. This advisory panel
will catalyze effective information sharing, build trust through clear
expectations and person to person collaboration, and develop best
practices to navigate practical hurdles.

The Initiative also hosted its first-ever event dedicated to examining
the use of AI to counter ransomware attacks. Topics of discussion
included the use of AI to track threat actor use, AI for Software
Security, scenario planning around ransomware attacks on the healthcare
industry, and tools such as watermarking to counter disinformation.

Through the Initiative’s annual gathering as well as the dedicated work
and regional meetings occurring between each meeting, we commit to
working together at both a policy and operational level to counter
ransomware threats and hold perpetrators of these malicious attacks
accountable. CRI continues to call for responsible behavior in
cyberspace and encourage members to call out malicious acts, and we
remain committed to using all appropriate tools to achieve these goals,
and are jointly committed to the following actions in support of this
mission.

\###
