---
date: '2024-10-09'
modified_time: 2024-10-09 17:54:03-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-09 16:58:03-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/09/fact-sheet-hurricane-helene-recovery-continues-as-biden-harris-administration-prepares-for-hurricane-milton/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Hurricane Helene Recovery Continues as Biden-\u2060Harris Administration\
  \ Prepares for Hurricane\_Milton"
---
 
The Biden-Harris Administration continues to both make urgent and
life-saving preparations for Hurricane Milton and carry out response and
recovery efforts for communities impacted by Hurricane Helene.

Today, President Biden and Vice President Harris received a briefing
from members of their Administration about updates on the latest
forecast for Hurricane Milton, expected impacts for the State of
Florida, and the robust pre-landfall preparations underway. They also
received an update on the ongoing response to the impacts of Hurricane
Helene across the Southeast and Appalachia. President Biden will address
the Nation tonight regarding Hurricane Milton.

President Biden has spoken to Florida Governor Ron DeSantis, Tampa Mayor
Jane Castor, Clearwater Mayor Bruce Rector, and Pinellas County
Chairwoman Kathleen Peters to get firsthand reports on recovery efforts
for Hurricane Helene and to discuss preparations for Hurricane Milton.
The President told each of the officials to call him directly if they
need additional assistance on response and recovery efforts.

**More than 8,000 Federal personnel are on the ground across the
Southeast, including in Florida, to continue Hurricane Helene recovery
efforts and respond to the impacts of Hurricane Milton.**

At the direction of President Biden, FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell
will travel to Florida tonight to join the personnel on the ground and
ensure every Floridian gets the help they need when this storm passes.

Additional updates on our efforts for Hurricanes Milton and Helene
include:

**<u>Hurricane Milton Pre-Landfall Preparations</u>**

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Pre-Landfall Outreach and
Emergency Declarations</span>

President Biden granted pre-landfall emergency declarations for the
State of Florida and the Seminole Tribe of Florida for Hurricane Milton,
enabling FEMA to provide direct assistance to the state, local and
Tribal response, preposition supplies and response assets and mobilize
hundreds of personnel in the state, many of whom were already in place
supporting the Hurricane Helene response.

The White House has been in contact with more than 60 Florida officials
from all 51 counties that fall under the pre-landfall Emergency
Declaration approved by President Biden. We remain in close
communication with officials in the 16 cities and counties that will
likely be in the direct path of the storm.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Surging Resources and Personnel
to Florida</span>

FEMA has over 1,000 responders on the ground in Florida supporting
Hurricane Milton preparations and recovery efforts from previous
disasters. There are over 1,400 search and rescue personnel pre-staged
to support Hurricane Milton response efforts.

The U.S. Coast Guard has 1,300 personnel stationed in Florida ready to
immediately assist with life-saving and life sustaining search and
rescue operations throughout the State. The Coast Guard also has
personnel ready who will work directly with the U.S. Army Corps of
engineers to assess and open the critical lifeline of the Port of Tampa
as quickly as possible to ensure necessary supplies and fuel can start
to flow into the impacted areas again.

The State of Florida has activated over 6,000 members of the National
Guard and expects to bring on an additional 3,000 National Guard members
from Florida and other States to support State response activities.

The Federal government has pre-positioned resources to support local and
state response efforts ahead of Hurricane Milton. FEMA pre-staged seven
FEMA Incident Management Assistance Teams, eight federal Urban Search &
Rescue and swift water rescue teams, three U.S. Coast Guard Swift Water
Rescue teams, 10 HealthCare System Assessment Teams, two U.S Army Corps
of Engineers temporary power teams, debris experts, Environmental
Protection Agency wastewater experts, over 500 ambulances, 20
helicopters prepared to support media requirements following landfall,
and 60 High Water Vehicles with ladders from the Department of Defense.

Additionally, FEMA has five incident staging bases with commodities
including food and water. Right now, FEMA has 20 million meals and 40
million liters of water ready to deploy to address ongoing Helene and
Milton response efforts with capacity to expand as needed.

The Department of Defense is ready to support air search-and-rescue
efforts, support urban search-and-rescue teams, provide helicopters to
move personnel and equipment, and provide high water vehicles. The U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers is staged across the area of impact and is
prepared to support debris management, assessments of infrastructure and
water/wastewater facilities, temporary power installations, and
flood/water mitigation efforts.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Additional Efforts to Support
Pre-Landfall Preparations and Protect Communities</span>

The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) is leveraging
state-of-the-art technology to keep communities safe throughout the
southeast. NOAA’s fleet of “Hurricane Hunter” aircraft gather vital data
to help improve track and intensity forecasts, supporting the 24-7 work
of the National Weather Service (NWS). NWS provides the real-time,
accurate information that assists local meteorologists and emergency
operations leaders protect their communities and combat weather
misinformation. Additionally, data from reconnaissance planes and drones
used to survey damage following Hurricane Helene’s landfall will help us
better prepare for post-Milton recovery operations.

The Department of Energy’s Energy Response Organization remains
activated to respond to storm impacts. Via the Electricity Sub-Sector
Coordinating Council and Oil and Natural Gas Sub-Sector Coordinating
Council, the Department has been coordinating continuously with energy
sector partners on both the ongoing Hurricane Helene response and
potential impacts from Hurricane Milton.

The Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has notified local
public housing authorities and owners of its assisted multifamily and
heath care properties within the State of Florida to immediately
implement all appropriate safety protocols for residents and workers.
HUD is committed to ensuring that residents of its assisted homes and
properties receive critical information that can save lives during
extreme weather events. HUD is also conducting outreach and
communications on the programmatic flexibilities and waivers that can be
utilized to assist communities and survivors. Additionally, HUD is
working with communities, shelter operators and homelessness services
providers to prepare and support them—in collaboration with FEMA and
disaster assistance organizations such as the Red Cross—as they provide
life-saving assistance before and after the storm.

The Department of Health and Human Services’ Administration for
Strategic Preparedness and Response (ASPR) is assessing potential
critical supply chain disruptions following Hurricane Helene’s impact on
the IV solution supply chain. ASPR is coordinating with B Braun, an IV
solution manufacturer with a facility in Daytona Beach, Florida, to move
their product out of the path of the storm and facilitate other
activities that will mitigate potential impacts on future distribution.
ASPR and HHS partners are committed to continue working with public and
private partners to support the supply chain as facilities address
return to full operational capacity. ASPR is encouraging manufacturers,
wholesalers, and distributors to evaluate product allocation and
healthcare providers to implement product conservation strategies to
maximize available supply. ASPR is in communication with stakeholders to
reduce disruption and facilitate product allocation.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Protecting Impacts to Power and
Travel Infrastructure</span>

The Department of Transportation is deploying a Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA) Air Traffic Field Incident Response team to Florida
and pre-staging operations in Jacksonville to support any impacted
towers and airports. The team will work with the State and local
authorities and the Department of Defense within the established
Emergency Operations Center. The Department of Transportation is also
deploying the FAA Communication Support Team (CST), which plays a
critical role in restoring communications at impacted air traffic
management facilities. Specifically, the CST will set up Starlink and
Mobile Phone Bonding kits, which increase signal stability and data
throughout the region. The FAA Air Traffic Organization Technical
Operations Team is on-site and leading the restoration efforts for
communications at air traffic facilities. The FAA is placing aircraft on
standby to transport personnel from various agencies, mobilize
resources, and support damage assessments to infrastructure.

The FAA granted permission to the utility Florida Power & Light to use
large Teros drones to assist with damage assessments and power
restoration after Milton passes. These 1,800-pound drones can fly in
harsh conditions and operate in winds up to 70 mph before crewed
aircraft are able to fly.

The Department of Transportation’s Federal Highway Administration is
coordinating with the Florida Department of Transportation (FDOT) and is
prepared to rapidly process Emergency Relief (ER) funding requests from
FDOT. The ER program helps pay for long-term, permanent repairs, and
other immediate emergency repairs, such as protecting remaining
facilities and restoring essential traffic. It reimburses State, local,
federal, Tribal, and territorial governments for eligible expenses
associated with damage from natural disasters or other emergency
situations based on their requests.

**<u>Hurricane Helene Response and Recovery</u>**

The Department of Defense continues to support search-and-rescue
operations, route clearance, and commodities distribution across western
North Carolina with 1,500 active-duty troops. The Department of Defense
is also employing additional capabilities to assist with increasing
situational awareness across the remote terrain of Western North
Carolina. The Army Corps of Engineers continues missions supporting
temporary emergency power installations, infrastructure assessments, and
debris management oversight.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Mobilizing Financial Assistance
and Surging Additional Personnel and Resources</span>

Over $344 million in assistance has been provided to Hurricane Helene
survivors. President Biden approved a 100 percent Federal cost-share for
Florida, Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina and Tennessee to assist
in those States’ response efforts. In North Carolina alone, FEMA has
approved over $60 million in aid for more than 51,000 households.

FEMA personnel and other Federal partners, including FEMA’s Surge
Capacity Force, remain on the ground supporting impacted communities,
with over 17.2 million meals and 13.9 million liters of water delivered
and ensuring information is accessible, including resources in preferred
languages and ASL.

Over the course of the last two weeks, 1,000 Urban Search and Rescue
personnel have assisted over 3,200 survivors. FEMA Disaster Survivor
Assistance Teams are on the ground in neighborhoods in all
Helene-affected States helping survivors apply for assistance and
connecting them with additional State, local, Federal and voluntary
agency resources.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Supporting Infrastructure
Recovery</span>

The U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Highway Administration
announced over $130 million in Quick Release Emergency Relief funding to
support North Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee. The funding
represents a down payment to address the immediate needs to restore
vital transportation systems in these states. Additional funding will
flow to affected communities from the Emergency Relief program.

The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) worked with partners to ensure
the national airspace returned to steady state operations and all
airports across impacted states reopened. The FAA’s Security and
Hazardous Materials Safety Communication Support Team was deployed to
restore communications to impacted airports, including delivering
satellite communications kits to the Asheville Regional Airport in North
Carolina and ongoing work at Valdosta Regional Airport in Georgia. The
FAA Air Traffic Organization Technical Operations Team is on-site and
leading communications restoration efforts at air traffic facilities.
FAA also supported FEMA with two aircrafts to conduct flyover
assessments and transport emergency personnel and gear, such as
satellite communications kits.

Additionally, the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration issued
Regional Emergency Declarations for Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, North
Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia, and West Virginia. This
Declaration affords emergency regulatory relief from Federal Motor
Carrier Safety regulations, including maximum driving time for property-
and passenger-carrying vehicles from the date of declaration. This
allows truck drivers to get essential supplies to affected areas. The
FMCSA Regional Declaration eliminates the need for each individual state
to request a 14-day extension and allows FMCSA the ability to manage one
declaration that includes all eight states and does not expire until
October 27.

NOAA continues to support post-disaster imagery flights following
Hurricane Helene, already totaling over 68 flight hours during 20
flights, including over western North Carolina. NOAA is currently
repositioning to support Florida and the impacts of Hurricane Milton.
NOAA’s aerial imagery captures damage to coastal areas caused by a storm
and aids safe navigation. Aerial imagery is a crucial tool to determine
the extent of the damage from flooding, and to compare baseline coastal
areas to assess the damage to major ports and waterways, coastlines,
critical infrastructure, and coastal communities. This imagery not only
supports FEMA and the broader response community, but the public at
large.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Supporting Students and Student
Loan Borrowers</span>

The U.S. Department of Education is lifting up a series of resources for
students, families, and borrowers impacted by these hurricanes. These
resources include guidance, in person support, technical assistance, and
peer-to-peer connections for state and local leaders; resources for
recovery needs such as mental health support for students and educators;
flexibilities to help institutions of higher education continue to
manage the Federal financial aid programs; and automatically enrolling
affected borrowers with missed payments into a natural disaster
forbearance. Thanks to regulations issued by the Biden-Harris
Administration, this forbearance will count toward Public Service Loan
Forgiveness (PSLF) and income-driven repayment forgiveness.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Providing Financial
Flexibilities to Homeowners and Taxpayers</span>

The Department of Housing and Urban Development is providing a 90-day
moratorium on foreclosures of mortgages insured by the Federal Housing
Administration (FHA) as well as foreclosures of mortgages to Native
American borrowers guaranteed under the Section 184 Indian Home Loan
Guarantee program. The moratorium and extension are effective as of the
President’s disaster declaration date in each state. When homes are
destroyed or damaged to an extent that reconstruction or complete
replacement is necessary, HUD’s Section 203(h) program provides FHA
insurance to disaster victims. Borrowers from participating FHA approved
lenders are eligible for 100 percent financing including closing
costs. HUD’s Section 203(k) loan program enables individuals to finance
the purchase or refinance of a house, along with its repair, through a
single mortgage. Homeowners can also finance the rehabilitation of their
existing homes if damaged. FHA is coordinating and collaborating with
the Federal Housing Finance Agency, Department of Veterans Affairs and
the Department of Agriculture to ensure consistent messaging and
policies for single family loans regarding foreclosure moratoriums and
repayment/arrearage agreements. Additionally, affected homeowners that
have mortgages through Government-Sponsored Enterprises – including
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac – and the FHA are eligible to suspend their
mortgage payments through a forbearance plan for up to 12 months.

The Internal Revenue Service announced disaster tax relief for all
individuals and businesses affected by Hurricane Helene, including the
entire states of Alabama, Georgia, North Carolina and South Carolina and
parts of Florida, Tennessee and Virginia. Taxpayers in these areas now
have until May 1, 2025, to file various federal individual and business
tax returns and make tax payments. In addition, the Internal Revenue
Service is providing more than 1,000 employees to help with FEMA
disaster relief call lines and intake initial information to help
disaster victims get federal relief. IRS Criminal Investigation agents
are also on the ground in devastated areas to help with search and
rescue efforts and other relief work – including assisting with
door-to-door search efforts.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Protecting Public Health</span>

The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services activated the Emergency
Prescription Assistance Program for North Carolina to aid uninsured
residents in replacing prescription medicines or certain medical
equipment lost or damaged in Hurricane Helene.

The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency is working closely with state
and local officials to restore drinking water service in North Carolina
and across the Southeast as well as provide assistance in debris and
hazardous waste clean-up efforts.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Supporting Workers and Worker
Safety</span>

The U.S. Department of Labor announced initial emergency grant funding
to Florida to support disaster-relief jobs and training services to help
respond to Hurricane Helene. Additional grant funding for North Carolina
is forthcoming. The National Dislocated Worker Grant – supported by the
Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act of 2014 – allows the Florida
Department of Commerce to provide people with temporary disaster-relief
jobs and the delivery of humanitarian assistance to address immediate,
basic needs for those displaced by Hurricane Helene. The funding also
enables the state to provide training and services to individuals in the
affected communities.

Working alongside the Department of Labor, the States of Florida, North
Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee have all announced that eligible
workers can receive federal Disaster Unemployment Assistance to
compensate for income lost directly resulting from Hurricane Helene.
And, through the Department of Labor’s innovative partnership with the
U.S. Postal Service, displaced workers from North Carolina and South
Carolina can now go to the post office in any other state and verify
their ID for purposes of getting their benefits quickly.

The Department of Labor is also working alongside on-the-ground
personnel providing disaster relief, recovery, and rebuilding to prevent
additional workplace disasters. This includes producing a worker safety
training resource for resilience workers in Florida who are continuing
to clear debris, rebuild infrastructure, and prepare for Hurricane
Milton. This also includes activating the Wage and Hours Division
Natural Disaster outreach, education and strategic enforcement program
to provide employers and workers with the information they need to
ensure everyone is paid correctly under the law.

\###
