---
date: '2024-10-06'
published_time: 2024-10-06 14:11:47-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/06/fact-sheet-update-biden-harris-administration-sparing-no-resource-to-support-communities-impacted-by-hurricane-helene/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: UPDATE: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Sparing No Resource\
  \ to Support Communities Impacted by Hurricane\_Helene"
---
 
*President Biden ordered 500 additional active-duty troops to support
on-the-ground efforts; 1,500 troops now mobilized to assist National
Guard and Federal personnel*

Under President Biden and Vice President Harris’s direction, the
Administration continues to mobilize a robust, intensive, and
whole-of-government response to the impacts of Hurricane Helene. As
life-saving response efforts continue in heavily impacted areas, the
Administration is also working to ensure communities across the
Southeast have prompt access to Federal resources that will enable them
to both purchase essential items and begin their road to recovery and
rebuilding.

**Today, in response to North Carolina Governor Roy Cooper’s request for
additional support, President Biden ordered that another
500 active-duty troops move into Western North Carolina. **With a total
of 1,500 troops now supplementing a robust on-the-ground effort –
including more than 6,100 National Guardsmen and more than 7,000 Federal
personnel – the Biden-Harris Administration is mobilizing all relevant
resources to support families as they begin their road to rebuilding.

**The Administration has already helped thousands of Hurricane Helene
survivors jumpstart their recoveries with more than $137 million
in Federal assistance – with more to come. **Over the last several days,
the Administration has contacted nearly 450 state, city, and county
officials in impacted states to ensure they have the support and
resources they need. 

The Administration is committed to ensuring that all communities receive
accurate information that is essential to their recovery. The
Administration, including FEMA, has been tracking and combatting the
significant amount of [false information circulating online related to
the Federal
response ](https://www.fema.gov/disaster/current/hurricane-helene/rumor-response)–
which can discourage people from seeking critical and
life-saving assistance. The Administration is [actively working
to identify
and combat](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/05/interested-parties-memo-fighting-hurricane-helene-falsehoods-with-facts/) this
misinformation and disinformation and support survivors in every
possible way. 

President Biden and Vice President Harris have traveled throughout the
Southeast this week to meet with impacted communities and, during their
travels, have reaffirmed that the Administration will be with impacted
communities every step of the way, no matter how long it takes, to
ensure they have the support and resources they need to recover and
rebuild. While there is a long way to go on the road to full recovery
and rebuilding, Republican and Democratic leaders from across the
country have praised the Administration’s well-coordinated response and
surge of resources in the aftermath of Helene’s landfall – including
South Carolina Governor Henry McMaster, Georgia Governor Brian Kemp,
Virginia Governor Glenn Youngkin, North Carolina Governor Roy Cooper,
South Carolina Senator Lindsey Graham, and Asheville Mayor
Esther Manheimer.

Additionally, the Federal government is closely monitoring Tropical
Storm Milton in the Gulf of Mexico, which has the potential to have
significant impacts along the West coast of the Florida Peninsula by
mid-next week. Residents in Florida should remain alert, listen to local
officials, and make additional preparations as needed.

Additional updates on the Federal response include: 

**Active-Duty Service Members Delivering Life-Saving Supplies to North
Carolinians**

In response to North Carolina Governor Roy Cooper’s request for
additional support, today President Biden directed another 500
troops move into Western North Carolina. These troops have advanced
technological assets to provide greater situational awareness on the
ground and will assist with future resource planning across the region.
These additional 500 troops supplement the nearly 1,000 soldiers from
Fort Liberty, North Carolina, and Fort Campbell,
Kentucky, who have already been mobilized through the Department of
Defense and in coordination with FEMA to support the residents and
affected counties in Western North Carolina.

In support of the state and North Carolina National Guard, these
active-duty troops are focusing their efforts on moving valuable
commodities—like food and water—to distribution sites, getting those
commodities to survivors in areas that are hard to reach. They are also
working on road stabilization and route clearance activities. 

In addition, the Department of Defense is providing rotary wing assets
from the Army and Navy for personnel movement and commodity distribution
across the affected region. Fixed and rotary wing assets from the Air
Force are conducting search and rescue activities.  

The US Army Corps of Engineers has established 12 Emergency Operations
Centers across the southeast, with three in North Carolina. The Army
Corps of Engineers also has emergency power teams conducting assessments
in North Carolina and Georgia as well as water/wastewater assessments,
bridge and road inspections, and debris removal efforts in North
Carolina and Florida.

Over 6,000 National Guard personnel from 18 States are spearheading the
response effort across the impacted region, providing critical
life-saving and life-sustaining support to the victims of this
unprecedented natural disaster.  

**Supporting On-The-Ground Response Efforts**

The Biden-Harris Administration is actively working alongside state,
local and Tribal partners to assess damage and support those affected by
the disaster. 

The Federal government has already helped thousands of Hurricane Helene
survivors jumpstart their recoveries with more than $137 million in
federal assistance. More than 7,000 personnel from across the Federal
workforce are deployed, including U.S. Forest Service Saw Teams to help
clear debris in remote areas. To date, FEMA has shipped over 14.9
million meals, more than 13.9 million liters of water, more than 505,000
tarps to the region, and installed 157 generators at critical facilities
such as hospitals and water treatment plants.

President Biden has approved 100 percent Federal cost share for Florida,
Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Virginia. This
means that the Federal government will cover 100 percent of the costs
associated with things like debris removal, first responders, search and
rescue, shelters, and mass feeding.

Disaster survivors in certain areas of Georgia, Florida, North Carolina,
South Carolina, Tennessee, and Virginia can begin their recovery process
by applying for federal assistance through FEMA. People with damage to
their homes or personal property who live in the designated areas should
apply for assistance, which may include upfront funds to help with
essential items like food, water, baby formula, breastfeeding supplies
and other emergency supplies. Funds may also be available to repair
storm-related damage to homes and personal property, as well as
assistance to find a temporary place to stay. Homeowners and renters
with damage to their home or personal property from previous disasters,
whether they received FEMA funds or not, are still eligible to apply for
and receive assistance for Hurricane Helene.   

**  
Repairing Roads and Re-Establishing Critical Routes **

The U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Highway Administration
(FHWA) [announced](https://www.transportation.gov/briefing-room/biden-harris-administration-sends-north-carolina-100-million-emergency-relief-funding) the
immediate availability of $100 million in Emergency Relief funds for the
North Carolina Department of Transportation to help pay for the costs of
immediate emergency work resulting from Hurricane Helene flood
damage. The Department
also [announced](https://www.transportation.gov/briefing-room/biden-harris-administration-sends-tennessee-32-million-emergency-relief-funding-roads) $32
million for the Tennessee Department of Transportation. This is
in addition to the $2 million
[announced](https://highways.dot.gov/newsroom/biden-harris-administration-sends-south-carolina-2-million-emergency-relief-funding-roads)
for use by the South Carolina Department of Transportation.

These funds will allow the states to act more quickly to fund eligible
repairs to their damaged facilities. FHWA’s Emergency Relief program
provides funding to states, territories, Tribes, and Federal Land
Management Agencies for highways and bridges damaged by natural
disasters or catastrophic events. These Emergency Relief funds, provided
through the “quick release” process, are an initial installment of funds
toward restoring this essential transportation link. Additional funds
needed to repair damage will be supported by the Emergency Relief
program through nationwide funding allocations.

**Restoring Power and Critical Communications **

As of this morning, approximately 384,000 customers are without power,
down more than 91 percent from the region-wide peak of 4.6 million on
September 27. At least 50,000 personnel from 41 states, the District of
Columbia, and Canada are responding to power outages in the Southeast
and Appalachia.

Additionally, FirstNet, an independent agency within the U.S. Department
of Commerce’s National Telecommunications and Information
Administration, has been instrumental in providing critical
communication support during Hurricane Helene. The FirstNet Response
Operations Group deployed 19 SatCOLTs (light trucks with mounted
cellular towers) and numerous portable cellular sites to the hardest-hit
areas, including North Carolina, Georgia, South Carolina, and Florida.
So far, FirstNet has provided cell service and internet access to over
75,000 first responders and survivors affected by the storm, while power
and connectivity is being restored.

**Calling on Congress to Provide More Disaster Assistance to
Communities **

President Biden [wrote a
letter](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/04/letter-to-congress-on-disaster-needs/) to
Congressional leaders calling on them to provide more funding for
disaster relief efforts. President Biden warned that most urgently, the
Small Business Administration’s (SBA) disaster loan program will run out
of funding in a matter of weeks and well before the Congress is planning
to reconvene. Small businesses and individuals in affected areas depend
on disaster loans as a critical lifeline during difficult times. In
fact, for individual disaster survivors, SBA loans are often the largest
source of Federal disaster recovery funds. Renters and homeowners use
these loans to repair and rebuild their homes as well as replace or
repair damaged property including their personal vehicles, while
businesses use them to cover basic operating expenses. President Biden
urged the Congress to restore this funding immediately. SBA is already
receiving over 3,000 loan applications a day from people affected by
Hurricane Helene.

The President also warned that, while FEMA’s Disaster Relief Fund has
the resources it requires right now to meet immediate needs, the fund
does face a shortfall at the end of the year. Without additional
funding, FEMA would be required to forego longer-term recovery
activities in favor of meeting urgent needs. He called on the Congress
to provide FEMA additional resources to avoid forcing that kind of
unnecessary trade-off and to give the communities we serve the certainty
of knowing that help will be ongoing, both for the short- and long-term.

**Administration’s Ongoing Response Efforts Supplement Significant
Pre-Landfall Preparations**

The Biden-Harris Administration took significant steps and made
extensive preparations prior to Helene making landfall. Two days in
advance of Helene making landfall on September 26, the Administration
began preparations in coordination with State and local partners. 

On September 24, FEMA stood up their National Response Coordination
Center (NRCC) at FEMA Headquarters in Washington, D.C., charged with
monitoring the storm’s track and coordinating national-level emergency
response teams. FEMA Region V also activated its Regional Response
Coordination Center in Atlanta on September 24, gathering personnel to
monitor the storm on the ground close to the anticipated impact and
begin planning a response and deployed Incident Management Teams to
state Emergency Operations Centers in the storm’s path to coordinate and
speed Federal support to response operations.

At the President’s direction, 1,500 Federal personnel were deployed to
the region, including 14 Urban Search and Rescue teams (940 personnel)
to potentially affected states, including eight teams to Florida; two
teams to Georgia; and four teams to North Carolina and FEMA setup up an
incident support base in coordination with the 42d Air Base Wing at
Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama. 

The Federal government pre-staged in the region:

-   More than 2.7 million meals, 1.6 million liters of water, 50,000
    tarps, 10,000 cots, and 20,000 blankets to support sheltering needs
    in impacted communities;
-   Tanker trucks with 70,000 gallons of diesel fuel and 40,000 gallons
    of gasoline to surge to impacted communities once the storm passed
    to help alleviate any fuel shortages; and;
-   Hundreds of ambulances to assist with the movement of any patients
    out of impacted hospitals or other facilities.

In advance of landfall, President Biden approved five Governors’
Emergency Declaration requests for Alabama, Florida, Georgia, North
Carolina, and South Carolina prior to Helene’s landfall. He also
immediately approved Emergency Declaration requests that the Governors
of Tennessee and Virginia submitted shortly after landfall. These
declarations authorized FEMA to reimburse State and local jurisdictions
for costs incurred for pre-storm emergency measures including:
evacuating and sheltering residents, search and rescue operations,
sandbagging, covering costs associated with Emergency Operation Centers,
and first responder activation.

\###
