---
date: '2024-10-24'
modified_time: 2024-10-23 21:54:09-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-24 06:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/24/statement-from-national-economic-advisor-lael-brainard-on-national-security-memorandum-nsm-on-artificial-intelligence-ai/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from National Economic Advisor Lael Brainard on National Security\
  \ Memorandum (NSM) on Artificial Intelligence\_(AI)"
---
 
Today, the President is issuing the first-ever National Security
Memorandum (NSM) on Artificial Intelligence (AI). The fundamental
premise is that AI will have significant implications for national
security. The AI NSM sets out goals to enable the US Government to
harness cutting-edge AI technologies, and to advance international
consensus and governance around AI.

In addition, there are implications for economic policy. The AI National
Security Memorandum establishes that retaining US leadership in the most
advanced AI models will be vital for our national security in coming
years. The US lead today on the most advanced AI models reflects several
important US economic strengths: our innovative private sector, the
ability to develop and source world class talent, strengths in advanced
semiconductor design, dynamic capital allocation, and abundant compute
power.

We should not take those strengths for granted in the future. Indeed, we
are all familiar with past instances when we saw critical technologies
and supply chains that were developed and commercialized here in the US
migrate offshore for lack of critical public sector support. That is why
we are laser focused on maintaining the strongest AI ecosystem in the
world here in the United States. The NSM directs the National Economic
Council to coordinate an economic assessment of the relative competitive
advantage of the US private sector AI ecosystem.

Sustaining US preeminence in frontier AI into the future will require
strong domestic foundations in semiconductors, infrastructure, and clean
energy—including the large datacenters that provide computing resources.
The private sector is already making significant investments in AI
innovation, and now we’re making sure the government is moving quickly
on policy changes and the support necessary to enable rapid AI
infrastructure growth over the next several years. The historic
Biden-Harris investment laws will be critical enablers.

Developing AI systems will require a large volume of the most advanced
semiconductors. The CHIPS and Science Act is enabling major investments
here in the US for the fabrication of the leading-edge semiconductors
that are critical to AI frontier models, in close proximity to
world-class chips designers and downstream customers.

One of the most pressing needs is the rapid growth in computational
power for the training and operation of frontier AI models. AI
datacenters will need to run on clean energy and in order to meet their
needs we will need to accelerate the deployment of transmission and
clean energy projects. We will meet these needs while keeping
residential electricity costs low and meeting our climate goals.
Fortunately, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and the clean energy
provisions of the Inflation Reduction Act have given us a good
foundation to build on. We are committed to helping navigate permitting
processes across the federal government, and working with states and
localities. We took a step towards supporting these goals with the Task
Force on AI Datacenter Infrastructure that we launched last month. And
we have seen a number of recent announcements of companies investing in
projects that will bring new clean energy online to power AI data
centers.

Having the right workforce and talent will also play a key role in
developing large-scale AI datacenters. This will range from AI experts
to pipefitters and electrical workers. We are taking action to ensure AI
infrastructure creates good jobs, while investing in our workforce to
enable American workers to drive innovation.

Of course, all of these efforts must be governed by the critical
guardrails established last year by the Executive Order on Safe, Secure,
and Trustworthy Artificial Intelligence and commitments we secured last
year from leading AI companies to manage the risks posed by AI. Today’s
NSM is just the latest step in a series of actions thanks to the
leadership and diplomatic engagement of the President and Vice
President, and there will be additional steps taken in the coming months
to further support US leadership in AI.

\###
