---
date: '2024-10-07'
published_time: 2024-10-07 15:31:24-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/07/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administrations-pre-landfall-preparations-for-hurricane-milton/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration\u2019s Pre-Landfall Preparations\
  \ for Hurricane\_Milton"
---
 
Hurricane Milton is forecasted to impact the Western coast of the
Florida peninsula this week. As communities across the Southeast –
including in Florida – continue their [road to recovery and
rebuilding](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/06/fact-sheet-update-biden-harris-administration-sparing-no-resource-to-support-communities-impacted-by-hurricane-helene/)
after Hurricane Helene, the Biden-Harris Administration is mobilizing
additional resources and personnel to prepare for the impacts of this
new major storm.  
  
**The Federal government is preparing to support affected communities
wherever and whenever needed.** Preparedness efforts are underway in
conjunction with state and local partners. Together we stand ready to
respond to any potential impacts on communities.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**FEMA has sufficient funding
to both support the response to Hurricane Milton and continue to support
the response to Hurricane Helene**– including funding to support first
responders and provide immediate assistance to disaster
survivors.</span>  
  
**Today, President Biden quickly approved the Governor of Florida’s
request for an emergency declaration.** Under an emergency declaration,
FEMA provides direct Federal support to states for life-saving
activities and other emergency protective measures, such as evacuation,
sheltering, and search and rescue.  
  
President Biden was first briefed yesterday on Hurricane Milton’s
potential impacts to the Florida Gulf Coast and the work FEMA is doing
to preposition life-saving resources in advance of the storm. He is also
receiving another briefing today from Homeland Security Advisor Liz
Sherwood-Randall.  
  
The Administration has been in touch with officials from the State of
Florida, as well as more than 15 local officials in cities and counties
along the likely path of impact, to ensure needs are met in advance of
the storm. FEMA has been coordinating closely with Tampa Mayor Jane
Castor’s team ahead of FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell’s visit to
Tampa today. The Administration has also reached out to state officials
in South Carolina and Georgia and will continue outreach efforts based
on Hurricane Milton’s latest trajectory.  
  
Florida residents are urged to stay alert, listen to local officials,
and make additional preparations as needed.  
  
Pre-landfall actions taken thus far include:  
  
**Pre-Positioning Resources and Personnel**  
  
The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration is flying Hurricane
Hunters into the current storm to gather data to models and help hone
prediction of the storm’s track and timing.  
  
FEMA has pre-staged personnel and resources in Florida and the region,
including six FEMA Incident Management Assistance Teams, five FEMA Urban
Search & Rescue teams, three U.S. Coast Guard Swift Water Rescue teams,
four HealthCare System Assessment Teams, two U.S Army Corps of Engineers
(USACE) temporary power teams, USACE debris experts, Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) and wastewater experts, 300 ambulances and 30
High Water Vehicles with ladders from the Department of Defense.  
  
Additionally, FEMA has two incident staging bases with commodities
including food and water. Right now, FEMA currently has 20 million meals
and 40 million liters of water in the pipeline to deploy as needed used
to address ongoing Helene and Milton response efforts with capacity to
expand as needed.  
  
Currently, a total of nearly 900 staff are already supporting recovery
efforts based out of the Joint Field Office in Tallahassee and operating
across the designated counties for hurricanes Helene, Debby and Idalia.
This includes over 440 supporting Hurricane Helene recovery, over 300
supporting Hurricane Debby recovery, and over 100 supporting Hurricane
Idalia recovery.  
  
**Expediting Debris Removal in Florida**  
  
Debris remaining from the impacts of Hurricane Helene poses additional
threats to lives and livelihoods if another storm occurs. FEMA is
supporting the State of Florida to expedite the removal of debris from
Hurricane Helene in the Tampa region in advance of Hurricane Milton’s
landfall.  
  
FEMA is providing all flexibility available for reimbursement for debris
removal activities, to help the State take whatever action is required
to speed debris removal before Milton’s landfall. To that end, FEMA is
supporting Florida in surging additional resources to the Tampa area to
get as much debris picked up as possible. State-run debris management
sites are open 24 hours a day, and contracted trucks can deliver debris
to those sites around the clock.     
The Governor of Florida has additionally activated 4,000 State
active-duty National Guard, many of whom will help with debris removal.

**Pre-Landfall Preparations Supplement Ongoing Helene Response**  
  
The Administration continues to mobilize a [whole-of-government
response](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/06/fact-sheet-update-biden-harris-administration-sparing-no-resource-to-support-communities-impacted-by-hurricane-helene/)
to the impacts of Hurricane Helene. Yesterday, President Biden
[ordered](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/06/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-hurricane-helene-response/)
another 500 active-duty troops with advanced technological assets to
move into Western North Carolina and assist with the response and
recovery efforts. With a total of 1,500 troops now supplementing a
robust on-the-ground effort – including more than 6,100 National Guards
and more than 7,000 Federal personnel – the Administration is sparing no
resource to support families as they begin their road to rebuilding.  
  
The Administration has already helped thousands of Hurricane Helene
survivors jumpstart their recoveries with more than $210 million in
Federal assistance – and there is more to come. Over the last several
days, the Administration has contacted nearly 450 state, city, and
county officials in impacted States to ensure they have the support and
resources they need. To date, FEMA has shipped over 15.6 million meals,
more than 13.9 million liters of water, more than 505,000 tarps to the
region, and installed 157 generators at critical facilities such as
hospitals and water treatment plants.

\###
