---
date: '2024-10-15'
modified_time: 2024-10-15 11:49:38-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-15 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/15/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-boards-and-commissions-41/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to Boards and\_Commissions"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to appoint
the following individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Michael Guest, to be a Member of the Commission on Reform and
    Modernization of the Department of State
-   Pamela Spratlen, to be a Member of the Commission on Reform and
    Modernization of the Department of State
-   Caroline Tess, to be a Member of the Commission on Reform and
    Modernization of the Department of State
-   Ricardo Zuniga, to be a Member of the Commission on Reform and
    Modernization of the Department of State
-   Kimberly Stegmaier, to be a Member of the National Cancer Advisory
    Board
-   Joan Ferrini-Mundy, to be a Member of the National Science Board
-   Yolanda Gil, to be a Member of the National Science Board
-   Juan Gilbert, to be a Member of the National Science Board
-   Jeffrey A. Isaacson, to be a Member of the National Science Board
-   Willie E. May, to be a Member of the National Science Board
-   Alondra Nelson, to be a Member of the National Science Board
-   Sarah O’Donnell, to be a Member of the National Science Board
-   Ryan Panchadsaram, to be a Member of the National Science Board

**<u>Commission on Reform and Modernization of the Department of
State</u>**

The Commission on Reform and Modernization of the Department of State,
established by Congress, will advise the President and Congress on
changes the Department of State can undertake to respond to modern
challenges to diplomacy in the 21<sup>st</sup> century. The Commission’s
recommendations will aim to improve the Department’s structural
organization, revamp training requirements for personnel, and improve
facilities and embassies around the world. These appointees will join 12
other individuals appointed to the Commission by Members of Congress.

**Michael Guest, to be a Member of the Commission on Reform and
Modernization of the Department of State**

Michael Guest retired from the Department of State in 2007 following 26
years as a career member of the U.S Foreign Service. In Washington,
Guest held a number of leadership positions focused on State Department
management issues, including Deputy Executive Secretary, Principal
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs, and Dean of the
Leadership and Management School. His overseas tours of duty included
service as Ambassador to Romania and Deputy Chief of Mission in the
Czech Republic. Across his career, Guest received nine Department of
State professional achievement awards, including the Charles E. Cobb
Award for Initiative and Success in Trade Development and the Christian
A. Herter Award for Constructive Senior-Level Policy Dissent.
Post-retirement, Guest returned briefly to diplomatic service in 2010 to
lead the U.S. Delegation to the Human Rights Review Conference of the
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, held in Warsaw,
Poland. He also served two terms as a presidential appointee on the
National Security Education Board and on the Department of State Agency
Review Team for the presidential transitions of both President-elect
Obama and President-elect Biden. Guest currently is a consultant to
MidEuropa, a leading private equity investor with deep roots in Central
Europe. He and his husband, Alexander Nevarez, reside in Miami, Florida.

**Pamela Spratlen, to be a Member of the Commission on Reform and
Modernization of the Department of State**

Pamela L. Spratlen is an advisor, public speaker, and former diplomat
who served for nearly three decades (1990-2019) as a career member of
the U.S. Foreign Service. Her tours spanned from Latin America to
Western Europe to Russia and Central Asia, and she served as U.S.
Ambassador to the Kyrgyz Republic and to the Republic of Uzbekistan. She
was lauded for her many efforts to improve diplomatic relations,
strengthen human rights, and reinforce regional security. In Washington,
she served as Country Director for Western Europe and for Central Asia,
Acting Deputy Assistant Secretary in the Bureau of South and Central
Asian Affairs, and in the Office of the Inspector General. Spratlen
returned to the Department in 2021 to coordinate a special project on
employee health incidents that had raised national security concerns.
She now serves as a member and leader on non-profit organization boards
that address foreign affairs issues, including the American Academy of
Diplomacy and the Association of Black American Ambassadors. She chairs
the Board of Trustees of the Eurasia Foundation, as well as the Una
Chapman Cox (UCC) Foundation Policy Council that advises UCC Foundation
trustees on grants to support innovation at the Department of State.
Spratlen is also an advisor to and supporter of programs intended to
expand diversity across foreign affairs agencies. Spratlen was born in
Columbus, Ohio and grew up in California and Washington state. She now
lives in Northern Virginia.

**Caroline Tess, to be a Member of the Commission on Reform and
Modernization of the Department of State**

Caroline Tess is the Executive Director of National Security Action, an
organization dedicated to advancing American global leadership. She is
also a real estate investor, adjunct professor, board member, and mom.
In 2020, she served on the Biden-Harris Transition, where she led the
team responsible for the confirmation of national security cabinet
secretaries. A recognized leader on national security, Congress, and
Latin America policy, Tess served as Special Assistant to President
Obama and Senior Director for Legislative Affairs at the National
Security Council. In addition to her time at the White House, Tess
served as a Deputy Assistant Secretary at the Department of State and as
a Senior Advisor at the U.S. Mission to the United Nations. She
previously worked on Capitol Hill for more than seven years, serving on
the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, as well as Senator Harry
Reid’s leadership staff and in the office of Senator Bill Nelson. Tess
received her M.S. in Foreign Service from Georgetown University and her
B.A. in Latin American Studies from the University of California,
Berkeley.

**Ricardo Zuniga, to be a Member of the Commission on Reform and
Modernization of the Department of State**

Ricardo Zuniga is a founding partner of Dinámica Americas, a strategic
advisory firm. He previously served as a career member of the U.S.
Senior Foreign Service for 30 years across multiple roles, including
Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Western Hemisphere
Affairs, U.S. Special Envoy for the Northern Triangle, and U.S. Consul
General in São Paulo, Brazil. Zuniga was detailed from the Department of
State to serve as Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director
for Western Hemisphere Affairs at the National Security Council from
2012 to 2015, advising President Obama, Vice President Biden, and other
senior officials on developments in the Americas. Prior to that role, he
served overseas tours in Mexico, Portugal, Cuba, Spain, and Brazil and
worked in Washington, D.C. in the Bureau of African Affairs and in the
Bureau of Intelligence and Research. Zuniga currently is a member of the
Department of State’s Foreign Affairs Policy Board, the Woodrow Wilson
Center’s Latin America Program Advisory Board and Brazil Institute
Advisory Council, and the board of the Digital Democracy Institute of
the Americas. Zuniga received a B.A. in Foreign Affairs from the
University of Virginia. He is married and has two daughters.

**<u>National Cancer Advisory Board</u>**

The National Cancer Advisory Board plays an important role in guiding
the Director of the National Cancer Institute in setting the course for
the national cancer research program. The National Cancer Advisory Board
will complement the Cancer Moonshot, which President Biden reignited to
end cancer as we know it – including by making sure his Administration
is investing in research and development that will help advance
breakthroughs to prevent, detect, and treat diseases like cancer.

**Kimberly Stegmaier, to be a Member of the National Cancer Advisory
Board**

Kimberly Stegmaier, MD, Professor of Pediatrics at Harvard Medical
School, and the Ted Williams Investigator at Dana-Farber Cancer
Institute, has pioneered the development and application of innovative
genomic approaches to identify new therapies for childhood cancer. Her
lab has discovered novel technologies, concepts, and targets with
translational impact. Stegmaier is the Vice Chair for Pediatric Oncology
Research, Co-Director of the Pediatric Hematologic Malignancy Program,
and provides clinical care in pediatric oncology at the Dana-Farber
Cancer Institute and Boston Children’s Hospital. Stegmaier is an
Institute Member of the Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT where she
serves on the Cancer Program’s Scientific Advisory Committee, and she is
a Board Member of the American Association for Cancer Research.
Stegmaier is the recipient of numerous awards, such as the Joanne Levy,
MD, Memorial Award for Outstanding Achievement from the American Society
of Hematology, a Stand Up To Cancer (SU2C) Innovative Research Grant, an
E. Mead Johnson Award for Research in Pediatrics, and an NCI Outstanding
Investigator R35 Award. She was elected to the American Society of
Clinical Investigation and the Association of American Physicians. Her
deep commitment to training the next generation of researchers has been
recognized with the A. Clifford Barger Excellence in Mentoring Award
from Harvard Medical School and the Casty Family Achievement in
Mentoring Award from the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute. Stegmaier
received her undergraduate degree from Duke University, medical degree
from Harvard Medical School, and trained in Pediatrics and Pediatric
Hematology/Oncology at Boston Children’s Hospital and the Dana-Farber
Cancer Institute.

**<u>National Science Board</u>**

The National Science Board and the Director of the National Science
Foundation (NSF) jointly pursue the goals and function of the NSF,
including the duty to “recommend and encourage the pursuit of national
policies for the promotion of research and education in science and
engineering.” The Board establishes the policies of NSF within the
framework of applicable national policies set forth by the President and
the Congress. In this capacity, the Board identifies issues that are
critical to NSF’s future, approves NSF’s strategic budget directions and
the annual budget submission to the Office of Management and Budget, and
approves new major programs and awards. The Board also serves as an
independent body of advisors to both the President and the Congress on
policy matters related to science and engineering and education in
science and engineering. In addition to major reports, the Board also
publishes occasional policy papers or statements on issues of importance
to U.S. science and engineering. The Board is made up of 24 members
appointed by the President and the NSF Director, who serves as an ex
officio member. Members serve six-year terms.

**Joan Ferrini-Mundy, to be a Member of the National Science Board**

Joan Ferrini-Mundy is the 21st President of the University of Maine
(UMaine) and its regional campus, the University of Maine at Machias,
and the Vice Chancellor for Research and Innovation for the University
of Maine System. 

During her six years as President, Ferrini-Mundy has introduced changes
and efforts to position UMaine as a leader in advancing Maine’s
workforce and economy, with focus on inclusion, learner success, and the
integration of learning and research. In early 2022, UMaine achieved R1
Carnegie classification under her leadership. Ferrini-Mundy is
Co-Principal Investigator of a transformative and historic $320 million
grant from the Harold Alfond Foundation to improve student experiences
and educational opportunities of the people of Maine and beyond. She has
overseen extensive capital improvement, including completion of the
Ferland Engineering Education and Design Center, new facilities for
soccer and field hockey, and an on-campus hotel developed through a
public-private partnership.

Ferrini-Mundy is an active leader nationally and in Maine. She was
appointed to the President’s Committee on the National Medal of Science
by President Biden, serves on the National Academies Board on Higher
Education and the Workforce, and is Chair-elect of the Association of
Public and Land-Grant Universities’ Council of Presidents. She continues
her leadership in mathematics education as past Chair of the Conference
Board of the Mathematical Sciences and a member of the Transforming
Post-Secondary Education in Mathematics board. In Maine, she chairs the
Maine Innovation Economy Advisory Board and serves on the boards of the
Bangor Region Chamber of Commerce, Maine & Co., and Maine Public. 

**Yolanda Gil, to be a Member of the National Science Board**

Yolanda Gil received her bachelor’s degree from the Polytechnic
University of Madrid in Spain in 1985, and her PhD in Computer Science
from Carnegie Mellon University in 1992. She then joined the University
of Southern California (USC) and is currently Fellow and Senior Director
for Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Data Science Strategy at the
Information Sciences Institute, Director of AI and Data Science
Initiatives in the Viterbi School of Engineering, and Research Professor
in Computer Science and in Spatial Sciences. She is Director of Data
Science Programs with over 1,200 students and has created ten joint
interdisciplinary degrees across USC schools.

Her research focuses on AI for science including semantic workflows and
knowledge capture, provenance and trust, task-centered collaboration,
reproducibility, and automated discovery. She has published over 250
peer-reviewed articles and has received best paper conference awards and
journal recognitions for interdisciplinary research in AI for climate,
neuroscience, and health. In 2019, Gil co-chaired the Computing Research
Association/Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence
20-Year Artificial Intelligence Research Roadmap for the U.S. with key
strategic recommendations based on extensive community engagement.

She is a Fellow of the Association for Computing Machinery, the
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, the Cognitive Science
Society, and the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
She is also a Fellow of the Association for the Advancement of
Artificial Intelligence and served as its 24th President. In 2022, she
became the first computer scientist to receive the M. Lee Allison Award
for Outstanding Contributions to Geoinformatics and Data Science from
the Geological Society of America.

**Juan Gilbert, to be a Member of the National Science Board**

Juan Gilbert is the Andrew Banks Family Preeminence Endowed Professor,
University of Florida Distinguished Professor, and Chair of the Computer
& Information Science & Engineering Department at the University of
Florida where he leads the Computing for Social Good Lab. His research
projects are at the intersection of people, technology, and society. He
has research projects in election security/usability/accessibility,
advanced learning technologies, usability and accessibility,
human-centered AI/machine learning, and ethnocomputing/culturally
relevant computing. He is a Fellow of the Association of Computing
Machinery, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, the American Association of the
Advancement of Science, and the National Academy of Inventors. He was
also named a laureate of the National Medal of Technology and Innovation
by President Biden. He received his M.S. and PhD degrees in Computer
Science from the University of Cincinnati and his B.S. in Systems
Analysis from Miami University in Ohio.

**Jeffrey A. Isaacson, to be a Member of the National Science Board**

Jeffrey A. Isaacson is President and Chief Executive Officer of
Universities Space Research Association (USRA), which operates in
partnership with over 120 research universities worldwide in the areas
of science, technology, workforce development, and facility management.
Prior to joining USRA, he held executive positions at Sandia National
Laboratories, RAND Corporation, and Lockheed Martin Space Systems
Company. Isaacson served 25 years in the U.S. Navy Reserve, retiring as
Captain. He is a veteran of Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan
and a former member of the Army Science Board. He earned degrees at
Columbia University, Princeton University, and the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, where he received his PhD in Physics.

**Willie E. May, to be a Member of the National Science Board**

Willie E. May currently serves as Vice President for Research and
Economic Development at Morgan State University, a public historically
black research university. Previously, he served as the Senate-confirmed
Under Secretary of Commerce for Standards and Technology, charged with
overseeing the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and
the National Technical Information Service. May began his career as a
research chemist at NIST. His research in trace organic analytical
chemistry and the physico-chemical properties of organic compounds is
documented in over 100 peer-reviewed publications. He has delivered more
than 250 invited lectures globally.

In addition to his responsibilities at Morgan State University, May is
President of the American Association for the Advancement of Science;
serves on advisory boards for Consumer Reports, the University of
Maryland, College Park’s College of Computer, Math, and Natural
Sciences, and Google’s Public Sector Research Technology Board. In the
recent past, he served as Vice President of the International Committee
on Weights and Measures (CIPM) and President of the CIPM’s Consultative
Committee for Chemistry and Biology.

May earned his B.S. in Chemistry from Knoxville College and PhD in
Analytical Chemistry from the University of Maryland, College Park. His
accolades include honorary doctorates from Wake Forest University and
the University of Alabama, Huntsville, multiple awards from the American
Chemical Society, and recognition as the federal government’s “Top
Chemist” by Chemical and Engineering News in 2015. He is an Honorary
Fellow of the American Chemical Society and the American Association for
the Advancement of Science.

**Alondra Nelson, to be a Member of the National Science Board**

Alondra Nelson is the Harold F. Linder Professor in the School of Social
Science at the Institute for Advanced Study and leads the Science,
Technology, and Social Values Lab. Past-president of the Social Science
Research Council, she was previously the inaugural Dean of Social
Science and Professor of Sociology at Columbia University. Nelson began
her academic career on the faculty of Yale University and received its
Poorvu Award for interdisciplinary teaching excellence.

Nelson was Deputy Assistant to President Biden as well as serving as
Principal Deputy Director for Science and Society and performing the
duties of the Director of the White House Office of Science and
Technology Policy. In recognition of her public service tenure, Nelson
was named to Nature’s global list of “Ten People Who Shaped Science.” In
2023, she was named to the TIME100 list of the most influential people
in the field of artificial intelligence and appointed to the United
Nations High-Level Advisory Board on AI.

A distinguished sociologist of science and technology, Nelson is the
author of acclaimed books, essays, and articles. She has been elected to
the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, as a Fellow of the American
Association for the Advancement of Science, the American Academy of
Political and Social Science, the American Philosophical Society, the
National Academy of Medicine, and the Council on Foreign Relations.
Nelson received a bachelor’s degree in anthropology, *magna cum laude*,
from the University of California at San Diego, where she was elected to
Phi Beta Kappa. She received her PhD in American Studies from New York
University.

**Sarah O’Donnell, to be a Member of the National Science Board**

Sarah O’Donnell works for the MITRE Corporation and serves as the Chief
Engineer for Naval Programs at the National Security Engineering Center
(NSEC) Federally Funded Research and Development Center (FFRDC). MITRE
is a not-for-profit organization that operates FFRDCs for the U.S.
government. She specializes in providing technical options to resolve
complex, emergent mission problems to achieve strategic advantage
against adversaries to mitigate risk for the U.S., its allies, and
partner operations. Previously, she served as the Program Director for
NSEC’s Special Operations Forces program and was responsible for leading
technical problem solving, strategic planning, and innovative research.
In this capacity, she developed and led initiatives that provided
solutions for programs operating at the seams of the intelligence,
military, and civilian communities and at the convergence of armed
forces, foreign relations, war, and national defense authorities.

Prior to her work leading national security programs, O’Donnell led
experimental and theoretical work in condensed matter physics related to
nanostructured electronic materials including collaborative experimental
work on novel optical switching and the improvement of quantum energy
conversion for power and energy prototypes. She authored numerous open
literature and specialized works, holds a U.S. patent in the
nanotechnology field, and received awards for her contributions to
engineering and applied science. Early in her career, she worked as a
mechanical engineer at Orbital Sciences Corporation in the Advanced
Programs Group, focusing on thermal protection systems and hypersonic
sensing. O’Donnell holds a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering and an M.S. in
Engineering Physics from the University of Virginia.

**Ryan Panchadsaram, to be a Member of the National Science Board**

Ryan Panchadsaram is an engineer and investor dedicated to building the
industries of the future. He has held senior positions in both business
and government and has served on the boards of companies and non-profits
across the healthcare, climate, and technology sectors. At Kleiner
Perkins, he is the technical advisor to the Chair, John Doerr, and
together they invest in groundbreaking technologies such as fusion
energy, synthetic biology, and AI. Panchadsaram and Doerr co-authored
*Speed & Scale: An Action Plan for Solving Our Climate Crisis Now* and
collaborated on the number one bestseller *Measure What Matters*.

During the Obama-Biden Administration, Panchadsaram served as a Deputy
Chief Technology Officer of the United States in the White House Office
of Science and Technology Policy, where he championed entrepreneurship,
innovation, and open data. He played a key role in leading the
turnaround of HealthCare.gov, which provided healthcare coverage to over
21 million Americans. Following this, he helped launch the United States
Digital Service, a White House unit that recruits top technologists to
serve in government. Earlier in his career, Panchadsaram held roles at
Microsoft and Salesforce.

He received a B.S. in Industrial Engineering and Operations Research
from the University of California, Berkeley.

\# \# \#
