---
date: '2024-10-10'
modified_time: 2024-10-10 16:24:38-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-10 16:24:37-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/10/a-proclamation-on-general-pulaski-memorial-day-2024/
tags: statements-releases
title: "A Proclamation on General Pulaski Memorial Day,\_2024"
---
 
     Today, we pay tribute to General Casimir Pulaski, a Polish
immigrant who served alongside American soldiers in the Revolutionary
War and made the ultimate sacrifice for our Nation.  And we honor the
culture and contributions of all our Nation’s Polish Americans who
follow his legacy, standing up for the cause of freedom at home and
around the world.

     General Pulaski dedicated his life to the pursuit of liberty — not
just for himself or his country but for all of us.  Born and raised in
Warsaw, Poland, he fought against the Russian domination of Poland —
efforts that ultimately led him to flee his home country.  Later in
life, when he was offered an opportunity to join another fight for
liberty on the other side of the world, he took it — joining our
Nation’s fight for independence.  General Pulaski’s service was
critical:  He led a critical counterattack that helped slow the British,
and during the course of the war, it was said that he even saved George
Washington’s life. 

     General Pulaski’s story and service are just one example of how
much Polish Americans have shaped our Nation’s history and our future. 
Our country’s Polish-American communities have helped create new
possibilities for all of us — leading in every sector, powering our
economy, and enriching our culture.  They also strengthen our deep
alliance and partnership with Poland and its people at a critical time
in our history.  Since Russia’s brutal invasion of Ukraine, the people
of Poland have courageously stood up for freedom, liberty, and justice,
rallying around the Ukrainian people and offering them safety and light
in their darkest moments.  At the same time, Poland has donated tanks,
artillery, and aircraft to support Ukraine’s self-defense all while
becoming an important hub for aid from key partners.

     No one knows better than the people of Poland that, in moments of
great upheaval and uncertainty, what you stand for is important and who
you stand with makes all the difference.  Today, we celebrate General
Casimir Pulaski, who decided to stand with our Nation to fight for our
freedoms.  And we honor all the Polish Americans, who continue to push
our Nation forward and fight for a future based on our most fundamental
values:  dignity, liberty, and opportunity.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October
11, 2024, as General Pulaski Memorial Day.  I encourage all Americans to
commemorate this occasion with appropriate programs and activities
paying tribute to General Casimir Pulaski, honoring all those who
champion freedom around the world, and celebrating the vast
contributions of the Polish American communities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this tenth day of
October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.  

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
