---
date: '2024-10-17'
modified_time: 2024-10-17 13:18:58-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-17 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/17/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-over-1-million-public-service-workers-have-received-student-debt-cancellation-under-the-biden-harris-administration/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Announces Over 1 Million Public Service Workers\
  \ Have Received Student Debt Cancellation Under the Biden-\u2060Harris Administration"
---
 
Today, President Biden announced an additional $4.5 billion in student
debt cancellation for over 60,000 borrowers through the Public Service
Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) program, bringing the number of **public service
workers who have had their student loans cancelled to over 1 million
people** during the Biden-Harris Administration. Before President Biden
and Vice President Harris took office, only 7,000 borrowers had ever
received forgiveness through PSLF. Thanks to the Biden-Harris
Administration’s significant improvements to the PSLF program, over 1
million teachers, firefighters, law enforcement officials, nurses,
servicemembers, and other public service workers who have dedicated
their lives to serving their communities are getting the student debt
relief they are entitled to under the law. Last week, President Biden
met with a kindergarten teacher who has been paying her loans for 12
years and let her know that she is one of the 1 million people approved
for PSLF under his Administration, and over $46,000 of her loans are
being cancelled. In total, the Biden-Harris Administration has approved
$175 billion in student debt relief for nearly 5 million borrowers
through various actions.

From Day One of their Administration, President Biden and Vice President
Harris vowed to fix the student loan system and make sure higher
education is a ticket to the middle class – not a barrier to
opportunity. Already, the Biden-Harris Administration has delivered
life-changing relief to students and families. While Republican elected
officials try every which way to block millions of their own
constituents from receiving student debt relief – even proposing to get
rid of the PSLF program altogether – President Biden and Vice President
Harris are fighting to provide borrowers student debt relief and making
higher education affordable.

**Delivering Life-Changing Relief to Over 1 Million Public Servants**

In 2007, Congress enacted bipartisan legislation creating PSLF to
recognize the critical role public servants play in our communities and
support them in their service. Under PSLF, people who dedicate at least
10 years of their careers to giving back to their communities – like
teachers, firefighters, law enforcement officials, nurses, and
servicemembers – can get relief on their student loans. However, the
program was poorly implemented. Many public servants found out that they
had spent years in the wrong student loan repayment plan or did not take
out the right type of loan and were therefore ineligible for PSLF and
denied forgiveness. Before the start of the Biden-Harris Administration,
only 7,000 people had ever received forgiveness through PSLF and the
rejection rate, in part due to administrative errors and difficult
processes, was as high as 98% in some years. Public servants were also
being told that, because they didn’t file the right forms years ago,
there was nothing for them to do but keep paying their loans longer than
the program requires.

Thanks to President Biden and Vice President Harris’
[leadership](https://blog.ed.gov/2024/07/improvements-for-borrowers-working-toward-pslf/),
the Biden-Harris Administration has significantly improved the PSLF
program to help more borrowers than ever before. This includes
establishing and implementing new regulations to help borrowers earn
more credit toward PSLF, simplifying criteria to help borrowers certify
employment, creating fairer eligibility criteria, and providing
borrowers the opportunity to apply for reconsideration of previous
denials. The Biden-Harris Administration launched the Limited PSLF
Waiver, providing public service workers affected by the pandemic with
the opportunity to get PSLF credit for prior payments on their federal
student loans regardless of repayment plan or loan type. To simplify the
application process for borrowers, the Biden-Harris Administration made
it so borrowers and employers can complete the entire PSLF application
and submit required forms online, made it easier for borrowers to find
qualifying employers and get necessary signatures verifying employment,
and recently, announced new steps to allow borrowers to manage all
aspects of their PSLF journey on StudentAid.gov.

Thanks to these improvements, as of today, over 1 million public service
workers have been approved for debt cancellation through PSLF. The
Department of Education today also released new state-by-state data
showing how many borrowers have had their loans approved for
cancellation under PSLF in each state under the Biden-Harris
Administration.

**Economic Benefits of Student Debt Relief for Public Service Workers**

Today, the Council of Economic Advisers (CEA) [published a new
analysis](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/written-materials/2024/10/17/making-public-service-loan-forgiveness-work-for-borrowers-and-the-american-people/)
underscoring that the Biden-Harris Administration’s student debt
policies not only benefit borrowers, but also the entire economy.

The CEA highlights that PSLF has the potential to deliver considerable
benefits to those who receive it – including the ability to buy a home,
start a business, and improve overall financial health. In addition, the
CEA analysis shows how the PSLF program strengthens the public sector by
making it more feasible for students with postsecondary debt to pursue
and remain in public service careers that are essential to our economy
and communities.

Despite these benefits to the U.S. economy and hard-working Americans,
Republican elected officials have tried to stop the Biden-Harris
Administration every step of the way, and have even attempted to end
PSLF altogether, which would block millions of dedicated public servants
from receiving the student debt relief they have earned. President Biden
and Vice President Harris will not stop fighting for our nation’s
dedicated public servants.

**Encouraging Public Servants to Take Advantage of the PSLF Program**

Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is also announcing a series of
new steps to encourage public servants across the nation to take
advantage of the PSLF program.

A number of public sector unions, including the American Federation of
State, County, and Municipal Employees (AFSCME), American Federation of
Teachers (AFT), National Education Association (NEA), and the Service
Employees International Union (SEIU), are amplifying today’s
announcement through member-to-member outreach, social media campaigns,
and more, and are encouraging people to sign up for PSLF:

-   For over a decade, AFT has been fighting to help
    teachers, nurses and school staff access PSLF. AFT ‘s student debt
    clinics, advocacy and outreach have resulted in members saving an
    estimated $400 million. AFT will continue to host weekly national
    student debt clinics, and help members apply for PSLF through a free
    union membership benefit called Summer, saving AFT members over
    $60,000 each
-   **NEA** will continue to help its members with the [NEA Student Debt
    Navigator](https://neamb.com/savi), a tool that provides 1-on-1
    support for NEA’s members who need additional support with their
    PSLF application, or any other federal program related to student
    loans. Since the launch of the Student Debt Navigator, over 48,000
    NEA members have signed up to receive support.
-   To celebrate this milestone, **AFSCME** will launch a new
    interactive map on its website, detailing PSLF forgiveness across
    the country based on Department of Education data. Additionally,
    AFSCME will update its online resources to facilitate applications
    for PSLF and create a social media toolkit its members can use to
    promote PSLF and forgiveness on their own social media platforms.
-   To encourage people to take advantage of the PSLF program, the
    Department of Education will send emails from President Biden to
    public servants who have received PSLF, encouraging them to share
    their stories to raise awareness about the benefits of the program.
    The Biden-Harris Administration will also share information about
    PSLF with federal employees to encourage more people to enroll in
    PSLF.
-   The Department of Education is reaching out to governors and mayors
    across the country to encourage state and local public service
    workers to take advantage of the PSLF program.

These new steps are in addition to previous actions by the
Administration including working with over 15 major federal agencies to
develop PSLF agency action plans. In implementing these plans, federal
agencies have encouraged thousands of additional federal employees to
take advantage of the PSLF program through extensive social media
campaigns, principal-level engagement, engagement with stakeholder
groups, press, and mass email communications.

**Building On an Unparalleled Record of Student Debt Relief**

Today’s announcement is part of the Biden-Harris Administration’s
broader set of actions to reduce the burden of student debt and ensure
that student loans are not a barrier to educational and economic
opportunity for students and families. President Biden and Vice
President Harris secured a $900 increase to the maximum Pell Grant award
– the largest increase in more than a decade.  Since taking office, the
Biden-Harris Administration has approved through various actions $175
billion in student debt relief for nearly 5 million Americans, each of
whom have been approved for an average of roughly $35,000 in student
debt cancellation. These actions have benefitted borrowers in every
state, territory, and congressional district in the United States.

This approved relief includes:

-   $74 billion for over 1 million borrowers through the PSLF program.
-   $56.5 billion for more than 1.4 million borrowers through
    Income-Driven Repayment, including the Saving on a Valuable
    Education SAVE plan. This includes administrative adjustments to
    income-driven repayment that brought borrowers closer to forgiveness
    and addressed longstanding problems due to past inaccuracies and the
    misuse of forbearance by loan servicers.
-   $28.7 billion for more than 1.6 million borrowers who were cheated
    by their schools, saw their institutions precipitously close, or are
    covered by related court settlements.
-   $16.2 billion for nearly 572,000 borrowers with a total and
    permanent disability.

\###
