---
date: '2024-10-29'
modified_time: 2024-10-28 20:57:41-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-29 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/29/fact-sheet-president-joe-biden-announces-3-billion-to-strengthen-port-infrastructure-create-good-paying-and-union-jobs-bring-cleaner-air-to-communities/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President Joe\_Biden Announces $3 Billion to Strengthen Port Infrastructure,\
  \ Create Good-Paying and Union Jobs, Bring Cleaner Air to\_Communities"
---
 
*President Biden will travel to the Port of Baltimore to announce $147
million in awards, which will support up to 2,000 good-paying and union
jobs at the Port*

Today, President Biden will travel to the Port of Baltimore to announce
a $3 billion investment from his Inflation Reduction Act to improve and
electrify port infrastructure, support an estimated 40,000 good-paying
and union jobs, reduce pollution, and combat the climate crisis.  The
announcement includes $147 million in awards for the Maryland Port
Administration, which will support over 2,000 good-paying and union jobs
by enabling the purchase and installation of zero-emission port
equipment, charging infrastructure, and power improvements. During the
visit, President Biden will highlight how his Investing in America
agenda is making an historic impact on communities and workers in
Baltimore and across the country.

**$3 Billion Investment to Strengthen Port Infrastructure**

Today, President Biden is announcing $3 billion in Environmental
Protection Agency Clean Ports grants, funded by the Inflation Reduction
Act, to 55 selectees across 27 states and territories, including $147
million in implementation and planning grants for the Maryland Port
Administration. The nation’s ports are the lynchpin of our nation’s
supply chains and employ over 100,000 union workers across the United
States.

This funding will protect and create good-paying and union jobs and
better working conditions by upgrading port operations and
infrastructure to cleaner equipment, while ensuring cleaner air for port
workers and nearby communities. The Clean Ports program will support an
estimated 40,000 jobs across the economy, including over 6,500
manufacturing jobs, and is expected to increase demand for American
manufactured electric cargo handling equipment at least six-fold over
the life of the program.

While a major economic driver, our nation’s ports are a major source of
pollution for workers and surrounding communities. Communities living
near ports and other transportation corridors are exposed to toxic
pollution which can cause respiratory and cardiovascular harm,
especially in children. The Clean Ports program will improve air quality
at ports across the country by installing clean, zero-emission freight
and ferry technologies along with associated infrastructure, eliminating
more than 3 million metric tons of carbon pollution over the first ten
years of implementation, equivalent to 391,220 homes’ energy use for one
year. The funds announced today will support the purchase of
battery-electric and hydrogen-powered human-operated and
human-maintained equipment, including over 1,500 units of cargo handling
equipment, 1,000 drayage trucks, 10 locomotives, and 20 vessels, as well
as shore power systems for ocean-going vessels, battery-electric and
hydrogen vehicle charging and fueling infrastructure, and solar power
generation. The Clean Ports program advances the President’s [Justice40
Initiative](https://www.whitehouse.gov/environmentaljustice/justice40/)
and aligns with the Biden-Harris Administration’s goal for a
zero-emission freight sector.

**Investing in the Port of Baltimore**

President Biden will announce the funding at the Port of Baltimore in
Maryland. The Port of Baltimore is one of the busiest ports on the East
Coast and is a major hub for the import and export of vehicles. More
than 20,000 workers support daily Port operations, including unionized
longshoreman and truckers. Each day the Port’s economic impact
represents $192 million or more than $70 billion a year, representing
13% of Maryland’s gross domestic product.

The Maryland Port Administration’s Equipment Electrification and
Terminal Decarbonization project has been selected to receive over $145
million to purchase zero-emission cargo handling equipment and drayage
trucks and facilitate the transition of the port to a zero-emission
facility, as well as a nearly $2 million planning grant to help the port
chart a path to greater emissions reductions in the future, delivering
cleaner air for the port and neighboring communities. The port is a
major economic engine for the region, providing thousands of jobs and
contributing billions of dollars to the local economy—and this new
investment will support over 2,000 jobs, including more than 350
manufacturing jobs.

**Creating Good Paying, Union Jobs in Baltimore and Across the Country**

President Biden is the most pro-union president in history. He’s the
first and only president to walk a picket line, and under his
Administration, unions have secured historic labor wins. Last month,
President Biden signed an [Executive
Order](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/09/06/executive-order-on-investing-in-america-and-investing-in-american-workers/)
that calls on agencies to promote strong labor standards such as
family-sustaining wages, workplace safety, and the free and fair choice
to join a union, and encourages agencies to implement these standards
through their Investing in America programs. This builds on a record of
pro-worker accomplishments throughout the Biden-Harris Administration.
For example:

-   Workers are filing for union representation at twice the rate they
    were at the start of the Biden-Harris Administration—the first
    Administration in five decades to have an increase in union
    petitions. In Maryland, union petitions increased by 55% percent.
    The National Labor Relations Board has met this historic moment by
    reducing unnecessary delays in union representation elections and by
    expanding remedies available to workers when their employers engage
    in unionbusting.
-   The vast majority of Investing in America programs require grantees
    to pay Davis-Bacon prevailing wages for workers. The Administration
    also published the [first
    update](https://www.dol.gov/newsroom/releases/whd/whd20230808) to
    Davis-Bacon prevailing wages in nearly 40 years, which will increase
    pay for one million construction workers over time.
-   The Department of the Treasury finalized a rule implementing
    prevailing wage and apprenticeship bonus credits for certain clean
    energy projects funded by the President’s Inflation Reduction Act to
    ensure clean energy workers are paid good wages and that these
    projects create equitable pipelines to these good jobs.

**Building on Historic Investments in Maryland’s Infrastructure and
Economy**

Today’s announcement builds on a historic investment in the state of
Maryland under the Biden-Harris Administration. To date, the Investing
in America agenda has delivered over $13 billion for over 970 projects
in Maryland, spurring over $3 billion in private sector investments.

This includes a number of projects in Baltimore, for example:

-   $4.7 billion for Amtrak’s Frederick Douglass Tunnel—which will
    replace the 150-year-old Baltimore and Potomac tunnel that is
    currently one of the largest rail bottlenecks on the Northeast
    Corridor;
-   $213 million to replace the Maryland Transit Administration’s entire
    fleet of 52 aging light rail vehicles with new, modern rail cars;
-   $80 million for interchange improvements at the I-895 Baltimore
    Harbor Tunnel;
-   $68 million for upgrades at Baltimore Washington International
    Thurgood Marshall airport;
-   $43 million to identify and replace toxic lead pipes across
    Maryland;
-   $31 million to rehabilitate a section of the Dundalk Marine Terminal
    at the Port; and
-   $9 million to Baltimore City Public Schools for clean school buses.

Baltimore was also named an Investing in America [Workforce
Hub](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/13/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-holds-workforce-hub-convening-in-baltimore-announces-commitments-to-train-and-hire-local-residents-to-support-major-infrastructure-projects/),
where the Administration is bringing together industry, government,
educators, non-profits and unions to help workers in Maryland access
good jobs created by private and public sector investments in the state.
In November 2023, Hub partners announced new efforts to train and hire
local residents to support major infrastructure projects. These
commitments include one from the State of Maryland to incorporate a
Project Labor Agreement in the bidding process for nine projects
covering $9 billion in investment and 11,000 jobs—including 7,000
construction jobs. One of these commitments includes Amtrak promising to
invest at least $5 million in funding received through the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law to create recruitment and training programs for new
jobs for Baltimore residents as part of the Frederick Douglass Tunnel
Program.

The Department of Commerce also awarded the Maryland Department of Labor
$23 million through the Economic Development Administration’s Good Jobs
Challenge to create a new apprenticeship model for the growing offshore
wind industry in Maryland, working with leading employers and local
unions to develop a training model focused on underserved populations.
The Maritime Administration is further supporting the Maryland offshore
wind industry through a $47 million grant to Sparrows Point Steel to
retool, a former Bethlehem Steel mill in Baltimore, to establish an
offshore wind logistics and manufacturing hub in partnership with the
United Steelworkers.

The Biden-Harris Administration’s Investing in America agenda has also
unleashed $3 billion in private sector manufacturing and clean energy
investments in Maryland, including:

-   A $350 million investment by United Safety Technology in Baltimore
    to produce critical medical supplies, including personal protective
    equipment.
-   A $300 million investment by AstraZeneca in a state-of-the-art
    facility in Rockville to launch life-saving cell therapy platforms
    for cancer trials.
-   A $230 million investment by Catalent to expand its advanced gene
    therapy manufacturing campus in Harmans.

The Administration’s Investing in America agenda continues to make
critical investments that will improve the lives and futures of all
Marylanders.

**The Biden-Harris Administration’s Ongoing Support for Baltimore**

President Biden was last in Baltimore in the immediate aftermath of the
tragic collapse of the Francis Scott Key bridge, which claimed the lives
of six construction workers and closed ship traffic in and out of the
Port of Baltimore. There, he said his Administration would move heaven
and earth to reopen the Port of Baltimore as quickly as possible to
support Maryland’s workers and economy. A Unified Command led by the
United States Coast Guard and the Army Corps of Engineers cleared 50,000
tons of wreckage from the channel, allowing the Port to fully reopen 78
days after the bridge collapse. The Department of Labor and Small
Business Administration mobilized quickly to support workers and small
businesses impacted by the port closure, including thousands of
Longshoremen and Teamsters who rely on the port for their livelihood.
And the Department of Transportation and the Supply Chain Disruptions
Task Force worked to limit supply chain disruptions, keep costs down,
and ensure cargo quickly returned to the Port once it reopened. Today,
port workers are back on the job, once again moving more than 100,000
tons of cargo per day.

The President also committed to rebuilding the bridge as quickly as
possible. Thanks to close collaboration with the Department of
Transportation, Maryland is on the fast track to rebuild the bridge. In
July, the Federal Highway Administration issued a Categorical Exclusion,
allowing the project to clear a critical permitting milestone. And in
August, Maryland selected a contractor to design and build the new
bridge.  Immediately following the bridge collapse, President Biden
called on Congress to fully fund the replacement bridge and his
Administration reiterated this request [in
July](https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/briefing-room/2024/06/28/letter-regarding-critical-supplemental-funding-needs/).

The Biden-Harris Administration also committed to holding the owners of
the DALI cargo ship accountable for the disaster. Just last week, the
Department of Justice announced a settlement of over $100 million with
the owners of the DALI to cover federal government costs incurred in
responding to the collapse. While the State of Maryland continues to
pursue a separate lawsuit for damages incurred to the local economy,
community, and families impacted by the collapse, the Biden-Harris
Administration remains committed to working with Baltimore and the State
of Maryland to ensure the city’s long-term recovery and success.

\###
