---
date: '2024-10-30'
modified_time: 2024-10-30 14:46:54-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-30 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/30/the-president-and-first-lady-welcome-trick-or-treaters-to-the-white-house-for-hallo-read-2/
tags: statements-releases
title: "The President and First Lady Welcome Trick-or-Treaters to the White\_House\
  \ for \u201CHallo-READ!\u201D"
---
 
***The First Lady’s theme, “Hallo-READ!,” highlights the spooktacular
thrill of reading***

On Wednesday, October 30th, the President and First Lady are hosting a
Halloween event that will welcome local students and military-connected
children to the White House for trick-or-treating.  A teacher for 40
years, including years spent as a reading specialist, First Lady Jill
Biden created this year’s theme, “Hallo-READ!,” with the White House’s
festive décor featuring famous literary tales and spooky story time. Dr.
Biden’s theme encourages families and children to once again grab a
flashlight, pick out their favorite Halloween book, and relish in the
spooktacular thrill of reading together.

Children will trick-or-treat along the South Lawn of the White House up
to the South Portico to receive both candy and books from the President
and First Lady, as well as other White House friends and neighbors,
including representatives from: Department of Agriculture, Department of
Education, Department of Energy, Department of Homeland Security,
Department of Housing and Urban Development, Department of the Interior,
Department of State, Department of the Treasury, Department of Veterans
Affairs, National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), National
Endowment for the Humanities, National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration (NOAA), John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts,
Library of Congress, National Archives, Smithsonian, Executive Office of
the President, the White House Medical Unit, and the White House
Military Office.

Approximately 8,000 guests will participate in this year’s Halloween
event at the White House, with each family receiving candy treats
provided by the National Confectioners Association and its member
companies. Instacart is providing overall support for the Halloween
celebration, in addition to supplying Halloween tote bags and treats to
each child. The company will also distribute bookmarks with healthy
eating tips in coordination with DC Central Kitchen.  

In a nod to this year’s “Hallo-READ!” theme, each family will also
receive donated books from Scholastic to read and enjoy. Costumed
characters will stroll the South Lawn for the Halloween festivities,
including Corduroy, Peter Rabbit, Madeline, Barney, Disney friends
Stitch and Angel, Darth Vader and his Stormtroopers, and others.

The White House will be decorated with autumnal foliage, with pumpkins
and mums provided by the International Fresh Produce Association (IFPA),
jack-o-lanterns, stacks of books, and multi-dimensional displays of
literary tales. The IFPA will be providing apples and baby carrots to
trick-or-treaters as well.  Lawn games and a spooky story time corner
will be a part of the Halloween festivities again this year, featuring
special guests reading their favorite books of the season to children
and families, as well as live pumpkin carving demonstrations by Pumpkin
Sculptor Deane Arnold. Readers will include First Lady Jill Biden, the
Librarian of Congress Dr. Carla Hayden, Hocus Pocus actress Kathy
Najimy, White House Press Secretary Karine Jean Pierre, plus authors and
illustrators Jane O’Connor, Robin Preiss Glasser, Pete Oswald, Katie
Messner, Dan Santat, Tracey Baptiste, Ana Aranda, Hanh Bui, and others!

\###
