---
date: '2024-10-07'
modified_time: 2024-10-07 15:29:02-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-07 14:03:22-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/07/statement-from-nsc-spokesperson-sean-savett-on-marburg-virus-disease-outbreak/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from NSC Spokesperson Sean Savett on Marburg Virus Disease\_Outbreak"
---
 
The Biden-Harris Administration is committed to preventing, detecting
and responding to health emergencies globally. On September 27, Rwanda’s
Ministry of Health announced an outbreak of Marburg Virus Disease (MVD)
and the Biden-Harris Administration is working closely with the
Government of Rwanda to end the MVD outbreak as quickly as possible. As
we have all experienced in recent years, health emergencies are a global
issue we must address together. CDC assesses that the risk of infection
with this virus in the United States is low, and there are currently no
confirmed MVD cases outside of Rwanda.

Since learning of this outbreak, the United States has committed to
making nearly $11 million available to address urgent health needs in
Rwanda and surrounding countries, including support for surveillance and
contact tracing, infection prevention and control guidance, and exit
screening at Rwanda’s airport and neighboring border crossings. And
within days of learning of the MVD outbreak, CDC deployed three senior
scientists to Rwanda to support its response. Although there are
currently no FDA-approved vaccines or drugs against MVD, the United
States contributed hundreds of investigational vaccine doses and a small
number of investigational therapeutics doses, which arrived in Rwanda
this weekend. The United States has also contributed more than 500 MVD
tests and 500 units of personal protective equipment, which have arrived
in Rwanda to support response efforts and protect health workers.

In times of crisis, we must work together to quickly save lives. The
Government of Rwanda has taken action to contain this outbreak and
protect the health and wellbeing of the Rwandan people, and the United
States will continue supporting those efforts. We must also continue to
build preparedness between crises, which is why the United States has
supported global health security work for more than two decades to help
build capacity to prevent, detect, and respond to infectious disease
threats across the world.

Even as we respond to crises abroad, the top priority for the
Biden-Harris Administration is protecting the American people. To keep
Americans safe, we are implementing additional precautions for a small,
select group of travelers arriving in the United States from Rwanda,
including additional public health entry screenings. To facilitate these
precautions, the United States will finalize plans in the coming week to
redirect passengers who were recently in Rwanda to certain U.S. airports
for public health entry screening and follow up measures. These measures
will advance ongoing efforts to protect public health and reduce the
risk of MVD coming into the United States.

\###
