---
date: '2024-10-02'
published_time: 2024-10-02 12:04:05-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/02/fact-sheet-biden-%e2%81%a0harris-administration-convenes-fourth-global-gathering-to-counter-ransomware/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Convenes Fourth Global Gathering\
  \ to Counter\_Ransomware"
---
 
The Biden-Harris Administration remains committed to fostering
international partnerships to disrupt the global scourge of
ransomware. This week, the White House convened the International
Counter Ransomware Initiative (CRI) for its fourth meeting in
Washington, D.C. During the four-day event, the Initiative’s nearly
seventy members discussed methods to counter ransomware attacks in the
healthcare industry, collaboration with cyber insurers and the private
industry to reduce ransomware payments and increase incident reporting,
the security of our critical infrastructure and Internet of Things
(IoT), efforts to increase the capacity and incident response
capabilities of members, and best practices to counter the flow of money
through virtual assets that motivates ransomware actors.  
  
This year, the Initiative welcomed 18 new members—Argentina, Bahrain,
Cameroon, Chad,  the Council of Europe, Denmark, the ECOWAS Commission,
Finland, the Global Forum on Cyber Expertise, Hungary, Morocco, the
Organization of American States, the Philippines, the Republic of
Moldova, Slovenia, Sri Lanka, Vanuatu, and Vietnam—who participated in
the gathering along withAlbania, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil,
Bulgaria, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, the Czech Republic, the
Dominican Republic, Egypt, Estonia, the European Union, France, Germany,
Greece, India, INTERPOL, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kenya,
Lithuania, Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Papua
New Guinea, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Korea, Romania, Rwanda,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, South Africa, Spain, Sweden,
Switzerland, Ukraine, the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom, the
United States, and Uruguay.

At the gathering, CRI members advanced the Initiative’s commitments to
resilience, cooperation, and disruption through the CRI’s Policy Pillar,
Diplomacy and Capacity Building Pillar, and the International Counter
Ransomware Task Force (ICRTF). The Initiative launched a new
Public-Private Sector Advisory Panel, led by Canada, establishing a
trusted set of private sector partners for CRI members to rely on when
faced with responding to ransomware attacks. 

**The CRI Policy Pillar**

Under the leadership of Singapore and the United Kingdom, the Policy
Pillar oversaw several projects focused on policy areas impacting
ransomware. The Pillar developed policy guidance, with support from
France, the Netherlands, and Kenya, to minimize the overall impact of a
ransomware incident on an organization. France and the Netherlands led a
project on cyber insurance, and facilitated a workshop for insurers to
discuss how the insurance sector could support companies during a
ransomware incident and increase their insurance accessibility. Under
the auspices of the Pillar’s workplan, Australia released an
international ‘Ransomware Playbook’ providing guidance to businesses on
how to prepare for, deal with, and recover from a ransomware or cyber
extortion attack. Switzerland and the United States led an incident
reporting project, sharing best practices on mandatory reporting,
factors to consider during implementation, outlining key information to
provide at the first instance of a ransomware attack. Albania led a
project to enhance implementation of the Financial Action Task Force’s
(FATF) Recommendation 15 on the regulation of virtual assets and related
services providers, which will help stem the illicit flow of funds and
disrupt the ransomware payment ecosystem that fuel the ransomware
industry. The US and UK completed a project on secure software and
labeling principles, producing a report that summarizes the most common
software vulnerabilities and misconfigurations that lead to ransomware
attacks, and provided actions for software manufacturers to take to
address them. The UK and Singapore also led a simulation exercise
focused on enhancing members’ policy and operational coordination during
a ransomware attack in the healthcare sector.

In 2025, the Pillar plans to advance policies to reduce ransomware
payments globally, enhance incident reporting frameworks, explore how
partnerships with cyber insurance industry can assist in countering
ransomware, and raise the overall cybersecurity posture against
ransomware attacks through cybersecurity standards and best practices.

**The CRI Diplomacy and Capacity Building Pillar**

The Diplomacy and Capacity Building Pillar, led by Germany and Nigeria,
expanded the CRI’s reach by adding eighteen new members to the coalition
and incorporating capacity building efforts throughout all CRI efforts.
Among the Pillar’s substantial contributions was a project taking stock
of CRI members’ capacity building assets and needs, continued support
for the mentorship and onboarding program, and the promotion of the CRI
to potential new members. Throughout the coming year, the Pillar will
further elevate the initiatives’ global profile and set out to leverage
existing capacity building initiatives to provide opportunities to
members and help bridge their capacity gaps.

**The International Counter Ransomware Task Force (ICRTF)**

ICRTF, led by Australia and Lithuania, developed an INTERPOL-led
comparative report analyzing Ransomware Interventions and Remediation in
CRI members’ jurisdictions. Australia, in their role as ICRTF co-chair,
launched a website and member portal for the CRI to share information
and best practices between members as well as foster collaboration.

**Advancing the Initiative through Action**

Together, members of the CRI took bold new actions to further advance
the initiative, including:

-   Establishing the CRI Fund: The United States launched a new fund
    that will strengthen members’ cybersecurity capabilities through
    both rapid assistance in the wake of a cyber attack as well as
    targeted support to improve cybersecurity skills, policies, and
    response procedures. The Fund will be supported through
    contributions from CRI members and private sector partners.

<!-- -->

-   Guidance for Victim Organizations: This guidance, endorsed by CRI
    members and insurance bodies, offers a practical guide to help
    organizations experiencing a ransomware attack. Building on last
    year’s CRI statement on ransomware payments, the guidance
    underscores the important role cyber insurance can play in helping
    to build resilience to cyber attacks and highlights actions
    organizations should explore during an incident, aiming to reduce
    disruption and cost, the number of ransoms paid, and the size of
    ransoms paid. The ultimate goal is to minimize the overall impact of
    a ransomware incident on an organization.

<!-- -->

-   Private Sector Engagement Working Group (PSEWG): Canada developed a
    Public-Private Sector Advisory Panel to advise and support CRI
    members in combating ransomware. The advisory panel will catalyze
    effective information sharing, build trust through clear
    expectations and person to person collaboration, and develop best
    practices to navigate practical hurdles.

<!-- -->

-   Responsible Behavior in Cyberspace: The ICRTF called on members to
    join a statement that calls for responsible behavior in cyberspace
    and encourages members to hold bad actors accountable and deny them
    safe haven using all of the cyber diplomacy and law enforcement
    tools at their disposal. The CRI continues to call for responsible
    behavior in cyberspace and encourage members to call out malicious
    acts.
-   Artificial Intelligence to Counter Ransomware: The CRI hosted its
    first-ever event dedicated to examining the use of AI to counter
    cyber attacks. Topics of discussion included the use of AI to track
    threat actor use, AI for Software Security, AI systems to ensure the
    security of critical infrastructure to include healthcare networks,
    and tools such as watermarking to counter disinformation.

<!-- -->

-   Information Sharing: Many members are now using CRI’s information
    sharing platforms developed by Belgium, Israel, Lithuania, and the
    UAE to quickly share intelligence related to ransomware attacks,
    attack tactics, techniques, procedures, and indicators of
    compromise. Additionally, a CRI website developed by Australia
    includes a forum for members to easily request assistance from CRI
    members.

<!-- -->

-   Building Collective Cyber Resilience: The implementation of secure
    software and labeling principles are important preventive measures
    against ransomware actors gaining access to data, related services,
    and connected infrastructure. CRI members were encouraged to take a
    coordinated, multi-national approach to developing a plan to
    institute secure software and labeling principles, including mapping
    existing cybersecurity requirements, and regulations, standards and
    guidelines for IoT devices. Recognition and implementation of such
    standards and schemes by multiple countries will set the foundation
    for global initiatives that enhance our collective resilience
    against ransomware and cyber attacks.

<!-- -->

-   Enhancing Cybersecurity of Supply Chains: The United States
    Department of Energy facilitated a panel discussion with executives
    from eight critical infrastructure equipment manufacturers to
    educate CRI members on the new U.S. supply chain cybersecurity
    efforts: GE Vernova, Hitachi Energy, Honeywell, Rockwell Automation,
    Schneider Electric, Siemens, Siemens Energy, and Westinghouse
    Electric Company. This session provided an opportunity for the
    United States to demonstrate leadership in developing the [Supply
    Chain Cybersecurity
    Principles](https://nsc.sites.eop.gov/cyber/Shared%20Documents/Jackie%20Cahan%20Files/CRI/CRI%202024/Fact%20Sheet/Supply%20Chain%20Cybersecurity%20Principles%20(energy.gov)),
    released in June with support from industry partners, while inviting
    international participation in coordinated efforts to advance the
    principles throughout the global supply chain.

**\###**
