---
date: '2024-10-28'
published_time: 2024-10-28 16:54:35-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/28/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-advances-public-trust-through-federal-police-misconduct-database/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Advances Public Trust Through\
  \ Federal Police Misconduct\_Database"
---
 
*White House announces new analysis of the strength and impact of NLEAD*

President Biden and Vice President Harris are committed to doing
everything we can to make our communities safer, including by advancing
effective and accountable policing. That’s why the President issued
Executive Order 14074, Advancing Effective, Accountable Policing and
Criminal Justice Practices To Enhance Public Trust and Public Safety,
which, in part, requires the Department of Justice (DOJ) to establish a
national database documenting misconduct by federal law enforcement
officers. The National Law Enforcement Accountability Database (NLEAD)
is operational and searchable by federal law enforcement agencies, so
that agencies are able to hire or promote the best personnel, and avoid
hiring candidates with disqualifying histories.

**Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is releasing a new analysis on
the size and scope of NLEAD, which has the participation of every
federal agency that employs law enforcement officers:**

**NLEAD is comprehensive.**  As of last month, every one of the 90
federal agencies that employs law enforcement officers, consistent with
relevant collective bargaining agreements, has reported into NLEAD as
required by the Executive Order. The database contains 5,300 records
covering misconduct for more than 4,300 past and present federal
officers over the last 7 years.  There are currently more than 150,000
law enforcement officers across the federal government.

**NLEAD is being used regularly.**  This year, federal agencies already
have conducted thousands of NLEAD checks to identify potential
misconduct before making critical decisions about hiring, promotions,
and officer work assignments.  

**NLEAD is making a difference.**  During these checks, NLEAD revealed
dozens of positive hits – meaning instances of the types of misconduct
identified in the Executive Order.  When there is a positive hit,
agencies can get more details about these incidents from the entity that
reported the misconduct.  This process has impacted holistic employment
and officer assignment decisions, ensuring that officers who may
undermine public trust do not end up in positions of authority.  After
conducting NLEAD checks, agencies repeatedly have made adverse
employment decisions.

**The Biden-Harris Administration has improved transparency around state
and local policing.**  Most policing and most public interactions with
police happen at the local level.  That’s why President Biden and Vice
President Harris have continued to urge Congress to pass the George
Floyd Justice in Policing Act to implement policing reforms at the state
and local level. But we are not waiting for Congress to act, the
Biden-Harris Administration has encouraged state and local agencies to
expand their use of the National De-Certification Index (NDI), a
registry containing state and local police misconduct that is currently
in place in all 50 states and DC.  Specifically:

1.  DOJ structured $471 million in discretionary grants to give priority
    consideration to law enforcement agencies that use the NDI.

<!-- -->

1.  Law enforcement agencies can obtain accreditation through
    accreditation bodies if they adopt certain standards.  Pursuant to
    the Executive Order, DOJ created standards for these accreditation
    bodies that includes reviewing NDI as part of background
    investigations for officers.  Moreover, DOJ’s Community Policing
    Development program has been giving grant funding to agencies for
    them to obtain accreditation.

<!-- -->

1.  DOJ provided $3 million in grant funding to expand the NDI so that
    it includes information about the same misconduct types as NLEAD. 

**Since May 2023, the number of NDI users has increased almost 75%, and
the number of records in the database has increased almost 85%.  The
average number of monthly queries has increased about 85%. **

\###
