---
date: '2024-10-13'
modified_time: 2024-10-13 12:16:52-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-13 14:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/13/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-continues-recovery-efforts-in-north-carolina-following-hurricane-helene/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Continues Recovery Efforts in\
  \ North Carolina Following Hurricane\_Helene"
---
 
Following Hurricane Helene’s devastating impacts across the Southeast
and Appalachia, the Biden-Harris Administration continues its robust
Federal efforts to help communities recover and rebuild. The storm
heavily impacted North Carolina, where the Administration continues to
surge resources and assist families, business owners, farmers, and other
impacted communities receive the support and assistance they need and
deserve.

Federal disaster assistance for Hurricane Helene survivors has surpassed
$474 million – including **more than $86 million in housing and other
types of assistance for survivors in North Carolina.** Survivors can
register for assistance at one of three [Disaster Recovery
Centers](https://www.fema.gov/disaster/4827#block-views-block-disaster-recovery-centers-block-3)
in Caldwell, McDowell, and Buncombe Counties, or on
disasterassistance.gov, by calling 1-800-621-3362, or via the FEMA app.

**The Department of Defense continues to support search-and-rescue
operations, route clearance, and commodities distribution across western
North Carolina with 1,500 active-duty troops.** The Department of
Defense is also employing additional capabilities to assist with
increasing situational awareness across the remote terrain of Western
North Carolina. The Army Corps of Engineers continues missions
supporting debris removal, temporary emergency power installation,
infrastructure and water and wastewater assessments, and technical
assistance. Over 2,000 North Carolina National Guard personnel along
with over 200 Guardsmen from 15 States are conducting response
operations in western North Carolina.

As response efforts continue in North Carolina, more than 1,250 FEMA
staff remain on the ground, with more arriving daily. Nearly 400 Urban
Search and Rescue personnel remain in the field helping people. These
teams have rescued or supported over 3,200 survivors to date.  

Power has been restored to more than approximately 96 percent of
customers, as a result of 10,000 utility personnel working around the
clock. Cellular restoration also continues to improve, with more than 93
percent of cellular sites in service. FEMA is boosting response
coordination by providing 40 Starlink units to ensure first responders
can communicate with each other.

Commodity distribution, mass feeding, and hydration operations continue
in areas of western North Carolina. FEMA continues to send commodity
shipments and voluntary organizations are supporting feeding operations
with bulk food and water deliveries coming via truck and aircraft.
Mobile feeding operations are reaching survivors in heavily impacted
areas, including three mass feeding sites in Buncombe, McDowell and
Watauga counties. The Salvation Army has 20 mobile feeding units
supporting this massive operation and has provided emotional and
spiritual care to survivors. To date, the American Red Cross is engaging
in targeted distribution of emergency supplies in low-income communities
with high levels of minor or affected residential damage.

Additional recovery efforts in North Carolina include:

**<u>Supporting Infrastructure Recovery</u>**

As part of the robust, whole-of-government response to Hurricane Helene,
the U.S. Department of Transportation is supporting response and
recovery efforts in impacted communities in North Carolina. DOT
personnel are on the ground in multiple locations of the state.

On October 5, the Department of Transportation’s Federal Highway
Administration (FHWA) announced $100 million in Quick Release Emergency
Relief funding to support North Carolina. The funding helps pay for the
costs of immediate emergency work resulting from Hurricane Helene flood
damage. Additional funding will flow to affected communities from the
Emergency Relief program.

FHWA worked closely with North Carolina and other federal agencies to
assess infrastructure damage, including supporting hundreds of bridge
inspections and other critical infrastructure assessments across the
Southeast. On October 8, FHWA Acting Administrator Kristin White visited
the region with Governor Roy Cooper, North Carolina Department of
Transportation Secretary Joey Hopkins and other federal, state and local
officials and got a first-hand look at impacts from the storm and
recovery efforts.   

The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) continues to work with
partners in affected parts of North Carolina and Tennessee, as the
national airspace steadily returned to normal operations.

The FAA Air Traffic Organization Technical Operations Team is on-site
and leading communications restoration efforts at air traffic
facilities. FAA also supported the North Carolina Air National Guard by
providing advisory services at Rutherford County Airport and Avery
County Airport.

The FAA worked with state and local governments, critical infrastructure
owners and operators, and first responders to enable drones to support
response and recovery. The FAA granted permission to allow Wing to
temporarily conduct beyond visual line of sight drone package deliveries
for Walmart’s pharmacy in western North Carolina, delivering essential
items including prescription medicine, medical supplies, and medical
equipment to hard-to-reach locations.

Additionally, President Biden’s approval of a Presidential Emergency
Declaration for North Carolina affords the state a period of emergency
regulatory relief from Federal Motor Carrier Safety regulations,
including flexibility around driving time for property- and
passenger-carrying vehicles. This allows truck drivers to get essential
supplies to affected areas in North Carolina. It may also provide
opportunities for motorcoach buses to deliver relief teams to response
locations and allow for the transport and evacuation of residents.

On October 10, Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator
Michael Regan joined Governor Cooper, Senator Tillis, Congressman
Edwards and local officials to assess federal and state recovery efforts
in response to Hurricane Helene. EPA and its state partners have made
significant progress bringing drinking water and wastewater systems back
online, including restoring service to more than 75 drinking water
systems that serve approximately 260,000 people in the Asheville area.
EPA is also providing technical assistance and drinking water testing to
systems and private drinking water well owners across the Asheville area
through their Mobile Drinking Water lab – giving residents clear data
and confidence that their water is safe to drink. The lab is capable of
testing 100 samples per day. Water utilities and private well owners
must request sampling services through their local health departments.
EPA will remain on the ground in North Carolina helping area residents
as long as their assistance is needed.  

The Department of Energy’s Energy Response Organization remains
activated to respond to storm impacts, and responders remain deployed to
FEMA regional response coordination centers. Via the Electricity
Sub-Sector Coordinating Council and Oil and Natural Gas Sub-Sector
Coordinating Council, the Department of Energy has been coordinating
continuously with energy sector partners on the ongoing Hurricane Helene
response. As noted above, there are 10,000 line workers supporting power
restoration efforts.

The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration continues to support
post-disaster imagery flights following Hurricane Helene, already
totaling over 68 flight hours during 20 flights, including over western
North Carolina. This imagery not only supports FEMA and the broader
response community, but the public at large.

**<u>Providing Financial Flexibilities to Homeowners and Taxpayers</u>**

The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) is providing
a 90-day moratorium on foreclosures of mortgages insured by the Federal
Housing Administration (FHA) as well as foreclosures of mortgages to
Native American borrowers guaranteed under the Section 184 Indian Home
Loan Guarantee program. Additionally, affected homeowners that have
mortgages through Government-Sponsored Enterprises – including Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac – and the FHA are eligible to suspend their mortgage
payments through a forbearance plan for up to 12 months.

HUD announced $3 million for the State of North Carolina to support
people experiencing homelessness in communities impacted by Hurricane
Helene. Funding from the Rapid Unsheltered Survivor Housing program will
help residents and families who are experiencing or at risk of
homelessness and have needs that are not otherwise served or fully met
by existing Federal disaster relief programs.

This summer, HUD launched a new streamlined process for requesting
additional flexibility on existing grants after a disaster is declared.
Recipients of annual HUD funding – including in North Carolina – may
request waivers to unlock and accelerate the use of their funding for
disaster response and recovery. With the updated waiver process, HUD is
proactively issuing maximum flexibility to communities impacted by
disasters. These flexibilities will expedite the recovery process,
reduce administrative burden, and allow impacted jurisdictions to
quickly tailor programs and activities to address the post disaster
needs of their communities. The Disaster Assistance and Recovery Team
within HUD’s Office of Housing Counseling continues to conduct focused
meetings with housing counseling agencies in each state impacted by
these disasters to discuss their unique response and recovery challenges
and identify resources available to assist.

The Internal Revenue Service announced disaster tax relief for all
individuals and businesses affected by Hurricane Helene in North
Carolina. North Carolina taxpayers now have until May 1, 2025, to file
various federal individual and business tax returns and make tax
payments.

**<u>Protecting Public Health</u>**

The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) declared a Public
Health Emergency for North Carolina to address the health impacts of
Hurricane Helene. HHS’s Administration for Strategic Preparedness and
Response (ASPR) continues to provide medical support for Hurricane
Helene, predominantly onsite in North Carolina. These ASPR personnel are
deployed to support Hurricane Helene response operations, which include
four Disaster Medical Assistance Teams and personnel from a Disaster
Mortuary Operational Response Team (DMORT) in North Carolina. ASPR
Health and Medical Task Forces and ASPR Disaster Medical Assistance
Teams from the National Disaster Medical System are providing 24-hour
surge support to three hospitals: Mission Hospital in Asheville, Blue
Ridge Regional Hospital in Spruce Pine, and Caldwell Memorial in Lenoir.
To date, ASPR teams have seen nearly 1000 patients. ASPR will continue
to work with federal, state, and local partners to prioritize medical
assistance to other areas affected by Hurricane Helene as required and
requested.  

**<u>Supporting Workers and Worker Safety</u>**

Working alongside the Department of Labor, the States of North Carolina
has announced that eligible workers can receive federal Disaster
Unemployment Assistance to compensate for income lost directly resulting
from Hurricane Helene. And, through the Department of Labor’s innovative
partnership with the U.S. Postal Service, displaced workers in North
Carolina can now go to the post office in any other state and verify
their ID for purposes of getting their benefits quickly.

**<u>Supporting Farmers and Agriculture</u>**

The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) has [put contingency plans and
program
flexibilities](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2024/10/04/usda-offers-resources-adds-flexibilities-disaster-assistance)
into place to ensure farmers, foresters and communities are able to get
the support they need, such as by extending program signup
opportunities, expediting crop insurance payments, and using waivers and
emergency procedures to expedite recovery efforts on working lands.
USDA’s Food and Nutrition Service has issued flexibilities and waivers
for North Carolina to ensure that food and nutritional assistance
reaches those in need as soon as possible. In North Carolina, waivers
have been
[issued](https://www.fns.usda.gov/disaster/north-carolina-disaster-nutrition-assistance)
to increase access to WIC products, replace benefits through Summer EBT,
allow the purchase of hot foods through SNAP, and more.

Additionally, USDA is currently coordinating over 200 staff on the
ground in North Carolina, including saw support teams and emergency road
clearance teams, to help clear trees and debris, including in
Waterville, Marion, Newton, and Weaverville.

**<u>Supporting Students and Student Loan Borrowers</u>**

The Department of Education has offered technical assistance to states
and local educational agencies to support recovery efforts and shared
critical resources, including those developed by other federal agencies
and organizations, to support restoring the teaching and learning
environment.

The Department’s office of Federal Student Aid (FSA) has flexibilities
that are automatically available to affected institutions of higher
education to help their continued management of the federal student aid
programs. These flexibilities help schools if they need to adjust their
academic calendars, such as due to unexpected closures, and also help
students who may need to take a leave of absence. The flexibilities also
help students avoid reductions in their federal aid due to any state or
federal disaster assistance provided. FSA will also work with affected
institutions that need help on other areas, such as paying credit
balances. FSA has communicated with schools located in the areas
impacted by Hurricane Helene. Those communications included existing
Department guidance about how natural disasters impact schools and their
administration of financial aid, resources, and links to FEMA disaster
aid information. FSA’s communications also included a way for schools to
share more information about the disaster impact on their campus and
submit questions about administrative relief and flexibilities.

The Department is ensuring affected borrowers in areas impacted by the
hurricanes can focus on their critical needs without needing to worry
about missing their student loan payments. Direct Loan borrowers and
federally-serviced FFEL borrowers in the affected area who miss their
payments will be automatically placed into a natural disaster
forbearance. During forbearance, payments are temporarily postponed or
reduced, and interest is still charged. Thanks to regulations issued by
the Biden-Harris Administration, months in this forbearance will count
toward PSLF and IDR forgiveness. Direct Loan and federally serviced FEEL
borrowers are not required to take an action but have the option to call
their servicer if they wish to enroll in the forbearance proactively.
Perkins loan borrowers should contact their loan holder to request
natural disaster forbearance. 

**<u>Continuing to Survey Data</u>**

The Department of the Interior’s U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) continues
working to measure river levels and flow, and repair streamgages that
transmit critical data. USGS crews continue working to determine the
extent of flooding by surveying for high-water marks. These flood-peak
data and high-water marks are used to determine flood frequency and are
critical in the design of infrastructure and in determining flood plain
boundaries. USGS stood up a landslide response team that now includes 32
USGS scientists, 19 of which ware mapping landslides, to provide
technical assistance to the North Carolina Geological Survey and
Tennessee Geological Survey. Their work includes reconnaissance using
satellite imagery, flights, and on-the-ground assessments to map
landslides.

\###
