---
date: '2024-10-16'
modified_time: 2024-10-16 18:22:31-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-16 18:22:30-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/16/readout-of-principal-deputy-national-security-advisor-jon-finers-trip-to-haiti/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of Principal Deputy National Security Advisor Jon Finer\u2019s Trip\
  \ to\_Haiti"
---
 
Principal Deputy National Security Advisor Jon Finer traveled to
Port-au-Prince, Haiti on October 16 to meet with senior Haitian
officials, and leadership of the Multinational Security
Support (MSS) mission and the Haitian National Police (HNP) to drive
progress on security and governance efforts. Mr. Finer was joined by a
senior U.S. delegation from the Department of State, the Department of
Defense, the U.S. Agency for International Development, and the National
Security Council.  During separate meetings with members of the
Transitional Presidential Council (TPC) and Prime Minister Garry
Conille, Mr. Finer expressed condolences for the tragic loss of innocent
life in the recent gang-led massacre in Pont-Sondé
and reiterated the U.S. commitment to support Haitian-led efforts to
restore security and pave the way toward free and fair elections.  Mr.
Finer also commended the TPC for the transition of the presidency to
President Leslie Voltaire on October 7, while noting that all Haitian
officials must continue to put country over party and deliver on their
promise to work for all Haitians.  
  
In his meeting with MSS and HNP leadership, Mr. Finer underscored our
continued commitment to rally international support and provide the
tools necessary to restore security and rule of law in Haiti.  To
ensure that the MSS has the resources that it requires, the United
States is by far the largest contributor to support the MSS mission to
date.  Following the Haitian government’s request to the UN Security
Council to authorize a UN peacekeeping mission to take over from the MSS
at an appropriate time, Mr. Finer reassured Haitian officials of U.S.
support for such a transition.  
  
The United States remains the largest contributor of humanitarian aid to
the Haitian people through our UN and NGO partners, while also
supporting the renewal of the HOPE/HELP trade preferences program as
soon as possible to spur greater economic prosperity in Haiti.

\###
