---
date: '2024-10-03'
published_time: 2024-10-03 17:16:43-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/03/g7-leaders-statement-on-recent-developments-in-the-middle-east/
tags: statements-releases
title: "G7 Leaders\u2019 Statement on Recent Developments in the Middle\_East"
---
 
We, the Leaders of the G7, express deep concern over the deteriorating
situation in the Middle East and condemn in the strongest terms Iran’s
direct military attack against Israel, which constitutes a serious
threat to regional stability.

We unequivocally reiterate our commitment to the security of Israel.
Iran’s seriously destabilizing actions throughout the Middle East
through terrorist proxies and armed groups—including the Houthis,
Hezbollah, and Hamas— as well as Iran-aligned militia groups in Iraq,
must stop. Yesterday we discussed coordinated efforts and actions to
avoid escalation in the area.

A dangerous cycle of attacks and retaliation risks fueling
uncontrollable escalation in the Middle East, which is in no one’s
interest. Therefore, we call on all regional players to act responsibly
and with restraint. We encourage all parties to engage constructively to
de-escalate the current tensions. International humanitarian law must be
respected.

On the eve of the tragic anniversary of Hamas’ attacks on October 7,
2023, we condemn once again in the strongest possible terms such
unjustified acts of deliberate violence and stand with the families of
the victims and the hostages taken by Hamas.

We also reiterate our call for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza, the
unconditional release of all hostages, a significant and sustained
increase in the flow of humanitarian assistance, and an end to the
conflict. We fully endorse the efforts by the US, Qatar and Egypt to
reach such a comprehensive deal, in line with United Nations Security
Council Resolution 2735. The situation in Gaza is catastrophic, and tens
of  thousands of innocent lives have been lost. We reiterate the
absolute need for the civilian population to be protected and that there
must be full, rapid, safe, and unhindered humanitarian access, as a
matter of absolute priority. We will continue working to set the
conditions for a durable peace, leading to a two State solution, where
Israel and Palestine coexist side-by-side in peace, with security for
both.

We are also deeply concerned about the situation in Lebanon. We recall
the need for a cessation of hostilities as soon as possible to create
space for a diplomatic solution along the Blue Line, consistent with
United Nations Security Council Resolution 1701. This is the only path
to durably de-escalate tensions, stabilize the Israel-Lebanon border,
fully restore the sovereignty, territorial integrity and stability of
Lebanon, and return displaced citizens to their homes with safety and
security on both sides. We urge all actors to protect civilian
populations. We are committed to providing humanitarian assistance to
address the urgent needs of civilians in Lebanon.

We also express our deep condolences to the families of the civilian
victims in Israel, Gaza and Lebanon.  

We underscore the importance of the United Nations in resolving armed
conflict and mitigating the humanitarian impact in the Middle East. In
this regard, we acknowledge the role of the United Nations Interim Force
in Lebanon (UNIFIL) to restore peace and security. We are committed to
reinforce our support to the mission, pursuant to applicable UN
resolutions.

We will continue to be in close contact with all actors to this end.

\###
