---
date: '2024-10-24'
modified_time: 2024-10-24 10:15:50-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-24 10:14:27-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/24/fact-sheet-vice-president-harris-announces-record-lending-to-small-businesses-in-2024-and-new-actions-to-cut-red-tape-and-expand-contracting-opportunities/
tags: statements-releases
title: 'FACT SHEET: Vice President Harris Announces Record Lending to Small Businesses
  in 2024 and New Actions to Cut Red Tape and Expand Contracting Opportunities'
---
 
*SBA backed over 100,000 small business financings this year—the most in
over 15 years*

Today, Vice President Harris announced that the Small Business
Administration (SBA) provided a record $56 billion through more than
100,000 small business financings in Fiscal Year (FY) 2024—the most in
more than 15 years. The Vice President also announced new actions by the
Biden-Harris Administration to cut red tape and expand access to Federal
contracting opportunities.

“Small businesses are the backbone of our economy. And we know that
small business owners need access to capital to hire more employees,
grow their businesses, and advance innovation,” **said Vice President
Harris**. “Today I am proud to announce that the U.S. Small Business
Administration has made record lending to over 100,000 small businesses
in the last year, the most by the agency in over 15 years. When small
businesses thrive, our local economies thrive.”

The Biden-Harris Administration has powered a small business boom across
the country. Since President Biden and Vice President Harris took
office, American entrepreneurs have filed nearly 20 million applications
to start new businesses. Business ownership has doubled among Black
families and hit a 30-year high for Hispanic families.

While the Biden-Harris Administration doubles down on supporting this
small business boom, Congressional Republicans have repeatedly tried to
cut SBA’s funding by nearly a third and want to raise taxes and costs
for small businesses by repealing Inflation Reduction Act investments.

Building on these efforts to support small businesses, Vice President
Harris is announcing:

**New Records for Lending to Small Businesses**

The SBA released its 2024 Capital Impact Report, showing that the agency
increased its lending to small businesses to a record high $56 billion
in FY 2024—a 50% increase over FY 2020. Further, SBA provided over
100,000 small business financings last year—the most in over 15 years.
Since FY 2020, SBA has increased lending to underserved businesses
including a:

-   3x increase in loans to Black-owned businesses
-   2.5x increase in loans to Latino-owned businesses
-   2x increase in loans to women-owned businesses
-   2x increase in small dollar loans (loans of less than $150,000)

**Increasing Access to Federal Contracting Opportunities**

The SBA is proposing new regulations to increase small business
participation on multiple award contracts, a popular buying tool used
for [over 20
percent](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/omb/briefing-room/2024/01/25/taking-steps-to-bolster-small-business-participation-in-the-federal-marketplace/#:~:text=The%20guidance%20addresses%20small%20business%20participation%20on%20%E2%80%9Cmultiple-award,spending%20in%20FY%202022%20%E2%80%93%20over%2020%20percent.)
of all contracting by the Federal Government. The proposed rule will
require agencies to set aside orders made under these contracts when two
or more small business contract holders are expected to submit
competitive offers. Multiple award contracts allow agencies to meet
mission needs in a timely, cost-effective manner by awarding task and
delivery orders to contract holders using streamlined competitions.

The SBA proposed rule will require agencies to take steps that make it
easier for small businesses to become contract holders on multiple-award
contracts where they will then be eligible to compete for task and
delivery orders through streamlined competitions. SBA projects that the
new rule, if finalized as proposed, will result in up to $6 billion in
additional awards to small businesses each year. This new proposed rule
will further implement OMB’s January 2024 memo on “Increasing Small
Business Participation on Multiple-Award Contracts.” The members of the
Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council will also be proposing regulatory
changes in the near future to implement OMB’s guidance and align with
SBA’s rulemaking.

**Direct Support to Meet Businesses’ Individual Needs**

This summer marked the first year of the Capital Readiness Program
(CRP), funded by the Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA)’s State
Small Business Credit Initiative (SSBCI) and [announced by Vice
President
Harris](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/08/04/fact-sheet-vice-president-harris-to-announce-support-to-help-historically-underserved-entrepreneurs-tap-into-bidenomics-fueled-small-business-boom/)
in August 2023. The CRP is a $125 million investment to help minority
and underserved entrepreneurs grow and scale their businesses, the
largest-ever direct Federal investment in small business incubators and
accelerators of its kind. Today’s data shows the incredible impacts the
43 program awardees have already made in their communities in the first
year of the program. Through September 30, 2024, following their efforts
to quickly stand-up programs, the 43 awardees have already:

-   Enrolled over 6,300 small businesses
-   Hosted nearly 2,500 networking events
-   Supported the formation of over 2,600 new businesses
-   Raised over $260 million in capital for small businesses

**Cutting Red Tape for Small Businesses Seeking Federal Contracts**

The SBA just launched MySBA Certifications to simplify and streamline
certifications for small business Federal contractors. The Biden-Harris
Administration committed to using every tool at its disposal to reduce
administrative burden for small businesses seeking to compete for
Federal contracts. Building on this goal, MySBA Certifications is a
one-stop-shop that allows small business owners to apply for multiple
certifications with a single application, rather than submitting
separate applications for the HUBZone, 8(a), Women Owned, and Veteran
Owned Small Business Certification programs. SBA also simplified and
modernized its application—using plain language, eliminating redundant
questions, and reducing documentation requirements—reducing the time to
apply by 40% for a single certification and over 70% for multiple
certifications. SBA’s new operational efficiencies will reduce
processing times across the programs—meaning firms will receive their
decisions more quickly and can begin competing for sole-source and
set-aside contracts. In FY 2024, SBA certified more than 17,000 small
businesses—a single year record and a nearly 40 percent increase over FY
2023. The agency expects to build on this success with MySBA
Certifications and significantly grow the base of certified small
business government contractors—helping the Federal Government meet the
President’s 15 percent small disadvantaged business goal in FY 2025.

**Leveraging Public and Private Capital Through the State Small Business
Credit Initiative**

The Department of the Treasury plans to release the 2022-2023 SSBCI
Annual Report next week, providing additional background on data [first
previewed in July
2024](https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/256/Summary-of-Participating-Jurisdictions-2022-and-2023-Annual-Reports.pdf).
SSBCI is a nearly $10 billion program that is providing investment and
support to small businesses across the country. Through 2023, SSBCI had
already enabled access to $3.1 billion in public and private financing
for thousands of small businesses. The report will show that 75% of
transactions supported underserved businesses and 78% supported very
small business with fewer than 10 employees through the end of 2023.

In 2024, local jurisdictions have continued to leverage partnerships to
catalyze SSBCI dollars. Efforts include:

-   *The* [*Access Small Business program by Calvert
    Impact*](https://calvertimpact.org/investing/access-small-business-program):
    This program leverages funds from SSBCI to bring access to capital
    and technical assistance to underserved small businesses in New
    York, New Jersey, Nevada, and Washington State, as well as access to
    capital markets for community lenders. Partners include the
    Community Reinvestment Fund, Grow America, and the Urban Investment
    Group at Goldman Sachs Alternatives.

<!-- -->

-   *The Initiative for Inclusive Entrepreneurship (IIE):* IIE is a
    public-private collaboration to ensure the equitable implementation
    of SSBCI. IIE’s initial 18-month pilot was incubated by Hyphen, a
    leading national public-private partnership accelerator. The
    initiative’s implementation partners include Aspen Institute’s
    Business Ownership Initiative, Founders First Capital
    Partners, JumpStart, Mission Driven Finance, Next Street, Nowak
    Metro Finance Lab, and Scale Link. Across IIE programs, the
    Initiative deployed over $10 million in direct funding and
    secured over $177 million in loans, loan matches, grants, and
    private capital. Additionally, Mission Driven Finance announced the
    [Indigenous Futures
    Fund](https://www.missiondrivenfinance.com/invest/missing-middle/indigenous-futures-fund/),
    combining a target of $25 million in credit and $2 million in grants
    to support Tribal SSBCI recipients. Starting in July 2024,
    the Milken Institute began serving as IIE’s new home.
-   *Tribal Consortia:* In [August
    2024](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy2519), SSBCI
    announced a consortium of 125 Alaska Tribes, the nation’s largest
    Tribal SSBCI consortium and part of the most expansive investment in
    small business financing for Tribal governments in history. In
    total, four Tribal consortium representing 170 Tribes have been
    awarded $124 million in SSBCI Capital Program funds to support
    investments in Tribal enterprises and small businesses. Partnerships
    among Tribal Nations are important to expanding the reach of SSBCI.
-   *Supportive Business Services:* In September and October 2024,
    Treasury announced 14 awards to 12 states and two Tribal governments
    through the $75 million [Investing in America Small Business
    Opportunity Program
    (SBOP)](https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/136/SSBCI-SBOP-Sep-2024.pdf).
    SBOP grantees will provide legal, accounting, and financial advisory
    services to small businesses in a wide range of industries and will
    engage at least 34 partners for program deployment.

**Developing New Tools to Help** **Small Businesses Access Capital,
Customers, and Technical Assistance**

The Interagency Community Investment Committee (ICIC) developed fifteen
state-specific [small business resource
guides](https://home.treasury.gov/news/interagency-community-investment-committee-small-business-resource-guides),
covering over 55 programs offered by nine federal agencies. The guides
are intended to help small businesses identify federally-supported
sources of capital and technical assistance available in their
communities, and help direct businesses to federal contracting and tax
resources. ICIC leadership has been conducting a series of virtual
events in October with small business owners to talk about the
Biden-Harris Administration’s small business programs and these new
resource guides.

\###
