---
date: '2024-10-28'
modified_time: 2024-10-28 10:22:24-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-28 10:22:23-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/28/fact-sheet-one-month-following-hurricane-helene-biden-harris-administration-spearheads-ongoing-recovery-efforts-and-support-for-survivors/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: One Month Following Hurricane Helene, Biden-\u2060Harris Administration\
  \ Spearheads Ongoing Recovery Efforts and Support for\_Survivors"
---
 
Since Hurricane Helene’s destructive landfall one month ago, the
Biden-Harris Administration has mobilized a Federal response that has
provided hundreds of millions of dollars in financial assistance to
survivors, substantial debris removal and power restoration, and a
sustained commitment to long-term recovery efforts. As President Biden
and Vice President Harris have said, their Administration will be with
the people across the Southeast and Appalachia no matter how long it
takes.

**Thus far, the Administration has approved over $2.1 billion in Federal
assistance for those affected by Hurricane Helene, as well as Hurricane
Milton, which made landfall in Florida shortly after Helene.**

This includes over $1 billion in assistance for individuals and families
to help pay for housing repairs, personal property replacement, and
other recovery efforts. To date, the Administration has also approved
over $1.1 billion in Public Assistance funding to support local and
state governments. This funding is primarily being used to support
debris removal, as well to pay for emergency protective measures like
surging first responders and providing shelter, food, and water during
and after the storms.

President Biden, Vice President Harris, and senior leaders across the
Administration have spoken with and coordinated closely with Governors,
Senators, Representatives, Mayors, and other state and local elected
officials in impacted states before, during, and after the storms. The
President, Vice President, FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell, and
multiple cabinet members and other Administration leaders have been in
impacted states to meet with state and local counterparts, survey
damage, assess what additional Federal support should be prioritized,
and meet with first responders and survivors. 

On October 26, White House Homeland Security Advisor Liz
Sherwood-Randall traveled to North Carolina to coordinate recovery
efforts with Governor Roy Cooper, FEMA, and philanthropic partners on
the ground. She underscored the Biden-Harris Administration’s commitment
to innovative partnerships that can speed recovery and rebuilding —
through collaboration with state and local officials, the private
sector, non-governmental organizations, and philanthropic donors—for as
long as it takes.

Nearly 5,000 Federal personnel remain deployed to North Carolina and
Florida, working side-by-side with state and local officials, to help
survivors get what they need to accelerate their recovery.

For communities affected by Helene, FEMA has delivered over 11 million
meals and 9.6 million liters of water. FEMA now has 65 Disaster Recovery
Centers open throughout all of the affected communities to provide
survivors with in-person assistance with more opening each day. As of
October 27, there will be 21 Disaster Recovery Centers open in North
Carolina. Power and cellular service are restored for 99 percent of
customers in impacted areas.

As communities begin their road to rebuilding, the Administration
continues to provide support and resources, including:

**<u>Defense Personnel Supporting On-The-Ground Recovery</u>**

Throughout Hurricane Helene response operations, the National Guard and
Department of Defense have been engaged in the whole-of-government
response efforts across the impacted areas. Members of the North
Carolina National Guard, together with active duty servicemembers and
guardsmen from 15 other states, have conducted more than 1,200 ground
missions and more than 400 air missions in coordination with the state
of North Carolina, and under the direction of the Dual Status
Commander. 

These efforts delivered more than 13,500 tons of humanitarian aid
overland, and nearly another 2,000 tons through the air. This includes
614,881 gallons of bulk water, 4,331 pallets of bottles of water, and
3,108 pallets of food. Service members were active in route clearance –
clearing hundreds of miles of roads, which enabled increased access to
some of the hardest hit areas of the state.

From the onset of this mission, the primary goal of active-duty
Department of Defense Title 10 personnel and equipment was to provide
immediate, short-term assistance to aid the most urgent response
efforts. As of last week, Governor Cooper determined that the
active-duty troops were no longer needed for this phase, and active-duty
service members transitioned their mission to the National Guard and
returned to their home bases. The National Guard, working with FEMA, and
other Federal, state, and local partners, will remain actively engaged
to address ongoing needs, rebuild infrastructure, and aid communities in
long term recovery.

The National Guard has roughly 2,000 Guardsmen, 65 high-water vehicles,
and 7 helicopters still mobilized across seven states for the response
to Hurricane Helene.

The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has more than 450 personnel engaged in
missions across six states – supporting debris removal, temporary power,
infrastructure assessments, , and safe waterways assessments. 

**<u>Supporting and Protecting Public Health</u>**

The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) through the
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) is taking action to
support providers and suppliers impacted by Hurricane Helene. These
providers and suppliers may face significant cash flow issues from the
unusual circumstances impacting facilities’ operations, preventing
facilities from submitting claims and receiving Medicare claims
payments. As a result of the presidential disaster declaration, and HHS
public health emergencies declared in the wake of Hurricane Helene, CMS
made available accelerated payments to Medicare Part A providers and
advance payments to Medicare Part B suppliers affected by Hurricane
Helene beginning October 2, 2024. CMS has also made available certain
flexibilities related to provider and supplier fee-for-service Medicare
debt.

Following storm damage from Hurricane Helene at Baxter International
Inc.’s North Cove facility in North Carolina, the Biden-Harris
Administration continues taking action to support access to IV fluids,
including ensuring restoration of key production sites, protecting
products, and opening imports, in partnership with manufacturers,
distributors, hospitals, and other stakeholders. As a result of these
steps, Baxter anticipates restarting the highest-throughput IV solutions
manufacturing line within the next week. The Biden-Harris Administration
also moved quickly to open up imports from six facilities around the
world and made it easier for hospitals to produce their own IV fluid
during the shortage.

**<u>Supporting Students and Student Loan Borrowers</u>**

The U.S. Department of Education (ED) is partnering with
disaster-declared states to determine the extent of impacts to
educational communities; identify gaps in resources for response and
recovery; and share critical resources to help restore learning
conditions. These resources include Project SERV, which provides funding
for local educational agencies and institutions of higher education that
have experienced a traumatic crisis, including weather-related natural
disasters, to assist in restoring a safe learning environment. 

ED is ensuring affected borrowers in areas impacted by the hurricanes
can focus on their critical needs without having to worry about missing
their student loan payments. Direct Loan borrowers and
federally-serviced Federal Family Education Loan (FFEL) borrowers in the
affected area who miss their payments will be automatically placed into
a natural disaster forbearance. During forbearance, payments are
temporarily postponed or reduced, and interest is still charged. Thanks
to regulations issued by the Biden-Harris Administration, months in this
forbearance will count toward Public Service Loan Forgiveness and Income
Driven Repayment forgiveness. Direct Loan and federally serviced FFEL
borrowers are not required to take an action, but have the option to
call their servicer if they wish to enroll in the forbearance
proactively. Perkins loan borrowers should contact their loan holder to
request natural disaster forbearance. 

ED continues to monitor impacts to schools in the affected states,
including school closures, damage to school buildings including ongoing
utility outages, schools being used as shelters, and the number of
displaced students and staff. ED is sending an assessment team to North
Carolina this coming week to evaluate damages and work with the state to
develop a plan to get students back into classrooms as quickly as
possible. In parallel, ED is closely communicating with the leadership
of 531 Title IV-participating institutions, across Florida, Georgia,
South Carolina, North Carolina, Tennessee, and Virginia due to impacts
associated with Hurricane Helene. ED has also posted electronic
announcements, reminding impacted institutions of available regulatory
flexibilities, and providing guidance on managing Title IV student aid
during disaster situations. 

**<u>Supporting Farmers, Agriculture, and Consumers</u>**

The Department of Agriculture (USDA), in coordination with approved
insurance providers, announced more than $233 million to help farmers
recover from hurricane damage during the fall harvest season. Currently,
Hurricane Helene indemnities are estimated to be nearly $208 million for
Georgia, nearly $13 million for Florida, $5 million for Alabama, and
more than $4 million each for North and South Carolina.  

To date, USDA has approved Disaster Supplemental Nutrition Assistance
Program (D-SNAP) benefits to help eligible residents cover the cost of
groceries in 112 counties in Georgia, Florida, North Carolina, and
Tennessee. D-SNAP is a program focused on getting food assistance to
those in need for people in communities affected by disasters, who may
not otherwise be eligible.

**<u>Supporting Infrastructure and Transportation Recovery</u>**

Since Hurricane Helene made landfall, the Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) has been committed to helping water utilities and health
departments in Florida, Georgia, South Carolina, Tennessee, and North
Carolina as they work around the clock to bring clean, safe drinking
water back to communities impacted by the storm. EPA and its state and
local partners have made significant progress restoring drinking water
and wastewater services in a vast majority of communities. In Western
North Carolina, EPA has deployed two mobile water testing labs. EPA has
received and analyzed approximately 700 samples, giving residents clear
data about the safety of their drinking water. In addition to water
testing, EPA has collected approximately 1,000 containers with oil,
hazardous materials, or propane since clean-up efforts began in North
Carolina.  

The U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) continues to support
response and recovery efforts in impacted communities in Florida,
Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Virginia. The
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) worked with partners in affected
areas to ensure the national airspace quickly returned to normal
operations. The FAA deployed personnel to conduct vital infrastructure
assessments and restore communications to impacted towers and airports,
including Asheville Regional Airport in North Carolina and ongoing work
at Valdosta Regional Airport in Georgia, among others. Approximately 133
personnel from Technical Operations and the communications support team
remain on the ground supporting a range of response and restoration
activities.

The Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) sent $144 million in “Quick
Release” Emergency Relief funding to North Carolina, South Carolina,
Tennessee, and Virginia. These funds represent a ‘down payment’ to help
with the immediate aftermath of the hurricane. Additional funding will
be flowing to affected communities from the Emergency Relief program
pending availability of funds. FHWA also worked closely with all
impacted states and other federal agencies to help support their
assessments of infrastructure damage.

**<u>Providing Financial Flexibilities to Homeowners, Renters and
Taxpayers</u>**  
  
The Department of Housing and Urban Development is providing a 90-day
moratorium on foreclosures of mortgages insured by the Federal Housing
Administration (FHA) as well as foreclosures of mortgages to Native
American borrowers guaranteed under the Section 184 Indian Home Loan
Guarantee program. The moratorium and extension are effective as of the
President’s disaster declaration date in each state. When homes are
destroyed or damaged to an extent that reconstruction or complete
replacement is necessary, HUD’s Section 203(h) program provides FHA
insurance to disaster victims, including renters. Borrowers from
participating FHA approved lenders are eligible for 100 percent
financing including closing costs. HUD’s Section 203(k) loan program
enables individuals to finance the purchase or refinance of a house,
along with its repair, through a single mortgage. Homeowners can also
finance the rehabilitation of their existing homes if damaged. FHA is
coordinating and collaborating with the Federal Housing Finance Agency,
Department of Veterans Affairs and the Department of Agriculture to
ensure consistent messaging and policies for single family loans
regarding foreclosure moratoriums and repayment/arrearage agreements.
Additionally, affected homeowners that have mortgages through
Government-Sponsored Enterprises – including Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
– and the FHA are eligible to suspend their mortgage payments through a
forbearance plan for up to 12 months.

The Internal Revenue Service announced disaster tax relief for all
individuals and businesses affected by Hurricane Helene, including the
entire states of Alabama, Georgia, North Carolina and South Carolina and
parts of Florida, Tennessee and Virginia. Taxpayers in these areas now
have until May 1, 2025, to file various federal individual and business
tax returns and make tax payments. In addition, the Internal Revenue
Service provided more than 1,000 employees to help with FEMA disaster
relief call lines and intake initial information to help disaster
victims get federal relief. IRS Criminal Investigation agents were also
on the ground in devastated areas to help with search and rescue efforts
and other relief work – including assisting with door-to-door search
efforts.

**<u>Supporting Workers and Worker Safety</u>**

Working alongside the Department of Labor, the States of Florida, North
Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee have all announced that eligible
workers can receive federal Disaster Unemployment Assistance to
compensate for income lost directly resulting from Hurricane Helene.
And, through the Department of Labor’s innovative partnership with the
U.S. Postal Service, displaced workers from North Carolina and South
Carolina can now go to the post office in any other state and verify
their ID for purposes of getting their benefits quickly.

**<u>Additional Response and Recovery Efforts</u>**

The U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) has offered over $51
million in tentatively approved disaster loan funding to survivors of
Hurricanes Helene and Milton. The SBA also has hundreds of staff working
on the ground supporting communities in Florida, Georgia, North
Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Virginia in disaster recovery
centers, as well as in loan processing and customer service centers that
are fielding around 15,000 calls a day with an average wait time of 15
seconds. The SBA is continuing to process disaster loan applications
while it awaits Congressional action to replenish their disaster loan
funds.

\###
