---
date: '2024-10-04'
published_time: 2024-10-04 21:25:20-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/04/letter-to-congress-on-disaster-needs/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Letter to Congress on Disaster\_Needs"
---
 
Dear Speaker Johnson and Leaders Schumer, McConnell, and Jeffries,

I write to you regarding the needs of the Nation.  As communities across
the Southeast devastated by Hurricane Helene assess the extent of the
damage, they are expecting their Federal Government to stand behind them
in their most urgent time of need.  I have seen firsthand the
devastation that Hurricane Helene brought to communities across the
Southeast.  During my travels this week to North Carolina, South
Carolina, Florida, and Georgia, I met with families, business owners,
farmers, local and state officials, and first responders, all of whom
shared with me their stories of survival—and resilience.  As leaders, we
have a responsibility to ensure that everyone in communities ravaged by
natural disasters will have the Federal resources they need and deserve
to respond to and recover from deadly storms and other natural
disasters.  

My Administration will be with those affected until the job is done, and
we have a solemn obligation to provide confidence that the Federal
Government will stand with them as they rebuild their lives and their
communities.  Furthermore, this responsibility extends to the many
communities around the Nation that are still rebuilding from previous
disasters.

Over the past 10 days, including in the lead up to Hurricane Helene
making landfall, my Administration has provided robust and
well-coordinated Federal support for the ongoing response and recovery
efforts.  The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), the Department
of Defense, and other Federal partners have quickly mobilized to support
impacted citizens and communities in the six States where major
disasters have been declared due to Hurricane Helene:  Florida, Georgia,
North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Virginia.  They are
performing critical life-saving and life-sustaining missions and will
continue to do so within present funding levels.  As with other
catastrophic disasters, it will take some time to assess the full
requirements for response and recovery efforts, and I fully expect that
the Congress will do its part to provide the funding needed.

While FEMA has the resources needed for the immediate emergency response
phase, at least one other agency does not.  Most urgently, the Small
Business Administration’s (SBA) disaster loan program will run out of
funding in a matter of weeks and well before the Congress is planning to
reconvene.  I warned the Congress of this potential shortfall even
before Hurricane Helene landed on America’s shores.  I requested more
funding for SBA multiple times over the past several months, and most
recently, my Administration underscored that request as you prepared a
continuing resolution to fund the Government.  Now the need is even more
urgent.  Small businesses and individuals in affected areas depend on
disaster loans as a critical lifeline during difficult times.  In fact,
for individual disaster survivors, SBA loans are often the largest
source of Federal disaster recovery funds.  Renters and homeowners use
these loans to repair and rebuild their homes as well as replace or
repair damaged property including their personal vehicles, while
businesses use them to cover basic operating expenses.  The Congress
must act to restore this funding.

In addition, while FEMA’s Disaster Relief Fund has the resources it
requires right now to meet immediate needs, the fund does face a
shortfall at the end of the year.  Without additional funding, FEMA
would be required to forego longer-term recovery activities in favor of
meeting urgent needs.  The Congress should provide FEMA additional
resources to avoid forcing that kind of unnecessary trade-off and to
give the communities we serve the certainty of knowing that help will be
ongoing, both for the short- and long-term.

As the Congress heeds the call to assist the communities across the
Nation recovering from Hurricane Helene, it must remember that many
other communities are also in urgent need of disaster assistance.  As
recently as this summer, my Administration requested that the Congress
provide additional disaster assistance to many communities across
America.  Many of the programs we requested to receive additional
funding would also help response and recovery efforts related to
Hurricane Helene.  This includes funding for the Department of Housing
and Urban Development to respond to devastating fires in Maui and
tornados in Mississippi, Iowa, and Oklahoma as well as funding for the
Department of Transportation to support rebuilding roads and bridges
across the Nation, including the Francis Scott Key Bridge in Baltimore,
Maryland.

I urge you to keep faith with those communities and provide the
requested additional funding to rebuild housing infrastructure, to
support farmers and ranchers with crop losses, to address impacted
schools, and to repair damaged Federal highways.  In addition to FEMA’s
ongoing support, these are the resources that communities need and
deserve to fully respond to and recover from devastating events.

It is critical that Congress ensures that no critical disaster programs,
such as the SBA disaster loan program, run out of funding during the
Congressional Recess period.  I also urge that after the Congress comes
back into session on November 12th, you will act with all appropriate
speed and provide comprehensive disaster relief so that the people,
families, businesses, and communities affected by Hurricane Helene—as
well as those still recovering from past disasters—are not only made
whole, but can proceed in a way to make them more resilient in the face
of future extreme weather events and other disasters.

My Administration will keep the Congress apprised of efforts to assess
the full resource requirements associated with Hurricane Helene,
including for long-term rebuilding and resilience efforts, as those
estimates become available.  I urge you to assist those impacted by this
hurricane and every other disaster since the Congress last passed a
comprehensive disaster package in 2022.  We must stand with these
communities on their long road to recovery.

Sincerely,

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
