---
date: '2024-10-07'
modified_time: 2024-10-06 23:08:58-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-07 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/10/07/statement-from-president-joe-biden-marking-one-year-since-the-october-7th-attack/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden Marking One Year Since the October 7th\_\
  Attack"
---
 
On this day last year, the sun rose on what was supposed to be a joyous
Jewish holiday. By sunset, October 7 had become the deadliest day for
the Jewish people since the Holocaust. Today marks one year of mourning
for the more than 1,200 innocent people of all ages, including 46
Americans, massacred in southern Israel by the terrorist group Hamas.
One year since Hamas committed horrific acts of sexual violence.  One
year since more than 250 innocents were taken hostage, including 12
Americans. One year for the survivors carrying wounds, seen and unseen,
who will never be the same. And one year of a devastating war. On this
solemn anniversary, let us bear witness to the unspeakable brutality of
the October 7th attacks but also to the beauty of the lives that were
stolen that day.  

The October 7th attack brought to the surface painful memories left by
millennia of hatred and violence against the Jewish people. That is why,
soon after the attack, I became the first American President to visit
Israel in a time of war. I made clear then to the people of Israel: you
are not alone. One year later, Vice President Harris and I remain fully
committed to the safety of the Jewish people, the security of Israel,
and its right to exist. We support Israel’s right to defend itself
against attacks from Hezbollah, Hamas, the Houthis, and Iran. Last week,
at my direction, the United States military once again actively assisted
in the successful defense of Israel, helping to defeat an Iranian
ballistic missile attack.   

Today and every day, I think of the hostages and their families.  I have
met the families of the hostages and grieved with them. They have been
through hell. My Administration has negotiated for the safe release of
more than 100 hostages, including Americans. We will never give up until
we bring all of the remaining hostages home safely.  

I also strongly condemn the vicious surge in antisemitism in America and
around the world. It is unacceptable. All of us must stand united
against antisemitism and against hate in all its forms.  

I believe that history will also remember October 7th as a dark day for
the Palestinian people because of the conflict that Hamas unleashed that
day. Far too many civilians have suffered far too much during this year
of conflict *— *and tens of thousands have been killed, a human toll
made far worse by terrorists hiding and  operating among innocent
people. We will not stop working to achieve a ceasefire deal in Gaza
that brings the hostages home, allows for a surge in humanitarian aid to
ease the suffering on the ground, assures Israel’s security, and ends
this war. Israelis and Palestinians alike deserve to live in security,
dignity, and peace. We also continue to believe that a diplomatic
solution across the Israel-Lebanon border region is the only path to
restore lasting calm and allow residents on both sides to return safely
to their homes. 

On this day of remembrance, which also falls during the holiest days of
the Jewish calendar, we honor the indomitable spirit of the Jewish
people and mourn the victims of October 7th. May their memory be a
blessing.

\###
