---
date: '2024-11-25'
published_time: 2024-11-25 17:40:31-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/legislation/2024/11/25/press-release-bills-signed-h-r-599-h-r-807-h-r-1060-h-r-1098-h-r-3608-h-r-3728-h-r-4190-h-r-5464-h-r-5476-h-r-5490-h-r-5640-h-r-5712-h-r-5861-h-r-5985-h-r-6073-h-r-624/
tags: legislation
title: "Press Release: Bills Signed: H.R. 599, H.R. 807, H.R. 1060, H.R. 1098, H.R.\
  \ 3608, H.R. 3728, H.R. 4190, H.R. 5464, H.R. 5476, H.R. 5490, H.R. 5640, H.R. 5712,\
  \ H.R. 5861, H.R. 5985, H.R. 6073, H.R. 6249, H.R. 6324, H.R. 6651, H.R. 7192, H.R.\
  \ 7199, H.R. 7333, H.R. 7423, H.R. 7777, S. 1510, S. 2143, S. 2274, S. 3126, S.\
  \ 3267, S.\_3419"
---
 
------------------------------------------------------------------------

On Monday, November 25, 2024, the President signed into law:

H.R. 599, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 3500 West 6th Street, Suite 103 in Los Angeles,
California, as the Dosan Ahn Chang Ho Post Office;

Thank you to Representative Gomez and the entire California delegation
for their leadership.

H.R. 807, the “Working Dog Commemorative Coin Act,” which requires the
Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in commemoration of the
invaluable service that working dogs provide to society;

Thank you to Representatives McHenry and McGovern, and Senators Budd,
Kelly, Tillis and Duckworth for their leadership.

H.R. 1060, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 1663 East Date Place in San Bernardino, California,
as the Dr. Margaret B. Hill Post Office Building;

Thank you to Representative Aguilar and the entire California delegation
for their leadership.

H.R. 1098, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 50 East Derry Road in East Derry, New Hampshire, as
the Chief Edward B. Garone Post Office;

Thank you to Representatives Pappas and Kuster, and Senators Shaheen and
Hassan for their leadership.

H.R. 3608, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 28081 Marguerite Parkway in Mission Viejo,
California, as the Major Megan McClung Post Office Building;

Thank you to Representative Young Kim and the entire California
delegation for their leadership.

H.R. 3728, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 25 Dorchester Avenue, Room 1, in Boston,
Massachusetts, as the Caroline Chang Post Office;

Thank you to Representative Pressley, Senators Markey and Warren, and
the entire Massachusetts delegation for their leadership.

H.R. 4190, the “Restoring Benefits to Defrauded Veterans Act,”  
which permits restoration of defrauded benefits after the death of a
beneficiary;

Thank you to Representatives Trone and Ciscomani, and Senators Manchin
and Tuberville for their leadership.

H.R. 5464, which names the Department of Veterans Affairs
community-based outpatient clinic in Guntersville, Alabama, as the
Colonel Ola Lee Mize Department of Veterans Affairs Clinic;

Thank you to Representative Aderholt, Senators Tuberville and Britt, and
the entire Alabama delegation for their leadership.

H.R. 5476, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 1077 River Road, Suite 1, in Washington Crossing,
Pennsylvania, as the Susan C. Barnhart Post Office;

Thank you to Representatives Fitzpatrick and Watson Coleman, Senators
Casey and Fetterman, and the entire Pennsylvania delegation for their
leadership.

H.R. 5490, the “Bolstering Ecosystems Against Coastal Harm Act” or the
“BEACH Act,” which amends the Coastal Barrier Resources Act to expand
the John H. Chafee Coastal Barrier Resources System;

Thank you to Representatives Kiggans and Blunt Rochester, and Senator
Carper for their leadership.

H.R. 5640, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 12804 Chillicothe Road in Chesterland, Ohio, as the
Sgt. Wolfgang Kyle Weninger Post Office Building;

Thank you to Representative Dave Joyce, Senators Vance and Brown, and
the entire Ohio delegation for their leadership.

H.R. 5712, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 220 Fremont Street in Kiel, Wisconsin, as the Trooper
Trevor J. Casper Post Office Building;

Thank you to Representative Grothman and the entire Wisconsin delegation
for their leadership.

H.R. 5861, the “Building on Reemployment Improvements to Deliver Good
Employment for Workers Act” or the “BRIDGE for Workers Act,” which
extends reemployment services and eligibility assessments to all
claimants for unemployment benefits;

Thank you to Representatives LaHood and Danny Davis, and Senators Coons,
Cassidy, Kaine and Tillis for their leadership.

H.R. 5985, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 517 Seagaze Drive in Oceanside, California, as the
Charlesetta Reece Allen Post Office Building;

Thank you to Representative Levin and the entire California delegation
for their leadership.

H.R. 6073, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 9925 Bustleton Avenue in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania,
as the Sergeant Christopher David Fitzgerald Post Office Building;

Thank you to Representative Boyle and the entire Pennsylvania delegation
for their leadership.

H.R. 6249, the “Think Differently About Emergencies Act,” which provides
for a review and report on the assistance and resources that the
Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency provides to
individuals with disabilities and the families of such individuals that
are impacted by major disasters;

Thank you to Representatives Molinaro, Titus, Carbajal and Norton for
their leadership.

H.R. 6324, the “Fiscal Year 2024 Veterans Affairs Major Medical Facility
Authorization Act,” which authorizes major medical facility projects for
the Department of Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 2024;

Thank you to Representatives Bost and Amodei, and Senators Tester and
Moran for their leadership.

H.R. 6651, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 603 West 3rd Street in Necedah, Wisconsin, as the
Sergeant Kenneth E. Murphy Post Office Building;

Thank you to Representative Tiffany and the entire Wisconsin delegation
for their leadership.

H.R. 7192, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 333 West Broadway in Anaheim, California, as the Dr.
William I. ‘Bill’ Kott Post Office Building;

Thank you to Representative Correa and the entire California delegation
for their leadership.

H.R. 7199, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at S74w16860 Janesville Road, in Muskego, Wisconsin, as
the Colonel Hans Christian Heg Post Office;

Thank you to Representative Fitzgerald and the entire Wisconsin
delegation for their leadership.

H.R. 7333, which names the Department of Veterans Affairs medical center
in West Palm Beach, Florida, as the Thomas H. Corey VA Medical Center;

Thank you to Representative Mast, Senators Rubio and Rick Scott, and the
entire Florida delegation for their leadership.

H.R. 7423, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 103 Benedette Street in Rayville, Louisiana, as the
Luke Letlow Post Office Building;

Thank you to Representative Scalise, Senators Cassidy and Kennedy, and
the entire Louisiana delegation for their leadership.

H.R. 7777, the “Veterans’ Compensation Cost-of-Living  
Adjustment Act of 2024,” which provides for a cost-of-living adjustment
(COLA) for veterans’ disability compensation and dependency and
indemnity compensation beneficiaries equal to the Social Security COLA;

Thank you to Representatives Luttrell and Pappas, and Senators Tester
and Moran for their leadership.

S. 1510, the “GAO Inspector General Parity Act,” which amends provisions
relating to the Office of the Inspector General of the Government
Accountability Office;

Thank you to Senator Braun and Peters, and Representatives Robert Garcia
and McClain for their leadership.

S. 2143, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 320 South 2nd Avenue in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, as
the Staff Sergeant Robb Lura Rolfing Post Office Building;

Thank you to Senators Rounds and Thune for their leadership.

S. 2274, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 112 Wyoming Street in Shoshoni, Wyoming, as the
Dessie A. Bebout Post Office;

Thank you to Senators Barrasso, Lummis and Carper for their leadership.

S. 3126, the “Mark Our Place Act,” which amends title 38, United States
Code, to authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to furnish or
replace a headstone, marker, or medallion for the grave of an eligible
Medal of Honor recipient regardless of the recipient’s dates of service
in the Armed Forces;

Thank you to Senators Braun, Brown and Tester, and Representative
Luttrell for their leadership.

S. 3267, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 410 Dakota Avenue South in Huron, South Dakota, as
the First Lieutenant Thomas Michael Martin Post Office Building; and

Thank you to Senators Rounds and Thune for their leadership.

S. 3419, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 1765 Camp Hill Bypass in Camp Hill, Pennsylvania, as
the John Charles Traub Post Office.

Thank you to Senators Fetterman and Casey for their leadership.

\###
