---
date: '2024-05-14'
modified_time: 2024-05-15 15:41:46-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-14 20:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/05/14/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-event-2/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign\_Event"
---
 
*Private Residence*

*New York, New York*

11:39 A.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hi, everyone.  Hi, hi.  Thank you.  Thank you. 
(Applause.)

Please have a seat.  Please have a seat.  Please have a seat.

Thank you, Alexis.  And we’re going to engage in conversation in a
minute, and I’m really looking forward to that. 

It is good to see so many longstanding friends and many new friends. 
And I want to thank you all for taking the time to have this
conversation at this very important and pivotal moment in the history of
our country.

Crystal, thank you for hosting us, you and Ray.  I mean, you guys are
family to me.  You have hosted me in this very living room many times
for many conversations.

Sarah Min — where is Sarah? — thank you.  Just, I mean, literally — I
was saying to Crystal and Sarah and Alicia, I mean, you know, it’s a
real blessing in your lives — I think all of us have girlfriends who
have always just — they’re there with us.  Right?  And when you need
them just to pick you up, to push you out, to laugh with you, to
celebrate with you, to — to live. 

And these three have been such extraordinary friends to me and just on
this road and journey with me for such a long time.  So, to Crystal, to
Sarah, to Alicia, I thank you for bringing everybody together. 
(Applause.)  Thank you.

And — and to Crystal’s plus-one, Ray.  (Laughter.)

So, I’ll just get right to a few points, and then we can start the
conversation.  Let me start with this.  We are winning.  We are
winning.  (Applause.)  We are winning.  And we will win.  (Applause.) 
We are winning, and we will win.

If you take a look at what we have, in just three years, accomplished,
be it what we have done in a way that rivals — God bless him — but
Eisenhower around what we have done to invest trillions of dollars in
America’s infrastructure; bringing manufacturing back to the United
States; investing in the climate with over a trillion dollars in a way
that we are rivaling or at least probably requiring competition from our
allies around the world to do what we’re doing to take care of this
precious planet Earth that we have.

What we are doing to deal with supply chain — a term that was, in most
people — not in most people’s — right? — language and lexicon until the
pandemic but became clear: We need to have strong supply chains right
here in the United States, <s>least</s> \[lest\] industries and
economies shut down.

We are investing in CHIPS and Science.  I’m so excited about that.  Many
of you know that my mother was a scientist — a breast cancer
researcher.  She’d take my sister, Maya, and I to the lab on weekends
and — and after school.  And the idea that we are investing in the work
that is about seeing what is possible and what can be, unburdened by
what has been; that we can invest in those things will — that will
uplift the human condition.

We are winning on so many fundamental issues that are about the strength
of our economy, a broad-based economy, that are about improving the
condition and lives of so many.

What we are doing in terms of our ability to, one, be a role model
around what a clean energy economy in the future can look like.  And
doing all that while we also fight for fundamental freedoms and rights.

We are winning, and we are going to win.  And it will not be easy. 

Many of you may know I have now, as Vice President of the United States,
met with — my staff has counted — over 150 world leaders — presidents,
prime ministers, chancellors, and kings — now with many of them multiple
times to the point that we have developed friendships are on — that are
on a first-name basis. 

I’ll tell you, the last three international trips I took were two at the
end of last year and one this year.

Last year, it was — the last trips I took were Dubai.  I represented our
country at COP28, the global climate conference.  I was in the UK.  The
— Rishi Sunak of the UK asked me to come, and I presented on how we
think about the future of safety in AI.  And then, this year, I
presented America’s perspective in front of our NATO Allies at the
Munich Security Conference.

In each one of just those last three trips, to a one, world leaders came
up to me — we’re on a first-name basis — “Kamala,” they said, “hope you
guys are going to win.”  And understand, when they presented that point,
it’s purely out of self-interest. 

Because they understand what we here all know: When we, as the United
States of America, walk into these rooms, historically, we have the
earned and self-appointed authority to walk into those rooms chin up,
shoulders back, talking about the importance of democracy, rule of law. 

But this room of role models knows that when one is a role model, people
watch what you do to see if it matches what you say.  People around the
world are watching and hoping and praying America lives up to her
promise. 

And I believe in the promise of America.  And I believe in America’s
promise to her people.  I am living proof of America’s promise. 

And so, when I think, then, about where we are in this moment, it is
about us living up to that promise and believing in it and then knowing
that that promise will only be achieved if we, each of us, are willing
to fight for it.  (Applause.)

And I also believe: When you know what you stand for, you know what to
fight for.  (Laughter.)  And so, we’re going to talk about a few things
here.  But I’ll say a lot of what we stand for and will be fighting for
over the course of these next — what is it, six months, Sheila?

MS. NIX:  Less than.  (Laughter.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Less than.  Everyone, meet Sheila Nix, my — the
Chief of Staff of my campaign.  (Applause.)

A lot of the issues that we stand for and are fighting for are issues
that I’ve worked on my entire career.  As many of you know, on the issue
of, for example, reproductive health — and we’ll talk a bit about that —
I just did — I just came from doing the Sherri Shepherd show.  If any of
you have watched her, she’s fantastic.  She’s very smart, very funny.

But — but in attendance, in the audience, were my niece, Meena; my
goddaughter, Helena, who is getting — Crystal gave her some food to eat
because she’s been running with me since we left D.C.  (Laughter.) 
We’re all mommies here.  (Laughter.)

And in the audience was a woman by the name of Wanda Kagan.  She used to
be called Wanda Kagan when we were in — in high school.  She’s now
married.  And the story of Wanda is some — a story that I have not often
told but have been talking about more as she talks about it, which is
this: When I was in high school, I learned that my best friend, Wanda,
was being molested by her stepfather.  And I said to her, “Well, you
have to come live with us.”  And I called my mother, and my mother said,
“Of course, she does.”  And so, she did.

And you all know I started my career as a prosecutor.  But you may not
know that that’s one of the reasons why.  Because I decided I wanted to
take on crimes and harms against women and children.  And the majority
of my career as a prosecutor was actually focused on just that. 

So, when I travel the country, often seeing Alexis McGill out in these
main streets — (laughter) — when I talk about the immorality of laws
that, for example, would make no exception for rape or incest on the
issue of abortion, I am talking about an issue that I am very familiar
with in terms of how it plays out in reality.  The idea that some
so-called leader would suggest that after someone has survived a
violation to their body, they have no right to decide what happens to
their body next — it’s immoral.

And these are issues I’ve worked on for years.  When I think about what
we need to do in terms of addressing the economy, you know, as — as
Attorney General of California, elected and reelected — as the first
woman, by the way, but that wasn’t the point — (laughter) — I ran the
second-largest Department of Justice in the United States, second only
to the United States Department of Justice.

And when I was there, a lot of the work that I did was about what we
need to do to support the economy, support consumers, protect
homeowners, knowing that, for example, if you want to talk about one of
the smartest and most effective ways that an American family can achieve
intergenerational wealth is through homeownership and what we need to
do, then, to protect that.

I worked with small businesses back then and now, as Vice President,
have been responsible for billions of dollars more in capital going to
community banks to invest in small businesses.  I convened a whole group
of executives from American Express, Bank of America, and others to
invest mil- — billions more private equity to make access to capital
real.

The work that we are doing that is about — focused on the fact that in
our economy, we have no lack of people with ambition and aspirations,
but so many face obstacles to achieve the economic health and security,
much less wealth, that they desire.  And we need to address that if we
really want to build an economy that works for everyone.

So, I’ve taken on issues like debt, one of the biggest burdens for the
American people.  Medical debt — doing the work that I’ve done, I have
seen it play out, especially when I would work on, as Attorney General,
hospital mergers and what would bring people down. 

So, guess what we have done as an administration?  We have now said that
medical debt cannot be included in your credit score.  (Applause.)  I
will tell you: This is a game changer.  Credit score — you know, now
people can get it — there are all kinds of apps.  People know that as
well as they know their weight.  (Laughter.)  Right?  (Laughs.)  And
they know what that number means — (laughter) — for a variety of things.

The fact that medical debt, which is usually acquired, sadly, because of
a medical emergency — it’s no reflection, that medical emergency, of how
financially responsible you are or not — but weighs people down. 

These are the kinds of things that we have done that is reflective of an
approach about what we stand for, which includes, as it relates to the
economy, as much as anything, making sure that people can’t just get by
but can get ahead. 

And then, of course, the issue of democracy.  And I’ll close with that,
and then we can start our discussion.  I mean, my God.  In our lifetime
— Crystal, you were talking about Brown v. Board of Education. 
Seventieth anniversary, I think, is this weekend.

PARTICIPANT:  Friday.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Friday.

My mentor, who I never met but who inspired a lot of my career, was
Thurgood Marshall.  (Applause.)  Right?  Who, as much as anything, his —
his — the model that I saw so much about him was he understood how to
translate the passion from the streets to the courtrooms of our country
and then do the work of reminding us of the foundational principles that
underlie the Constitution of the United States and the Declaration of
Independence and all those words that are supposed to reflect the
principles that we hold dear.

The idea of democracy, freedom — right? — it was about fights for
freedom — that the highest court in our land — the court of Thurgood and
RBG — would take a constitutional right that had been recognized from
the women of America — freedoms. 

You see what’s happening in terms of Florida and some other places —
freedom the — the — “Don’t Say Gay.”  Freedom — on the attack of people
to love who they love openly and with pride. 

Attacks — book bans.  The freedom to learn America’s full history. 

The opposition to smart gun safety laws, like assault weapons bans and
universal background checks, which essentially is an assault on the
freedom that our children and each of us should have to be free from
fear of gun violence.

Freedom — the freedom — I just did — I’ve been doing a lot of events for
AANHPI week, Asian American history.  And the freedom — the freedom most
recently I talked about yesterday — to be free from hate and bigotry.

Fundamental freedoms are at stake right now. 

And so, when I say that we are winning, we are.  Part of it is because I
know who’s in this room.  We do believe in the promise of America.  And
we know what we stand for, so we know what to fight for.

And with that, I say, we will win. 

And to my New York friends, I will also ask you specifically, you got
some House races here — (laughter and applause) — that could actually
turn this stuff around.  And, in particular, New York 17, in Hudson
Valley.  So, please pay attention to that.

And I could not sit down to start this conversation without asking you
for something, which I have now done.  So, let’s start our
conversation.  (Laughter and applause.)

Good.  Thank you.

END                     11:54 A.M. EDT
