---
date: '2024-05-21'
modified_time: 2024-05-22 17:53:41-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-21 17:36:38-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/05/21/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-campaign-reception-boston-ma-3/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at a Campaign Reception | Boston,\_MA"
---
 
Private Residence  
Boston, Massachusetts

4:14 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  If you have a seat, please take it.  If you don’t have a
seat, I’ll even be shorter than I was going to be.  Please, sit down.  
  
Mark and Audrey, thank you for the introduction and welcoming me here
back to your home.  I — I appreciate it.  
  
The first time, you may have been — your fault.  The second time, it’s
clearly your fault.  (Laughter.)  You know — you should know better.   
  
And, George and Douglas, thank you for co-hosting.  I really mean it.  
  
And, Governor Maura Healey, I don’t know if she’s here now still, but
she met me at the airplane, and I want to thank her.  She’s doing a hell
of a job.   
  
And also, Michelle, thanks for the passport into town.  I appreciate
it.  (Laughter.)   
  
Thank you all for your support.  I’m a Delaware guy, and — but there’s
something special about this city.  I mean, it really is.  It’s — it’s
just a good feeling to be able to know you can be in Boston and Boston
has your back.  I really mean it.   
  
I live- — we lived in Newton for a while when I — my dad was working in
the shipyards during the war.  But it’s — it’s just a special place. 
It’s like no other city in the world, in my view.   
  
And we’re — we’re rebuilding the strongest ground campaign in American
history and really are.  We’re trying to get back to just basic block
and tackle in campaigns.   
  
So far, there’s over 1.8 million people who’ve contributed to the — this
campaign.  And the — the 1.8 million people contributed under $200.
People are doing it at 25, 50, 100 bucks.  And it’s — and we’ve raised
more money than anybody ever has at this point.   
  
And so, in the battleground states, we’ve opened 150 — 150 field
offices.  Trump hasn’t opened a single one yet.  We’ve organized — we’re
organized, and we’re ready.   
  
You know, Trump and the MAGA Republicans are really in disarray right
now.  It’s clear that when <s>we</s> \[he\] lost in 2020, something
snapped in this guy. And when he lo- — I mean, really, there’s something
different.  He just can’t accept the fact he lost.  It’s just beyond his
capacity.   
  
And that’s why January 6th happened, in my view.  That’s why January 6th
happened.  Every legal avenue Trump tried to change the election failed
and unleashed that — that insurrection.   
  
He’s now running again.  And the threat that Trump poses is greater in a
second term than it was in his first.  And, again, that’s not
hyperbole.   
  
He’s only obsessed with one thing — about losing in 2020.  And it’s
clearly unhinged him.  And I — I mean it.  I — the guy is a little
unhinged right now.   
  
And he did a long interview with TIME Magazine this week.  You ought to
— if you haven’t seen it, get it.  Read it.  He just straightforward
want — saying what he wants to do.  He says, “A lot of people — a lot of
people liked the fact that I said I’d be dictator on day one” — “a lot
of people.”   
  
He — asked if he thought violence could occur if he lost, and he said,
“It depends.”   
  
He called the insurrectionists in prison “patriots.”  He says he’s going
to release them if he wins — “every one” of them.  
  
And yesterday, his campaign posted online about — he wants to — if he
wins, there’ll be a “unified Reich,” like the Third Reich.  This is the
same guy — this is Hitler’s language, not America’s.  It’s no surprise
that when he — about four months ago, he talked about — I think maybe a
little longer — that Hitler did “some” — quote, “some good things.”  He
did “some good things.”   
  
Trump says if loses again in November, that there will be a “bloodbath”
— a bloodbath in America.  I mean, the guy means what he says.  
  
He’s not accepting the results of the election when — if he loses again,
he pointed out.   
  
And it’s clear that all those — all those people auditioning to be his
vice president, they’re all singing the same — trying to pass the same
litmus test.  They’ve all said the election — even the ones who said
that he lost are now saying, “No, no, he won.  Biden stole the
election.”  And if he loses the election, they’re all saying they will
not accept the results either.  
  
This has not happened in American history.  This has not happened.   
  
Look what he’s saying about reproductive freedom.  He’s bragging that
he’s the reason Roe v. Wo- — Wade was overturned.  And it was, because
of the appointments he made to the bench.  
  
But, you know, loo- — look at the piece in TIME Magazine.  He said
states should monitor women’s pregnancies and prosecute those who
violate the bans.  Monitor women’s pregnancies.  I mean, you know,
prosecute them.   
  
You know, folks, Trump isn’t running to lead America.  He is running on
revenge, and he really is.  That’s revenge.  Revenge but — in no way —
is no way to lead the country.  That’s how he wants to do it.   
  
He’s running to lead America into the future.  That’s what he says he’s
going to do, but he doesn’t want to do that.   
  
Look, I mean, I don’t have time and I don’t want to keep you standing,
but just read what he’s saying.   
  
Look, we made some real progress.  We got a way to go.   
  
We’ve created 15 million new jobs — 15 million new jobs — more than
anybody has in one term.  People have more health insurance than they
ever did before — our history, and we still cut the deficit.   
  
And it took Big Pharma, won to lower price prescriptions — for
prescription drugs.  All the people of — who need insulin.  You — all of
you know somebody who needs insulin for diabetes.  Well, guess what?  It
was costing $400 a month or more.  It’s now — can’t charge more than 35
bucks a month.  Because, by the way, it costs — it costs $10 to make
it.   
  
Our reforms not only save lives, but it’s saving taxpayers billions of
dollars.  That one thing of reducing the — the last change we made in
terms of Medicare, that’s reduced the federal debt by $160 billion —
$160 billion because they don’t have to pay the exorbitant prices
anymore.   
  
And, look, I’m proud that the new report released by 20 major climate
organizations — from the Sierra Club to the Sunrise Movement — cited my
administration for taking more than 300 actions related to climate,
conservation, public health, and clean energy.   
  
And Boston is a national leader, including the New England Aquarium,
which is focused on coastal erosion and so much more.   
  
And I’m proud to have restored protections for the Northeast Canyons and
the Se- — the Seamounts in the natural — as national mon- — monuments. 
It’s a big deal.  It’s going to be here for a long time.  
  
And we’ve also put more land in conservation than any — somebody — since
John Kennedy.  And we’re going to put 30 percent of all the land and
seas in conservation by the year 2030.   
  
Meanwhile, Trump is determined to get rid of the climate law — I mean,
he’s being straightforward about it — I mean, he flat out wants to get
rid of it — get rid of it, because the oil companies hate it.   
  
In fact, it has been reported that he asked Big Oil to direct $1 billion
toward his campaign and said if they did that, there’d be “a deal.” 
“We’d have a deal.”   
  
What’s the deal?  They want to — they — Big — Big Oil — it’s not about
getting lower prices for — he wants Big Oil to fund his campaign in
exchange — in exchange for a repeal of everything we’ve done on
climate.  That’s what he said in TIME Magazine.  Just look at it.  It’s
on the front — there was a front cover of him last — I guess it’s this
past month.  And he — and he just says one thing.  He wants to drill,
drill, drill.  
  
This is the same guy that told you if you had windmills off your coast,
it was going to cause cancer.  And we’re going — I mean it’s just — it’s
— it almost is hard to believe what he says.   
  
And the threat just isn’t Trump; it’s his MAGA Republican Congress.  The
House of Representatives put together a plan, and I — I just — I wasn’t
going to take the time, but I think I should.  The Congressional Budget
Office analysis, which is a bipartisan operation — it’s not Democrat or
Republican — did an analysis of his — of the budget that the House
Republicans put out.  Okay?   
  
It cuts Social Security by $1.5 trillion.  Raise your retirement age by
two years.  Raise Medicare costs by repealing the ability to negotiate
drug prices, the caps on insulin, and a $2,000 out-of-poc- — package
limitation for seniors.  Turn Medicare into a premium support
voucher-style program that raises premiums for all seniors.  Repeal the
Affordable Care Act protections against denying care for people with
preexisting conditions.  There’s over 20 million people who have
preexisting con- — that wouldn’t be able to get insurance without the
existence of that act.   
  
He also says he wants — they’re saving — they’re going to use savings
for a $5.5 trillion tax cut and repeal the minimum tax on corporations
and real estate.   
  
Look, I come from the corporate st- — state of the world.  More — more
folks are — more corporations are incorporated in my state than every
other state in the Union combined.  I represented the state for over 36
years in the Senate.  I’m not anti-corporation, but there’s got to be
some balance — what we’re talking about — just some balance.   
  
And he says that the national abortion ban, they en- — this is the House
— endorsed life as a — at moment of conception — no rape, no incest
exceptions, and no bans — and he wants to ban even — they’re talking
about banning certain contraceptions.  
  
He defunds the Community Oriented Policing Services — the COPS Program —
that support local law enforcement in 500 towns and cities all across
America.   
  
I could go on.  They’re just saying it out loud what they’re going to
do.   
  
Folks, we’re lowering costs, expanding opportunities, protecting
freedoms.  We have to keep that going because all — it’s all at
stake.   
  
Look, let me close with this.  Our freedoms — in my view, our freedoms
and our democracy are literally at stake.  I know that sounds like
hyperbole.   
  
Some of you may remember, when I ran the first time — and you helped me
the very first time, a lot of you in this room, but my — this household
— that, in fact, if — we talked about how he was going to do a number of
things that were contrary to everything we thought would happen.  
  
And — and I made a speech shortly before the election — made a speech —
and after the election as well — on the threat to democracy.  And I did
it at — at <s>Constitution</s> \[Independence\] Hall. And I — at, you
know, where they wrote the Declaration — I mean, excuse me, where they
wrote the Constitution.  
  
And I laid it out.  And the press — there are a lot of good press here,
and I’m not being critical.  But they wondered why I was focused on
that, because I said democracy was at stake.   
  
Well, guess what?  63 percent of the American people in the polls said
they thought it was too, because of the things that are happening.   
  
That’s why I need you.  I need you, I need you, because I know we can do
this together.  I’ve never been more optimistic about our future.  We
just have to remember who in the hell we are.   
  
In 2020, I wasn’t going to run again because I had just lost my — not
just — I had lost my son on Memorial Day in 2015.  He was in Iraq, and
he was near one of those burn pits for a year, and he came home with
stage four glioblastoma and died.   
  
And I wasn’t going to run again until — remember what happened when —
down in Charlottesville, Virginia, when that group came out of the woods
carrying torches, chanting the same antisemitic bile — the same exact
bile — that was chanted in Germany in the early ‘30s, carrying swastikas
— not — not a joke — carrying swastikas, and saying what they wanted to
do?  And a young woman was killed, and I ended up talking to her
mother.  And th- — accompanied by the Ku Klux Klan.  
  
And — and sh- — and afterwards, the press went to her — him and said —
to Trump and said, “What — what’s your view of all this?”  He said there
were very good people on both sides — very good people on both sides.  
  
That’s not who in the hell we are, guys.  That’s not who we are.  But if
we don’t watch it — if we don’t watch it — and I know I’m responsible to
make sure not to let you down, but we have to win.  And you’re all
putting me in a position to be able to compete and win.  And I hope I
don’t screw it up for you.  Because if I do, it’s —  
  
And, by the way, the national press is here.  I — I’m going to say it
again.  I go to — I’ve been deeply involved in foreign policy my whole
career — chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee; I know all the
heads of state before, and I know them now.  Barack asked me to be vice
president in large part because of my foreign policy background.  
  
And I go to these international meetings of heads of state — the G7, the
G20, all — and I give you my word: Every one of those meetings, and I’ve
attended a number of them since I’ve become president, somebody will
grab you — another president or another prime minister or head of state
will grab my arm as I’m  walking out, pull me aside, and say, “You can’t
let him win.  You can’t let him win.”  And then they look at me and say,
“Because m-” — meaning their — “my democracy is at stake.”   
  
Folks, there’s a lot at stake.  We talk about — it’s not an important
election because I’m running.  That’s not the reason why it’s
important.  This is one of the most important elections of our life.   
  
I’ve said to other people that, you know, when I run, I always want to
win.  Everybody wants — I’m a competitor.  But this isn’t about my
winning.  It’s about making sure he doesn’t win.  
  
You’re putting me in a position to be competitive enough to make sure
that he doesn’t.  So, thank you, thank you, thank you.  
  
And, you know, as I said, this is the United States of America.  There’s
nothing beyond our capacity.  We’re the only nation in the world — the
only nation in the world that’s come out of every crisis stronger than
we went in.  Think about it, as a student of history.  Every crisis we
face, we come out stronger than we went in.  
  
And the world is looking to us.  They really are.  Whether it’s in
Israel or Gaza, whether it’s in Ukraine, where- — where it is.  They’re
tough decisions, but we can make them.  And we have to stick together.  
  
Thanks for putting me in the position to compete.  (Applause.)  
  
4:28 P.M. EDT
