---
date: '2024-05-19'
modified_time: 2024-05-20 16:28:03-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-19 17:43:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/05/19/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-campaign-event-detroit-mi-2/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at a Campaign Event | Detroit,\_MI"
---
 
Huntington Place Convention Center  
Detroit, Michigan

8:00 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, Rev. 

AUDIENCE:  Four more years!  Four more years!  Four more years!

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Thank you, thank you, thank you.  Please,
have a seat.

I don’t feel tired.  I feel inspired.  (Applause.)

Hello, Detroit.  My name is Joe Biden, and I’m a lifetime member of the
NAACP.  (Applause.)  As a matter of fact, the first organization I ever
joined was the NAACP.  Didn’t get to vote until you were 21 in those
days, but I got involved in civil rights when I was 15. 

And, folks, look, I want to thank Reverend Anthony for that
introduction.  I tell you what, I measure the significance of an award
based on the character and the consequence of those organizations
bestowing it. 

And I love Detroit for three reasons.  Number one, my dad was an
automobile manager.  Detroit put food on our table every night. 
(Applause.)  Oh, not a joke.  Not a joke. 

And when I was vice president, things were kind of bad during the
<s>pandemic</s> \[recession\], and what happened was Barack said to me,
“Go to Detroit and help fix it.”  Well, poor mayor, he spent more time
with me than he ever thought he was going to have to.  (Laughter.)  God
love you.

PARTICIPANT:  Love you.

THE PRESIDENT:  Folks, I’m humbled to receive this <s>organization</s>
\[award\], which defines the character and consequence of what we do. 
I’m always grateful to Derrick Johnson, the leadership for the NAACP. 
(Applause.)

Of course, thanks to all the members of the biggest NAACP branch in
America — in Detroit.  (Applause.)

And it’s great to see so many friends, including Debbie Stabenow.  I’m
going to miss her in Washington, but she’s not going to get away because
I’m going to keep coming to her for advice.  I’ll always be your friend
and seek your counsel. 

And Governor Gretchen Whitmer is my co-chair of my campaign. 
(Applause.)  Senator Gary Peters and Mayor Mike Duggan — you know, Mike
Duggan is a — I brag about him all the time.  I think Mike is one of the
best mayors in the entire United States of America, and you know I mean
that.  (Applause.) 

All the members of the congressional ge- — the delegation and all other
local leaders.

Look, folks, I just came from Atlanta, where I delivered a commencement
at Morehouse College.  (Applause.)  It was truly <s>inspiresing</s>
\[inspiring\]: over 400 young Black men who will do extraordinary
things.

I told them I saw them, I heard them, and the nation needs them. 
They’re the future of this country.

And I’m here tonight to say the nation also needs all of you.  And I
mean that sincerely.  You matter.  You matter.  
  
Let’s be clear.  Because of your vote, it’s the only reason I’m standing
here as President of the United States of America, period.  (Applause.) 
Again, that’s not a joke.  That’s a fact.  You’re the reason Kamala
Harris is a historic vice president.  You’re the reason Donald Trump is
the defeated former president.  (Applause.)  And you’re the reason
Donald Trump is going to be a loser again.  (Applause.)

You placed enormous faith in me.  I’ve tried my best to honor the trust
by doing everything in my power to get us through one of the toughest
periods in our history.

We got through the pandemic.  We’re investing more money than ever in
Black families and communities.  We delivered checks to deposit in
people’s pockets to reduce Black child poverty.

We’re reconnecting Black neighborhoods cut off by old highways and
decades of disinvestment, including here in Detroit.  We’re removing
every lead pipe so every child, particularly in neighborhoods that are
on the brink, can drink clean water without fear of brain damage.

We’re making the most significant investment ever in climate, including
the most significant action on environmental justice ever.  Every child
in America deserves to ble- — bre- — breathe clean air.

We’re delivering affordable high-speed Internet so no child has to do
their homework outside a McDonald’s parking lot.

  
I promised we’d be the best — we’d beat — finally beat Pharma.  As a
senator, I tried for years to take them on.  We finally did — $35 a
month insulin for seniors instead of $400 a month or more.  (Applause.) 
And we capped the total out-of-pocket costs for seniors at $2,000 a
year, no matter how high their prescription costs are.  Expensive cancer
drugs can cost $10-, $12-, $15,000 a year. 

This year, Medicare is negotiating to lower prices for the costliest
drugs on the market to treat everything from heart
disease to arthritis.  These reforms not only save people money and
their lives, it saves the taxpayer $160 billion — (applause) — because
Medicare doesn’t have to pay those exorbitant prices.

On my watch, more Black Americans have health insurance than ever in all
of history.  I protected and expanded the Affordable Care Act, saving
millions of families $800,000 in prem- — <s>$8,000</s> \[$800\] in — a
year in premiums.

My administration has taken the most significant action to provide
student debt relief ever.  (Applause.)  Over 4.5 million Americans,
includes a significant number of Black borrowers, had their debts wiped
out.  And incidentally, it helps grow the economy.  And I’m not finished
yet.

We’re investing a record $16 billion in HBCUs — (applause) — $16
billion, more than ever, because you’re critical to our nation’s growth
and the opportunities for African American women and men.

We’re increasing access to capital to start business and loans to buy
homes.  We’re cracking down on corporate landlords <s>who</s> \[to\]
keep rents down.  Our policies are resulting in historic lows of Black
unemployment.  Black small businesses are starting up at the fastest
rate they have in 30 years.  We’re opening the doors to generational
wealth.  In fact, the racial wealth gap is its lowest level in 20 years.
   But there’s much more to do.

I kept another commitment: to appoint the first Black woman to the
Supreme Court of the United States of America.  (Applause.)  It
matters.  It matters.  Her name is Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson.

By the way, I’ve appointed more Black women to the Federal Circuit
Courts of Appeal than every other president in American history
combined.  (Applause.)

People are now realizing how critical those Supreme Court appointments
are.  Overall, I’ve appointed nearly 200 judges to the federal bench.

We passed the most significant gun safety law in decades.  And I will
not stop until I once again am able to ban assault weapons in America. 
(Applause.)

But, folks, all that progress is at risk.  Trump is trying to make the
country forget just how dark things were and unsettling things were when
he was president.

But we’ll never forget.  We’ll never forget him lying about how serious
the pandemic was, telling Americans, “Just inject bleach.”  I think
that’s what he did.  That’s why he’s so screwy.  (Laughter.) 

Trump wants to give power back to Big Pharma, charge exorbitant prices
again.  He wants to take seniors back to paying $400 a month for insulin
instead of $35.  He’d eliminate the $2,000 cap that I’ve set that no
senior ever has to pay for — on a yearly basis more than $2,000 for all
prescriptions, including those (inaudible) needed drugs for cancer and
many other things that can cost as much as $14-, $15,000 a year — the
medicines you need in order to live. 

Look, folks, on my watch, 20 million Americans have health insurance
under the Affordable Care Act.  (Applause.)  MAGA Republicans have tried
to get rid of the Affordable Care Act more than 50 times, and Trump is
still determined to do it.  In his words, he wants to “terminate” the
Affordable Care Act, which would deny 3 million Black Americans health
insurance, deny protections for preexisting conditions for millions more
Americans.  But we’re going to deny Trump.  (Applause.)

During his presidency, he enacted a $2 trillion tax cut that
overwhelmingly benefitted the very wealthy and the biggest corporations
and exploded the federal deficit.  These Republicans talk about the
debt.  Well, guess what?  He racked up more federal debt than any
previous presidential term in all of American history.  And now he wants
to do it again.

At the same time, he’s determined to cut Social Security and Medicare.

Folks, I have a better ti- — \[idea\].  I’ll protect it — Medicare and
Social Security — by making the very wealthy finally begin to pay their
fair share.  (Applause.)

Look, I’m a union guy.  (Applause.)  I want to remind everybody: Wall
Street didn’t build America.  The middle class built America.  And
unions built the middle class.  (Applause.)  I walked the picket line
with union workers here in Michigan.  At the same time, Trump went to a
yon- — nonunion shop to show his disrespect for union workers.

He brags about getting Roe v. Wade overturned.  He not only denies
reproductive freedom but worsens the mortality rate for Black moms, who
<s>have</s> \[are\] nearly three times more likely to die from pregnancy
complications than a white woman.

Trump openly encourages voter suppression and election subversion. 

He and his MAGA extremists gutted affirmative action.

Let me ask you: If he’s reelected, who do you think he’ll put on the
Supreme Court?  You think he’ll put anybody who has a brain? 
(Applause.)

Folks, look, as Dr. King said, “Give us the ballot.  We’ll put judges on
the bench who will judge justly and do mercy.”   
  
Reelect Kamala and me and a Democratic Congress, and we will help the
NAACP.  We will sign the John Lewis Voting Rights Act, the Freedom to
Vote Act, and make Roe v. Wade the law of the land again.  (Applause.)

Look, the values of diversity, equity, and inclusion are the core
strength of America.  That’s why I’m proud to have the most diverse
administration in history to tap into the full talents of our country. 
I promised you, when I was president, I would have an administration
that looked like America.  We have more Afrin- A- — African Americans;
we have more women; we have more minorities in our administration than
any other administration in all of history.  That’s why we’re doing so
damn well.  (Applause.)

Folks, I never imagined that in 2024 there would be folks wanting to ban
books in America.  What in God’s name is that about?  Not only that,
they’re trying to erase Black history, literally.  They’re wrong.  They
don’t understand Black history is American history.  (Applause.)  Not a
joke.

Together, we make history; we do not erase history.

But, folks, the threat that Trump poses is greater in a second term than
the first.  It’s clear that when he lost in 2020 — and I mean this
sincerely — something snapped in Trump.  He just can’t accept he lost,
and he lost it.

That’s why on January 6th — what happened? Every legal avenue Trump
tried to challenge the election failed, so he unleashed an insurrection.

And now he’s running again.  And he’s not only obsessed with — about
losing 2020, he’s clearly unhinged.

Just listen to him.  He calls the <s>irrectionists</s>
\[insurrectionists\] who stormed Capitol Hill “patriots.”  He says, if
reelected, he wants, quote, “every” one of them pardoned.

Let me ask you, what do you think he would’ve done on January the 6th if
Black Americans had stormed the Capitol?  No, I’m serious.  (Applause.) 
What do you think?  I can only imagine.  
  
This time, he’s telling people — he’s being more honest — he said, “I’ll
be a dictator on day one.”  Asked if he thought violence would occur if
he lost, he said, quote, “It depends.”

How can it be that any American president cannot denounce political
violence?  I know I can, I will, and I have.  Political violence has no
place in America, period.  (Applause.)

But that’s not Donald Trump.  Donald Trump has said, if he loses again
in November, there will be, quote, <s>“bloodshed”</s> \[“bloodbath”\].
 What in God’s name are we talking about here?  This is the United
States of America.

Folks, Trump isn’t running to lead America.  He’s running for revenge. 
But revenge is no way to lead a country.  You can’t build a future on
revenge.  You can’t build better lives through revenge. 

That’s why I’m running to lead America into the future, a future of
promise and hope and possibilities, because that’s who we are: a nation
of possibilities.  (Applause.) 

Look, folks, let me close with this.  On Friday, I joined the NAACP at
the National Museum of African American History and Culture in
Washington.  We honored the 70th anniversary of Brown v. the Board of
Education.  I spent time with the plaintiffs and their families in the
Oval Office at the White House.  And I also met with members of the
Little Rock Nine.

One year after Brown vs. Board, Vivian Malone and James Hood reached the
doors of the University of Alabama.  They were blocked by hate and the
governor of Alabama.  Back in Washington, President Kennedy addressed
the nation, warning of the moral crisis, bigotry that was facing the
nation.  He announced the landmark civil rights bill.

Late that night, in Jackson, Mississippi, an NAACP leader Medgar Evers
was assassinated outside his home.  Earlier this month, I posthumously
awarded Medgar Evers the Presidential Medal of Freedom, our nation’s
highest civilian honor.  (Applause.)  His spirit endures.  The
<s>NAAC</s> \[NAACP\] spirit endures.

Folks, what is at risk in 2024 are our freedoms, our very democracy. 
And that’s not hyperbole.  That’s why I need you.

Imagine the future we can build together.  I see a future where we
defend democracy, not diminish it.  I see a future where we protect our
freedoms, don’t take them away.  I see a future where the middle class
finally has a fair shot and the wealthy begin to pay their fair share in
taxes so we can pay for childcare, eldercare, paid leave, and so much
more that good could — the economy could reduce the federal deficit.

I see a future where we save the planet from a climate crisis and our
country from gun violence. 

Above all, I see a future where the full promise of America is available
to all Americans, regardless of religion, race, or background.

Folks, the idea of America is that we are all created equal and deserve
to be treated equally throughout our lives.  We’ve never fully lived up
to it, but we’ve never fully walked away from it either. 

But Trump will.  I will not.  I know we — you won’t either. 

We just have to remember who we are.  We’re the United States of
America, and there’s nothing — nothing beyond our capacity if we do it
together.  And there’s no better outfit to do it with than the NAACP.

God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.  Thank you. 
(Applause.)

REVEREND ANTHONY:  Hello.  Ladies and gentlemen, presenting the James
Weldon Johnson Lifetime Achievement Award to President Joseph R. Biden. 
“Let us march on ‘til victory is won.”  (Applause.)

(The President receives the James Weldon Johnson Lifetime Achievement
Award.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Folks, I’m going to say one more thing.  My state was a
slave state, to its great shame.  My state was segregated by law.  My
state needed to change.  The Democratic Party in my state used to be
recalcitrant, used to be more Southern than it was Northeastern. 

So, when I get old enough to register to vote, I could not bring myself
to register as a Republican, but I could not register as a Democrat at
the time, because I joined an organization to try to change the party. 
And that organization, the first one I joined, I had to register as a
“decline” — decline to state what you are. 

But I already was part of a party that was changing the nation and my
state: the NAACP.  God love you all for what you do.  (Applause.) 

  
8:18 P.M. EDT
