---
date: '2024-05-23'
modified_time: 2024-05-24 10:00:04-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-23 21:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/05/23/remarks-by-president-biden-and-president-william-ruto-of-the-republic-of-kenya-at-state-dinner/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and President William Ruto of the Republic of\
  \ Kenya at State\_Dinner"
---
 
South Lawn

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, welcome to the White House.  The White House
never looked this good.  (Applause.)

There is a — a bright light in the White House tonight with our guests. 
They have been impressive and — and accommodating.  And, you know, Jill
and I are honored to have you here and — and representing, including
many members of the African diaspora. 

One just left: Barack.  (Laughter.)  He’s been very gracious.  He met
the President this morning, and he was just here a little while ago.

And what I’d like to do — President Ruto, we share a strong respect for
the history that connects us together.  You know, as you know, President
Carter was the first president to host leaders of Kenya at an official
breakfast — I mean, excuse me, at a dinner. 

And in his own dinner toast, he said — your counterpart said that — he
called the two nations “neighbors.”  And like neighbors — I got to get
his quote exactly right.  And like neighbors, he said, not — do not
share borders but share beliefs.  We share the belief in freedom,
democracy, dignity, and equality.

And for ourselves and for everyone else, we want to share that with
everyone here.  The fact is these are shared beliefs that give both our
nations strength.

And let me end with a toast — an Irish toast, if you don’t mind an Irish
toast.

May the road rise to meet you.  May the wind be always at your back. 
May the sun shine warmly on your face, and may the rains fall softly on
your fields.  Until we meet again, may God hold you in the palm of his
hand. 

To Kenya.  To our guests.  Cheers. 

(President Biden offers a toast.)

Enjoy your dinner.

PRESIDENT RUTO:  Thank you.  Thank you very much, Mr. President.  I
thank you, Mr. President, very sincerely for your invitation for me to
undertake this state visit.  The welcome we have received, the
hospitality of the American people have been exceptional.

The openness, goodwill, authenticity, and generosity of the American
people greatly enhances our appreciation of your achievements and in
keeping this nation as a thriving global powerhouse, and it magnifies
our experience of the beauty and the greatness of this land.

We are proud of the robust social, economic, security, technological,
and the people-to-people ties between our two nations and the shared
values which form a very strong bond of friendship between us. 

We gather here on behalf of the people of our nations to further
strengthen the friendship, solidarity, and mutual endeavor that have
united us for many decades.  This partnership has kept us strong,
effective, and dynamic in our pursuit of freedom, equality, and
prosperity.

As we do so, we proudly take a firm stand, shoulder to shoulder, for
democracy in a world where troubles have shaken the faith of many; for
security as the engine for freedom and as guarantor for all aspirations
of trust, enterprise, and innovation; and for prosperity as the ultimate
good that our nations and our people so richly deserve.

I am encouraged by our achievements over the past 60 years, which have
given people hope, saved lives, increased wealth and investment, and
made the world more integrated and secure.

What we have accomplished during my visit is nothing short of
phenomenal.  We can now face a complex and challenging future with
greater confidence in the knowledge that our collective commitment to
our shared values stand us in good stead and that as long as we hold our
ground and stay the course, we will deliver to our people a world in
which it is safe to dream, to work, and to prosper.

Madam First Lady, you have been so kind.  We have shared your home for
days and have been treated with touching and manifest generosity.  This
is a warm, wonderful, beautiful place, and we are blessed to have been
privileged to visit.

It is now my honor to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to raise your
glasses and join me in a toast to the continued well-being and long life
of President Joe Biden and of First Lady Jill, to the continued security
and prosperity of the people of the United States, and to the enduring
bonds of friendship, partnership, and solidarity between Kenya and the
United States. 

To the President.

(President Ruto offers a toast.)
