---
date: '2024-05-15'
published_time: 2024-05-15 13:35:24-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/05/15/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-the-2024-womens-health-health-lab/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden at the 2024 Women\u2019\
  s Health \u201CHealth\_Lab\u201D"
---
 
New York, New York

Liz, you lead with vision – and that’s what today is all about. So many
women’s – and men’s – lives are filled with more knowledge, which is
power, and joy because of this work. Thank you for inviting me to join
all of you today for this summit.

Good morning.

It was an ordinary Saturday in an extraordinary life.

I was in my office in the East Wing doing what community college
teachers do on weekends – especially on a weekend so late in the
semester: I was grading papers.

It was late April last year. Earlier that morning, I’d read in the New
York Times that the U.S. loses $1.8 billion in working time every year
to the menopause symptoms that upend women’s lives.

It struck me – I’d experienced those kinds of symptoms too, so had many
of my friends, but, I thought, that’s the way life is, isn’t it?

And then, that afternoon, Maria Shriver, the former First Lady of
California, came in for a meeting.

She wanted to talk about women’s health. She told me that it’s not just
menopause symptoms that don’t have enough treatment options. It’s all of
women’s health – for our whole bodies, for our whole lives.

It’s a problem that’s so simple – yet often ignored: women’s health is
understudied and research is underfunded.

As a result, too many of our medications, treatments, health products,
and medical school textbooks are based on men. This has created gaps in
our understanding of conditions that mostly affect women, only affect
women, or affect women and men differently, leaving women seeking health
care in a medical world largely designed for men.

Women’s health is about understanding those conditions. And the
discoveries we make will give us insight into all of human biology and
experience. 

It was one of those moments that happen in life, where you learn
something and you can never see the world the same way again.

Suddenly, the problem felt so familiar – because if you ask any woman in
America about her health care, she probably has a story to tell. You
know her.

She’s the woman who gets debilitating migraines, but doesn’t know why,
and can’t find treatment options that work for her.

She’s the woman going through menopause, who visits her doctor and
leaves with more questions than answers, even though half the country
will go through menopause at some point in their lives.

She’s the woman whose heart attack isn’t recognized because her symptoms
don’t look like a man’s, even as heart disease is the leading cause of
death among women.

She’s the woman who needs treatments, and affordable and easy-to-use
products that help her stay healthy or feel better when health needs
arise.

Does this sound like something you’ve heard before?

It should. Because many of you in this room write about her. Or, maybe,
you research her.

Over the last few months, I’ve visited research centers and
universities, and I’ve spoken with doctors and scientists to understand
the research questions we need to ask – and the answers they could find
if we invest in women’s health.

All of you know that potential: In 2021, the Boston Consulting Group
estimated that the size of the women’s health market would grow from $9
billion to $29 billion in just eight years.

But those numbers don’t tell the whole story. Because there’s a cost to
inaction.

Women spend more years of their lives in “poor health” than men. Time
spent negotiating health conditions for which we need to find more
answers. Time away from loved ones, time not spent following their
dreams, or pursuing their careers.

We can change this. We can give hours and days and years back to women,
and to the families who love them. Making it so women don’t have to
leave their careers because of treatable conditions. And it could add a
trillion dollars annually to the world economy by 2040.

We have to invest in women’s health. We can’t afford not to.

That’s why my husband, President Biden, is fundamentally changing how
our nation approaches and funds women’s health research.

Last year, Joe and I launched the first-ever White House Initiative on
Women’s Health Research. We’re helping close the research gaps in
women’s health, so we can understand the science behind the conditions
that so many women experience, building the knowledge that will create
life-changing products and fuel innovation.

During his State of the Union, Joe called on Congress to make a bold
investment to do just that – with $12 billion. And he signed an
Executive Order to make sure that when the government funds studies,
they include women from the beginning.

Earlier this year, ARPA-H – the agency Joe created to pursue health
breakthroughs with lightning speed – launched its first-ever Sprint for
Women’s Health. Over this year, ARPA-H will invest $100 million to fund
transformative research and development.

We’re “de-risking” investments in big ideas from researchers and
start-ups – the ones that could revolutionize women’s health – so that
answers can get to the women who need them, quickly.

President Biden is taking a leap toward the future – making a change
today that will open up all the possibilities of tomorrow with an
all-of-government effort.

Investing in women’s health matters to Joe – and to me. But we can’t do
this alone. We need industry to look ahead with that same vision. The
private sector – from entrepreneurs and investors – is essential to
bringing these discoveries to the marketplace, reaching millions of
women who need solutions.

You in this room – publishers, writers, editors, women and men who care
about this issue – you are powerful storytellers, distilling the
critical questions of our time into the ideas and stories that will
change everything for someone, or maybe all of us.

Thanks to you, the momentum behind women’s health feels unstoppable.

We can’t let this moment pass us by.

Together, we will build a health care system where women aren’t an
after-thought, but a first-thought. Where we leave doctors’ offices with
more answers than questions. Where we don’t have to miss days of work or
life for treatable conditions. Where no woman or girl has to hear, “it’s
all in your head,” or, “it’s just stress,” ever again. Where women don’t
just survive, they lead long, healthy, and happy lives.

Thank you.

\###
