---
date: '2024-05-08'
published_time: 2024-05-08 16:36:13-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/05/08/remarks-by-president-biden-on-his-investing-in-america-agenda-racine-wi/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on His Investing in America Agenda | Racine,\_\
  WI"
---
 
Gateway Technical College  
Racine, Wisconsin

11:57 A.M. CDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, hello, hello.  (Applause.)

AUDIENCE:  Four more years!  Four more years!  Four more years!

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, thank you, thank you.

Hello, Wisconsin!  (Applause.)  And, Nick, thank you for that
introduction.  
  
Look, before — before I get started, I want to set the record straight.

Please, sit down.

I went to a Catholic High School in Delaware taught by the Norbertine
priest from St. Norbert’s College, you know, a little t- — a little team
called “Green Bay.”  (Applause.)

Now, here’s the deal.  We were the only high school in Delaware that
overwhelmingly rooted for Green Bay e- — (laughter) — not a joke; I’ll
tell you why — every single Sunday.   
  
Not only did they have great teams at the time — they still do — but not
only that, my theology professor at the Catholic school I went to was a
guy named Reilley, last name.  And he had been drafted by the Green Bay
Packers.  And he decided to become a priest before that, so he didn’t
go.  But every single, solitary Monday that Green Bay won, we got the
last period of the day off.  (Laughter and applause.)

Now, we Catholics call that indirect bribery.  (Laughter.)  But it
worked.  (Laughter.)

It’s always great to be with one of the best governors in America, Tony
Evers.  Tony — (applause) —  
  
I think of Tony — I mean it — I think of one word: integrity.  You’re a
man of absolute integrity.  (Applause.) 

And what I’m really doing — I’m really auditioning for a job —
(laughter) — with a — a little company that’s going to build something
out here.  (Laughter.)

Thank you for the comments you made about what we’re doing together.

Well, look, while she couldn’t be here, I want to thank the best — one
of the best U.S. senators in the United States of America and a good
friend of mine, Tammy Baldwin.  (Applause.)  I mean it.  
  
You also got a great mayor in Racine, Cory Mason.  (Applause.)  
  
Brad Smith, president of Microsoft, thank you for your partnership and
for showing how we get things done — and big things done — in America. 
And thank you for your friendship.  (Applause.)  I really mean it.  
  
And Liz Schuler, the president of AFL-CIO, thank you for all you do
benefitting the American union movement.  There’s a — you know, I get
called the most pro-union president in American history.  I make no
apologies for it.  (Applause.)  None.  I’m serious.

The middle class built America, but unions built the middle class. 
(Applause.)  I’ve been saying that for a long time.  
  
Folks, I’m here to talk about a great comeback story in America.  
  
And I’m sure you remember.  Racine was once a manufacturing boomtown,
all the way through the 1960s, powering companies — invented and
manufacturing Windex, pro- — portable vacuum cleaners, and so much more,
and powered by middle-class jobs.  
  
And then came trickle-down economics — cut taxes for the very wealthy
and biggest corporations beginning in the ‘60s.  We shipped American
jobs overseas because labor was cheaper.  We slashed public investment
in education and innovation.  And the result: We hollowed out the middle
class.  
  
My predecessor and his administration doubled down on that failed
trickle-down economics, along with the trial of broken promises.   
  
Look, my dad used to have an expression.  He’d say, “Joey, a job” — I
mean this sincerely.  “A j-” — my dad was a well-read man.  Never got to
go to college, but he was a good man all across the board.  And he’d
say, “Joey, remember, a job is a lot more than a — about more than a
paycheck.  It’s about your integrity.  It’s about your dignity.  It’s
about being treated with respect.  It’s about being able to look your
kid in the eye and say, ‘Honey, everything is going to be okay.’” 
(Applause.)  
  
In fact, six years ago, when my predecessor came to Racine with a
promise of, quote, “reclaiming our country’s proud manufacturing
legacy.”  Well, we had “Infrastructure Day” every — ev- — “Week” every
week for four years, didn’t build a damn thing.  (Laughter.)  
  
He and his administration promised a $10 billion investment by Foxconn
to build a new manufacturing complex and create 13,000 new jobs.  
  
In fact, he came here with your senator, Ron Johnson, literally holding
a golden shovel, promising to build the “eighth wonder of the world.”  
  
Are you kidding me?  (Laughter.)  Look what happened.  They dug a hole
with those golden shovels, and then they fell into it.  (Laughter and
applause.)   
  
Look, they didn’t shovel other dirt — they did shovel some dirt.  One
hundred homes were bol- — were bulldozed.  They wasted hundreds of
millions of dollars — your state and local tax dollars — to promise a
project that never happened.  
  
Foxconn turned out to be just that: a con.  Go figure.  
  
In just four years under his administration, instead of creating 13,000
jobs in Racine, my predecessor — and a hundred — and 1,000 manufacturing
jobs — rather than creating them, 1,000 manufacturing jobs left Racine. 
Eighty-five thousand five — eighty-three thousand five hundred total
jobs left Wisconsin during my predecessor’s term.  
  
But that’s not on my watch.  We’re determined to turn it around.  
  
Thus far, since we’ve come into office, we’ve created — and with the
governor’s overwhelming leadership, we’ve created over 178,000 jobs in
Wisconsin and we’re going to create more here in Racine and big time. 
(Applause.)  
  
Some of my friends on the far right have criticized my Investing in
America agenda, my — which includes my Bipartisan Infrastructure Law,
the CHIPS and Science Act, and the Inflation Reduction Act.  But a lot
of business leaders support it as a key to economic growth that we’re
seeing now.  
  
Remember hear — you’re going to hear “a recession next week,” “a
recession next week,” “no soft landing.”  Well, in fact, I’ve asked
business leaders like Brad a simple question: When the United States
decides to invest considerable resources in a new industry that we need
to build, does that encourage or discourage them engaging?  The answer
overwhelmingly is it encourages business investment.  And that’s what
we’re seeing now with our administration.  
  
My Investing in America agenda is fueling a historic boom in rebuilding
our roads and bridges, developing and deploying clean energy,
revitalizing American manufacturing, and so much more.  
  
So far, we’ve created $866 billion in private-sector investment
nationwide — almost a trillion dollars — historic amounts in such a
short time.  And that’s literally creating hundreds of thousands of
jobs; building new semiconductor factories, electric vehicles and
battery factories; and so much more here — all here in America.  
  
Today is another example of the private sector optimism.  Microsoft, as
the president already pointed out, is investing $3.3 billion to build a
new data center here in Racine that’s going to help operate one of the
most powerful artificial intelligence systems in the world.  And I’ve
gone around the world — literally, not figuratively — meeting with the
leading architects of AI.  
  
It’s going to result in 2,300 union construction jobs just to build the
new facility — (applause) — and 2,000 permanent workers to work in the
data centers.  In addition, we’re also providing a pipeline to train
these — for new — these new jobs — a pipeline that starts right here at
this very spot.  
  
Microsoft is partnering with Gateway Technical Community College right
here to train and certify 200 students a year to fill high-demand,
good-paying jobs in data and IT at Microsoft’s new AI data center here
in Racine.  
  
But that’s not all.  In addition, Microsoft is continuing a pipeline,
going to high schools in nearby Mount Pleasant to train high school
students for jobs of the future.  As the boss pointed out, it’s going to
create 100,000 jobs over time.  It’s all part of Microsoft’s broad plan
to build an artificial intelligence ecosystem right here in Racine.  
  
And it’s going to be transformative not he- — just here but worldwide. 
It’s not only a significant investment in infrastructure of Racine but
for the people of Racine.  
  
It means folks are getting trained — folks are getting trained in new
high-paying, high-skilled jobs that don’t require a four-year college
degree and don’t require you to leave home.  
  
You know, where I come from, that really matters.  
  
I know what it’s like when your parents have to move the family in
search of work because there’s no jobs, what it does to the family’s
dignity.  
  
My wife, Jill, who teaches full time at a community college, cares a lot
about this as well.  Last year, she announced our first five Workforce
Hub sites to build a pipeline of workers in industries that create the
new hometowns — that are creating new — there are new — hometowns in
Phoenix; Baltimore; Columbus, Ohio; Augusta, Georgia, building
everything from semiconductors to electric vehicles.  
  
Last month, I announced four new hubs to continue to train workers for
the jobs of the future — one of which is in Milwaukee that trains
workers to help replace every poisonous lead pipe in America in a decade
and funded by the Infrastructure Law.  (Applause.)  
  
And, by the way, “Buy America” has been the law of the land since the
‘30s, but it’s been ignored by most administrations.    Past
administrations, including my predecessor, have failed to buy
American.  
  
Not anymore.  Here’s how it works.  When the pre- — when the Congress
sends something to the president to build something — whether it’s a
road, a highway, a deck of an aircraft carrier; whatever it is — that
president is — back from a law that was passed in the ‘30s — is supposed
to hire American workers to build it and use American products.   
  
Well, on my watch and with Tammy’s leadership, federal projects like the
Blatnik Bridge here in Wisconsin — it’s going to cost $1 billion, but
it’s all — all American made, all American products, and all American
workers.  And it’s creat- — going to create 10,000 new jobs — 10,000. 
(Applause.)   
  
In addition, the roads and highways and so much more will be made with
American products, built by American workers, creating good-paying
American jobs.  
  
What’s happening in Racine is really important for another reason.  
  
We’ll see more technical community colleges — technical changes needed
in the next 10 years than we saw in the last 50.  AI is already driving
that change in every part of American life, from how we teach and learn
to how we solve the biggest challenges, from curing cancer to climate
change.  
  
America is a global leader in AI, and American companies lead the world
in A- — AI innovation and a lot of what we’re going to see here in
Racine.  
  
Because of our initiatives, American workers will power that innovation
here in America.  
  
But, look, to get the full benefit of all this <s>safeguards</s> \[AI\],
we need safeguards.  That’s why, as the president pointed out, I signed
the landmark executive order on which the most significant action any
government has taken anywhere in the world — has ever taken for AI
safety, security, and trust.   
  
This order helps make sure workers have a seat at the table in
determining how these technologies are developed and used.  (Applause.) 
For real.  
  
And we’ll support workers in every industry by defending their right to
a fair wage, to organize as these technologies emerge across the board. 
And they’re going to happen.  (Applause.)  
  
Folks, during the previous administration, my predecessor made promises
which he broke more than kept and left a lot people behind in
communities like Racine.  
  
On my watch, we make promises and we keep promises.  (Applause.)  And we
leave no one behind.  
  
Since I took office, we’ve added nearly 4,000 jobs in Racine.  As I said
earlier, we’ve added 178,000 in the state of Wisconsin.  The
unemployment rate has hit a record low in Racine.  Racine has seen some
of the strongest new business growth in all of Wisconsin.  And it’s only
just beginning.  
  
We’re seeing the great American comeback story all across Wisconsin and,
quite frankly, the entire country.  
  
The bottom line is we’re doing what’s always worked in this country:
Giving people a fair shot, leaving nobody behind, and grow the economy
from the middle out and the bottom up, not the top down.  When that
happens, everybody does well.  Everybody does well.  (Applause.)  
  
Let me close with this.  When folks see a new factory being built here
in Wisconsin, people going to work making a really good wage in their
hometowns, I hope they feel the pride that I feel.  Pride in their
hometowns making a comeback.  Pride in knowing we can get big things
done in America still.  
  
Folks, I’ve never been more optimistic — and I’ve only been around a
couple years, I know.  (Laughter.)  I know I don’t look it, but I’m only
40 plus 2 times — well, anyway.  (Laughter.)   
  
But I’ve never been more op- — I swear to God, I’ve never been more
optimistic about our future.  We just have to remember who in the hell
we are.  We’re the United States of America.  And there’s nothing beyond
our capacity when we work together.  Nothing.  I mean that: nothing. 
(Applause.)  
  
The rest of the world looks to us.  So, keep it going.   
  
God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.  Thank you, thank
you, thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
AUDIENCE:  Four more years!  Four more years!  Four more years!  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Don’t jump!  
  
12:12 P.M. CDT
