---
date: '2024-05-06'
published_time: 2024-05-06 17:07:28-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/05/06/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-during-the-nationwide-economic-opportunity-tour/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris During the Nationwide Economic Opportunity\_\
  Tour"
---
 
*Charles H. Wright Museum of African American History  
Detroit, Michigan*

2:23 P.M. EDT

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, everyone.  Good afternoon,
Detroit.  Good afternoon.  (Applause.)  It’s good to be back.  Good
afternoon.  Please have a seat.  Please have a seat.  
  
     I want to thank Ron Busby.  We have — many of us have worked with
him over the years and know: As president of the U.S. Black Chambers, he
has been an extraordinary leader to an essential organization in our
fight for economic empowerment.  Can we please hear it for Ron Busby and
his courageous leadership?  (Applause.)  
  
     And I want to thank all of the extraordinary leaders who are here
today.  Secretary of Energy and the former governor of this state,
Jennifer Granholm — (applause) — who traveled with me today on Air Force
Two from Washington, D.C.  She said, “I have got to be in Michigan.” 
(Laughter.)  
  
     I want to thank Acting Secretary of Labor Julie Su for all you do
to fight for the working people of America.  (Applause.)   
  
     Deputy Secretary of Commerce Don Graves, thank you for your
extraordinary leadership.  (Applause.)  
  
     Representative Shri Thanedar, thank you for you and your being
here.  And he is somewhere here.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
     And I want to thank also Representative Steven Horsford, who is the
chair of the Congressional Black Caucus.  (Applause.)  
  
     And Lieutenant Governor of Michigan Garlin Gilchrist.  Thank you. 
(Applause.)  
  
     So, Michigan, you know, I believe that America’s economy is powered
by the ambition and the aspiration of her people — the ambition and
aspiration to innovate, to create, and to prosper.   
  
     Therefore, to grow our economy, we must invest in that ambition and
those aspirations.  I believe every person in our country, then, must
have access to the opportunity to compete, to succeed, and to thrive;
the ability to achieve what I call financial freedom, which means having
enough not just to get by but to get ahead — (applause) — to be able to
build a business, to own a home, to start a family, and to create
intergenerational wealth.   
  
     Which is why, over the past three years, the President and I have
invested now trillions of dollars in America’s infrastructure, in clean
energy and a clean energy economy, in manufacturing, and in supply
chains.   
  
     Our work is also guided by the understanding that there are certain
communities that have faced, historically and currently, profound
obstacles to acquire that opportunity.   
  
     And I’ll tell you over the last three years, both in the White
House and at the Vice President’s Residence, where I live — (laughter) —
I have convened Black entrepreneurs from around the country to solicit
their advice and leverage their expertise as to how we can have the
greatest impact with the billions of dollars that we are investing and
to identify the challenges they face in building financial security and
wealth, including disparities in access to capital and lending,
disparities in homeownership and access to government contracts, to
obstacles like student loan debt and medical debt.   
  
     President Biden and I have invested hundreds of billions of dollars
to address these disparities.  And I launched, then, this national tour,
the Economic Opportunity Tour, to bring together entrepreneurs,
businessowners, and community leaders together with representatives from
the United States Departments of Commerce and Energy and Housing and
Labor and Treasury and the Small Business Administration — and the
Undersecretary the SBA is with us as well — to make sure founders and
families have the information and assistance to access the resources
they need.   
  
     For example, on the subject of access to capital.  We all know
Black entrepreneurs do not lack for ideas or ambition but often lack the
capital that is necessary to turn an idea into a thriving business, to
invest in inventory, hire employees, to scale up.   
  
     In fact, Black entrepreneurs are three times as likely to not apply
for a loan, for fear they’re going to be turned away from a bank.   
  
     So, two years ago, I founded the Economic Opportunity Coalition — a
group of 31 companies and nonprofits — including, for example, the Bank
of America, MasterCard, and the Ford Foundation — that are working
currently to invest $3 billion in community banks — banks which we know
are uniquely designed to serve minority and women entrepreneurs.   
  
     And this builds on the work that I did when I was a United States
senator in 2020 to invest $12 billion more in our community banks. 
(Applause.)  Thank you.  
  
     And understand: This work is helping Black businesses receive loans
not only for thousands of dollars, but for millions of dollars.   
  
     For example, I’m proud to announce we are investing $100 million in
small- and medium-sized auto supply companies, many of which —
(applause) — many of which are Black-owned and based right here in
Michigan.  These grants will allow businesses to upgrade production and
production lines to produce parts for electric vehicles.   
  
     I’m also pleased to announce the launch of a new program that will
match government-backed loans with private equity capital to help small-
and mid-size auto suppliers access loans from a quarter million dollars
to 10 million dollars.  (Applause.)  
  
     The strength of America’s economy is also based on the strength of
America’s supply chains.  We all learned that in the pandemic, if we
weren’t clear before.   
  
     This investment will help to keep our auto supply chains here in
America, which strengthens America’s economy overall, and keep those
jobs here in Detroit.  (Applause.)  
  
     We are also axpending \[sic\] — expanding, excuse me, access to
government contracts — government contracts.  At the beginning of our
administration, President Joe Biden and I pledged to increase federal
contracts for minority-owned small businesses by 50 percent, knowing
that, traditionally and historically, folks didn’t necessarily have
access to the relationships to get those contracts.   
  
     And we are on track to meet our goal by the end of next year, which
means — (applause) — which means thousands more minority entrepreneurs
with contracts worth hundreds of thousands and even millions of dollars
— contracts which can last up to five years with the option to renew for
10, 20, and 30 years.  Think about what that means in terms of a
sustained investment and all of the folks that, over a period of time,
will benefit.   
  
     Now, I also want to point out — because there is a contrast here
between us and the last administration.  The last administration
invested access to tax cuts for billionaires.  We are investing in
access to capital for entrepreneurs.  (Applause.)  
  
     And this work and our overall perspective is that we must
understand that if we want a great return on investment, we must
understand the natural resources that are available and then see that
and invest in those resources.   
  
     To strengthen America’s economy, we are also helping more people
buy a home.  Homeownership is one of the most powerful engines of
intergenerational wealth.  It builds equity, which can help pay for a
child’s college education or provide equity that then can be used as
startup capital to start a business.  
  
     But as a result of lasting legacies of structural inequities — such
as segregation, redlining, and so-called urban renewal — today, Black
Americans are 40 percent less likely to own a home.  And homeown- — this
is a sad fact — and homeownership rates for Black men have been falling
for three decades straight.  We’ve got to do something about that.   
  
     So, to help address these disparities in our budget, President
Biden and I outlined a blueprint to provide folks who are first in their
family to buy a home with $25,000 toward a down payment — (applause); to
give families up to $400 a month to help with a mortgage; and to build 2
million units of affordable housing to lower costs for homebuyers and
renters.  (Applause.)  
  
     We are also calling out and addressing the issue of racial bias in
home appraisals.  (Applause.)  We all know the stories.  We’ve heard the
stories.  The stories like of a Black family that gets a home appraisal
and the valuation is much lower than they know what their home is
worth.  So, they get a new appraisal, only this time they replace their
photographs with photos of a family friend who is white, and they ask
that family to bring in the appraiser.  And the new appraisal is much
higher.  We’ve heard those stories.   
  
     Today, I’m proud to report that we have made it now easier for more
homeowners to appeal home appraisals.  And we have reached a commitment
that all licensed home appraisers be required to complete racial bias
training.  (Applause.)  
  
     And, by the way, one of the people who is not present with us today
that I want to thank is former Secretary of HUD Marcia Fudge —
(applause) — all that she did to make sure this would happen.   
  
     So, the bottom line is that every family, I believe — every family,
whatever their background, their race, their geographic location — has a
right to the full and fair value of their home.   
  
     In addition to increasing opportunity, we have also focused on
removing obstacles.  One big obstacle to wealth-building is debt.  While
an issue for many people, Black Americans are twice as likely to have
medical debt and more likely to struggle to repay student loan debt.   
  
     For anyone carrying debt, we know it is much more difficult, then,
to save for a house, to grow a small business, to build
intergenerational wealth.  And it just plain makes people feel like they
can never get ahead.   
  
     So, President Biden and I have made debt forgiveness a central
pillar of our economic agenda.  And we have already forgiven about $500
million of medical debt for hundreds of thousands of Americans across
the nation.  (Applause.)  
  
     And in Wayne County, Michigan, we will forgive an additional $700
million of medical debt for as many as 300,000 people.  (Applause.)  
  
     And there’s more.  We are also implementing a rule — and this is
critically important — we are also implementing a rule that medical debt
cannot be used in calculating your credit score — (applause) — which
means medical debt cannot be the reason someone is denied a car loan, a
home loan, or a small-business loan.  (Applause.)  
  
     On the issue of student loan debt, we have also forgiven nearly
$160 billion — billion — for more than four and a half million
people.   
  
     On average, more than $30,000 per person and $70,000 for our public
servants, like nurses, firefighters, and teachers — and God knows we
don’t pay them enough as it is, so it’s only right.   
  
     And please, to everyone here, all the leaders, help us get the word
out on the student loan debt issue.  Your student loan debt can be
forgiven, even if you didn’t graduate.  Please help us get the word out
because it’s only logical.  Think about it.  How many people have to
drop out because they can’t afford tuition?  (Applause.)  They don’t
graduate, and they still have the debt.   
  
     So, Detroit, I’ll end with this.  All of our work — whether it be
debt forgiveness, affordable housing, government contracts, or access to
capital — it is all guided by a fundamental principle.  President Biden
and I believe in you.  We believe in the people of our country.   
  
     And so, we believe that it is a great return on the investment to
invest in the people of America and to invest, as we have discussed
today, in your business, in your financial security, and your wealth.   
  
     And this approach is working.  Since taking office, we have seen
record Black small-business growth and we have created more than two and
a half million new jobs for Black workers.  And since 2019, Black wealth
is up 60 percent.   
  
     So, President Biden and I are clear.  These are not only our
accomplishments, they are yours.  It is the result of your drive, your
creativity, and your power.   
  
     And so, I’ll end with this, Detroit.  Together, let us continue to
invest in the ambition and aspirations of our people — of the American
people.  Together, let us continue to help folks create wealth and
achieve financial freedom.  And together, let us continue to build a
nation where every person has the opportunity to compete, prosper, and
thrive.   
  
     Thank you, all.  God bless you.  And God bless the United States of
America.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
END                                 2:41 P.M. EDT

\# \# \# 
