---
date: '2024-05-07'
modified_time: 2024-05-07 22:54:25-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-07 16:38:41-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/05/07/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-u-s-holocaust-memorial-museums-annual-days-of-remembrance-ceremony/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum\u2019s Annual\
  \ Days of Remembrance\_Ceremony"
---
 
U.S. Capitol  
Washington, D.C.

11:52 A.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank you, thank you, thank
you.  Please.  

Thank you, Stu Eizenstat, for that introduction, for your leadership of
the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum.  You’re a true scholar, a
statesman, and a — a dear friend.

Speaker Johnson, Leader Jeffries, members of Congress, and, especially,
the survivors of the Holocaust.  If my mother were here, she would look
at you and say, “God love you all.  God love you all.”

Abe Foxman and all other survivors who embody absolute courage and
dignity and grace are here as well. 

During these sacred Days of Remembrance, we grieve.  We give voice to
the 6 million Jews who were systematically targeted and murdered by the
Nazis and their collaborators during World War Two.  We honor the memory
of victims, the pain of survivors, the bravery of heroes who stood up to
Hitler’s unspeakable evil.  And we recommit to heading and heeding the
lessons that \[of\] one of the darkest chapters in human history, to
revitalize and realize the responsibility of “never again.”

Never again, simply translated for me, means “never forget.”  Never
forget.  Never forgetting means we must keep telling the story.  We must
keep teaching the truth.  We must keep teaching our children and our
grandchildren.  

And the truth is we are at risk of people not knowing the truth.  

That’s why, growing up, my dad taught me and my siblings about the
horrors of the Shoah at our family dinner table.  That’s why I visited
Yad Vashem with my family as a senator, as vice president, and as
president.  And that’s why I took my grandchildren to Dachau, so they
could see and bear witness to the perils of indifference, the complicity
of silence in the face of evil that they knew was happening. 

Germany, 1933.  Hitler and his Nazi party rise to power by rekindling
one of the world’s oldest forms of prejudice and hate: antisemitism.
 His rule didn’t begin with mass murder.  It started slowly across
economic, political, social, and cultural life: propaganda demonizing
Jews; boycotts of Jewish businesses; synagogues defaced with swastikas;
harassment of Jews in the street and in the schools; antisemitic
demonstrations, pogroms, organized riots.  

With the indifference of the world, Hitler knew he could expand his
reign of terror by eliminating Jews from Germany, to annihilate Jews
across Europe through genocide the Nazi’s called the “Final Solution” —
concentration camps, gas chambers, mass shootings.  

By the time the war ended, 6 million Jews — one out of every three Jews
in the entire world — were murdered.  

This ancient hatred of Jews didn’t begin with the Holocaust; it didn’t
end with the Holocaust, either, or after — or even after our victory in
World War Two.  This hatred continues to lie deep in the hearts of too
many people in the world, and it requires our continued vigilance and
outspokenness.    

That hatred was brought to life on October 7th in 2023.  On a sacred
Jewish holiday, the terrorist group Hamas unleashed the deadliest day of
the Jewish people since the Holocaust.  

Driven by ancient desire to wipeout the Jewish people off the face of
the Earth, over 1,200 innocent people — babies, parents, grandparents —
slaughtered in their kibbutz, massacred at a musical festival, brutally
raped, mutilated, and sexually assaulted.  Thousands more carrying
wounds, bullets, and shrapnel from the memory of that terrible day they
endured.  Hundreds taken hostage, including survivors of the Shoah.  

Now, here we are, not 75 years later but just seven and a half months
later, and people are already forgetting.  They’re already forgetting
that Hamas unleashed this terror, that it was Hamas that brutalized
Israelis, that it was Hamas who took and continues to hold hostages.  I
have not forgotten, nor have you, and we will not forget.  (Applause.)  
 

And as Jews around the world still cope with the atrocities and trauma
of that day and its aftermath, we’ve seen a ferocious surge of
antisemitism in America and around the world: vicious propaganda on
social media, Jews forced to keep their — hide their kippahs under
baseball hats, tuck their Jewish stars into their shirts.  

On college campuses, Jewish students blocked, harassed, attacked while
walking to class.  

Antisemitism — antisemitic posters, slogans calling for the annihilation
of Israel, the world’s only Jewish State.  

Too many people denying, downplaying, rationalizing, ignoring the
horrors of the Holocaust and October 7th, including Hamas’s appalling
use of sexual violence to torture and terrorize Jews.  

It’s absolutely despicable, and it must stop.  

Silence — (applause) — silence and denial can hide much, but it can
erase nothing.  Some injustices are so heinous, so horrific, so
grievous, they cannot be muri- — buried, no matter how hard people try.
 

In my view, a major lesson of the Holocaust is, as mentioned earlier,
it’s not — was not inevitable.  We know hate never goes away; it only
hides.  And given a little oxygen, it comes out from under the rocks.  

But we also know what stops hate.  One thing: all of us.  

The late Rabbi Jonathan Sacks described antisemitism as a virus that has
survived and mutated over time.  Together, we cannot continue to let
that happen.  

We have to remember our basic principles as a nation.  We have an
obligation — we have an obligation to learn the lessons of history so we
don’t surrender our future to the horrors of the past.  We must give
hate no safe harbor against anyone — anyone.  

From the very founding — our very founding, Jewish Americans, who
represent only about 2 percent of the U.S. population, have helped lead
the cause of freedom for everyone in our nation.  From that experience,
we know scapegoating and demonizing any minority is a threat to every
minority and the very foundation of our democracy.  

So, in moments like this, we have to put these principles that we’re
talking about into action.  

I understand people have strong beliefs and deep convictions about the
world.  In America, we respect and protect the fundamental right to free
speech, to debate and disagree, to protest peacefully and make our
voices heard.  

I understand.  That’s America.  

But there is no place on any campus in America — any place in America —
for antisemitism or hate speech or threats of violence of any kind —
(applause) — whether against Jews or anyone else.  

Violent attacks, destroying property is not peaceful protest.  It’s
against the law.  And we are not a lawless country.  We’re a civil
society.  We uphold the rule of law.  

And no one should have to hide or be brave just to be themselves.
 (Applause.)

To the Jewish community, I want you to know I see your fear, your hurt,
and your pain.  

Let me reassure you, as your President, you are not alone.  You belong.
 You always have, and you always will.  

And my commitment to the safety of the Jewish people, the security of
Israel, and its right to exist as an independent Jewish state is
ironclad, even when we disagree.  (Applause.)

My administration is working around the clock to free remaining
hostages, just as we have freed hostages already, and we will not rest
until we bring them all home.  (Applause.) 

My administration, with our Second Gentleman’s leadership, has launched
our nation’s first National Sec- — Strategy to Counter Antisemitism
that’s mobilizing the full force of the federal government to protect
Jewish communities.

But — but we know this is not the work of government alone or Jews
alone.  That’s why I’m calling on all Americans to stand united against
antisemitism and hate in all its forms.  

My dear friend, and he became a friend, the late Elie Wiesel, said,
quote, “One person of integrity can make a difference.”  We have to
remember that now more than ever.   

Here in Emancipation Hall in the U.S. Capitol, among the towering
statues of history, is a bronze bust of Raoul Wallenberg.  Born in
Sweden as a Lutheran, he was a businessman and a diplomat.  While
stationed in Hungary during World War Two, he used diplomatic cover to
hide and rescue about 100,000 Jews over a six-month period.  

Among them was a 16-year-old Jewish boy who escaped a Nazi labor camp.
 After the war ended, that boy received a scholarship from the Hillel
Foundation to study in America.  He came to New York City penniless but
determined to turn his pain into purpose, along with his wife, also a
Holocaust survivor.  He became a renowned economist and foreign policy
thinker, eventually making his way to this very Capitol on the staff of
a first-term senator.  

That Jewish refugee was Tom Lantos, and that senator was me.  

Tom and his wife, Annette, and their family became dear friends to me
and my family.  Tom would go on to become the only Holocaust survivor
ever elected to Congress, where he became a leading voice on civil
rights and human rights around the world.  

Tom never met Raoul, who was taken prisoner by the Soviets, never to be
heard from again.  But through Tom’s efforts, Raoul’s bust is here in
the Capitol.  

He was also given honorary U.S. citizenship — only the second person
ever, after Winston Churchill.  

And the Holocaust Museum here in Washington is located on a roal- — a
road in Raoul’s name.  

The story of the power of a single person to put aside our differences,
to see our common humanity, to stand up to hate.  And it’s an ancient
story of resilience from immense pain, persecution to find hope,
purpose, and meaning in life we try to live and share with one another.
 That story endures.

Let me close with this.  I know these Days of Remembrance fall on
difficult times.  But we all do well to remember these days also fall
during the month we celebrate Jewish American heritage — a heritage that
stretches from our earliest days to enrich every single part of American
life today.  

Great American — great Jewish American named Tom Lantos used the phrase,
“The veneer of civilization is paper thin.  We are its guardians, and we
can never rest.”

My fellow Americans, we must — we must be those guardians.  We must
never rest.  We must rise against hate, meet across the divide, see our
common humanity.  

And God bless the victims and survivors of the Shoah.  

May the resilient hearts, the courageous spirit, and the eternal flame
of faith of the Jewish people forever shine their light on America and
around the world, pray God.

Thank you all.  (Applause.)

12:06 P.M. EDT
