---
date: '2024-05-21'
published_time: 2024-05-21 17:09:53-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/05/21/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-the-service-employees-international-union-quadrennial-convention/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at the Service Employees International Union\
  \ Quadrennial\_Convention"
---
 
*Pennsylvania Convention Center  
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania*

12:38 P.M. EDT  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hi, everyone.  Good afternoon, SEIU.  Good
afternoon.  (Applause.)  Good afternoon.  Oh, it is good to be in the
house of labor.  
  
AUDIENCE:  Four more years!  Four more years!  Four more years!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  We’ll do it together.  We’ll do it
together.  Thank you.   
  
AUDIENCE:  Four more years!  Four more years!  Four more years!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, thank you, thank you.  Thank you, thank
you, thank you.   
  
Oh, it is so good to be in the house of labor.  Thank you all so very
much.   
  
Lolita, I want to thank you for that introduction.  She and I spent some
time together backstage together, and we had an emotional moment.  And —
you know, and we talked about the fact that, you know, I think the — one
of the most important signs of the character of a leader — and this is a
room full of leaders — is people who have a sense of empathy, who have a
sense of concern and care about the wellbeing of other people and then
do something about it.  And this is a room full of leaders.  SEIU, that
is always who you are.  And, Lolita, I want to thank you for your
powerful voice.   
  
To my dear friend, Mary Kay Henry, thank you for your visionary
leadership of SEIU over the last 14 years.  (Applause.)  Generations of
working people and their families have benefited from your work and the
legacy that you leave.  And you’ve been an extraordinary partner from
the beginning to the President and me and part of all the success we
have achieved.  
  
And congratulations to the new President of SEIU, April Verrett. 
(Applause.)  Talk about a phenomenal women and a powerful fighter for
justice and fairness.  And I know firsthand that April is a leader who
is always guided by an uncompromising focus on worker empowerment and
their rights.  
  
And to all the members, then, of SEIU: Thank you for all that you do
every day to build a more fair and equitable future for our entire
nation.  
  
So — (applause) — we here — we here — we believe in the promise of
America.  A promise of freedom, equity, opportunity, and justice not
just for some but for all.  (Applause.)  
  
And for over a century, the workers of SEIU have led the fight to make
that promise real.   
  
When Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., marched on Washington, the workers of
SEIU marched by his side to demand both racial justice and economic
justice.  And long before others, this union — this union fought —
fought to protect the rights and freedoms, the basic dignity of women,
immigrants, people with disabilities, and LGBTQ Americans. 
(Applause.)  
  
Since your founding, SEIU, you have been on the frontlines of every
major expansion of rights for the American people, chief among them the
right of all people to have affordable healthcare — (applause) —
understanding healthcare is a right and should not just be a privilege
for those who can afford it.  (Applause.)   
  
More than 15 years ago, the members of SEIU took on the insurance
companies, the lobbyists, and the special interests.  We helped pass the
Affordable Care Act, which gave healthcare to more than 45 million more
Americans.  (Applause.)  They have SEIU to thank for that.  
  
And in the years since, we have defended that victory against a barrage
of politically motivated attacks.  
  
Many of you will remember when I was Attorney General of California and
led 10 other state attorneys general in the United States Supreme Court
to protect the ACA.  
  
The attacks coming from political Republican state AGs.  And whereas the
last presidential administration tried over and over and over again to
repeal the ACA to strip healthcare from millions of Americans, our
administration has strengthened and expanded the ACA with your support. 
(Applause.)   
  
Including when we took on Big Pharma finally to finally give Medicare
the power to negotiate drug prices.  (Applause.)  Because we knew: For
far too many years, too many of our seniors with diabetes had to make
the awful decision about either paying for and filling their
prescription for insulin or paying for their rent.  
  
So, we capped the cost of insulin for our seniors at $35 a month. 
(Applause.)  And we capped the annual cost of prescription medication
for seniors at $2,000 a year.  
  
Together, we have also fought for economic opportunity for all people. 
You know, I believe that in the United States of America every working
person should have the opportunity to not just get by but get ahead.   
  
And today, because of your organizing, more than 80 million Americans
live in a city or a state where the minimum wage is at least $15 an
hour, because of you.  (Applause.)  
  
And while President Biden and I have raised the minimum wage for federal
contractors to $15 an hour, we will still continue to fight to raise the
minimum wage for all workers.  (Applause.)   Economic opportunity.  
  
We’re also taking on the issue of debt, which weighs far too many people
down.  Take, for example, medical debt.  It’s often as — as the SEIU
members here know, medical debt is often the result of a medical
emergency — an unplanned, unexpected expense of tens to hundreds of
thousands of dollars.   
  
We are making it so that medical debt cannot be included any longer in
your credit score.  (Applause.)   
  
AUDIENCE:  Four more years!  Four more years!  Four more years!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.   
  
AUDIENCE:  Four more years!  Four more years!  Four more years!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Because we got more work to do. 
Because we got more work to do.  
  
For example, on medical debt, we want to make sure that medical debt
cannot impact a person’s ability to get a car loan, an apartment lease,
or a home loan.  Why should people have to suffer based on an unexpected
medical emergency?  
  
We have also taken on the issue of student loan debt.  We have already
cancelled — (applause).  
  
AUDIENCE:  Four more years!  Four more years!  Four more years!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Four more years.  Thank you.   
  
So, we have already cancelled nearly $160 billion in student loan debt
for more than four and a half million Americans.  (Applause.)  And for
public servants — for public servants, like SEIU crossing guards and
nurses and librarians, we have forgiven an average of $70,000 per person
in student loan debt.  (Applause.)    
  
You may recall, as Attorney General of California, I shut down
Corinthian Colleges, which was a for-profit school that used fraud and
predatory practices to trick single parents, working people, our
veterans into racking up thousands of dollars in student loan debt. 
Well, we have now forgiven $6 billion of loan debt for former Corinthian
students.  (Applause.)   
  
AUDIENCE:  Four more years!  Four more years!  Four more years!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Four more years.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank
you.   
  
And see the contrast — and see the contrast, because here’s the thing we
know: November, it’s going to be about two choices.  So, let’s be clear
about that.  Let’s be clear about that.  
  
And whereas the last administration buried our country in debt to pay
for tax cuts for billionaires, we are helping dig families out of debt
by telling billionaires to pay their fair share.  (Applause.)  
  
We are fighting to protect the sacred right to organize.  We are
protecting the sacred right to organize because we know when unions are
strong, America is strong.  (Applause.)    
  
And I’m going to reflect for a moment on a couple of different days I
spent with extraordinary SEIU members.  There was the day that I saw the
strength of SEIU Local 1 member, Delo <s>McDaniels</s> \[McDaniel\].  
  
In Detroit, Delo and I rode the bus to his job as a security guard while
he talked about the profound responsibility he felt to do his job
well.   
  
A few years before that, I spent the day with Wendy Ko in Oakland,
California, my hometown.  (Applause.)  And Wendy was a healthcare worker
with SEIU Local 2015.  (Applause.)  That’s right.  
  
And here’s the thing that I talk about everywhere I go.  I watched Wendy
as she used her body to lift her client out of bed to change the
sheets.  She helped her client get dressed in comfortable clothing.  She
asked her client, “What would you like to eat today?,” and cooked
something that brought her client joy.  I watched as Wendy took her
client outside, pushing a wheelchair — you know, Wendy wasn’t that big —
pushing a wheelchair…   
  
\*\*\*3  
\*\*\*3  
  
… talk about everywhere I go: I watched Wendy as she used her body to
lift her client out of bed to change the sheets. She helped her client
get dressed in comfortable clothing.  She asked her client, “What would
you like to eat today?”  And cooked something that brought her client
joy.  
  
I watched as Wendy took her client outside, pushing a wheelchair — you
know, Wendy wasn’t that big — pushing a wheelchair while pointing out
the beauty of the surroundings.  
  
What some people need to understand is that care work is physical work. 
It’s emotional work.  It is a job, and it is a calling.  (Applause.)  It
is a calling.   
  
And care workers deserve to be paid fully and fairly for that work. 
(Applause.)   
  
AUDIENCE:  Four more years!  Four more years!  Four more years!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Four more years.   
  
AUDIENCE:  Four more years!  Four more years!  Four more years!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, thank you.    
  
And so — and — and in terms of what we have done so far, just lat- —
last month, with April Verrett, now president, and dozens of other SEIU
workers, I was proud to announce for the first time, we are requiring
that of the billions of dollars that Medicaid pays to home healthcare
companies that 80 percent be spent now on worker salaries — (applause) —
not administrative overhead.  
  
And I announced that for the first time in history, we are establishing
minimum staffing standards for federally funded nursing homes. 
(Applause.)   
  
SEIU, you’ve been demanding this stuff for a long time.  It’s about time
we were able to deliver.  (Applause.)  
  
So, President Biden and I are proud to lead the most pro-union
administration in our nation’s history.  
  
We have expanded the power of OSHA to make workplaces safe.  
  
We banned non-competes that unfairly prevent workers from taking
better-paying jobs.  
  
And as head of the White House Labor Task Force, with the support of
those in this room, I am proud to have made it easier now for service
workers to organize in federal buildings and national parks. 
(Applause.)  
  
And whereas members of the last administration, who is trying to become
the next administration — whereas they appointed corporate insiders to
the NLRB, we appointed leaders with strong labor backgrounds. 
(Applause.)   
  
So I’m going to finish up with this.  Listen, SEIU, we are here today
because we are clear-eyed about the stakes of this moment.  
  
Across our nation, we see full-on attacks on hard-won, hard-fought
freedoms and rights: the freedom to vote, the freedom to organize, the
freedom to be safe from the horror of gun violence, the freedom from
hate and bigotry, the freedom to love who you love openly and with
pride, the freedom of a woman to make decisions about her own body and
not have her government tell her what to do.  (Applause.)   
  
In this moment — in this moment, extremists are trying to divide our
nation.  And we see them as they encourage xenophobia and hate.  
  
Just yesterday, the former President of the United States, who praises
dictators, who said there were “very fine people” on both sides in
Charlottesville —  
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — let’s not forget — took to social media and
highlighted language from Nazi Germany — highlighted language from Nazi
Germany.  
  
This kind of rhetoric is unsurprising coming from the former President,
and it is appalling.  And we got to tell him who we are.  (Applause.)   
  
And once again, it shows our freedoms and our very democracy are at
stake.   
  
In the face of these attacks, let us remind each other of our collective
power.  Let us continue to stand against those who dare to attack our
freedoms.  And let us continue to fight to make real the promise of
America for paid family leave, for affordable childcare, to secure a
pathway to citizenship for DREAMers and their families, to lower rents
and help more Americans buy a home.  (Applause.)  
  
These — these are the things we stand for.  And I believe when you know
what you stand for, you know what to fight for.  (Applause.)  
  
So, our nation needs you, SEIU, to organize, to mobilize, and to make
your voices heard.  
  
So, are you ready to make your voices heard?  (Applause.)   
  
Are you ready to fight for freedom?  (Applause.)  
  
Are you ready to fight for the dignity of all working people? 
(Applause.)    
  
Are you ready to fight for the promise of America?  (Applause.)  
  
And when we fight —  
  
AUDIENCE:  We win!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — we win.   
  
God bless you.  And God bless America.  (Applause.)  
  
 END                 12:57 P.M. EDT

\# \# \#
