---
date: '2024-05-11'
published_time: 2024-05-11 12:58:32-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/05/11/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-the-mesa-community-college-commencement/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden at The Mesa Community\
  \ College\_Commencement"
---
 
Tempe, Arizona

Thank you, President Britt.

Good morning – I am honored to be with all of you today.

“You shouldn’t go to college.”

That’s what my high school guidance counselor told me. I was crushed.
His assessment was that I wasn’t college material. He said, “if you
don’t really know what you want to do next, college just isn’t right for
you. You shouldn’t waste your time.”

My whole life, I’d wanted to go to college. And now the person who was
supposed to guide me there was saying I couldn’t do it.

Well, I got my college degree. In fact, I got three more degrees. I got
two masters and a doctorate while raising three children and going to
school at night and working full time. It took me 15 years.

And at 55, I walked across that graduation stage to receive my
doctorate.  I really wanted to call that damn guidance counselor to tell
him I just got my doctorate!

Today, I stand here as Dr. Jill Biden, and I join your family and
friends in congratulating you, Class of 2024.

People like to tell us what they think we can’t do, don’t they? They say
it’s going to be too hard or too complicated. That no one like you has
done this before. 

How many of you have been told, “you can’t”? You can’t get your degree
while raising kids. You can’t go back to school at age 30 or 45 or even
50. You’re working two jobs – you can’t possibly go to school too.

And how many times have you done it anyway?

Nearly half of you are the first in your families to attend college.
Many of you came back to school after time away.

But sure, “You can’t do it.”

You worked while taking courses at night. Brought your kids to class
because your child care fell through – praying they’d behave. Typed at
the kitchen table to get your paper just right, long after everyone had
gone to sleep, because that’s the only time there’s quiet. Even when it
was 7am, and you’d just finished the night shift, and you hadn’t eaten,
you went to class. 

That’s who you are: Strong. Courageous. Full of hope.

You found a community here – in clubs and study groups, and in the
faculty, administrators, and staff, who lent you the strength to
persevere – who believed in you. And you made their belief real one
paper, one project, one credit at a time.

To my colleagues, my fellow educators, thank you.

Whether two years ago or 10 years ago, graduates, you took a leap. You
stepped onto MCC’s campus – and look at what you’ve accomplished.

Thank you for the invitation to join you today to celebrate that
achievement. Being your First Lady is the honor of my lifetime.

And, on behalf of President Biden, Vice President Harris, and the Second
Gentleman: Congratulations, Class of 2024! We are so proud of you.

I teach at a community college for the same reason students go to
community colleges. They’re flexible and meet people where they are.
And, as my husband, President Biden, says, they provide the “best career
training in America.”

When I visited the Intel Campus in Chandler two years ago, I heard about
how MCC was preparing students for the jobs of the future.  

Mayor Giles and the community leaders here know that. That’s why they
started the Mesa College Promise Program.

Community colleges should be free in America.

President Britt, and all the MCC and Maricopa County Community College
District leaders here, thank you for all you do for your students.

I’m also grateful to all the elected leaders joining us for taking the
time to celebrate this day.

Graduates, all of you have inspired so many with your strength –
including the people here cheering you on today. The parents and spouses
and friends who have believed in you from the beginning. And your kids –
who will grow up knowing that they can do anything – because they
watched you do this.

They’re feeling excitement. Relief. But most of all, pride.
Chest-swelling, cheek-aching pride.

To all those here to support these graduates, this is your day too.
Through all those late nights and hard days, you’ve been there – helping
them find a way to the other side – to today. Congratulations on loving
an incredible person.

Yes, people like to tell us what they think we can’t do.

Sometimes the voices that say “can’t” are coming from the people around
us – a guidance counselor or even a friend who means well – and
sometimes they’re coming from inside ourselves. Drown out those voices.
And remember what you’ve already done.

You’ve met life’s challenges before. And you know that on the other side
of “can’t” lies the beauty and joy and surprise of life – the adventure
that changes us for the better.

And you are ready for it.

Never underestimate the magnitude of that accomplishment. Never forget
your strength, your resilience. Never be afraid to face the unknown.

Expect anything and everything. Take the risks that scare you. Don’t
hesitate when you see the chance for joy. Share your stories too. Be
kinder. Love harder. Dream bigger. Find your adventure and keep your
courage to say “yes.”

Class of 2024, you are brave and fierce: You made it.

Let the world feel your thunder!

And the next time that someone tells you that you “can’t,” you’re going
to say, “Oh yeah? Watch me.”

Congratulations!

\###
