---
date: '2024-05-16'
modified_time: 2024-05-17 11:44:38-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-16 23:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/05/16/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-in-a-moderated-conversation-with-d-l-hughley-during-a-nationwide-economic-opportunity-tour/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris in a Moderated Conversation with D.L. Hughley\
  \ During a Nationwide Economic Opportunity\_Tour"
---
 
*Discovery World  
Milwaukee, Wisconsin *

  
12:25 P.M. CDT  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good —  good afternoon, I think it is now. 
Please, everyone, have a seat.   
  
     Rufus King High School Band — (applause) — what?  You all are
killing it.  (Applause.)  Oh, you’re so good.  You’re so good.  Thank
you, all.   
  
     Oh, when I look at our young leaders, I know the future of our
country is so bright.  Thank you all very much for being a part of
today.  (Applause.)  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  I’m — I’m glad to be here with you, Madam Vice
President.  I love Wisconsin.  I’m glad to be here when it’s not
freezing, so –(laughter) —   
  
     We have a lot of incredible leaders here.  First off, we’d like to
acknowledge — thank you, James Phelps, who did that introduction —  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  — where nobody clapped for me.  I appreciate that. 
(Laughter.)  That’s great.   
  
     We have Deputy Secretary Wally Adeyemo.  Could he — is he here?  Is
he here?  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes, he is.  There he is.  (Applause.)   
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  Stand up.  Stand up.  You can stand up. 
(Applause.)  
  
     We have Acting Secretary Adrianne Todman.  Is she here? 
(Applause.)  Stand up.   
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  For HUD.  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  Hey — hey, let’s do this.  Why don’t y’all stay
standing until we finish?  All — just stand up.  (Laughter.)  It’s not a
raid.  I promise you.  Ain’t nothing going to happen.  (Laughter.)    
  
     We have Secretary of State Sarah Godlewski.  Is she here? 
(Applause.)  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  She was here earlier.  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  There you go.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  There she is.  (Applause.)    
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  We have County Executive David Crowley.  Is he here? 
(Applause.)  There you go.   
  
     Mayor Cavalier Johnson, what a cool-ass name that is.  That’s
dope.  (Laughter and applause.)  
  
     And, of course, Senator Tammy Baldwin is here.  That’s wonderful. 
(Applause.)   
  
     It is so nice to be here with elected officials that are not under
indictment.  I tell you — (laughter) — I swear to God, I’m so happy. 
(Laughs.)  I’m so happy.   
  
     You know, I — I’ve always been a huge fan of yours.  You were — you
were my senator from California.  I’ve been very proud of what you’re
doing.  And it’s — to me, this is an extension of what you did in
California.  I’m very proud of the work you’re doing.   
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, D.L.  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  But this is the third stop of your national Economic
Opportunity Tour.   
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  Why did you decide to launch the tour, and how is it
going so far?  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, first of all, thank you, D.L., for being
here.  And your voice is so important.  You always take on the issue of
the day.  You give us humor and laughter, but you always talk about
serious issues in such a thoughtful way.   
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, thank you for being on this stage with
me.   
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  My pleasure.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Can we hear it for D.L., please? 
(Applause.)  
  
     Are the Ques in the house?  (Laughter.)  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  Ahh — (laughter) –  
  
     Don’t get nervous, white people.  It’s — it’s n- — I promise you,
it’s not — ain’t nobody — it ain’t nobody attacking the village or
nothing.  It’s fine.  (Laughter.)  
  
     But — but this is — this is —  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So — yeah.  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  — very important.  And I know from — I know from a
very — that — from our very lengthy conversation —  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  — not only how important it is the work you’ve done
but to let people know about it —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  — and what’s available.   
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  So, as you and I have talked
about, first of all, we all know that we are a nation that was empowered
and continues to be empowered by the aspirations and the ambitions of
her people.  And we also know that we don’t lack for talent.  We don’t
lack for skills.  We don’t lack for good ideas and innovative
thought.   
  
     But there are those who, with all of that, lack for access to
either information or relationships that allow them to then translate
all of those skills into something that will actually be real and, by
extension, benefit the whole — an entire community and society.   
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  Sure, sure.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, I decided to embark on this Economic
Opportunity Tour to travel the country and share with folks what
resources are available — and resources that are not just about helping
folks get by but get ahead.   
  
     We know that we all want an opportunity, if that is our life’s
calling or ambition, to be able not just to have a job but to create
wealth — intergenerational wealth, to contribute to the economy of the
neighborhood, of the — the place where you live and, by extension, our
country and the world.   
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  Right.  Right.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And so, this tour is designed to get that
information, because we are doing extraordinary work.  I mean, I look at
Mr. Phelps, who introduced you and I, his construction company.  I was
talking to him earlier.  He has about 100 employees and — or 50
employees, but — or actually, where is he?  (Laughter.)  There you are. 
How many employees as of now?  
  
     MR. PHELPS:  Fifty.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Fifty employees.  And I was sharing with Mr.
Phelps that we — the President and I — because of the Inflation
Reduction Act, the Bi- — the Infrastructure Act, we are dropping
trillions of dollars on the streets of America right now to build back
up our roads and our bridges, our sidewalks; to invest in a clean energy
economy to deal with the climate crisis in a way that is about building
up adaptation and resilience.  
  
     Well, a — a business like Mr. Phelps’s business —  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  Sure.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — is going to make what we plan to do out of
Washington, D.C., real on the streets of America.   
  
     And here’s the thing about why I’m focused on small businesses. 
One of the reasons is that — do you know that over 90 percent of
construction companies in America have 20 or fewer employees?  They’re
small businesses doing extraordinary work.   
  
     When you see the signs around Milwaukee and around our country,
“Brought to you by the Biden-Harris administration,” and you see a crane
and you see shovels in the ground, it’s going to be with and in
partnership with our brothers and sisters of labor, IBEW — who’s doing
the great apprenticeship work — and it’s going to be businesses like Mr.
Phelps who are doing that work.  
  
     So, we want them to know what is available to them.  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  You said something — because I think, communally, we
understand.  We were raised to work really hard, and things would
happen. Like, mulattos were told we had to work twice as hard to get
half as far.  But it isn’t just about hard work.  It is what you alluded
to earlier: access, information.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  And so, that — that makes me proud of — all you can
say about somebody is that when you are climbing, you can recognize them
when they get to the top.  And I can say that’s true of you.  And that’s
— that’s something that makes me very proud.  
  
     You are doing those things to expand —  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  — access, and we talked about that.  But the ho- —
the homeowner aspect —  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  — that is a chip in the game.  That’s a big chip in
the game.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  That is access to capital, that is sending kids to
college, that is —  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  — taking vacation.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  But for us, the path is a little curvier than for a
lot of people.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  What are you doing to mitigate some of those
things?  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, part of how I’m thinking of this Economic
Opportunity Tour in general is to acknowledge — speak truth and
acknowledge both the opportunities that exist but also the disparities
and the obstacles that exist.   
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  Right.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, let’s talk about Black homeownership. 
Without spending too much time on a — a history lesson, first of all,
nobody got 40 acres and a mule.   
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  Right.  Right.  (Laughter.)  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Then you look at, for example — and I’ll jump
around — what happened with a federal policy initiative that said about
the Greatest Generation — those who fought in the wars, that — that
established America’s leadership on an — on a global scale — “Let’s
invest in that Greatest Generation when they come back.”  And there were
substantial federal dollars through grants that then went to those
mostly servicemen who were then veterans coming back.  
  
     So, when there was this incredible boost around homeownership —
“Let’s invest in their ability to buy homes.”  Incredible boost.   
  
However, the Black servicemen did not get full advantage —  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  Right.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — of those loans.  So, the discrimination
occurred there.  So, where there was a boost, some got ahead, and some
just didn’t get the benefit of it.  
  
     You look at it in terms of what we know around segregation.  You
look at it in terms of redlining.   
  
And then, most recently, an obstacle that we have been addressing and
speaking truth about is racial bias in home appraisals —  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  Right.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — which is very real.  (Applause.)   
  
     So, in an environment where Black families are 40 percent less
likely to own homes —  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  Right.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — we also have, among those who do own a home,
so many examples — and — and, D.L., you have — you can tell the story of
how racial bias has undervalued a Black homeowner’s home in such a way
that if they rely on that biased appraisal, they will receive less value
for their property if they’re trying to sell it or they’re trying to get
a second mortgage —  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  It’s so ironic you bring that up.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — will receive less.  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  It’s so ironic because —  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, tell the — you want to tell your story?  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  I was — I bought a house in West Hills.  I had only
lived around Black people my whole life.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  I bought a house in West Hills, California, which is
the basis of the television show I did called “The Hughleys.”  I go to
sell that house because my wife said we had to move.  (Laughter.)  We’d
owned that house for a couple of years.  We’d done all these — these
improvements.  My real estate broker said, “Well, you got to — you got
to take your pictures down and take down, you know, the (inaudible) —
you know, take down anything that lets them — you — them know who lives
here.”  
  
     And, of course, I’m — I was, you know, I was like, “Nah, I’m not
going to do that.”  They came — the appraisal came in so low, the bank
contacted us.  And it would have had to been a home in disrepair.  The
home that’s on TV.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right.  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  Like, I’m on TV with this home.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right.  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  They sent another appraiser out, and they gave me
$200,000 more.  And it was interesting to me.  I’m like — the fact that
— I actually wrote this in my book, and we talk about it on my show all
the time, this happens to Black people consistently —  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  — where we have to — now I just keep actual pictures
of white people in my house just in case.  (Laughter.)   
  
     You ain’t going to get me twice.  (Laughter.)  I keep them in my
wallet, too, just in case the police.  (Laughter.)  I’m just telling
you.  This is just me.  (Laughter and applause.)  
  
     But it — but these kinds of things — these microaggressions are
things that no — I — I’ve been around a lot of administrations.  I don’t
know that anybody has done it as succinctly as you all have.  And — and
—  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, and — because we need to just call it
what it is — right? — and then deal with it.  And so, how we’re dealing
with it is, one, to tell the truth about it. Because there are countless
stories of a Black family doing just that, actually, of — of then
talking with a friend who is white and asking them to put in their
family pictures —  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  Right.  Right.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — and to bring the appraiser in, and a
substantial difference around how the home is appraised.  
  
     So, we just need to deal with it, knowing that, for example, one of
the problems here is that a very small minority of home appraisers are
people of color.  And — because this is about people of color to Black
people and other people of color.  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  Sure.   
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And so, we need to deal with it on that
level.  The other piece of it is that we are now requiring that home
appraisers be trained on racial bias.  And we have set up a — basically,
a report line to let people know there is somewhere to go with this
information.   
  
     Because too often — (applause) — right?  Too often, people who are
the — the focus of unfairness know it’s unfair — right? — you don’t need
to be taught that it’s unfair — but sometimes just feel like, “There’s
nowhere to go with this.  I’m just going to have to accept it.”  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  Right.  Right.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And this is unacceptable, and so we have set
up a system to make it so that there is somewhere to go with this
information.  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  We were speaking about expansion of — of wealth and —
and those opportunities and homeownership.  But a big impediment to that
also is debt.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Huge issue.  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  And I think it’s something I hear on my radio show
all the time —  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  — crushing, crushing debt.  Student loans are a big
part of that.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  Thank God I have a GED, so that didn’t cost a lot. 
(Laughter and applause.)  So, while you all were studying, I was keeping
all my money.  But — (laughter) — it is such a crushing thing to start
out with — with a —  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  — with a debt that you’re — that’s going to be hard
to pay.  Even the interest on that debt is going to be almost
impossible.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  What have you done to kind of deal with that — that
reality for so many people of color?  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  So, let’s start with one of —
there are two areas, in particular, where we’re dealing with, in terms
of the burden of debt, which so many people carry such a burden.   
  
     So, one is medical debt.  So, a lot of people experience medical
debt usually borne out of a medical emergency.  And so, it’s something
you obviously, then, don’t plan for.  It is something that happens, and
then people have these hospital bills, these doctor’s bills, that can be
in the tens, hundreds of thousands of dollars —  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  Yeah.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — for an unexpected emergency.  So, we have
decided that, well, look, it’s not like that medical emergency happened
because you’re financially irresponsible.  That’s a healthcare matter.  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  Right.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, we are now saying medical debt cannot be
included in your credit score.  (Applause.)  Right?  Because, after all,
your credit — well, first of all, everybody these days knows their
credit score like you know how much you weigh, right?  (Laughter.)  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  Yeah.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  You just — (laughs) — you can get a little app
and look at it.  Some people look at it on a daily basis.  And — and —  
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  (Laughs.)  Check my little — check my credit score right
now, please.  (Laughter.)  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And — and we know what that number means in terms
of your ability to qualify for a small-business loan, a home loan, a
credit card, a car loan.  So, we are saying that cannot be included.  
  
The other thing that we have said about medical debt is that it cannot
work against you when you are applying for credit.   
  
And, again, it’s just what’s morally right, from our perspective, which
is people shouldn’t be debilitated around having access to economic
opportunity because they experienced a medical emergency or something of
that nature.  
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  It — which is why I’m here.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  Because I remember growing up, you know, my mother would
go to the hospital a lot.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  And the debt was so bad, she put everything in our name. 
Like, I had a electric bill when I was three.  (Laughter.)  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right.   
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  I’m not even trying to — like, these are the things that
they had to do to kind of navigate this space.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I know.  
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  And to hear someone actually address the concerns that you
know are real and that —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  — through no fault of your own, exist.  And I just think,
when you talk about the medical space, you said something that made me —
in addition to all the things I’ve — I’ve thought that you’ve done, when
you talk about the disparity of treatment of women of color —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  My daughter is — she had my second grandchild.  She was —
we were ecstatic, and then she got diagnosed with breast cancer.  And
had she not — and women in certain regions of this country, their health
outcomes are just disparate, depending on what area of the country they
live in —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  — and what kind of access they have to.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  And the fact that because she’s married to a doctor and we
were, you know, fortunate to be able to get her what she needed, it — it
is working out for us.  But I know so many people —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  — in her journey that I heard about that didn’t.  And the
fact that you addressed that and have done — you and your administration
have taken steps to make sure that that not only is heard, but
addressed.  That’s something I’ve heard you talk about a lot too.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, and you’re right.  I mean, we could have a
long conversation this afternoon about health disparities and the
intersection between that and racial disparities.   
  
I mean, maternal mortality is something I’ve been working on for years. 
Black women are three times more likely to be diagno- — well, to
actually die in connection with pregnancy; Native women, twice as
likely; rural women, one and a half times more likely.   
  
And when you look into the reasons, yes, it is about availability of
affordable care.  It is also about racial bias.   
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  Sure.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And so, that is something I’ve been working on for
years.  In fact, most recently, I’ll tell you — I know it’s off — it’s
not on the Economic Opportunity Tour, but I’m going to connect it.   
  
When I became Vice President, as a continuation of this work, I took a
look at which states had extended coverage for women on Medicaid for
postpartum care from 2 months to 12 months.  So, I took a look at this. 
So, women on Medicaid, only three states had extended it to 12 months.  
  
So, I’m not above shaming folks.   
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  Right.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, I issued a challenge to the states: Extend
coverage for women on Medicaid to 12 months.  And as of today, 46 states
have done it.  (Applause.)  
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  Yeah.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right?   
  
And these connections are very real in terms of economic health and
wellbeing and — and issues like access to affordable —  
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  Sure.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — healthcare.   
  
The other thing I just don’t want to overlook is the student loan debt
piece.  And so — and also — D.L., you know, we’ve talked about this —
the things we have achieved have not been without great opposition.   
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  Right.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right.   
  
So, student loan debt — you all may remember, we actually had a much
more ambitious plan, but there were forces working against that.   
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  Sure.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, then the President said, “Well, I’m going to go
and do it on my own to the extent I can without Congress or without the
Court supporting this.”  And so, we have now been — we have now forgiven
over $150 billion of student loan debt for over 4 million Americans. 
(Applause.)   
  
And one of the pieces that is — that is particularly important for me,
because my — my first-grade teacher, Mrs.  Frances Wilson, God rest her
soul, attended my law school graduation.  I love our teachers.   
  
We made as part of the — the student loan forgiveness plan that public
servants — so, nurses, firefighters, teachers — would get double the
amount of debt forgiveness — (applause) — because, God knows, we don’t
pay them enough as it is, and they have dedicated their lives to
service.  And, again, it’s — it’s what’s smart, but it’s also just
what’s right.  
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  It’s fair.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  It’s just fair.  
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  I — I think you’re absolutely right.  And I think that it
is a shame that we live in a society that separates people like that,
where women aren’t making what they — you know, I want women to get all
the money that they deserve, and then give us our change back.  That’s
what I want.  I want that to start happening.  (Laughter.)  So, if you
could do — if you can do that too.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Let me just say, I have talked to D.L.’s wife, and
she is so strong and funny and smart.  And I’m just going to just say
that you are lucky that you are married to her.  (Laughter.)  
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  Man — yeah.  Did she call you or something?  Did something
happen?  (Laughter.)  
  
You — you know, I am here specifically because I remember when we had a
conversation at the dinner we had —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Mm-hmm.  
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  — and it was not always — it got contentious.  And I had
to apologize to you, because I had let a media narrative co-opt my
perspective, and I think that tends to happen with — with women and
people of color.  I think that that we oftentimes hear this call, this
siren’s call that is so — it’s so mesmerizing that sometimes you believe
it.  
  
And I had to apologize to you because — you were a prosecutor.  I grew
up in California.  I — I love that state.  And what I saw happen to it —
I equated with, you know, elected officials, and I’d lumped you in with
it.   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Mm-hmm.  
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  But — but some of the things that I have subsequently come
to learn about you not only make me proud of you, but make me be an
advocate for you.  I am proud of the things you’ve done.  I’m proud of
what you’re trying to do for this country — this administration is
trying to do for this country.  And I — and I can say in front of them:
I’m sorry that I ever let somebody tell me what I should have known from
the beginning.  (Applause.)  
  
And I’m — I’m — and I’ll be — and I’ll use my voice not as a — I’m not a
paid — I’m not — I don’t even like politics all that much.  It’s ironic
to me.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right.  
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  But I think you have done what you said you would do.  And
there was a time that I didn’t believe it, and I have to say that I’m
sorry.   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, D.L.  Thank you.  
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  And I’m going to do what I have to do to make sure you get
the word out and make sure that people understand you have done
everything you’ve promised.  And I am proud of you.  So — (applause) —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Oh, D.L., thank you.  
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  I’m very proud.  (Applause.)   
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Four more years!  Four more years!  
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  Wait until everybody else jumps in, all right?  Come on,
man.  (Laughter.)  No rhythm, (inaudible) — (laughter) —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, one of — one of the other — thank- — first of
all, thank you, D.L.   
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  You’re very welcome.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  That means so much more than I can
say.   
  
I do want to mention one of the — one of the many other things we’re
doing that, again, to your point is about acknowledging the disparities:
federal contracts.   
  
So, for — how many small-business owners do we have here today?  
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  Wow.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Okay, right.  (Applause.)  Right.   
  
So, a lot of federal contracts go to small businesses.  But what we know
is, often who gets the — who even has the information about how to apply
for a federal contract is a matter of who you know, not necessarily the
— the skill of your work, how well you do your work.  Certainly, you
know, it has nothing to do with anything other than often just a lack of
information and access to those relationships.   
  
So, from day one, when the President I came in, we said we are going to
increase by 50 percent federal contracts going to minority-owned
businesses.  And we are on track to get that done by the end of next
year.  (Applause.)  
  
And I mentioned that to say that the work that we have been doing is
about creating incentives for folks to apply, but also holding the
federal government to account for measuring how we are doing this work
and being intentional about it.  And I think that’s so very
important.   
  
And that’s where, look, who’s in the position of power matters. 
Because, one, if you don’t even have any level of awareness or interest
in these disparities, you’re not going to get anything done on them. 
And then, when you become aware, if you actually intend to get something
done, you have to hold yourself and the system to account.   
  
And I will say, that is part of the method of our approach to a lot of
this work.  Our work is — is — includes, for example, like — let’s have
metrics.  Let’s say, for example, we know the — the history of Black
homeownership: We know the history of — of bias and — and laws that
prevented equal access to that opportunity.   
  
We have now proposed that if you are the child of parents who — or you
were raised in a family where the folks who raised you were not
homeowners, when you want to go buy a home, you will be entitled to a
$25,000 grant toward down payment for a home.  (Applause.)  
  
Again, acknowledging the realities of it all.  If your parents owned a
home, and then you, as their child, say, “I want to go buy,” then your
parents will likely have the opportunity and ability to say, “Honey, you
don’t have to go take out that big loan; I’m going to take some equity
out of my home to help you with that down payment.”  
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  Sure.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And that’s how intergenerational wealth works.   
  
But if you start with nothing, how are we going to give people those
opportunities?   
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  Right.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And so, it’s about acknowledgement and then pushing
through the actual policies that are not just about lip service, but
actually making a difference.  
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  You seem to be having a — and hearing you talk — you have
a different approach.  I think that there are people who think that the
top down works best.   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  There are people believe that you can build a house with
the roof first.  They — there are people — (laughter) —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right.  
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  They do; they believe that.  And any construction man can
tell you that ain’t possible.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right.   
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  And there are people who believe that because when you’re
— you’re talking consistently about the small-business owners and — and
people being entrepreneurial — those are ground up.  Those are
foundational kind of things.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  And it really does depend on your life’s experiences, how
you view things, and in terms of the way — the way that you lead.  So,
tell me a little bit about why you see things that way.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  Because this — the politics is — if it’s nothing else, it
also is transactional too.  So, why do you see the — the approach of
top, of — you know, from the foundation up being the best approach to
taking America even into the next centuries and decades?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, in particular, my focus on small businesses,
which extends back to my years in the Senate, when I was a part of
getting $12 billion more into our community banks — and I know we have
many community lenders who are here — is because those lenders are in
the community — they know the resources, they know the capacity, they
know the desires of the community — and can also, then, assist and
support getting people information around things like financial
literacy.   
  
In fact, one of the announcements we’re making today is putting hundreds
millions more dollars into advisors and consultants — here in Milwaukee,
for example, over a dozen –that will, for free, give people financial
literacy information: how to apply for loans.  Community banks give
information about — to a small business: This is how you run a payroll;
this is how you deal with your business taxes.   
  
I was talking with one of the CDFIs earlier who has a booth here — there
are many booths, so I encourage everyone to go and stop by them; there’s
a lot of information — who was — who was telling a young man who’s a
small-business owner: You know, there’s a difference between a
bookkeeper and an accountant, and you need to know the difference
because you got to, you know, keep all that straight, but then also so
you can actually create a business model out of what you are doing now
that would allow you access to growth.   
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  Yeah.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  But a lot of my focus on small businesses, then —
it is because small businesses employ over half of America’s working
population.  
  
But also, when I grew up, I had my mother, who raised us, and a second
mother, Ms. Shelton, who — we lived in the apartment above the nursery
school that she owned and ran.  And she was a second mother to us.  She
— when my mother was working late, she would take care of us in the
evenings and sometimes on the weekends.   
  
And Ms. Shelton ran this nursery school, and it was a small business. 
And, you know, she was from Louisiana but part of that exodus of folks
that —  
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  Everybody left Louisiana to Texas or —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — moved to California, right?  
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  — California.  Yeah.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And she was not only a small-business owner and
leader, but she was a civic leader.  She was a matriarch of the
community.  She counseled young parents.  She hired locally.  She
mentored.  And that’s who our small-business leaders are.   
  
And so, when I think about it — it is about investing in America’s
prosperity and — and a broad-based economy, but it’s also about
investing in communities and the civic fabric of communities that
contributes to the economic health and well-being.  And that’s where my
passion comes from and why I do this part of the work that I do.  
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  Hearing you talk, one of the things that I keep —
consistently hear you say is “the information.”  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  And one of the things people of color were denied was the
information.   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  “We don’t want you to know anything.”  Do what I — and —
and —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And there’s so much misinformation.   
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  And — and because — I remember when we grew up — this is —
all the men I knew would have newspapers everywhere.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  They were read it.  Like —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  — it was in your cupboards, and you wrapped your furn- —
your glasses in it.  (Laughter.)  The information was everywhere.  Like,
you could get — you could get a good whoopin’ for messing with the paper
before your daddy finished it.  (Laughter.)  You can mess with them
funny papers.  Don’t do nothing else.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right.  
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  Information was important to us.  And I think that —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, that’s true.   
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  — there are people —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s true.   
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  — who want to deny us access to information because of the
power it unleashes.  That — some of these things have existed but just
even highlighting them in a way that makes it more accessible to people,
to make it more reasonable, more attainable to people.  And so, having a
conversation that not only talks about what you have done but the
pathway to showing people what is available to them just — just from
accessing things.  And I think that’s an important approach.   
  
Just — and I know you have to go, but —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, let me just add something to your point.  We
could be here all afternoon.  We won’t be, though.  
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  Yeah, yeah.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  This is what’s — this is what is, frankly,
facetious and wrong about the bootstrap theory.   
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  Yeah.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right?  “Just pick yourself up.  If you want to do
better, you would do better.  It must be some sign of your character and
a flaw in your character that you’re not doing as well as I am
doing.”   
  
Instead of understanding that not everyone has access to the
information, but when they do have access, then there’s no — as I said
earlier, no lack of ambition, aspiration, good ideas, work ethic. 
There’s no lack of any of that.   
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  Yeah.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And that’s why I’m doing this tour.  And that’s why
I’m doing this tour.  Because we are now dropping trillions of dollars
on the streets of America — Joe Biden and me and our administration,
many leaders who you just met.  And I want to make sure — (applause) —
that everyone who needs to know how to be a part of this actually has
the information to be able to then do the work.  
  
MR. HUGHLEY:  You — I’m proud — like, I remember, you were — when you
were talking about the infrastructure and your Depart- — talking about
the Department of Transportation.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  Well, you know, like, I remember Sugar Hill was in
California.  They started the 10 freeway in a Black neighborhood that
had already pulled itself by its bootstraps.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  See, a lot of times, they’ll have a conversation with
us after you’ve taken our boots, then you say we never had any.  But —
but the Department of Transportation built deliberately through
neighborhoods of color.   
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  They —  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  And the fact that you —  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  They called it “urban planning.”   
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  They called it “urban planning.”  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Those freeways cutting through neighborhoods
—  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  On purpose.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — all over the country.   
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  And if you read — and if you know the history of it
and — and find an administration that is dealing with it and — and — to
the best they can, like whole neighborhoods are — in Dallas, a
neighborhood — the wealthiest neighborhood owned — was owned by Black
man named Bob Jones.  They took it under — with the Army Corps of
Engineers and the city planners.   
  
     So, the fact that —  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  “Urban renewal,” they used to call it.  “Urban
renewal.”  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  Yeah.  The fact that through your administration and
through the Infrastructure Bill that you guys passed, you are finding
mi- — finding ways to not — it’s certainly not reparations, but it is a
level of restorative justice, where you say, “We did this; we’re going
to try to do this to kind of — to undercut some of the damage we’ve
done.”  That’s important too.   
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, we want to be intentional.  But to your
point, for example, it’s something else that we’ve done: The rule has
been for a very long time that previously incarcerated people cannot be
eligible for Small Business Administration loans.  We have now gotten
rid of that.  (Applause.)   
  
     So, now that — the fact that someone was previously incarcerated
will not render them ineligible for a small-business loan.  Because
here’s the thing.  We believe in second chances.  I believe in
redemption and the ability of all people to be able to come back, and we
need to give them the ability and opportunity to do it.   
  
     Here’s another thing I — that’s very important, and I asked all the
leaders here to help us get this information out, which is why we have
invited the leaders who are here.  You are — you are business leaders,
you are opinion leaders.  Please help us get the word out.  That’s part
of why I’m doing that and have asked you all to join us.   
  
     So, on the student loan debt, let’s think about this.  The
inability to be able to pay tuition is why people take out loans. 
Okay?  So, then, logically, that also tells us some people who can’t
afford tuition drop out because they can’t afford tuition.  But they
still have debt.   
  
     Our policy on student loan debt forgiveness includes people who
never graduated being eligible for that — (applause) — forgiveness. 
Help us get the word out, because a lot of people are assuming that they
are only qualified for student debt forgiveness if they graduated.   
  
     And again, we know, statistically, whether it be small-business
loans or other things that are available to folks — you know, when —
when you’ve lo- — when you’ve experienced life in such a way that you’ve
— you’ve — you’ve had countless disappointments, sometimes folks are
reluctant then to put themselves out there, to apply for something for
fear they’ll be denied or rejected.  And that is part of what we see
sometimes in terms of somebody not applying for an SBA loan, not
applying for student debt forgiveness.   
  
     And we want to remind people: If you don’t apply, you certainly
won’t get it.  And so, again, I ask the leaders here to help us get the
word out.   
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  You know, education is very — obviously, components
of that are very important.  But we talked a lot about student loan and
student debt and tuition, even trade schools — like —  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, that’s right.  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  — AI is not going to be able to fix your house, it’s
not going to be able to be a carpenter, it’s not going to be able to be
a cobbler — cobbler.  I think that the way you all talk about — your
administration have — the verbiage you use in terms of finding a thing
that you do — whether it’s with your hand, your heart — being exposed to
things and being able to learn a trade is just as important.   
  
     Like I’m not — college wasn’t for me.  I have a GED for a reason. 
It didn’t mean I wasn’t bright or wasn’t intrigued or I didn’t have
passion.  It just meant that there was a different pathway for me.  
  
     Administra- — from your perspective, there are pathways that you
are building so people, if they want to go to trade school, if they want
to learn —  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  IBEW is represented here.  They’re doing an
extraordinary job with their apprenticeship programs.  I’ve visited many
IBEWs around the country.  Four-year apprenticeship programs, usually,
where they actually pay the apprentice during those four years, while
they’re learning, understanding that they’re going to develop a — a —
high, high, high levels of skills but need to be able to get by through
the process of learning those skills.   
  
     I agree with you.   
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  I don’t care how rich you are, you’re going to call
the plumber one day.  (Laughter.)  I don’t care.  Or — or a craftsman or
—  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Or an electrician or — right.   
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  Yeah.  And I think that’s very important.  I mean, I
think that there has been a tendency for these things to play above
people’s heads in — to the — to the degree that they feel like they’re —
they’re not involved in the conversation.  I know a lot of — a lot of
young Black men I talk to feel as if they’re not involved in the
conversations.   
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  And I think that that’s something that — one of the
reasons you’re doing this tour —  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  No, you’re exactly right.  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  — is to address the cynicism that they’re not being
involved because — because we know that people — a fulfilled community
starts with fil- — fulfilled leaders.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  And if they feel like no one is talking to them, if
they feel like nobody is addressing their concerns or their needs, that
could be — that’s going to be a problem.   
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And everybody wants to be seen as a full human
being.  Right?  And that’s part of — that’s part of, in summary, a lot
of what this tour is highlighting is the various things that we are
doing to acknowledge the various dimensions of — of who we are, but in
the context of economic opportunity — be it debt, be it homeownership,
be it access to loans, be it access to — to counseling, and the services
that help people know how to start a business and — and keep a
business.   
  
     All of — there is a — there is a method to the madness, if you
will, which is truly about seeing a whole human being and understanding
that when we give people opportunities — you know, this is the beauty of
human nature.  When you — when you set a high bar and give people the
opportunity to jump for it — I’ve seen it throughout my career and life
— people go for it every time.  Every time.  That’s the beauty of human
nature.   
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  Yeah.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  You give people the ability to know that they
have the resources to actually grab that thing?  The beauty of human
nature: People go for it.   
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  It’s all — invariably.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right?  Yeah.  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  One — it’s — it’s one of the — somebody once said
that you give information with a spoon and not a hammer.  You know what
I mean?  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  It has to be digestible.  You have to understand it. 
And I think that things like this being accessible, answering some of
those questions, having — addressing some of those concerns.  Of course,
you’re going to do this a lot.  But, one, I’m glad to be here with you. 
I’m glad it’s (inaudible).  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I’m glad you are, D.L.  And I’m glad you got
some steak last night.  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  I’m going to get some today too.  (Laughter.)  And is
weed legal?  I’m just playing.  (Laughter.)   
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I mean here.  I mean — (laughter) — I mean,
you said “steak.”  (Laughter.)  Let’s — I — every time I — I have a
conversation — a chance to engage with you, I come away even a more
fervent supporter.   
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Thank you.  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  I think — I think what you’re doing is only a tip of
the iceberg in terms of what you’re going to be able to accomplish.  So,
thank you —  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I appreciate it.  
  
     MR. HUGHLEY:  — for allowing me to be here.  (Applause.)  Thank you
for being here.  
  
     Madam Vice President of the United States of America. 
(Applause.)  
  
END                 1:05 P.M. CDT

\# \# \# 
