---
date: '2024-05-16'
modified_time: 2024-05-16 09:35:52-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-16 11:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/05/16/remarks-by-national-economic-advisor-lael-brainard-on-responding-to-the-challenges-of-chinas-industrial-overcapacity/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by National Economic Advisor Lael Brainard on Responding to the Challenges\
  \ of China\u2019s Industrial\_Overcapacity"
---
 
Center for American Progress  
   
As Prepared for Delivery

It is a pleasure to join you at the Center for American Progress. 

Today, I want to talk about the President’s investment agenda and the
trade enforcement that is necessary to make sure American jobs and
investment are not undercut by China’s unfair trade practices.

The President came to office with a plan to grow the economy from the
middle out and bottom up—a sharp departure from the trickle-down
approach of the prior administration. On his watch, we are seeing
[record
investment](https://www.whitehouse.gov/invest/?utm_source=invest.gov) in
clean energy and advanced manufacturing.

Investment must be paired with trade enforcement to make sure the
comeback we are seeing in communities around the country is not undercut
by a flood of unfairly underpriced exports from China. We have learned
from the past. There can be no second [China
Shock](https://www.brookings.edu/articles/on-the-persistence-of-the-china-shock/)
here in America.

Earlier this week,
the [President](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/05/14/remarks-by-president-biden-remarks-by-president-biden-on-his-actions-to-protect-american-workers-and-businesses-from-chinas-unfair-trade-practices/#:~:text=They%20include%20a%20thing%20I,It%27s%20a%20big%20deal.)
announced [important enforcement under Section
301](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/14/fact-sheet-president-biden-takes-action-to-protect-american-workers-and-businesses-from-chinas-unfair-trade-practices/)
of our trade laws to raise tariffs against China’s unfair trade
practices in vital industries of the future. Today, the Administration
is taking additional action to prevent circumvention of tariffs in the
solar industry.

By contrast, the President opposes Republican proposals to impose
across-the-board tariffs on all goods from all countries, even those
that play by the rules. They would cost an average family up to $1,500
every year, according to analysis done here at CAP.

**America’s Domestic-Led Recovery**

After inheriting an economy with millions out of work, broken supply
chains, and a surge in inflation from pandemic-era disruptions, the
President secured major legislation that has supported a strong
recovery. Investment, growth, and productivity are up, while
[unemployment](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/UNRATE) is down.
[Wages have
grown](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/written-materials/2024/01/05/a-strong-year-for-the-labor-market/)
faster than prices, but the cost of living is too high, and we are
[fighting to bring it
down](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/11/fact-sheet-the-presidents-budget-lowers-costs-for-the-american-people/).

We saw the unacceptably high cost of relying on a single foreign source
for critical inputs when the [dramatic supply
shocks](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/written-materials/2023/11/30/disinflation-explanation-supply-demand-and-their-interaction/)
associated with the pandemic and Russia’s war on Ukraine caused a surge
in inflation and widespread shortages. The President’s historic
[investment laws](https://www.whitehouse.gov/invest/) – the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, the Chips and Science Act, and the Inflation
Reduction Act – are strengthening the supply side of our economy.
Private sector investments in [manufacturing
plants](https://www.census.gov/construction/c30/c30index.html) are at
record highs, reversing previous disinvestment, and [manufacturing
employment](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/MANEMP) is up by nearly
800,000, after declining during the previous administration.

**China’s Export-Led Recovery and Industrial Overcapacity**

Today, at a time when a strong U.S. recovery is underway powered by
[domestic
consumption](https://www.bea.gov/news/2024/personal-income-and-outlays-march-2024)
and investment, there are signs that China is exporting its way to
recovery.  China is using the same playbook it has before to power its
own growth by investing in significant industrial overcapacity and
flooding global markets with artificially cheap exports.

We saw what happened in the wake of the first [China
Shock](https://www.aeaweb.org/articles?id=10.1257/aer.103.6.2121), which
[harmed factory
towns](https://www.annualreviews.org/content/journals/10.1146/annurev-economics-080315-015041)
all over our country. Twelve years ago, here at the Center for American
Progress, I
[discussed](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/tg1643) my
concerns that China’s unbalanced investment- and export-driven growth
model was imposing costs on growth in America and globally. I noted that
“only by moving from an economy dependent on external demand and exports
to one driven by domestic consumer demand” could China achieve its
long-term growth goals consistent with broader global growth.

China’s [share of global
manufacturing](https://libertystreeteconomics.newyorkfed.org/2024/03/what-if-china-manufactures-a-sugar-high/)
is now approaching 30%, enabled by a combination of [non-market
practices](https://ustr.gov/about-us/policy-offices/press-office/press-releases/2024/may/us-trade-representative-katherine-tai-take-further-action-china-tariffs-after-releasing-statutory),
including forced technology transfer and intellectual property theft,
and discriminatory rules..     
Sectors prioritized by the [central
government](https://www.csis.org/analysis/red-ink-estimating-chinese-industrial-policy-spending-comparative-perspective)
are flooded with investments backed by ambitious local governments.
Since investment has been [redirected away from the property
sector](https://www.reuters.com/world/asia-pacific/chinas-jan-feb-property-investment-falls-90-yy-2024-03-18/),
state banks have been
[encouraged](https://www.carbonbrief.org/analysis-clean-energy-was-top-driver-of-chinas-economic-growth-in-2023/)
to provide underpriced
[credit](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2024-01-26/solar-factories-slow-output-as-overcapacity-weighs-on-profits)
to priority industries. 

The U.S. Trade Representative’s (USTR) Section 301
[report](https://ustr.gov/sites/default/files/05.14.2024%20Four%20Year%20Review%20of%20China%20Tech%20Transfer%20Section%20301%20(Final).pdf)
on China documents evidence and cites sources from around the world of
ways that China acquires foreign technology through forced transfers,
cybertheft, and other means.

China is now simply too big to play by its own rules. China’s industrial
capacity and exports in certain sectors are now so large, they can
undermine the viability of investments in the U.S. and other countries.
Indeed, many of [our
partners](https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/STATEMENT_23_6409)
around the world are raising the same concerns about the effects on
their own industrial sectors.

As noted in the USTR’s 301 review, “China now produces 70 percent of the
world’s electric vehicles, accounts for over 80 percent of battery
manufacturing capacity, \[and\] controls around twice as much 50-180nm
semiconductor manufacturing capacity as the next largest producer…”  
  
In part, China’s overcapacity is achieved by firms selling at or [below
cost](https://www.nytimes.com/2013/03/21/business/energy-environment/chinese-solar-companys-operating-unit-declares-bankruptcy.html)—enabled
by policy decisions that unfairly depress capital, labor, and energy
costs. China accounts for [over 50% of global steel
production](https://worldsteel.org/data/annual-production-steel-data/?ind=P1_crude_steel_total_pub/CHN/IND)
at a time when the [emissions intensity of Chinese
steel](http://www.bluegreenalliance.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/04/HowCleanistheU.S.SteelIndustry.pdf)
production ranks among the world’s highest.

Between 2017 and 2021, China’s [production across the solar supply
chain](https://www.iea.org/reports/solar-pv-global-supply-chains/executive-summary)
outpaced every other country in the world *combined*. By the end of this
year, the global supply of solar panels is expected to outpace global
demand by roughly
[three-fold](https://www.iea.org/reports/renewables-2023/executive-summary),
largely driven by Chinese policies to continue expanding investment
despite overcapacity and sharply declining prices.

China’s industrial overcapacity undermines market-based innovation and
competition, as well as our workers and supply chain resilience.

Markets need
[reliable](https://www.nber.org/system/files/working_papers/w29154/w29154.pdf)[demand
signals](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/blog/2023/08/16/the-economics-of-public-investment-crowding-in-private-investment/)
and fair competition for the best firms and technologies to be able to
innovate and invest in clean energy and other sectors.  The Chinese
government has [made
clear](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/03/07/business/china-solar-energy-exports.html)
that China’s massive investments in electric vehicles, solar panels, and
batteries are an intentional strategy to effectively capture these
sectors. By [undercutting global
prices](https://www.wsj.com/business/chinas-spending-on-green-energy-is-causing-a-global-glut-d80eaea7)
for these goods, Chinese policy-driven overcapacity disrupts the
necessary demand signal that would enable market-based investment to be
viable. Similarly, if firms cannot safeguard the intellectual property
they develop, it undercuts market-based incentives to invest in R&D.

Second, a new cycle of Chinese policy-driven overcapacity and export
surges could have adverse consequences for our workers. Analysis
suggests the first China Shock was associated with the loss of nearly a
[million manufacturing
jobs](https://www.annualreviews.org/content/journals/10.1146/annurev-economics-080315-015041).
It is vital to use legitimate enforcement tools to make sure a second
China Shock does not happen again.

Third, the concentration in China of control over high value-added
components of supply chains for key industries could undermine our
resilience.  [Supply chains](https://www.nber.org/papers/w31739) that
become overly dependent on a few nodes of production are susceptible to
geographically localized shocks. The pandemic laid bare what occurs when
the United States—and the world—becomes entirely dependent on Chinese
exports for goods like [medical
equipment](https://www.piie.com/publications/working-papers/2021/how-covid-19-medical-supply-shortages-led-extraordinary-trade-and).
Given the scale and significance of the clean energy transition, we must
guard against concentration risks in our supply chains. 

**Coupling Investment and Enforcement in Key Industries of the Future**

The President’s agenda combines investment in industries of the future
with enforcement of our trade laws to give our workers and businesses a
fair chance to compete. Imposing tariffs in selective sectors under
Section 301 of our trade laws ensures the investments and jobs in EVs,
batteries, vital medical equipment, steel and aluminum, semiconductors,
and solar spurred by the President’s historic laws are not undercut by a
flood of unfairly underpriced exports from China.

Last year, China exported roughly [5
million](https://www.barrons.com/news/china-overtook-japan-as-world-s-top-vehicle-exporter-in-2023-f1ae31de)
ICE and electric vehicles, becoming the world’s largest auto exporter.
Similarly, the subsidized production of electric vehicle batteries and
battery components is so high that China is expected to produce more
than [four
times](https://www.iea.org/reports/global-ev-outlook-2024/trends-in-electric-vehicle-batteries)
its domestic demand.

The IRA and BIL include important programs to encourage [domestic
investment](https://www.energy.gov/mesc/battery-manufacturing-and-recycling-grants)
all along the supply chain for lower emissions vehicles along with
[consumer
incentives](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy2323). 

Tariffs on Chinese EVs will be increased to 100% to prevent a surge of
unfairly underpriced exports and to enable automakers and autoworkers in
the US to compete fairly. Tariffs will be increased to 25% on batteries
and battery components to diversify supply chains and give domestic
companies an incentive to continue to develop cutting edge technologies.

In the solar sector, bolstered by the IRA, the private sector is
undertaking a record investment boom in American solar manufacturing.
China dominates more than [70
percent](https://www.iea.org/reports/solar-pv-global-supply-chains/executive-summary)
of all segments of the solar energy supply chain, including [97
percent](https://www.iea.org/reports/solar-pv-global-supply-chains/executive-summary)
of global silicon wafer capacity. And China’s continued [loss-leading
production](https://www.reuters.com/business/energy/china-solar-industry-faces-shakeout-rock-bottom-prices-persist-2024-04-03/)
and
[investment](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/03/07/business/china-solar-energy-exports.html)
threaten to drive out foreign producers that have to meet market return
hurdles.

To guard against that, tariffs on Chinese solar cells and panels will be
increased to 50%.  In addition, today’s announcement reimposes a 14.25%
tariff on bifacial solar modules and confirms the end of the solar
bridge on June 6, helping to ensure against trade circumvention. Today’s
announcement will also help to clarify guidance on domestic content for
the solar supply chain under the IRA.

In the legacy semiconductors industry, China is also quickly building
overcapacity through state support. According to some estimates, within
the next three years, the country could account for roughly [one
third](https://rhg.com/research/running-on-ice/) of the world’s
production of legacy chips—resulting in inordinate concentration of the
supply of semiconductors used to power everyday technologies the world
depends on.

These chips are vital to national security no less than economic
security.  After decades in which America stood by while [semiconductor
manufacturing moved
abroad](https://www.semiconductors.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/09/Government-Incentives-and-US-Competitiveness-in-Semiconductor-Manufacturing-Sep-2020.pdf)
in response to government subsidies, the [CHIPS and Science
Act](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/08/09/fact-sheet-one-year-after-the-chips-and-science-act-biden-harris-administration-marks-historic-progress-in-bringing-semiconductor-supply-chains-home-supporting-innovation-and-protecting-national-s/)
is enabling businesses to invest in semiconductor manufacturing in
America again for the first time in decades.  And tariffs on Chinese
legacy semiconductors will increase to 50% to enforce against a surge of
Chinese imports that benefit from the country’s nonmarket industrial
targeting.

**A Better Path Forward**

Today, we are at a turning point. The President is leading the way on an
approach that invests in America and stands up for American workers
against China’s unfair practices, following years of trickledown
policies that [hollowed out too many factory
towns](https://www.aeaweb.org/articles?id=10.1257/aer.20131578) around
the country. 

The Administration is committed to responsibly managing competition with
China, as demonstrated by the President’s regular discussions with
President Xi, along with the recent visits by the [Secretary of
State](https://www.state.gov/secretary-blinkens-visit-to-the-peoples-republic-of-china/)
and the [Secretary of
Treasury](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy2218). We are
committed to cooperating with China to meet the world’s most pressing
challenges, including by supporting the deployment of clean energy
technologies. Within that broader context, it is important to enforce
our trade laws against China’s unfair nonmarket practices to prevent
harm to American workers and businesses.

Many foreign partners, including the EU, Brazil, South Africa, Thailand,
and India, have started or publicly considered trade actions of a
similar nature. We will work with G-7 and G-20 partners to advance our
common interest.

China’s industrial footprint is more complex today than during its
previous export surge. Today’s actions to support U.S. solar
manufacturers, which include ending tariff exemptions and monitoring
imports from countries found to be circumventing trade enforcement
measures, will help ensure that China is not able undercut U.S.
manufacturers simply by moving its factories.

In negotiating USMCA, the previous administration did not adequately
address the potential transshipment of Chinese exports entering the U.S.
market via Mexico.  Mexico is an important partner to the US in many
areas.  We look forward to working with Mexico to address concerns that
some Chinese steel exports appear to be flowing through Mexico, and some
Chinese auto companies may be considering exporting vehicles and auto
parts via Mexico. The USMCA review in 2026 would be an opportunity to
further discuss this potential risk.

The President’s tough targeted approach combining investment and
enforcement in key sectors is a sharp departure from the prior
administration. The previous administration did not take action to
invest in America and failed to follow through on securing the promised
Chinese purchases or end to China’s unfair practices in its failed Phase
One trade agreement with China.

**Conclusion**

The President has long believed in a [middle-out bottom-up
approach](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/28/bidenomics-is-working-the-presidents-plan-grows-the-economy-from-the-middle-out-and-bottom-up-not-the-top-down/)
to growing the economy, and secured historic legislation to make it
happen. The resulting [private
sector](https://www.whitehouse.gov/invest/?utm_source=invest.gov)
investments are
[reversing](https://home.treasury.gov/news/featured-stories/unpacking-the-boom-in-us-construction-of-manufacturing-facilities)
decades of disinvestment, creating
[pathways](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/blog/2023/11/15/job-gains-in-construction-after-two-years-of-the-bipartisan-infrastructure-law/)
to
[good](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/16/biden-harris-administration-roadmap-to-support-good-jobs/)[middle-class
jobs](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/25/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-new-workforce-hubs-to-train-and-connect-american-workers-to-good-jobs-created-by-the-presidents-investing-in-america-agenda/),
and facilitating critical investments in innovation, infrastructure, and
clean energy. The President’s approach is providing a model of how to
deliver [sustainable
growth](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/25/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-first-quarter-2024-gdp/)
with good jobs and smart investments, but, for it to succeed, it is
vital to enforce the rules that safeguard healthy market-driven
competition.

Thank you.

\###
