---
date: '2024-05-02'
modified_time: 2024-05-03 12:42:10-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-02 17:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/05/02/remarks-by-president-biden-on-how-his-investing-in-america-agenda-is-rebuilding-infrastructure-and-creating-good-paying-jobs-wilmington-nc/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on How His Investing in America Agenda is Rebuilding\
  \ Infrastructure and Creating Good-Paying Jobs | Wilmington,\_NC"
---
 
Wilmington Convention Center  
Wilmington, North Carolina

5:00 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, North Carolina!  (Applause.)  
  
Please have a seat.  Take a seat if you have one.  (Laughter.)  
  
Thank you, Paris, for that introduction.   
  
And, by the way, if my father were here, he’d say, “I apologize for my
back.”  (Laughter.)  I apologize.   
  
But thank you very much.  Look, folks —  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  It’s okay.  We’ve got your back.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  — being a — (laughter) — thank you.  
  
Being a teacher isn’t what you do; it’s who you are.  And it matters.  
  
Before I get started, I just came from Charlotte.  I spent some time
with some of the families of the eight police officers who were shot in
the line of duty on Monday. Four of them were killed: Joshua Eyer; Alden
Ed- — excuse me — Elliott; Sam Pol- — and I just — I’m going to
mispronounce his name — <s>Poleski</s> \[Poloche\]; and Thomas Weeks.   
  
We pray for their loved ones and those left behind.  I met their
children and their husbands, wi- — their wives and their mothers and
fathers.   
  
And we pray for the recovery of the brave wounded as well.   
  
Every time an officer puts on that shield and walks out the door, a
family member wonders whether they’re going to get that call, will they
come home.  I’m serious.  The entire nation is grieving for these
families.   
  
While crime rates are down nationally, we’ve invested a record amount in
public safety, violence interruption.  We’ve also done much work to make
communities safer.  But to protect our officers, we have to get them the
resources they need to be able to do their job and to keep the weapons
of war out of the hands of people without — (applause) — (inaudible).  
  
To the men and women of law enforcement, you represent the best of us. 
And I want to thank you.  And God bless you all.  May he keep you safe. 
(Applause.)  
  
And, Governor Cooper, thank you for having us today.  And I’ve been
saying this for well over two years: You’ve got one of the best
governors in the United States of America.  (Applause.)  And I mean this
sincerely.  When I think of the gov, one word comes to mind — I mean
this sincerely — integrity.  He has absolutely integrity.  (Applause.)  
  
And, Mayor Saffo, thanks for the passport to your city.  (Laughter and
applause.)  And, by the way, you ain’t the only Wilmington in America. 
(Laughter.)  I’m from Wilmington, Delaware.   
  
And guess what?  The mayor lived in Wilmington, Delaware — Delaware as
well as here.  He lived in Wilmington, Delaware.  His daughter graduated
from my alma mater, University of Delaware.  And we lived — where he
lived is only about a mile and a half from where I live.  
  
And thanks to a — a favorite son of North Carolina, who’s doing a great
job as Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, Michael
Regan.  (Applause.)  
  
Folks, I’m here to talk about something very basic and fundamental to
our communities, to our economy, to our basic human dignity: safe, clean
drinking water.  (Applause.)  
  
For generations, water was delivered through lead service pipes — lines,
connecting the main water line in the street to the homes and schools
and businesses in this city and around the country.  These lead lines
are tough, durable, but they do — and they don’t rust.  But we’ve long
since learned they leach poisonous toxins into our water.   
  
The science is clear.  Lead service lines pose a severe health risk,
damaging the brain and kidneys.  In children especially, they stunt
growth, slow learning, and cause lasting brain damage.  But we know we
can stop it.  We know how to do it.  
  
One study shows when you reduce lead exposure for children, their test
scores actually improve in school as much as they would if they reduced
the class size by a third, at one tenth the cost of doing that.  It pays
off across the board.    
  
But today, 9 million lead service lines connect water mains to our
homes, schools, daycare centers, businesses.  That includes some 300,000
lead service lines here in North Carolina alone — 300,000.   
  
The cost to replace them is consequential.  But too many families only
learn the threat to their children after they get sick.   
  
You know, this is, for some time, why I’m determined — been determined
to fix it.  And we’re finally moving.   
  
Until the United States of America, God love us, deals with this, how
can we say we’re a leading nation in the world?  For God’s sake, we’re
better than this.  (Applause.)  
  
Let me say what I’ve said many times before: There is no — no safe level
of lead exposure.  None.   
  
The only way forward is to replace every lead service line that connects
Americans to clean water.  That’s why Kamala and I are making sure the
administration is the first ever to set out to do it.  And we’re going
to get it done.  (Applause.)  
  
As a consequence of the first major law I signed that not many on the
other team signed up to support — the American Rescue Plan back in March
of 2021 — we provided North Carolina with historic investments in clean
water money.  Governor Cooper dedicated $2 billion from the American
Rescue Plan for 800 clean water projects all across this state. 
(Applause.)  
  
It not only includes removing lead service lines but uses modern
technology to sanitize storm and waste water systems, in addition to
connecting thousands of homes to clean tap water for the first time. 
These clean water projects include testing every water fountain in every
school across the state and removing lead hazards, as Paris mentioned.  
  
Now, look — (applause) — our landmark Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is
allowing states across the nation to do more by investing in record — a
record $15 billion so far nationwide in lead pipe removal.   
  
Today, we’re releasing a third installment of that funding: an
additional $3 billion nationwide, which will bring the total —
(applause) — to $250 million for North Carolina so far, including here
in Wilmington.  (Applause.)  It’s going to replace 300 lead pipe service
lines connecting homes, schools, and businesses here in Wilmington.  
  
Governor, I hear you’re breaking ground sometime today. 
Congratulations, pal.  Congratulations.  (Applause.)  
  
Folks, this is about safety, but it’s also about basic fairness. 
Nationally, we’re directing nearly half of the funding to disadvantaged
communities — half of it — that have borne the brunt of lead poi- —
pisoning — poisoning for so long.  Studies show communities of color
have been the hardest hit.   
  
We have to make things right.  (Applause.)  And we’re going to make them
right now.   
  
And when we do, it will mean clean water, healthier communities, peace
of mind, and jobs befitting those communities — jobs of plumbers, pipe
fitters, laborers, engineers — good-paying jobs you can make a serious
living with without a college degree to raise a family on. 
(Applause.)  
  
And, folks, protecting — protecting people from lead pipe contamination
is just one of our nation’s most ambitious water agendas ever.  We’re
upgrading old water mains, treatment plants.  Some of them are as old as
100 years old here in America — 100 years old.  And finally, we’re
improving water systems on Tribal lands, where nearly half of the
population — (applause) — nearly half of the population still lack clean
water.   
  
And we’re detecting and removing so-called “forever chemicals,” referred
to as PFAS — P-FAS — dash — that are discharged in a — from companies
and military bases into our water supply.  They’re very dangerous
chemicals that shouldn’t be near our water supply.  
  
Earlier this month, Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Regan
and Governor Cooper here in Fayet- — were — were in Fayetteville, North
Carolina, as my administration issued its first-ever national PFAS
standard to get those dangerous chemicals out of our drinking water. 
(Applause.)  
  
But that’s not all.  Communities across the Cape Fear watershed know too
well why this matters.  As a consequence of PFAS, you’ve seen aggressive
cancers emerge in that area.  It’s gone so far that we’re advising and
warning you can’t eat the fish from the same water that you drink. 
That’s how far it’s gone.   
  
My administration is investing an additional $9 billion — more than ever
in the history of America — to finally get rid of PFAS chemicals now —
(applause) — and to get safe, clean drinking water to you and 100
million Americans across the country presently exposed to PFAS.  
  
In all, my infrastructure law makes the most significant investment in
America’s infrastructure in generations.  It includes roads, bridges,
ports, airports, public transit, and so much more.  It includes a new
passenger train from Raleigh to Richmond, which, by the way, reduces
pollution by — and takes thousands of vehicles off the road — (applause)
— and provide over a thousand good-paying jobs — good-paying jobs.  
  
Nationwide, 51,000 projects in 4,500 communities have been announced so
far.  To date, this has dedicated over $9 billion to North Carolina
alone — $9 billion.  (Applause.)  
  
In January, I was in Raleigh to announce the most-significant-ever
investment in affordable high-speed Internet for every single person in
North Carolina, because high-speed Internet is today as important as
electrification was a century ago.  It’s a means of communication, being
able to con- — compete.   
  
It’s not enough to just have Internet access.  It needs to be
affordable.  That’s why my administration is saving families around $30
a month on their Internet bills.  Over 900,000 households in North
Carolina have saved a con- — a conglomerate of $550 million on their
Internet bills.  (Applause.)  
  
But that program, called the Affordable Connectivity Program, runs out
of money this month. For folks — for months now, I’ve asked the Congress
to extend the funding, but my Republican friends in Congress have failed
to act.  Now I’m calling on them to act now so one in five North
Carolina families don’t see their Internet bills go up next month.   
  
You know, this progress is part of my vision for an economy that grows
from the middle out and the bottom up, not just the top down.  I’m sick
and tired of trickle-down economics.  (Applause.)  
  
We weren’t poor, but I come from a middle-class household: 
three-bedroom home — split-level home, with a grandpop living with us,
four kids, and my dad and mom.   
  
My dad used to say, “Joey, a job is about a lot more than a paycheck. 
It’s about your dignity.  It’s about respect.”  (Applause.)  “It’s about
being able to look your kid in the eye and say, ‘Honey, it’s going to be
okay.’  And it’s about being able to have a little bit left over at the
end of the month when everything is paid.”   
  
And guess what?  The plan we put in place is beginning to work.  We’ve
created a record 15 million jobs since I came to office — (applause) —
more than any president has — 15 million, including 460,000 right here
in North Carolina.  (Applause.)  
  
Unemployment is down in North Carolina from 5.6 percent to 3.5 percent —
(applause) — lower than any year under the previous administration and
the lowest in 25 years.   
  
Wages are rising nationwide, up 3 percent in North Carolina.  I realize
there’s more to deal with.  There’s more we have to do.   
  
There’s a lot of — the corporations are adding on costs that don’t —
aren’t justified.   
  
By the way, Walmart just announced that they’re going to — they opened a
new store, and they just announced that they’re going to charge the pro-
— for all the products they have, the same exact price that was charged
before the pandemic — before the pandemic.  (Applause.)    
  
And we’re eliminating thousands of junk fees.  It used to be — like now,
you bounce a check at your bank, and you’re likely to be charged between
$35 and $50 for that bank overcharge.  Guess what?  They can’t now
charge more than $8.  (Applause.)  Same with credit card fees.   
  
Look, and manufacturing is booming: nearly 800,000 new manufacturing
jobs and counting.  Where in God’s name is it written we can’t be the
leading manufacturer in the world here?  Where is that written? 
(Applause.)  It’s not.  
  
And cities like Wilmington are coming back.   
  
We’re doing all this at the same time we’re cutting the federal
deficit.  We cut the federal deficit by fighting to make the very
wealthy and big corporations begin to pay their fair share. 
(Applause.)   
  
And, by the way, I’ve been fighting for years as a senator — I know I
look like I’m only 40, but I’m a little bit older — (laughter) — in
taking on Big Pharma.  (Applause.)  
  
You know, if any of you have a prescription that has to be filled, I
could put you into Air Force One, you pick any city in Europe or in
parts of the Middle East or in Asia, take you to that same prescription,
get it filled in those countries — in Berlin or in — in Toronto, Canada,
or in Rome, Italy — you’ll pay 40 to 60 percent less than you pay
here.   
  
How many of you know somebody who has the need for insulin because they
have diabetes?  Well, guess what?  It now costs — not $400 a month — $35
a month.  (Applause.)  And, by the way, they’re still making 350 percent
profit.  It only costs them 10 bucks to make it.    
  
And, by the way, when I first got this passed, it included everybody,
not just the elderly.  And guess what?  This next term, I’m going to
make sure everybody qualifies for this.  (Applause.)  
  
And, by the way, what we passed already is saving the government — the
taxpayers $160 billion over 10 years.  (Applause.)  Because guess what? 
It not only helps the consumer, it means the federal government doesn’t
have to pay all that money to the drug companies.  (Applause.)  No, I’m
serious.  
  
This is what they call, where I come from, “a big deal.”  (Laughter and
applause.)  
  
Look, my predecessors and my MAGA Republican allies — his allies have a
very different view.  Every single Republican voted against the American
Rescue Plan — every one.   
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Shame on them!  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  That’s providing hundreds of millions of dollars to
deliver drinking water to all of North Carolina’s schools.   
  
The vast majority of them voted against the infrastructure law as well. 
In fact, your senator, Ted Budd, called the infrastructure law —  
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  No, no.   
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Shame on him!  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  He called it — the law — “fatally flawed.”  Then he went
on to say, and I’m quoting, “a liberal Trojan horse for a socialist
agenda,” end of quote.  
  
I don’t know about you, but I don’t think ensuring kids can drink clean
water and avoid brain damage is a socialist agenda.  (Applause.)  I
think it’s just plain decency, plain fairness.  
  
But as you might guess, the senator hasn’t been shy.  He’s asked on 10
separate occasions for new funding in those very laws he voted against —
(laughter) — 10 separate fu- — (laughs).  As they say, “God bless the
boy.”  (Laughter.)   
  
Remember — remember that — the Trojan horse socialist agenda?  Well, I
don’t know about the senator’s — I don’t — I didn’t think the senator
was a socialist.  He keeps asking.  (Laughter.)  
  
But, look, that’s okay.  I promised to be, all kidding aside, a
president for all Americans, whether you — (applause) — whe- — whether
you voted for me or not, because we owe it to the American people.  
  
So, Senator, I’ll see you at the groundbreaking.  (Laughter and
applause.)  
  
You may recall that my predecessor promised Infrastructure Week every
single week for four years.  (Laughter.)  He didn’t build a damn thing —
nothing.  (Laughter and applause.)  No, I’m serious.   
  
His administration rolled back wetland protections, making it easier to
pollute our water supply.  They gave mining companies wide leeway to
contaminate our groundwater.  They slashed the Environmental Protection
Agency’s budget, eliminating important programs that guaranteed clean
water.  
  
At the same time, he and his MAGA allies in Congress were happy to give
the very super rich a $2 trillion tax cut in his administration — $2
trillion — that benefitted the super wealthy and the biggest
corporations while exploding the federal debt.  
  
You may remember that when I was trying to get these bills passed that I
— we talked about, including the veterans bills and the rest, they said
we couldn’t afford it.  And I looked out there, and there were — there
were 40 — there were 50 cor- — 50 corporations of the Fortune 500 who
made $40 billion and didn’t pay a single penny in tax.  No, no, I’m not
— I’m not making this up.  As I said, look it up.  (Laughter.)  
  
But here’s the deal: didn’t pay a single — but I just was able to raise
the tax to 15 percent.  That’s less than all of you pay.  And guess
what?  Not only did it get everything passed, we were able to reduce the
federal deficit.  (Applause.)  
  
My — my predecessor — my predecessor, the guy running this time, racked
up more federal debt than every previous president in history — more
federal debt during his administration.  He talks about saving money.  
  
Well, that’s not how I see things.  I believe doing what’s always worked
best for this country: investing in all of America and investing in all
Americans.  
  
Look, let me close with this.  When folks see shovels in the ground on
all these projects, when they see new pipes being laid and people going
to work, I hope they feel the pride that I feel — pride in their
hometowns making a comeback, pride in America, pride in knowing we can
get big things done in America when we set our mind to it — big
things.  
  
There’s nothing beyond our capacity.  Think about this.  We’re the only
country in the world that’s come out of every crisis we’ve entered
stronger than we went in every single time.  (Applause.)   
  
And, folks, I’ve never been more optimistic about our nation’s future. 
We just have to remember who we are.  We’re the United States of
America.  (Applause.)  I mean it from the bottom of my heart.   
  
And there’s nothing — there’s nothing beyond our capacity when we work
together.  So, let’s get out and work together and get this done. 
(Applause.)  
  
May God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.   
  
Thank you, thank you, thank you, all.  I appreciate it.  (Applause.)   
  
5:22 P.M. EDT
