---
date: '2024-05-31'
modified_time: 2024-06-01 13:45:02-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-31 13:22:39-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/05/31/remarks-by-president-biden-honoring-the-super-bowl-lviii-champions-kansas-city-chiefs/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden Honoring the Super Bowl LVIII Champions, Kansas\
  \ City\_Chiefs"
---
 
4:31 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Welcome back!  (Applause.)  Welcome back to the White
House, Super Bowl 58 champions, the Kansas City Chiefs.  (Applause.)

The first team in 20 years to win back to back.  (Applause.)  Winning
back to back — I kind of like that.  (Laughter.) 

I know — I know you’ll — (laughs) — I know you led a — a future Hall of
Famer head coach, quarterback, tight end, defensive tackle, but I think
the secret to this team’s success is a GM, an offensive coordinator, a
pass-game coordinator, and they all played great — at a great — the
greatest school in America, my alma mater football team, the University
of Delaware.  That’s why you’re all so good.  (Laughter.) 

I want to welcome all the Chiefs fans here today — (applause): Governor
Kelly; members of Congress, including my good friend Congressman Cleaver
— (applause); Mayor Lucas, Mayor Garner, and all the other elected
officials from Missouri and Kansas.  Thank you for being here. 
(Applause.)

At last year’s White House Super Bowl celebration, I said this team was
building a dynasty, which means everyone’s coming to you.  After
starting this season red hot, you all had your share of struggles.  And
when the doubters questioned whether you could pull it off again —
believe me, I know what that feels like.  But anyway.  (Laughter.)

But I don’t think anybody is doubting you now.  You fought hard.  You
kept the faith.

Three All-Pros; <s>three</s> \[five\] Pro-Bowlers; three resilient — a
resilient offense; top defense led by one of the best coordinators in
the game; and led by one of the best defensive players in the game,
Chris Jones.  (Applause.)

A true team: eight straight division titles through a tough playoff run.

You know, and you felt frigid temperatures: minus four degrees at
kickoff in the home game against Miami.  That was in Mi- — I thought
that was in Miami.  That was a joke.  (Laughter).  Wind chills under 20
degrees in Buffalo.  And when you froze them out in Baltimore, clinching
the A- — fourth AFC title in five years. 

And then, in the Super Bowl, down double digits against San Francisco,
everyone stepped up.  And with the unstoppable 13-play drive in
overtime, Patrick, the “Comeback King” — not kid, king — (applause) —
led the comeback team for all ages.

I’ll never forget, I watched on Marine One when I was landing on the
South Lawn, coming back from overseas, to the White House.

But then — but just then Kansas City was celebrating your incredible
win, we saw pride — pride giving way to tragedy.  A loving mom and a
beloved local DJ was gunned down.  Dozens were injured.  Eleven kids in
the hospital.

And amid the chaos, this team stepped up again.  Trey helped pull people
to safety.  James, who lost his own father to gun violence, reassured
kids they’d be okay.

One teen remembers Coach Reid giving him a hug, telling him, “Just
breathe.  Just breathe.”

When one boy was separated from his dad, Clyde helped keep him ou- —
from harm.  The boy’s dad later said, and I quote, “You can be an
athlete for only so long, but you can be a great human being for the
rest of your life.”  And Clyde is exceptional.  (Applause.)

I couldn’t have said it better.  This team is exceptional.

You know, as a country, we have to do more to stop the tragic shootings
before they happen.

But let me close with this.  Last year, I talked about how, after
winning the Super Bowl, many of these players went up to Coach Reid and
asked what they could to be — do better, to be better.  Even at the peak
of their success, they were looking for ways to work harder, to dig
deeper, to improve.

Everyone watching, especially our children: That’s a powerful lesson
about sports and the nation.  We’re a great nation because we’re a good
people.  We never give up.  We look out for ano- — one another.  We
leave no one behind.  That’s America. 

And I’ve never been more optimistic about our future.  We just have to
remember who we are.  We’re the United States of America, and there’s
nothing — nothing we can’t do when we do it together.

So, God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.

Now I’m going to turn it over to the Chiefs, but I — you know, I’d have
Travis come up here, but God only knows what he’d say.  (Laughter and
applause.)

Travis, come here.  (Applause.)  It’s all yours, pal.

MR. KELCE:  My fellow Americans — (laughter) — it’s nice to see you all
yet again. 

I’m not going to lie, President Biden, they told me if I came up here,
I’d get tased.  So, I’m going to back to my spot.  All right? 
(Laughter.)

THE PRESIDENT:  All right.

MR. KELCE:  It’s good to see you.

THE PRESIDENT:  Now I’m going to turn it over to the chairman and CEO of
the Super Bowl Champion Kansas City Chiefs, Clark Hunt.

Clark, the floor is yours, pal.  (Applause.)

MR. HUNT:  Thank you.  Thank you so much.

THE PRESIDENT:  You want me to move that out of the way for you?

MR. HUNT:  All good. 

Mr. President, on behalf of our family and the entire Kansas City Chiefs
organization, thank you so much for having us this afternoon.  It is a
tremendous honor to be here as we celebrate the fourth Super Bowl
championship in Chiefs history. 

I want to thank the members of the President’s staff who have helped
make this possible and the members of the Missouri and Kansas
congressional delegations who are celebrating with us today. 

As a family, we feel very blessed by the Lord.  And I am proud to be
here today on the South Lawn with my wife, Tavia, and my sister,
Sharron, and several members of our extended family. 

One year ago, it so happened that the team visited the White House the
day after my mother passed away.  Of course, anytime we are celebrating
a Chiefs victory, I always think about my mom and dad. 

I want to take a moment to say thank you, President Biden, for the very
kind words you shared about my mother last year.  That meant a lot to
our family.

The amazing thing about sports is how they can bring a community
together.  Over the past few years, the men behind me have elevated the
status of Kansas City and united football fans across the country and
throughout the world. 

There’s a lot that can divide us today.  But for so many of us, sports
provide a unifying joy that we all need.

I’m inpr- — I’m incredibly proud of our players and coaches.  This
season, with a target on their backs, they overcame adversity and got
through perhaps the toughest group of playoff opponents in league
history.  They have etched their names in the NFL history books as just
the second back-to-back Super Bowl championship team this century. 

I’m also incredibly proud of our amazing fans.  They have rightfully
earned their reputation as one of the best fan bases in all of
professional sports.  (Applause.)

One of the things that I’ve enjoyed most about our championship run has
been the support of the “Chiefs Kingdom.”

Lastly, I’m humbled to work with a superb leadership group.  Team
President Mark Donovan, General Manager Brett Veach, and Head Coach Andy
Reid.  That is a Hall of Fame leadership team.  (Applause.)

We have greatly enjoyed our time here today.  And we look forward to the
challenge of making this an annual trip.  (Laughter and applause.)

Now, I would like to ask Coach Andy Reid to join me on the podium.  We
have a little gift for the President.

(The President is presented with a Kansas City Chiefs helmet.)

COACH REID:  I’m not sure it’s going to fit.

THE PRESIDENT:  I tell you what, man — well, thank you.  (Applause.)

MR. KELCE:  Put it on.  (Laughter.)

(Cross-talk.)

(The President puts on the helmet.)  (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT:  (Inaudible.)  Thank you all very much.  (Applause.)

(The President departs the dais.)

Q    Do you think this conviction helps Trump in the election?

THE PRESIDENT:  I have no idea.

Q    Are you worried that this could happen to you someday: somebody
comes up with some charges and tries to bring you into court after your
term? 

THE PRESIDENT:  Not at all.  I didn’t do anything wrong.  The system
still works. 

Q    And when Trump says you’re just trying to bruise him, what do you
say?  Politically.  Politically.  He thinks you’re pulling the strings
behind the scenes, doing all this to help yourself.

THE PRESIDENT:  I didn’t know I was that powerful.

4:47 P.M. EDT
