---
date: '2024-05-14'
modified_time: 2024-05-15 16:38:42-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-14 22:04:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/05/14/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-asian-pacific-american-institute-for-congressional-studies-30th-annual-gala/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at the Asian Pacific American Institute for Congressional\
  \ Studies 30th Annual\_Gala"
---
 
8:03 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, hello, hello.  (Applause.)  
  
Whoa!  What a crowd.   
  
Please have a seat if you have one.  (Laughs.)  
  
Well, thank you, Judy Chu, for that introduction and for your leadership
of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus.   
  
By the way, I was raised early on by a guy who wa- — became my sort of
sponsor when I got here as a 30-year-old kid: Danny Inouye. 
(Applause.)  And Norm Mineta was a close friend as well, so I got
trained early on.  
  
Thank you, leaders of the House Democratic Caucus.  And, Leader
Jeffries, you’re here somewhere, I’m told.  I can’t see you, but I know
you’re here.  And Whip Clark, Chair Aguilar, and all of the members of
Congress here tonight.   
  
Thank you, thank you, thank you also to the Asian Pacific In- — American
Institute of Congressional Studies for 30 years — (applause) — of
empowering <s>AAAHP</s> \[AANHPI\] leaders all across the government.   
  
And let me say, I have kept our commitment to having an administration
that looks like America.  I made that commitment when I got elected. 
(Applause.)  While members of the AANHPI community at every level, led
by the incredible Vice President of the United States, Kamala Harris —
(applause) — and so many here today, including my Cabinet: U.S. Trade
Representative Katherine Tai — (applause); Acting Labor Secretary Judy
Su — Julie Su — (applause); Director of my Office of Science and
Technology.  Where — where is Arati?  Where is she?  (Applause.)  Stand
up, kid.  I like that dress.  Let them see your gown.  (Applause.)  
  
And thanks to all of you — leaders of labor, business, philanthropy,
civil rights, arts, culture, and so much more.  
  
All of you — and I mean all of you — represent a simple truth: There is
no singular Asian American, Native Hawaiian, or Pacific Islander
identity.  The diversity of cultures and breadth of your achievements
that has shaped and strengthened the fabric of our country.  The
fastest-growing demographic in the United States, you represent how we
are a nation of immigrants, a nation of dreamers, a nation of
freedom.   
  
That’s the America we share.  That’s the America we know.   
  
And you’ve made incredible progress: 15 million new jobs recorded,
historic-low levels of unemployment, record small-business creation.  In
fact, loans from our Small Business Administration to AANHPI small
business is up by 44 percent compared to the previous administration. 
(Applause.)   
  
Because we extended the Child Care Tax Credit during the pandemic —
which not one Republican voted for, I might add — we cut Asian American
child poverty by nearly 25 percent to a record low.  (Applause.)   
  
<s>The lowest</s> \[To lower\] costs across the board — we finally beat
Big Pharma and gave Medicare the power to negotiate prescription drug
prices.  (Applause.)  We also capped insulin at $35 a month down from
about $400 a month for seniors on Medicare, including for millions in
this community.   
  
Our reforms not only saved lives — guess what? — it saved the taxpayers
$160 billion — (applause) — $160 — because Medicare no longer has to pay
those exorbitant prices.   
  
We’re also making college more affordable by relieving student debt for
millions of borrowers, including many in this community.  (Applause.) 
That’s worth clapping for, I promise you.  How we can be the leader of
the world without having the best education in the world, I don’t
understand.   
  
We increased Pell Grants by $800 a year — the largest increase in a
decade — which matters to 40 percent of the AANHPI students — they rely
on Pell Grants.  Folks — (applause) — when I was growing up, $800 makes
a lot of difference to a family.  
  
More people have health insurance today than ever before.  And I’m proud
that my administration announced DACA recipients will finally have
access to healthcare through the Affordable Care Act.  (Applause.)  
  
And, by the way, the first bill I introduced was the most comprehensive
immigration reform bill in decades.  It includes a pathway to
citizenship for DREAMers and expands the number of green cards so many
more families can build their American Dream together.  (Applause.)  
  
Unfortunately, those provisions were not included in the recent
bipartisan border bill.  That was the first bill I ever introduced when
I ca- — became president.  But this bill had the majority — that
bipartisan bill has majority support in the House and Senate.  But I was
told that other guy — that loser — (laughter and applause) — I think
he’s having trouble.  (Laughter.)  
  
Trump called Republicans in the — to block that Senate bill — got on the
phone and said, “It — it’d be a win for Biden and a loser for him,” so
he — they have to make sure you don’t allow it to get to a vote.  But
he’s wrong.  Republicans in Congress must act because it’s the right
thing to do, and America needs it done.  (Applause.)  
  
Thanks to the defa- — the decades of advocacy by so many of you, I’m
proud our administration recently announced major changes in how federal
government collects and reports federal data on race and ethnicity. 
(Applause.)  By disaggregating data on a community that’s so diverse, we
can better serve the entire community.   
  
After all, if our government doesn’t really see the difference between
Korean Americans distinctly from Filipino Americans, how in the hell can
they address the needs of each community?  And we’ve changed that with
disaggregation.  (Applause.)   
  
We’re also making historic investments to rebuild our roads and our
bridges and — and to lead the world in science and innovation.  And that
includes the most significant investment ever — ever, ever, anywhere in
the history of the world on climate.  (Applause.)   
  
I’m so proud, with your help, that the new report co-released by 20
major climate organizations — from the — from the Sierra Club to the
Sunrise Movement — credited our administration with making more than —
taking 300 actions related to climate, conservation, public health, and
clean energy.   
  
I signed the most significant gun safety law in nearly 30 years, which I
know matters to the community that I mourned with.  (Applause.)  And I
remember in Atlanta, Half Moon Bay, and Monterey Park.   
  
This guy said — when the last shooting occurred, he said what — they
asked him about it; he said, just “get over it.”  “Get over it.”  Ugh —
anyway.  I’ll be good.  (Laughter.)  
  
Together, we’ll not stop until we ban assault weapons again — this time
permanently.  (Applause.)  
  
I can go on, but I’m between you and your dinner.  
  
The point is we’re — (laughter) — we’re lowering costs; we’re expanding
opportunities with your help; we’re protecting freedoms.  That’s in
stark contrast to my predecessor’s view of it and of you.   
  
Look, I’ll never forget him lying about the pandemic, telling Americans
to inject bleach into their skin.  I wonder if he did it.  (Laughter.) 
It might explain some things.  Anyway.  (Laughter.)  
  
We’ll never forget the rise in anti-Asian hate crimes during the
pandemic.  And I was proud to have signed the COVID-19 Hate Crimes Act
with your support to help states, cities better report, respond, prevent
crime.  (Applause.)   
  
We also provided historic levels of funding to public safety in local
communities that is delivering results.  We’re seeing near — a near
50-year low in violent crime in America.  According to the Justice
Department, hate crimes targeting Asian Americans fell by 33 percent
from 2021 to 2022.  (Applause.)  
  
But there’s still more to do so that every community feels safe.   
  
When Trump was in office, he enacted a $2 trillion tax cut,
overwhelmingly benefitting the very wealthiest among us and the biggest
corporations, that exploded the federal deficit.  His administration
added more to the federal debt than any previous presidential term.  And
now, he and the congressional Republicans want to do it all over
again.  
  
At the same time, they want to — I love this word — “terminate” — I love
the way these guys talk — “terminate” the Affordable Care Act, which
would terminate a lot of lives, denying millions of you and your
families in healthcare insurance, denying protections for preexisting
conditions for literally several million people.  
  
They want to undo what they finally got done and then — what we di- —
finally got done to make up for it.  They want to — to — they want to
give power back to Big Pharma to charge exorbitant prices on
prescription drugs.  This is what they’re saying on the platform.  Those
of you in the Congress know this.   
  
My predecessor wants to cut Social Security and Medicare.  He said
there’s a lot of reasons you can do it “in terms of cutting.”  Not on my
watch.  (Applause.)  
  
He brags about getting Roe v. Wade overturned.  But Kamala and I are
going to keep fighting to restore Roe v. Wade as the law of the land
again.  (Applause.)  
  
And while we fight for comprehensive re- — immigration reform, Trump
continues to vilify immigrants.  I can’t believe the way this guy
talks.  He talks about immigrants as “rapists” and “murderers” — his
words, not mine.  He said they are “not people” — they are “not
people.”  He says immigrants are “poisoning the blood of this
country.”  
  
Folks, that’s not who we are.  Diversity is our strength as a nation and
always has been and always will be.  (Applause.)  And my predecessor’s
prejudices lead him to obscure positions.  And <s>they</s> \[we\] want a
country for all of us — that’s what we want.    
  
Let me close with this.  Two years ago, I signed a landmark law to pave
the way for the creation of a National Museum of Asian Americans — which
was mentioned already — (applause) — Native <s>Americans</s>
\[Hawaiians\], Pacific Islanders History and Culture.  So very proud to
do so because it amplifies why we are a great nation.  It matters.   
  
But Trump and his friends want to e- — they want to erase history, not
make history.  Together, we make history, all of us in this room.  And
that’s why I see all of you and we celebrate Asian American, Native
Hawaiian, Pacific Islander Heritage Month, including my dear friend we
all miss and whose family is here tonight, Norm Mineta, who helped
create this caucus.  (Applause.)  
  
Norm once said, “Democracy is not a spectator’s sport.  It requires
everyone’s active participation.  You don’t have to be running for
office to be a public — be in public service,” end of quote.   
  
Folks, there have always been competing values and visions of what
America should be.  My predecessor believes we are a country of revenge
and retribution.  I believe we’re a nation of hope and opportunity for
everybody.  (Applause.)  We’re a country of honesty, decency, faith,
fairness.  That’s the future we’re building together.   
  
I see a future where we defend democracy, not diminish it.  I see a
future where we protect freedoms, not take them away.  I see a future
where the middle class finally has a fair shot and the wealthy be- — the
wealthy finally begin to pay their fair share so we can provide char- —
childcare, paid leave, and so much more and still reduce the federal
deficit.  (Applause.)  Folks, I see a future where we save the planet
from the climate crisis and our country from gun violence.   
  
Above all, I see a future for all Americans.  I see a country for all
Americans.  
  
And it’s because of you — and I mean this sincerely — I’ve never been
more optimistic.  We just have to remember who in the hell we are. 
We’re the United States of America.  And there is nothing beyond our
capacity when we work together.  (Applause.)  
  
So, let’s keep working together because we can get so much done.  
  
God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.  
  
Thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)  I mean it.  Thank you. 
(Applause.)  Thank you.  
  
8:15 P.M. EDT
