---
date: '2024-05-12'
published_time: 2024-05-12 20:21:42-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/05/12/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-campaign-reception-seattle-wa/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at a Campaign Reception | Seattle,\_WA"
---
 
6:22 P.M. PDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Folks, thank you.  (Applause.)  I’ll tell you something
else — (inaudible) get up here.  I want to tell you something else. 
When we win, he ain’t staying in Washington State.  (Applause.)

GOVERNOR INSLEE:  Uh oh!  (Laughter and applause.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Go talk to Trudi.  (Laughs.)

GOVERNOR INSLEE:  Go get it.  Have fun tonight.

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.

Hello, Seattle!  (Applause.)  And thank you for the warm welcome.  But
please keep it down because — (laughter) — Donald Trump is sleeping. 
(Laughter.)  “Sleepy Don,” I kind of like that these days.  (Laughter.)

You know, I have — look, Governor Inslee, Jay, you are the leader in the
country on climate change.  You really are.  You’ve done more as a
governor in your state than any governor has in anywhere in America. 
(Applause.)

When they told us we couldn’t possibly get a bipartisan agreement to
spend money on climate change, we got $369 billion.  (Applause.)  When I
think climate change, I think jobs.

One of the things that I know we got a little — some people got a little
worried because right after I got the nomination and was elected, I
didn’t — I w- — made sure I didn’t introduce my entire climate change
policy for a simple reason.  I wanted to bring along organized labor. 
Labor always thought of climate as causing them jobs — costing them
jobs.  But I spent time with the IBEW, starting with them, and every
other major labor union in America has endorsed our climate policy,
embraced it, and made it work.  So — (applause) —

And, Trudi, as my mother would say, no purgatory for you, (inaudible),
straight to heaven — straight to heaven.

There’s no such thing as being the “First Spouse.”  There’s no such
thing.  It’s about — when you’re the wife or the husband of a governor,
you’re the governor too.  So, thank you very much.  (Applause.)  No,
no.  You know I’m telling you the truth.

They know where you can show up.  They know where you live without —
“Why did we do this?  Why’d we do that?” 

Anyway, thank you very much. 

And, look, I also want to thank the Governor.  The previous Governor has
become a great friend of mine, and I have great faith that he ain’t
going nowhere either, if I make it.  And that’s Gary — Governor Gary
Locke.  Where are you, Gary?  (Applause.)

And you want a fighter on your side, you want someone who knows what
she’s talking about, someone who does what she says and says what she
does, Congresswoman Jayapal, who’s right here.  (Applause.)

I want to thank Nick and Lisa and all the co-hosts here tonight. 

Just let me say I — you know, I should have the Head and the Heart
perform before every — every program I have, because this is — this is
an incredible crowd.  (Applause.)

My dad, when he was high school age — he was from Baltimore — he had a
band.  He got into Johns Hopkins, but because of the war, he never got
to go, make a long story short.  But my dad played the saxophone and the
clarinet.  He could sing a little bit, and he could dance.  He had a
band.

And he said, “Joey, I don’t know where the hell you came from.  You have
no lip, you can’t play a reed instrument.”  (Laughter.)  “You have two
left feet and can’t dance.  And you can’t carry a tune in the
wheelbarrow.  But I still love you.” 

So, I — (laughter) — I’m always appreciative when anybody with musical
talent says something nice about me.  Charity and Matthew, you’re
incredible.  Thank you for all you do.

Look, folks — (applause) — as we go into spring, we genuinely feel the
excitement and momentum we’re building in the campaign, and I mean that
sincerely.

I think most of the members of Congress that I’ve served with so long
will tell you no one ever doubts I — what — I mean what I say.  The
problem is that I sometimes say all that I mean.  (Laughter.)  But I’m
optimistic.  I’m feeling good.  Feeling good about the country.  We’re
moving.  
  
So far, over 1.6 million individuals have contributed to our campaign —
five hundred and fifty thous- — fifty-five thousand of them in just sin-
— ma- — new since the last campaign, new contributions.  And 90 percent
of those contributions are under $200 — people contributing $5, $10,
$20, $50 dollars a month helping this campaign.

There’s a genuine groundswell.  People are engaged, no matter what the
polling data says.  
  
And we’ve opened over 150 offices in — 150 — 1-5-0 — in battleground
states.  And that as — and Trump has his zero in those states.    
  
And while the press doesn’t write about it — (applause) — the momentum
is clearly in our favor, with the polls moving towards us and away from
Trump.  
  
Earlier this week, I was in Wisconsin.  The <s>Quinnimac</s>
\[Quinnipiac\] Poll had up 6 points with registered voters.  The — the
IPSOS/ABC poll has us 4 percent up.  
  
But it’s awful hard to judge the polls these days because they’re so
difficult to take.  They don’t have — most people don’t answer their
landlines, and so it’s really up in the air.  But I can tell you, we’re
out around the country, we’re out around a lot.  There’s some
enthusiasm.  People want to get things done.  Things are beginning to
move.  And people are beginning to focus.

And those of you who’ve been involved in — in partisan politics and
going door to door and those kinds of things, people really don’t get
juiced until somewhere toward the end of the summer and the beginning of
the fall.  But we’re — we’re really optimistic.

I know everyone is feeling that enthusi- — I know not everyone is
feeling that enthusiasm.  The other day, a defeated-looking man came up
to me and said, “Mr. President, I’m being crushed by debt, and I’m
completely wiped out.”  I had to say to him, “I’m sorry, Donald, I can’t
help you.”  (Laughter and applause.)  “Nothing I can do to help.” 
(Applause.)   
  
Look, Trump knows he’s in trouble.  You know, he has bragged about he’s
the reason why Roe v. Wade was overturned, and now he’s worried the
voters are going to remind him of that and all the cruelty and chaos
that has caused.

Well, let me ask you: Are we going to hold him accountable or not?  We
are, right?  (Applause.)  
  
Trump did a long interview in TIME Magazine.  You ought to read — I’m
being deadly earnest about this.  You ought to read it.

He said, quote, “states should monitor women’s pregnancies and prosecute
those who violate the bans.” 

Monitor women’s pregnancies?  What have we become here?

But, look, chaos is nothing new to Trump.  His presidency was a chaos. 
Trump is trying to make the country forget how dark and unsettling
things were when he was president.  But we’re never going to forget.  
We’ll never forget the fact — him lying about the pandemic.  He knew how
dangerous it was, but he didn’t want to — he wouldn’t say it to
anybody.  He said, “Just go inject a little bleach in your arm.” 
(Laughter.)  Too bad he didn’t.  (Laughter and applause.)

Look — all kidding aside, it was bizarre.  We lost a million people. 
And all the data shows those million, every one of them had eight people
that were significant to them — brothers, sisters, uncle, aunts,
mothers, fathers, wives, children.

We’re never going to <s>gret</s> \[forget\] the love le- — his love
letters to Kim Jong Un of North Korea, talking about what a — how he
could work with him, he’s a good man, or his administration — his
admiration for Putin, standing with Putin at a press conference after a
meeting and talking about how he believed Putin, he didn’t believe his
own security people.  
  
And here’s what he said in that TIME Magazine article.  He said he — and
he may — he said — straight up, I really urge you to read it so I’m not
— I’m not putting words in his mouth (inaudible).  His words.  No, I — I
really mean it.  Because he means what he says.

He said he wouldn’t — wouldn’t — may not come to an aid of an ally in
Europe or Asia if attacked if he felt that country hadn’t been spending
enough money on its own defense system — would not come to the aid.

Look, folks, I don’t want any part of that.  
  
And I spent a lot of time — my reg- — expertise is American foreign
policy and climate, the two things that I’ve worked on the most.  And,
you know, I go to these international meetings, because I know
personally the vast majority of the world leaders, and the new ones as
well.

And every — whether it’s a G7 meeting or G20 in any — wherever it is —
and I mean this from the bottom of my heart — it’s disturbing, because
what will happen, as we’re leaving the meetings, one of the leaders —
many of them — will grab me by the arm and say, “He can’t win again. 
Please.  My d-” — meaning their — “My democracy is at stake.”

Look, folks, Madeleine Albright was right.  We are the essential
nation.  If we don’t stand up, who does?  Who does?  If we don’t unite
the world, who can — in our interest?

But look how far we’ve come: 15 million brand new jobs, a record, just
in three and a half years.  (Applause.)  More people have health
insurance today than ever before in the history of this country. 
(Applause.) 

We took on Big Pharma, which I’ve been fighting since I was a senator,
and we finally won.  Anybody knows they need insulin for their serious
problems they have, it’d cost them — instead of costing them 400 bucks a
month, now it costs 15 bucks a month.  (Applause.)  And it’s only just
beginning. 

And, folks, it not only saves lives, it saves taxpayers $160 billion —
(applause) — because Medicare doesn’t have to pay the price.  That’s a
fact.

And with your governor’s help, we’re making the most significant
investment ever in climate.

I’m so proud to report that co- — that wh- — they co-released by 20
major climate organizations, from the Sierra Club to the Sunrise
Movement, it credited our administration with making more than 300
actions related to climate, conservation, public health, and clean
energy.

In their words — in an endorsement: “Biden does more to take action to
protect, restore, and secure health and environment in America than any
president in American history, and he’s not done yet.”  (Applause.)  We
are not done yet.  (Applause.)

And as Jay will tell you, every time I had a tough decision, I’d call
him, I — for get his opinion.  And I’m not joking.

Jay, there’s no place to hide, if I make it.  (Laughter.)  (Inaudible) —
no, I’m serious.  He’s the best in the country.

I signed the most significant gun safety law in 30 years.  (Applause.) 
The idea our children are going to school and learning how to duck and
cover is sick.  It’s sick.

More children killed because of a bullet than any other reason.  Think
of that, in America — the United States of America.  And the \[former\]
President is saying — thanking the — telling the National Rifle
Association that, you know, he’s their best friend, nothing is going to
happen when he’s there.

Well, guess what?  Thirty years ago — it’s not going to stop until we
ban assault weapons again.  (Applause.)

I apologize.  I’m going on too long.

But, look, the point is: We’re lowering costs, expanding opportunities,
and protecting freedoms.  But it’s all at stake.  It really is all at
stake.

Trump is still determined, in his words, to “terminate” the Affordable
Care Act, which will kick millions of people off insurance.  You know,
it’s the only reason why people with a pre-existing condition are able
to get insurance — tens of thousands of them.

He’s determined to get rid of my climate law, and he’s just flat out
saying it, because the oil companies hate it.

In fact, it’s been reported — you probably saw it on television.  He
said it in his — in — in the TIME Magazine article that’s on the front —
he’s on the front cover of.

He said that he asked Big Oil, quote, “to direct a billion dollars to
his campaign.”  He said it would be a good “deal” for them. 

No, I’m serious.  I’m not making this stuff up.  Just read it.  His own
words.  He’d repeal everything we’re doing on climate.  And he said in
the TIME article he wants to drill, drill, drill.

Well, folks, look, during his presidency, he exploded the federal
deficit more than any other president had in a term — (inaudible) the
federal deficit than any pre- — any previous president.

And he’s determined to cut Social Security and Medicare.  His own words:
“There’s a lot you can do in terms of cutting,” he says. 

Nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office just released a study, j- — this
is noth- — nothing out of my office — showing his plan for what he wants
to spend the next four years.  And he’s — he laid it out, as did the
MAGA Republicans in the House.  It would cost $5 trillion over the next
decade.  It’s fiscally recke- — it’s just totally reckless.

And, folks, there’s so much at stake.

You know, I proposed the strongest border bill ever — the most — most
fair and humane immigration reform in decades.  It includes a pathway to
citizenship for DREAMers and more. 

And, by the way — (applause) — and, by the way, I’m proud that my
administration announced that DREAMers are finally able to get
healthcare under the Affordable Care Act now.  (Applause.)

If the team would just hold a second, I want to tell you — look, there’s
a reason why we have the most advanced economy in the world today, right
now: Because we’re not xenophobic.  We allow people to come in and
work.  We grow our economy.

Look at China.  China’s in a situation where they have more retired than
working.  They ha- — they don’t know what to do about it.  Many other
countries in the same position.

Meanwhile, in the same Trump TIME interview, he vowed to use the U.S.
military — saying this, straight up.  He’s vowed to use the U.S.
military to comb the country and deport 11 million people here in
America who are waiting to have their cases determined.

I mean — and he calls — and he calls immigrants — and he means it — he
calls them “rapists” and “murderers.”  And he said, quote, “They are not
people.”  “They are not people.”

I wonder what would happen when my Irish ancestors were trying to get
here, what he would have thought of.

Trump says immigrants “poison the blood of America.”

Folks, just look at the audience.  We are a nation that’s integrated
with all kinds of denominations, all kinds of backgrounds, all kinds of
— look, it’s not who we are.  That’s not America.

But, folks, the biggest threat Trump poses is straight to our democracy
— literally, not figure- — our democracy.

The same TIME article, he said what I’ve heard him say other times.  He
said, “A lot of people liked it when I said I’d be a dictator on day
one.”

Well, there were some MAGA Republicans who probably did like it, but I
sure in hell didn’t, and I’m going to make sure it doesn’t happen. 
(Applause.)

Folks, when asked if he thought — he was asked if he thought — asked if
he thought if violence would occur if he lost.  You know what his
response was?  Straight up.  “It depends.”

He calls the insurrectionists who are now in prison — he calls them
“patriots.”  And if reelected, he wants to pardon “every one” of them,
he says.

Trump says when he loses again — if he — he says “if,” I say “when” —
(laughter and applause) — he loses again, he says there will be a
“bloodbath.”  His words.  A “bloodbath.”  He means it.

Look, let me ask you a question.  Do you see every — all these people
vying to become his vice president?  They’re being asked will they
accept the outcome of the election.  They’re all afraid to say they
would.  They’re all hedging the bet because they want to be his vice
presidential nominee.

And, folks, look, the fact is that we’re in a position where the MAGA
candidates auditioning for vice president are saying they aren’t sure,
if they lose, whether they’d accept the outcome.  And he says, “It
depends.”

Folks, look, let me close with this.  What’s at risk in 2024 are our
freedoms and our very democracy.

I never thought I’d say that.  As a student of history, someone who’s
been doing this job for a long time, I never, ever thought I would say
that.

Look at the presidential historians — conservative presidential
historians, what they’re saying.  You find anybody that doesn’t take it
serious, who knows what they’re talking about?

That’s why I need you so badly.  So, let me ask you: Are you with me? 
(Applause.)

I need your help.  And I’m fed up.  And I’ve never — (applause) — I’ve
never been more — (applause) — I’ve never been more optimistic about our
future.  We just have to remember — we have to remember who we are. 

We’re the United States of America.  (Applause.)  We’re the only nation
in the world that’s come out of every crisis we’ve gone into stronger
than we went in.  And there’s nothing — and I mean this from the bottom
of my heart — there’s nothing beyond our capacity when we act together.

So, God bless you all.  And let’s protect these troops.  (Applause.) 
Let’s go, (inaudible).  (Applause.)  Really.  (Inaudible.) 

Thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)

Don’t jump.

Thank you all.  Thank you.  (Applause.) 

Thank you all.  (Applause.)

6:42 P.M. EDT
