---
date: '2024-05-12'
modified_time: 2024-05-12 14:40:17-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-12 14:40:16-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/05/12/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-campaign-reception-medina-wa/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at a Campaign Reception | Medina,\_WA"
---
 
12:48 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.) 

Well, welcome to the Sea- — Seattle Art Museum.  (Laughter.)  What a
magnificent place you have, Kim — really, really, really.  And thanks
for that introduction — most of all for your friendship. 

The first couple of times they helped, it was their own fault.  But they
know better now, and they’re still helping.  (Laughter.)  And God love
you.  Thank you very, very much. 

And, you know, I also want to thank what I consider to be the best
governor in America on environment and one of the best governors in
America overall.  Mr. Governor.  (Applause.)

Jay and the first trouse — first spouse, Trudi, thank you very, very
much.  And — (applause) — and I warn you — I warn you all, if you like
seeing him around Washington State, don’t elect me.  But if you want to
see him — if you don’t mind leaving him — having him leave this state a
little bit, elect me, because I’m going to try to grab him to get him to
Washington.  (Laughter and applause.)  You think I’m kidding.  I’m not.

And your congressional delegation.  A great friend — I won’t say “old”
because she’s not; I am — Maria Cantwell.  Maria, where — where is she
sitting?  (Applause.)  There you are. 

I can’t think of virtually any major issue we’ve ever disagreed on in
all these years.  I don’t want to ruin your reputation.  (Laughter.) 
But — but it’s true.

She’s a significant leader.  Not — not kidding.  And you know why?  When
you think of Maria, you think of one thing: integrity.  No one ever
doubts that whatever she says, she means and she’s telling you the
truth. 

Maria, I love you, kid.  You’re really — you’re the best.  (Applause.)

And — and Suzan Del- — DelBene, who is working like hell to make
everything work.  (Laughter.)  No, I’m serious.  She’s putting together
a real, real effort running the <s>DNC</s> \[DCCC\].  I mean — anyway,
thank you for all you’re doing. 

And — (applause) — and a woman who has more courage and hutzpah and
stamina than anybody I know, Representative Jayapal.  Thank you. 
(Applause.)

Adam Smith.  Kim <s>Schuler</s> \[Schrier\].  And Marilyn — where’s
Marilyn S- — where’s Marilyn Strickland?  There you go.  Marilyn, thank
you very much.

Just what you all need: You finally get to come home on a magnificent
Saturday, and you’re all in here with me.  (Laughter and applause.) 
Please forgive me.  (Laughter.)

Look, before I begin, let me answer a question related to the hostage
deal I get — keep getting asked by the press and all the folks out
there. 

You know, there would be a ceasefire tomorrow if Hara- — Hamas would
release the hostages — the women and the elderly and the wounded. 
Israel said it’s up to Hamas; if they wanted to do it, we could end it
tomorrow.  And the ceasefire would begin tomorrow.  It all has to do —
you know, we’ve not — anyway, I don’t want to — I guess I shouldn’t get
into all this about Israel.  But, you know — well, I don’t want to get
going, I guess.  (Laughter.)

But, look, I want to thank you for your support and — for this campaign,
especially Brad and — and Kathy Smith.  Brad, you’ve been — we were —
where — there you are.  We were recently in another part of the world —
in Wisconsin doing an incredible job. 

And Microsoft is investing $3 billion to build a data center in Racine
to power their artificial intelligence system.  It’s being built on the
same site that Trump promised FoxComm would build a $10 billion
manufacturing center.  Trump even showed up at the groundbreaking with,
literally, a golden shovel — (laughter) — promising this would be the,
quote, “eighth wonder of the world.”

Give me a break.  Anyway — (laughter) —

And he dug this hole with the golden shovel, and then he fell into it. 
(Laughter.)  He just keeps digging and digging more holes. 

Folks, look, in fact, we feel good about the — the state of the race. 
But, you know, we know the race is close. 

The last four national polls have me ahead in two, him ahead in one,
tied in — for another.  In the battleground states, most of the polls
released this week are within the margin of error.  We just had the very
strong Wisconsin poll up six points. 

But, look, here are a few things we find encouraging.  And the polls are
very difficult now.  As some of you know, in your businesses you use
polling, it’s very difficult to get an accurate poll because not
everybody has a landline.  It takes x thousand call- — not really, but
th- — scores of calls to get one response. 

But what I look at — and if you take a look at ‘20, ‘22, ‘23, all those
races, you look at the — what — what the outcome of the primaries were. 

First, we run strongest among likely voters in the polling data.  That’s
a good sign.  And while the national polls basically have us registered
voters up by four, likely voters we’re up by more. 

The second point I’d like to make is the actual votes in the primaries,
as opposed to the polls, we’re running much stronger than Trump. 

Trump continues to lose a gigantic chun- — chunk of his Republican
colleagues.  Just this last week, over 120,000 people voted for a woman
who dropped out of the race, Nikki Haley, in the Indiana primary — a
hundred twenty thou- — in Pennsylvania primary, she was already out of
the race and over 150,000 people voted for her in that race.

In the Pennsylvania primary, I got over 100,000 more votes in the
Democratic primary than Trump did in the Republican primary.  I got
900,000 votes.  Trump, a little under 800,000. 

I know a lot of people like to look at the polls, but I look at the
actual votes as we — for — and if you look at a guide from ‘18, ‘20,
‘22, ‘23, and those off-year elections, it comes down to that. 

Let me say there’s always going to be a place for Haley voters for my
campaign.  (Laughter.)

And — anyway, I won’t get into what I’m predicting.  But anyway —

Look, third, we’re building the strongest ground game for any campaign
in our country’s history. 

So far, 1.6 million individuals have contributed to our campaign — 1.6
million individuals.  We’ve raised more money than any candidate has at
this spot in the campaign.  And of those 1.6 million, over 97 percent
contributed less than $200.  They’re on payment plans of $5, $10, $20,
$30, $50 a month.  That’s how we’re raising that money. 

And as the candidates know here, if you want to know what’s happening in
the street, see what ordinary people are doing with their money. 

The battleground states, we’ve opened up more than 150 field offices,
while Trump has not opened a single, solitary one.  We’re organizing,
and we’re ready.  Trump MAGA Republicans are in significant disarray. 

Now let’s get to the message of the campaign.  Our message is
straightforward.  There’s a lot to talk about.  But the threat posed —
that Trump poses to democracy is greater than what he posed in the first
term. 

It’s clear that when we lost the — when he lost in 2020, something
snapped in him.  And I mean it sincerely.  A lot of people known him
well when he was in New York.  But some (inaudible) — he just can’t
accept the fact he’s lost, and he’s lost it when he lost.  He really
did. 

That’s why January 6th, every legal avenue Trump tried to change the
election failed, so he unleashed an insurrection.  And he did unleash
the insurrection.  Now he’s running again.

He’s not only obsessed with the losing in 2020, he’s clearly unhinged. 
Just listen to what he’s telling people.  I urge you to get TIME
Magazine.  He’s on the cover of TIME.  He did a long, long interview. 
And he means when he says.

In the article, he said, “A lot of people liked it when I said I’ll be a
dictator on day one.”  I don’t know — asked if  
he would — there would be violence occur if he lost, he said, “Well, it
depends.”  “It depends” about whether there’d be a violent —

He calls insurrectionists who are in prison — he calls them “patriots.” 
“Patriots.”  And if reelected, he wants “every one” of them pardoned —
“every one” of them pardoned.

Trump says, when he loses again, that there’ll be a “bloodbath” if that
occurs.  These are his words, not mine.  His words.

You know, he said he’s not going to accept the results of the election
when he loses again.  And it’s clear — it’s clear a lot of people — a
lot of people are — how can I say it? — auditioning for vice president,
which is not unusual.  But he has a litmus test.  They have to say they
won’t accept the result- — that they didn’t accept the results of the
2020 election, and when they lose again, they’ll not accept the results
of the 2024 election. 

This — this is not some dictator state.  What’s going on?

I — I really mean it.  Have you ever, ever — even if you’re as old as I
am — (laughs) — have you ever heard anything like that in American
politics?

And look at what he’s saying about reproductive freedom.  He’s bragging
he’s the reason Roe v. Wade was overturned.  Listen to what he said in
TIME Magazine.  He said, “The states should monitor women’s pregnancies”
— “monitor them,” not just — know wh- — “monitor women’s pregnancies and
prosecute those who seek help.”  Monitor women’s pregnancies?  Prosecute
them?

Folks, Trump is running — he’s not running to lead America, he’s running
for revenge.  He talks about it.  “I’ll be your rev-” — “I will be your
revenge.”  “I will be your retribution.” 

That’s revenge.  Every — but — but revenge in no ways lead — to lead the
county.  And you can’t.  You can’t build a future on revenge.  You can’t
build better lives for people on revenge.  That’s why I’m not running on
revenge, I’m running to lead America into the future, folks.

Look at the progress we’ve made: 15 million votes — excuse me, new jobs
since we got elected — 15 million.  More than any president has in that
period of time in American history.  More have health insurance today in
America than any time in American history. 

We took on Big Pharma, and we won, lowering prescription drug costs. 
Everybody knows somebody with insulin — needing insulin or other major
drugs they need.

Well, insulin was 400 bucks a month, now it’s $35 a month, and people
are able to afford it, saving lives.  But what people don’t also — what
we don’t talk about enough is not only is it saving lives, it’s saving
the taxpayer $160 billion — $160 billion — because Medicare doesn’t have
to pay out that $400 and exorbitant prices. 

I’m proud to say the new report co-released by 20 major climate
organizations — and, by the way, I’m not — I’ll say it again: Your
governor is one of the leaders in the nation and the world on climate
change — climate organizations, from the Sierra Club to the Sunrise
Movement, credited my administration with taking on more than 300
actions relating to conservation, climate, public health, and clean
energy.  And the Indian Nations are stepping up.  And we’re pro- — we’re
keeping our promise to them as well. 

You know, in the words of that — the endorsement, it says, “Biden has
done more to take action to protect the environment, to protect and
secure health and the — our environment than any president in American
history, and he’s not done yet.” 

Well, we’re not done yet.  We’ve got a long way to go.  But we’re on a
path to be able to get it done.  And we’ve also made the most
significant investments in science, technology, innovation in
generations — so that many of you are leading the way.

Talking about science and development to you guys is like talking about,
you know, football to the Philadelphia Eagles.  (Laughter.)  I’m an
Eagles fan.

But all kidding aside, we’ve already attracted $6- — $866 billion — $866
billion in private sector investment in clean energy, manufacturing, and
historic amounts in — in such short amount of period.  And we’re just
getting started.  And you all know it.

I just signed the most significant gun safety law in 30 years.  We’re
not going to stop until we once again — I miss her; Dianne Feinstein
helped me get passed, when I was a senator, the assault weapons ban.  We
need to get that again.  It saved lives.  It will save lives. 

And I promise you, elect a Democratic Congress and Kamala and I will
make Roe v. Wade the law of the land again.  (Applause.)

I promise I’m not going to keep you much longer.  But, folks, we’re
lowering costs, expanding opportunities, and protecting freedoms.  And
we have to keep it going. 

For example, Trump is determined to get rid of my climate law.  He just
flat out said it in that — read that article.  He said he wants to get
rid of the — the climate law because the oil companies hate it.  He said
he wants to “drill, drill, drill.”

In fact, he’s been reported — he asked — (inaudible) on television the
other day — Big Oil companies — he met with the oil execs — to direct a
billion dollars toward his campaign, and we’d have ourselves “a deal,”
he said.  Look, what’s the deal?

He’d repeal everything we’ve done on climate — as he said in the TIME —
in the TIMES article, again, “Drill, drill, drill.”

Folks, look, let me close with this.  Our freedoms and our very
democracy are at stake.  And that’s not hyperbole.  I mean it.  I give
you my word.  I mean it from the bottom of my heart.  We know it. 

I do an awful lot of international st- — as you might expect.  But
because that’s been my — my, sort of, go-to job when I was in the Senate
and when I was vice president.  And I know all these heads of state,
knew them before, and know the ones that are there now. 

I attend all these meetings, these international con- — conclaves with
heads of state.  And as I leave those meetings — not a — this is not a
exaggeration — half of the CEO- — half of these CEOs — half of the heads
of state will come up and grab my arm and say, “You can’t let him win. 
My” — meaning their — “My democracy is at stake.” 

This is the guy who says, “Let them” — whether it’s you’re talking about
the Middle East or you’re talking about Europe, “If you don’t pay enough
money for your own defense, go ahead, you can take the country.” 

Look, this is why I need you.  I know we can do this together.  I’ve
never been more optimistic about our future.  We just have to remember
who the hell we are.  We’re the United States of America.  We’re the
only country, in my view, as a student of history — the only country
that’s come out of every crisis we’ve entered stronger than we went in —
literally, not figuratively, stronger than we went in. 

And we have — and think about this.  Madeleine Albright wrote about us
being the essential nation.  Not because I’m president; because no
matter — who leads the world in the right direction if America is not
the leader?  Seriously, who replaces America in that role?

And he has no notion of it.  And he doesn’t seem to care much about it. 
And so, that’s why other nations are worried about their democratic
future, whether it’s Europe, whether it’s the Middle East, whether it’s
the Far East, whether it’s Japan, no matter where it is. 

And so, there’s a lot at stake.  The world’s looking at us.  I’m going
to try my best not to let you down, because we have the greatest
democracy in history of the world.  We’re the only democracy — we’re the
only country in the whole world that’s built on an idea. 

Every other nation in the world was built on geography, ethnicity,
religion, something that unites them.  But we’re the only one built on
an idea.  And the idea — and it’s not hyperbole — the idea is, “We hold
these truths to be self-evident, that all women and men are created
equal, endowed by” — we’ve never lived up to it, but we’ve never walked
away from it. 

This guy is ready to walk away from it.  It’s not who we are.  Not only
does the American public need us to do the right thing, but the world
needs us to do the right thing.  And I’ll try my best not to disappoint
you.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

1:05 P.M. EDT
