---
date: '2024-05-22'
modified_time: 2024-05-23 15:26:57-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-22 17:24:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/05/22/remarks-by-president-biden-and-president-william-ruto-of-kenya-during-meeting-with-ceos-and-business-leaders/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and President William Ruto of Kenya During Meeting\
  \ with CEOs and Business\_Leaders"
---
 
East Room

4:25 P.M. EDT

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Secretary Raimondo, thank you for the update you gave
us.  And I want to thank all the folks around this table for
prioritizing a partnership that I think is really, really important and
wi- — and will deliver dividends for both our countries. 

And finally, Mr. President, I can’t thank you — think of a better way to
kick off this visit. 

When I visited Nairobi as vice president, I said that the true strength
of — of Kenya was its people and the students, workers, founders,
activists, in- — innovators, entrepreneurs, and so many people like you
who really do — do depend on democracy and support democracy. 

PRESIDENT RUTO:  Thank you.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  And today, as we honor 60 years of ties between our
countries, it’s clear that our people are the true strength of this
partnership and a — and a partnership that’s working well.  Nowhere is
it more important than in the realm of innovation.  That’s why we have
so many business leaders around this table. 

From Silicon Valley to Silicon Savannah, our people have brought us
forward and they’ve pioneered new technologies that are transforming
millions of lives — I mean, literally, millions of lives and is going to
go beyond that.  And we’ve invested in new industries that have
generated billions of dollars economically, and they’ve created new
opportunities that have lifted up our countries across both our
continents.

And our people and our innovators have also brought together — we are
all excited about this.  I mean, I’ve not seen my team so excited about
a visit in a long time.  And I think it’s all because of the American
companies that are here, but — oh, I’m only kidding.  (Laughter.)

As — and, President, as you and I discussed — and we’ll discuss tomorrow
— we’re launching a new era of technolog- — technological cooperation
between Kenya and America, including new exchanges and investments in
key fields of cybersecurity, artificial intelligence, and
semiconductors.  And this progress is thanks in large part to the
leaders around this table. 

So, my message is really straightforward and simple.  Thank you, thank
you, and keep it up.  We’re going to see more technological change in
the next 10 years — I’ve been saying this for a long time, and I mean it
— than we’ve seen in the last 50 years. 

And we need your help to seize th- — this moment.  We really do.  And we
need your oppor- — we need you to help us find opportunities to bring
the public and private sectors together.  And we need you to help us
strengthen the supply chains and industries of the future, including
clean energy and e-commerce as well.  And we need you to keep investing
in the diversity of our democracies, which will make this innovation
possible.

So, in return, I promise we’ll prioritize technological partnerships
between our countries.  And as Ambassador Whitman — and, by the way,
she’s smarter than I am.  (Laughter.)  She’s handling everything. 

I was amazed.  We had a meeting earlier.  I’m going to — this is ad
libbing — but she sat there, and she had more statistical data to spout
off without any piece of paper in her hand.  It amazed me.  I don’t
know.  It reminded me of my sister.  (Laughter.)

But — (laughs) — but, look, I think we really can seize the moment.  In
return, I think, as I said, we’re going to prioritize the technological
partnership between our countries and — and the former ma- — CEO — who
was also a former CEO, is going to make sure that happens. 

And Vice President Harris is already building a new public-private
partnership to increase investments in innovation. 

And because our cooperation matters, it’s not just for our own people
but for people around the world.  If this relationship continues to
grow, as it is, I think it benefits not only the United States and Kenya
but will lead and will have positive benefits literally around the
world.

So, thank you again for being here.  And I look forward to working with
you, and — and, you know, we’ll keep investing in the true strengths of
our nations, our people, and — in the years ahead.

And with that, Mr. President, I’m going to turn it over to you.

PRESIDENT RUTO:  Okay.  Thank you very much.  Thank you very much, Mr.
President.  And on behalf of my delegation and I, to, in a very special
way, thank you for extending an invitation to me to undertake this state
visit. 

I bring you very warm greetings from the people of Kenya and our
brothers and sisters from across the continent.  And I undertake this
state visit from the background of 60 years of solid friendship between
the United States and Kenya. 

And specifically, Mr. President, on the subject we are driving today
here on the digital space, on technology, and — and the whole space
around investment, trade, and the relationship that we have managed to
build over the years to confirm to you that Kenya is a young tech
country. 

And as you have said correctly, we have spent a lot of time working with
our technology companies, our technology investors.  We’ve had twinning
relationships between Silicon Savannah in Kenya and Silicon Valley in
the U.S. 

And this meeting is about what we can do together around digital jobs,
business process, outsourcing, research and development.  And, Mr.
President, one very important aspect is the CHIPS Act, which hopefully
we will be able to have a conversation about in the coming days. 

And your excellency, it speaks to the wealth of opportunity that exists
between Kenya and the United States.  Our young population — talented,
educated, innovative — and American technology that is cutting edge and
investment capital and investors that are hungry for opportunities not
just in Kenya but in our continent is a perfect match for this moment.

I think we have a historic moment to explore investment opportunities
between Kenya and the United States. 

And, Mr. President, under your leadership, we believe that as we
celebrate these 60 years of relationship between our two countries, we
also celebrate the opportunities that come with a friendship that exists
between our two countries. 

And as you have said correctly, the space around artificial
intelligence, space around cybersecurity, and investments that come with
it, we are expanding our footprint in the digital space.  We are rolling
out 100,000 kilometers of fiber optic in Kenya and connecting every ward
and every village to fiber by backbone to make sure that e-commerce,
digital jobs, and digital learning, we can access to every child in
Kenya. 

And we are very proud that we are going to work with American companies
last month.  Secretary Raimondo was in Kenya.  And we agreed with her on
the kind of investments, the level of investment, the type of investment
that needs to be fashioned between our two sides.  And my being here
today is a confirmation that we are moving from ideas into action and
from opportunities into investments.

And, hopefully, we will be able to sign off some of those investments. 
We have semiconductor companies here from Kenya.  We have large
corporates — fintech corporates in Kenya, one of them M-PESA.  And we
are going to be discussing the opportunities in that space. 

And I look forward, Mr. President, to consummating some of the
discussions around this table into concrete investments going into the
future.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Looking forward to it. Thank you, all.
