---
date: '2024-05-23'
modified_time: 2024-05-23 15:02:49-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-23 15:02:41-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/05/23/remarks-by-president-biden-and-president-william-ruto-of-the-republic-of-kenya-at-arrival-ceremony/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and President William Ruto of the Republic of\
  \ Kenya at Arrival\_Ceremony"
---
 
South Lawn

10:22 A.M. EDT

 PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Good morning.  (Applause.)  Hold the rain off. 

 President Ruto, Mrs. Ruto, and your three lovely daughters, who are
here to my left, ni- — welcome.  Welcome, welcome, welcome.  And to all
the distinguished guests.

On behalf of myself and Jill, Vice President, the Second Gentleman, and
the American people, it’s an honor to welcome you to the White House to
celebrate 60 years — 60 years of partnership between Kenya and the
United States.

 At the stroke of midnight — (applause) — that’s worth applause.  At the
stroke of midnight on December 12th, 1963, the world changed.  Many
Americans and many people around the world watched with great hope and
great anticipation as hundreds of thousands of Kenyans came together,
raised a new flag, declared their freedom, and gave life to a new
nation.  Ladies and gentlemen, that new democracy — that new democracy
is endearing and enduring. 

 It was a moment that forever connected our two nations.  For while we
may have been divided by distance, we’re united by the same democratic
values.

 I saw this during my first trip to Kenya as a young senator at the
height of the Cold War and watched our governments stand as one and
prevail against communism.

 I saw it when I returned years later as vice president and spoke to
students committed to upholding the principles of transparency, justice,
and accountability that lie at the heart of our democracies.

And I see it every day as President, as our two proud democracies
continue to draw from the power of the people and the strength of our
diversity to write the next chapter in our partnership.

Together, the United States and Kenya are working to deliver on the
challenges that matter most to our people’s lives: health security,
economic security, cybersecurity, and climate security.

Mr. President, your bold leadership on this front has been important and
significantly impactful.  Ninety percent of Kenya’s electricity comes
from clean energy.  Ninety percent.  (Applause.)  That’s worth an
applause.

Over 1 million homes are powered by wind energy alone.  That’s worth
applause, too.  (Applause.)

An historic Africa Green Industrialization Initiative, which you
launched last year, is poised to create similar results in so many other
nations, particularly in the continent.

Across the region, Kenya and America are driving a race to the top with
investments that we have and high standards for workers, technology, and
environment.

 And we’re working to ensure debt doesn’t leave these critical
investments and crucial investments out of reach for low- and
middle-income countries.

Around the world, Kenya and America are also standing united against the
terror of ISIS and al-Shabaab perpetrate in East Africa — that they
continue to perpetrate in East Africa; the aggression that Russia is
inflicting on Ukraine; the violence that has toppled too many
democracies across both our regions. 

And today, as we begin the next decade of our partnership, we’ve
launched a new initiative to bring our countries, companies, and
communities closer together, because the past is our proof that we are
stronger and the world is safer when Kenya and the United States work
together.  (Applause.)

Let me close with this.  We stand at an inflection point in history,
where the decisions we make now will determine the course of our future
for decades to come. 

Today, I’m as optimistic and hopeful as I was those years ago when Kenya
patriots raised that new flag high in that midnight sky, because Kenya
and the United States stand together, committed to each other, committed
to our people, and committed to building a better world — one of greater
opportunity, dignity, security, and liberty for all Americans, for all
Kenyans. 

God bless our partnership.  And may God bless our troops.

Thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)

ANNOUNCER:  Distinguished guests, the President of the Republic of
Kenya.  (Applause.)

PRESIDENT RUTO:  Thank you.

President Joe Biden, Dr. Jill Biden, Madam Vice President, distinguished
lad- — ladies and gentlemen, *jambo*. 

AUDIENCE:  *Jambo*.

PRESIDENT RUTO:  Let me take this opportunity, in a very special way, to
bring you warm greetings from the people, the government of Kenya, and
your brothers and sisters across the African continent.  (Applause.)

I want to thank President Biden for extending an invitation to me to
undertake this state visit, a sign of friendship and partnership and
collaboration between two countries that share common values: values of
freedom, democracy, rule of law, equality, and inclusivity.

We are very proud democratic nation.  And today, as we celebrate our
past, we are optimistic about our future.

That I — by undertaking this state visit, we will have the opportunity
to discuss and to have a conversation about building global partnership
and leadership around the issues that pose challenges regionally,
globally, and in countries like Kenya and many others: challenges of
climate change, challenges of insecurity, challenges around debt
distress.

And today, we have an occasion to build synergies, to build partnerships
that will not only solve our current problems but also to build a future
that is much more promising, much more prosperous — a fairer, a freer, a
healthier, and a much more prosperous future.

I am confident — (applause) — I am confident, Mr. President, that the
partnership between the United States of America and Kenya will give us
the solutions that the world so seriously needs.

And we will be discussing a range of issues, from peace and security in
our region, recognizing the heavy lifting Kenya is doing in supporting
peace and security efforts in the Horn of Africa, in the Great Lakes
region.  And I want to say, Mr. President, we value the support, the
friendship, and the collaboration the United States has given Kenya and
our region to make sure that we undertake our responsibilities in
securing our region.  (Applause.)

Mr. President, we will also be having the opportunity to discuss the
investment opportunities, trade; and hopefully, we will be able to
persuade the United States to renew the African Growth and Opportunities
Act that gives Africa — (applause) — the opportunity for access to
market so that we can create more jobs, we can create more wealth, and
we can spread prosperity across our continent.

And hopefully, also, we will conclude on our strategic partnership on —
our strategic trade and investment partnership that will give us the
opportunity in Kenya to work with companies in the United States and to
build greater synergy around our continent on matters to do with trade
investment, especially as we put together the Africa Continental Free
Trade Area and twin it with the United States, as we discussed at the
Africa Leaders Summit last year, giving us an opportunity to build
greater partnership between the continent of Africa and the United
States.

Mr. President, I know that our menu of discussion is broad and wide. 
And I am confident that, under your leadership, we will be able to build
a freer, a healthier, and a much more prosperous Kenya, United States,
and for people around the world.

Thank you very much.  (Applause.)

10:32 A.M. EDT
