---
date: '2024-05-20'
modified_time: 2024-05-20 20:19:31-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-20 20:19:30-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/05/20/on-the-record-press-gaggle-by-white-house-national-security-communications-advisor-john-kirby-12/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "On-the-Record Press Gaggle by White\_House National Security Communications\
  \ Advisor John\_Kirby"
---
 
Via Teleconference

2:02 P.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  Hey, everyone.  Thanks for joining us.  Kirby has a few
words here at the top, and then we’ll get through as many questions as
we can.

MR. KIRBY:  Hey, everybody.  I know you’ve all seen the statement from
the President on the International Criminal Court’s prosecutor’s
application for arrest warrants against Israeli leaders, as the
President said, is outrageous.  And there should be — there is none —
any equivalence between Israel and Hamas. 

Hopefully, you’ve also already seen Secretary Blinken’s statement, to
the same effect, about our utter rejection of any equivalence between
Israel and Hamas and of this particular call by the ICC, or arrest
warrants, which we believe is totally without merit whatsoever. 

I know you all have questions, I’m sure, about the helicopter crash in
Iran.  I’m afraid I’m just going to be disappointing to you; I don’t
have any additional detail to share.  You’ve hopefully seen our
statements.  We certainly offer — as the U.S. government, offer our
condolences.  But we don’t have any more detail or context about the
nature of this crash to speak to.  This would be something that Iranian
authorities would have to speak to.

For our part, we’re going to continue to stand with the Iranian people
as they fight for their own civil rights and — as they should.  And
we’re going to continue to hold Iran accountable for all their
destabilizing behavior in the region, which continues to this day. 

Lastly, if I could just quickly mention that National Security Advisor
Sullivan is wrapping up his visit to the region today.  Today he was in
Israel.  He had chance to meet with the leader of the opposition, Yair
Lapid, as well as the Minister of Defense, Mr. Gallant, and a couple of
members of the Israeli war cabinet to include Benny Gantz.  The purpose
there was to — the purpose there was to — I’m sorry, that was my
granddaughter calling me.  I apologize for that. 

The purpose there was to talk, obviously, about the situation in Gaza
and U.S. support — continued support for Israel in the face of the
various threats that they’re under.  And, again, there was a broad range
of discussions here to include humanitarian assistance and making sure
we can increase that flow, get it more sustained, as well as doing
everything that they can to reassure and make comfortable humanitarian
aid workers as that aid starts to get in. 

And, of course, Mr. Sullivan reiterated our commitment to seeing Hamas
defeated and also to try to see if we can’t get a hostage deal in place
moving forward. 

So with that, with apologies for the interruption there, we’ll take some
questions. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our first question will go to Steve with
Reuters.

Q    John, thank you.  I know you don’t want to say much about Iran. 
Will the U.S. send a delegation to the Raisi funeral?  And how might
this incident alter U.S. relations with Iran?

MODERATOR:  I think we might be having an audio issue.  Can you try
talking again?

Q    Can you still — can you hear?  Are you there?  Sorry.

MODERATOR:  Steve, can you try talking again, please?

Q    Okay, how about — is this okay?  I think the others can hear me. 
I’m getting notes from —

MODERATOR:  I’m going to go on to our next question just in case it’s
not something on our end, and then I’ll go back to you, Steve.

Aamer, would you mind unmuting and seeing if it will work?

Q    Can you guys hear me?

MODERATOR:  Yep, we can. 

Q    Okay.  And Steve was asking — I was able to hear Steve.  He was
asking if the U.S. will be sending a delegation to the Iranian
president’s funeral. 

And secondly, I wanted to ask myself: Can you sort of explain why the
U.S. is expressing official condolences for the death?  This is someone
the U.S. has previously cited for overseeing terrible human rights
abuses.  Was this something that the President himself weighed in on? 
And can you just sort of suss out, you know, the term “official” in the
statement that was put out earlier?  Because I do think that is
confusing to some people. 

And then second, could you also address the Iranian officials’
allegations that U.S. sanctions limiting aviation parts and supplies is
at least partly to blame for this crash?

Thanks.

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t have anything on a delegation for a funeral to speak
to today. 

And offering condolences is a typical practice.  I mean, President Raisi
was responsible for atrocious human rights in his own country — the
arrest and the physical violence against hundreds of protesters, for
instance.  And, of course, he’s responsible for the support that Iran
provides — or he was responsible for the support that Iran provided
terrorist networks throughout the region, which obviously led to — the
support that he’d given Hamas led to the slaughter of 1,200 innocent
Israeli people on the 7th of October.

No question this was a man who had a lot of blood on his hands.  That
said, as we would in any other case, we certainly regret in general the
loss of life, and offered official condolences as appropriate. 

Now, as for this claim about U.S. sanctions being responsible, it’s
utterly baseless.  The cause of the crash, of course, isn’t clear, at
least not clear to us.  But I would note, Aamer, that Iranian official
sources were out there citing poor flying conditions as a cause for
concern, specifically fog. 

And every country, no matter who they are, has a responsibility, their
own responsibility, to ensure the safety and reliability of its
equipment, and that includes civil aviation.  So, again, totally
baseless accusation.  No truth to it.  And it’s not surprising, sadly,
but not surprising that the Iranian regime would once again find a way
to try to blame the United States for problems of its own making.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Nick with PBS. 

Q    Hey, John.  Questions on Jake’s visit to Israel and Saudi Arabia. 
The first one is on the Rafah.  Do you believe that the Israeli
operation remains limited?  And the reassurances that Jake and the team
got on Rafah, has that at all answered some of your concerns about
what’s to come in Rafah, or what could come? 

And then, the Saudi question is: Are there steps being taken right now
between DOD and the Ministry of Defense in Saudi Arabia?  And are those
the final steps before the Saudi-U.S. bilateral security agreement is
finalized?  Thanks.

MR. KIRBY:  So, on Rafah: Yes, of course, Jake raised our continued
concerns about Rafah and the potential for any major operations there
and the risk that that would put the hundreds of thousands of people
that are still down there, near — in or near Rafah.

I’m not going to characterize Israeli operations.  I’ll just say what
I’ve said before: We have not seen them execute that sort of an
operation.  And part of the reason Jake went was sort of building out on
this strategic consultative group format.  This was a little different
format, of course, because Jake was over there in person, but it was
building out on those conversations that we’ve had in that context, and
he was grateful for the opportunity to do it.  It is another example of
Israeli willingness to continue to hear us out on our concerns but, just
as critically, on our ideas about alternatives for them to go after
Hamas in Rafah that wouldn’t require a large ground operation, because
we still believe there are viable alternatives available to the
Israelis. 

On the second question about the Saudi discussions, I would just say
that Jake was able to make significant progress on the bilateral
elements of what we believe would be a truly historic deal that would
lead to a more integrated region.  I could refer you directly to the
Saudi readout, which, again, we think put it all into proper context. 
It discussed it being a near-final bilateral agreement.  And I think I’d
leave it at that.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Kayla with CNN.

Q    Thank you so much for taking my questions.  I have two questions. 
The first is with regard to the ICC.  I’m wondering, Admiral, if you can
explain the difference in the U.S. posture with regard to potential war
crimes in Ukraine — where just today Secretary Austin says the U.S.
continues to work with the ICC on that — and the U.S. position on the
ICC’s application for arrest warrants of Israeli leaders. 

And then, just, my second question is if you can give us a little bit
more detail on what Jake Sullivan communicated to Israel’s defense
minister when he essentially met with him right around the time that the
news of the application for his arrest warrant was coming out.  What did
the administration communicate that it would be willing to do in
response to that?

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.  So, on your first question, as we have made clear for
many, many months, while we aren’t a member — or a party to the ICC, we
had committed and stay committed to helping Ukraine as they document
evidence for a range of international bodies, not just the ICC, but a
range of international bodies to investigate, document claims of war
crimes by Russia.

I would remind everybody that it is an actual war aim of Mr. Putin to
kill innocent Ukrainian people.  I mean, he’s deliberately targeting
civilian infrastructure with the aim of killing innocent civilians, and
it’s just baked into his operational strategy. 

As we have said before, that is not what the IDF is doing.  I’m not at
all suggesting that there have been too many civilian casualties.  Of
course, there have been.  And we continue to talk to the Israelis about
being more discriminant, more targeted, more precise — part of what
Jake’s conversations were.  But IDF soldiers are not waking up in the
morning, putting their boots on the ground with direct orders to go kill
innocent civilians in Gaza. 

And the larger issue here is: As I’ve said earlier, and as was in our
statements, we don’t believe the ICC has any jurisdiction here with
respect to what’s going on in Gaza.  And I’ll leave it at that. 

To your second question about Jake’s meeting with Defense Minister
Gallant: I obviously wasn’t at that meeting so I can’t relay to you
anything that Jake may have said in that moment or how close to the
moment of this announcement by the ICC prosecutor was with relation to
the meeting with Gallant.

I’ll just say that we’re going to continue to stay in touch with members
of Congress as appropriate here on this, and I don’t have any actions
one way or another to speak to today.

Q    Would the administration support any efforts by members of Congress
to levy new sanctions on the ICC in response to this?

MR. KIRBY:  I would just say we’re going to stay in touch with members
of Congress here.  This is only, you know, early hours here right after
this television interview announcement.  And I just don’t have anything
more to add.  We’re going to stay in touch with members of Congress, as
you would expect us to do. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  We are going to go back to Steve and try this
again, because he had a little bit more.

Q    How’s that?  Is that better?

MODERATOR:  Perfect.

Q    Okay.  Hey, and thanks for indulging me.  John, just following up
on Nick’s question about the Saudi deal: If it’s near final, do you
expect an announcement soon?  And is it contingent on an agreement for a
pathway to a Palestinian state?  You know, what needs to happen now?

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, I would probably not want to get into specific
timing.  As you saw on the Saudi readout, “near final,” we agree with
that; we believe we’re very close.  But I’m not at liberty now to put a
date certain on it or a timing notion on this. 

But, look, as a part of this, I’ll just say what we said before: The
effort here is designed to help get to — hopefully — get to
normalization between Israel and Saudi Arabia, which we believe, as I
said earlier, will help lead to a much more integrated, cooperative
region, which the President believes is better for security and
stability, not just for the United States and our national security
interests, but the interests of those who are living in the region. 

And from the very get-go, there has always been an understanding that as
part of this process there has to be something in it for the Palestinian
people, of course.  And the President remains committed to a two-state
solution, but he recognizes that, you know, that’s not something we’re
going to see anytime in the imminent future. 

We do believe that if we were able to get to a more integrated region,
which would include potentially normalization between Israel and Saudi
Arabia, that that could help set some of the conditions for leadership
in the region to do what leadership in the region needs to do, and
that’s really trying to get to a two-state solution. 

The bottom line for us is that we believe the only way to get a
two-state solution that is sustainable and enduring is through
leadership in the region and direct negotiations between the parties,
and that hasn’t changed.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Nathan with KAN-TV.

Q    Thanks so much.  I wanted to go back to Israel.  Both Defense
Minister Gallant and Cabinet Minister Gantz made statements in the past
week, basically demanding from Netanyahu to clarify his day-after policy
for Gaza.  Where does the U.S. stand on that?  Do you think these
statements are helpful?  Does this echo the administration’s view?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m sorry, their statements on what?

Q    On the need to clarify Israel’s day-after policy in Gaza.

MR. KIRBY:  Look, this is something Secretary Blinken has been focused
on since very, very early in the conflict.  And we continue to believe
that active and energetic discussions about post-conflict Gaza
governance are more than warranted.  And we are going to continue to
have those discussions with our Israeli counterparts, as well as our
Arab partners in the region to boot. 

We don’t believe that whatever the post-conflict governance picture
looks like in Gaza, that it can include Hamas, and we certainly don’t
still support any IDF occupation.  But this is a topic of ongoing
discussions, has been in just recent days, and will continue to be going
forward. 

I think, again, we’ve been very, very clear that Israeli military
operations absolutely require a political plan to help ensure the
lasting defeat of Hamas and a post-conflict situation in Gaza where the
aspirations of the Palestinians who live there and call it home can be
met.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Yuna with Israel
12.

Q    Hi.  Thank you for taking my question.  Another specific on the
Saudi deal.  Is the Israeli element, the normalization element, is the
key element of what you’re saying close to a statement, or there could
be an agreement without the normalization for just the U.S.-Saudi?  Or
is the U.S. or the Saudis waiting to see if there could be some progress
or there could be some statement by the Israelis on this?

MR. KIRBY:  The significant progress I’m referring to from Jake’s trip
is the bilateral elements between the United States and Saudi Arabia.

Q    Anything specific on that?

MR. KIRBY:  No, I think I’ll leave it at that.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Neria with Israel
13.

Q    Hi.  Thank you so much for doing this.  I wanted to ask about a
Palestinian state.  We did hear that Netanyahu declared last Saturday,
two days ago, that he will not be willing to allow a Palestinian state
be formed, also as a part — also if (inaudible) of the normalization
with Saudi Arabia.  How do you comment on that?

MR. KIRBY:  I hate to ask you to repeat the question, but it was a
little broken there in the middle, and I didn’t quite get —

Q    I’m going to try to ask it again.  I’m going to try to ask it
again.  I hope you can hear me well. 

We did hear Netanyahu’s declaration about not allowing a Palestinian
state even if it comes with (inaudible) the Saudi (inaudible).  So I’m
asking, how do you react to that statement by Netanyahu on Saturday, two
days ago?

MR. KIRBY:  I would just — first of all, the Prime Minister can speak
for himself, obviously.  I would just tell you that nothing has changed
about President Biden’s commitment to a two-state solution.  He believes
in the promise of it.  He believes it’s attainable.  He knows it’s not
going to happen tomorrow — of course not — but he still believes in it. 
And he also believes that it’s going to require leadership, leadership
here in the United States but also leadership there in the region, to
make it work. 

At the same time, he still believes in what I said earlier about the
value of a more integrated, more cooperative region.  And he believes
that normalization between Israel and Saudi Arabia can help lead to that
effort. 

Now, Jake was in Saudi Arabia, largely just working on the bilateral
pieces of this between the United States and Saudi Arabia.  And as I
said earlier, we’re close to finality on that, but there’s an awful lot
of work ahead of us, diplomatic work ahead of us, and the United States
will stay committed to that. 

I can’t speak for the Prime Minister and his views; he’ll have to do
that.  But nothing has absolutely changed about where President Biden is
on this.

Q    And if I can follow up on that, just to ask: Will the U.S. be
willing to do a deal with the Saudis without Israel, if Israel will not
be willing to allow a Palestinian state?

MR. KIRBY:  I just — I’m not going to get into a hypothetical at this
point in where we are in the process.  Again, Jake had good discussions
in Riyadh over the course of the weekend.  And as I said, you know, we
are closer now than we’ve ever been in terms of the bilateral nature of
this agreement, which could help lead, again, to a more integrated
region.  And that’s what we’re focused on.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Danny with AFP.

Q    Thanks very much for doing this.  And thanks, Admiral.  Apologies
if this has already been asked.  I had a slightly dodgy connection.  But
I just wanted to ask your position on the ICC prosecutor asking for the
arrest warrants for Hamas leaders.  Do you support that despite the
President opposing the arrest warrant applications for Netanyahu and
Gallant?  Thanks. 

MR. KIRBY:  There’s no — there’s absolutely — first of all, the ICC — we
still don’t believe the ICC has any jurisdiction in this matter.  That’s
— and there should be no equivalence rendered at all.  None.  It’s
ridiculous to render equivalent Israel and Hamas after what Hamas did on
the 7th of October.  They need to be held accountable.  In a military
sense, they are being held accountable by the IDF.  And the United
States is also, through our assistance to the IDF as well as, as you’ve
seen, the sanctions that we have imposed, we are also looking at our own
ways of holding Hamas accountable for what they did. 

But there’s no equivalence between Israel and Hamas, a known terrorist
organization.  And again, we don’t believe the ICC has any jurisdiction
in this matter. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Nadia.

Q    Hi, Sam.  Hi, John.  A couple of questions.  Talking on the
two-state solution, there is a Reuters report — I think it was yesterday
— that there is bipartisan efforts from both parties to block any chance
of a plan for a two-state solution, because as you know, Netanyahu said
it will be a reward for terrorism.  Is this an uphill battle for the
White House if you have lawmakers going against it as well?

And second, just to clarify what the President said yesterday at the
Morehouse College, he said that “I demanded a ceasefire,” and there was
a clap from the audience.  But he did not say that it was conditional or
humanitarian or repeating what was in the past six weeks, et cetera.  He
just said “a ceasefire.”  Can you clarify this, please?  Thank you.

MR. KIRBY:  He was referring, Nadia, as we’ve all been referring, to the
temporary ceasefire that we’re trying to get in place, tied to a hostage
deal.  That’s what he was referring to — the same thing that we’ve all
been referring to. 

Q    So no change of policy here?

MR. KIRBY:  There’s no change in policy. 

Q    Okay.  Okay.

MR. KIRBY:  And as for lawmakers: Look, again, I’ll let lawmakers speak
for themselves.  We’re going to continue to engage members of Congress,
as I said earlier, on all of these issues, and that includes our
continued pursuit of a two-state solution, which we still believe is the
right answer. 

And, you know, nobody is pollyannish about it here.  We understand how
difficult this is going to be.  We don’t expect to get there, as I said,
anytime imminently.  But, my goodness, that doesn’t mean you stop
trying.  It’s still the best thing for safety and security in the
region, not just for the Palestinian people, but for the Israeli people
as well, because any two-state solution is going to have to factor in
Israel’s security as a guarantee.  And we’re committed to that.  It’s
the right thing to do for so many reasons.  And the President is not
going to give up on that, and we’ll continue to engage members of
Congress as appropriate going forward.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question, we’ll go to Haley with
Scripps.

Q    Hey.  Thanks, Sam.  Thanks, John.  You mentioned that Jake had
talked about efforts to get a hostage ceasefire deal in place.  I just
wanted to see if you could provide any update, if there’s been any
progress out of his trip to the region on this front.  Thanks.

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t have any specific muscle movements to speak to
today.  It is something that we continue to maintain and even strain on,
and that includes in Jake’s discussions over the weekend.  But I can’t,
sadly, sit here and talk to you and tell you that — you know, that we’re
closer right now than we were a week or so ago.  But that doesn’t mean
we’re not going to stop working on it. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Brian with Fox.

Q    Oh, I didn’t know I was with Fox.  (Laughter.)

MODERATOR:  Oh, apologies.  I thought you were —

Q    (Laughs.)  That’s all right. 

MODERATOR:  We were going for you anyway.

Q    (Inaudible.)  Well, hey.  First, John —

MR. KIRBY:  You can be whoever you want to be, Brian.

Q    (Laughs.)  Thanks, John.  I hope you’re having fun with your
granddaughter. 

But my question is just a follow-up on a couple of things with Sullivan
coming out of the visit.  Is there anything concrete other than just the
hope of a solution?  Or do we have something concrete coming out of
that?

And then, on the ICC, what would we accept from them if we feel they
have no jurisdiction?  Where do we think their jurisdiction lies?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, we don’t believe they have jurisdiction in this matter
and, again, utterly reject this call for arrest warrants of Israeli
leaders.  Just, again, totally baseless here. 

It’s not that we’re looking for something out of the ICC.  We’re looking
to make sure Israel has what it needs to defend itself.  We’re looking
for ways to hold Hamas accountable in an appropriate way.  And we’re
looking to make sure that the people who — the Palestinians who live in
Gaza not only get the food, water, and medicine that they need, but they
can look forward to a future where they actually have a vote and a voice
in that future, that their aspirations can be met.  That’s what we’re
focused on here. 

And on your first question, I really don’t want to go any further than I
went earlier, that we — Jake believes that he made significant progress
on the bilateral elements, that is the U.S.-Saudi elements, of a package
deal that we believe would have historic possibilities for a more
integrated region.  And as I said earlier, we believe coming out of this
weekend that we have achieved a near-final set of text on some of those
bilateral agreements.  But it is really bilateral between the U.S. and
Saudi at this point.

Q    So nothing concrete?  Just hope that we’re getting closer towards a
solution?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, when you’ve — I mean, I’m not going to get — I’m not
going to get ahead of the text, Brian, but the fact that we believe it’s
near final should indicate to you that there are some specifics in
there, some details, some tangible achievements.  But it would be
imprudent for me to get into the details of it now when it’s not final. 
Near final does not mean final, and I don’t want to get ahead of it.

Q    Would you be sharing those — do you anticipate being able to share
some of those soon?

MR. KIRBY:  We hope we can get there real soon, and I’m sure we’ll be as
transparent with everybody as we can be.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  And apologies again for misidentifying you. 

Our last question will go to James Rosen.

Q    Thank you very much, Samantha.  And thank you, Admiral, as always.

This sudden transition in Iran, its causes are not known; as you say,
the cause of the crash is not clear to the United States.  And it would
seem to me the cause would have a significant impact, depending on what
it is, on how this plays out inside Iran and what it might mean for the
United States and the region and so on. 

For example, were it, in fact, a deliberate act and not a function of
technical problems or weather issues, that might portend a more
drawn-out power struggle inside the regime and so forth. 

Given that you don’t know that, what we do know is that this is very
abrupt, bracing, perhaps traumatic in some quarters of Iran.  And I
wonder if the United States, apart from extending its official
condolences following this incident, is determined to exploit it for
some advantage on the world stage against an entity that is, after all,
not like China, a strategic competitor, but an out-and-out adversary.

MR. KIRBY:  All I would say to that, James, is that regardless of what
caused the crash, regardless of how the Iranian government responds to
the death of President Raisi and their foreign minister, and what their
internal political dynamics are, we will continue to hold Iran
accountable for their destabilizing behaviors; for their support to
terrorist networks like Hamas and Hezbollah and the Houthis; like the
attacks that they continue to conduct on shipping, in the Gulf region;
and for their support for Mr. Putin in Ukraine. 

All those things, even as you and I are speaking, are still going on,
even with the death of President Raisi.  And so, all of those things —
it’s incumbent for us to be able to continue to hold them accountable
for all of those things.  And we’ll do that.

Q    It sounds similar to what Jake Sullivan said at the lectern in the
White House press briefing room the other day, when I asked about the
new Russian defense minister.  In essence, in this system, there’s only
one person that calls the shots.  In essence, as he more or less
conveyed, it doesn’t matter who the defense minister in Russia is.  And
it almost sounds as though you’re saying — telling us that it doesn’t
matter who the Iranian president is; it’s the Ayatollah who calls the
shots.  And those same destabilizing behaviors are very likely to
continue regardless of whether Raisi had survived or whoever is put in
his place.  Am I summarizing you accurately?

MR. KIRBY:  Yes, we have to assume that.  And the Supreme Leader is the
one who makes these decisions.  And the Supreme Leader, as he did in the
last so-called election, made sure to stack the deck with only
candidates that met his mandates. 

So we don’t anticipate any change in Iranian behavior, and, therefore,
the Iranians should not expect any change in American behavior when it
comes to holding them accountable.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  And that is all the time we have for today.  As
always, if we didn’t get to your question, please reach out to the NSC
press distro, and we’ll get back to you as soon as we can.  Thanks all.

2:35 P.M. EDT
