---
date: '2024-05-31'
modified_time: 2024-05-31 19:37:36-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-31 19:37:35-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/05/31/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-festa-italiana/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden at Festa\_Italiana"
---
 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin

Thank you, Sandy. I’m so grateful you, Marie, and your team worked so
hard to bring this event back to these grounds—to make sure we can share
the memories and values that shape us, keeping our histories alive. 

Kailee, what a beautiful performance.

Mayor Johnson, thank you and your family for the warm welcome, and for
all you do for this wonderful city.

And it’s so wonderful to be here for the salute to service. On behalf of
my husband, President Biden, thank you to all the incredible educators,
police officers, servicemembers and their families for everything you do
for our nation.

Buonasera!

I’m so proud to be Italian American, and to celebrate our heritage
together.

One of my favorite memories from childhood is the warm smell of Italian
bread toast that always woke me up at my grandparents’ house.

I loved the ribbons of homemade pasta hanging in the kitchen, or the
fresh tomatoes and herbs from their garden spread out on the kitchen
counter on days my grandma made sauce.

I’ll never forget running through the “Our Lady of Mt. Carmel Italian
Festival” with my sisters, or how I was charmed by the musical way
grandma cursed at my grandpop in Italian when he left rockfish to dry on
the counters after his fishing trips.

Being with you this evening brings back beautiful memories for me—thank
you for honoring me with an invitation to join you.

Recently, I had the opportunity to visit Ellis Island, to walk on the
little piece of land where my great-grandparents first stepped onto the
United States, where they took the first strides into their new lives,
far from everything, and everyone, they had ever known.

As I walked into the same great hall they did, with a soaring arched
ceiling and half-moon windows that let the sunlight stream in, shining
off the red brick floor—it was hard to not imagine how they must have
felt, chasing the hope of this country’s unlimited promise.

I had known that my family had passed through the island, but I was
surprised to find their records there—the story they left behind in
black and white, a story that has gone on to become a part of our
family’s mythology.

And in the loops and swirls of their handwriting, I watched as their
ages shifted and reformed, dates adjusting to fit the story they wanted
to tell, as they signed their names to begin a new life—names that
eventually transformed from Gaetano and Conchetta Giacoppa to Gaetano
and Conchetta Jacobs.

And even though their names changed, the values they brought across the
Atlantic stayed the same: Loyalty. Generosity. Kindness. Faith.

I brought those values with me to the White House. And it is my absolute
honor to serve as the first Italian American First Lady.

Our ancestors’ values live on in each of us—they breathe—they beat
inside of us.

In every artist and dreamer who pushes us beyond the limits of our
imaginations, in every advocate and lawyer fighting injustice, in every
business owner who welcomes customers in with the warmth of home, in the
children and grandchildren and great grandchildren who put their
shoulders back and find their courage, even when they’re most afraid.

My husband, President Biden, is working to build on what this community
has accomplished—and help us, and all communities, keep reaching for
that bright future our ancestors were searching for. That’s why he’s
growing our economy from the middle out and the bottom up—so families
can carve out a good life.

Because everyone deserves that chance.

It’s why we work so hard to pass on our ancestors’ values to our
children, isn’t it?

So they too can draw on them during those hard days, so they can work
hard, and make their own way.

Generation after generation we’ve woven our art and music and stories
and culture so deeply into the fabric of this country, that the dividing
lines blur—a piece of our homeland in our home.

Just look at Milwaukee: The Italian Community Center. The streets and
walkways first laid by Italian immigrants. And, of course, this
festival—which, for over 40 years, has brought together Italian
Americans and non-Italians for a celebration of our culture—our past and
our future.

Think of how our ancestors would feel if they saw this festival today.

This is what they hoped to give us when they signed their names at Ellis
Island—a future where we can work hard and reach for every possibility.

So, let us continue to share this country we call home—living out their
hope and passing on their dreams and values to our children.

Grazie mille.

\###
