---
date: '2024-05-23'
modified_time: 2024-05-24 13:49:15-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-23 13:44:50-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/05/23/remarks-by-president-biden-and-president-william-ruto-of-the-republic-of-kenya-in-joint-press-conference/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and President William Ruto of the Republic of\
  \ Kenya in Joint Press\_Conference"
---
 
East Room

1:29 P.M. EDT

PRESIDENT BIDEN: Good afternoon, everyone. Please have a seat.

Mr. President, six decades ago, when Kenya declared its independence,
President Lyndon Baines Johnson wrote a letter from our nation to yours.
And he said, “May the responsibilities of freedom wake the best that is
in you.”

Today, we mark 60 years of partnership between our democracies, and
we’re fulfilling that wish together, and we’re continuing. I truly
believe it has brought out the best in both of us. Not only in Kenya and
America but around the world, it’s had positive impact.

But through our partnership, we are continuing to meet our
responsibilities in four key areas.

First, I’m proud to announce we’re working with Congress to designate
Kenya a major non-NATO ally. That’s a fulfillment of years of
collaboration.

Our joint counterterrorism operations have degraded ISIS and al-Shabaab
across East Africa. Our mutual support for Ukraine has rallied the world
to stand behind the U.N. Charter. And our work together in Haiti is
helping pave the way to reduce instability and insecurity.

And I want to thank you, Mr. President, for Kenya’s leadership of the
Multinational Security Support Mission in Haiti.

Our new partner- — global partnership is going to build on all this
progress. We’re going to make — meet new challenges and with more
resources. And it’s going to strengthen the security of our countries
and our — countries around the world.

Second, we’re deepening our economic cooperation. Both President Ruto
and I have focused on growing economies — our growing economies and
growing them from the bottom up and the middle out and the bottom up.
And when that happens, everybody does well, not the top down. Because
when the middle class does well, the poor have a ladder up and the
wealthy still do very well. That’s true in Kenya, that’s true in
America, and that’s true around the world.

Right now, many compani- — many countries, debt stands in the way of
growth. Too many nations are forced to make a choice between development
and debt, between investing in their people and paying back their
creditors.

So, today, we’re launching what we’re calling the Nairobi-Washington
Vision. This — this initiative is going to bring together international
financial institutions and nations from all around the world to mobilize
more resources for countries saddled with debt; to open more
opportunities to the private-sector financing; and to promote
transparent, sustainable, and affordable lending practices.

These are big goals. It’s going to take time to see lasting progress.

But we’re providing $250 million — the United States is — to the World
Back in a crisis-response window. In the coming weeks, the United States
is going to make an additional $21 billion available to the
International Monetary Fund.

And today, I’m proud to announce there’ll be $250 billion in new lending
capacity from multilateral development banks like the World Bank to help
low-income nations invest in their development and tackle growing
challenges.

This is supported by the United States and many other countries as well.

Next, we’re launching a new era of techno- — technological cooperation
between the United States and Kenya. That means new partnerships — new
partnerships with industry, artificial intelligence, semiconductors, and
cybersecurity companies; new initiatives to expand affordable Internet
all across East Africa; new education programs that are going to bring
Kenyan students to the United States to study in the STEM fields.

And I’m proud to announce that I am working with Congress to make Kenya
the first country in Africa to receive funding through the CHIPS and
Science Act, which has served us well.

This funding would link their supply chains to the United States and to
our partners and spur innovation that extends from Silicon Valley in
California to Silicon Savannah in Kenya — which, by the way, is already
a $1 billion tech hub — already a billion-dollar tech hub.

Finally, we are ensuring democracy delivers for our people. That
includes Kenya’s diaspora community here in the United States.

Two years ago, our nation’s first Black vice president, President Kamala
Harris, launched the nation’s first presidential Advisory Council on
African Diaspora Engagement. Today, we’re building on her work to
strengthen longstanding bonds between our people.

I also want to thank you, Mr. President, for taking action to implement
the long-awaited Public Benefits Organization Act, which provides
historic protections for civil society and NGOs all across Kenya.

Like you, I believe the future is going to be won by countries that
unleash the full potential — the full potential of their populations,
including civil society, women, and young people. And I look forward to
working together to implement this act and jumpstarting anti-corruption
reforms to promote democratic values that bind our nations together.

Now, let me close with this. Taken together, these are responsibilities
Kenya and America must meet in the years ahead — meet them together, as
partners — for security, for prosperity, for innovation, and, most
importantly, for democracy.

But I know these responsibilities will wake the best in us. And I know
we’ll bring — not only bring our nations together, but I want to thank
you for — again, Mr. President, for being here and knowing we have even
bigger dreams for the cooperation of our countries.

The floor is yours, sir.

PRESIDENT RUTO: Thank you, Mr. President. And I want to — in a very,
very sincere way — thank you, Mr. President, for inviting me to make
this state visit to the United States on behalf of the people and
government of Kenya. I also take this opportunity to express my deep
gratitude for the warm welcome we have received on arrival and the
excellent hospitality of the American people.

My visit provides us, Mr. President, with the opportunity to celebrate
60 years of bilateral relations rooted on shared values of freedom,
democracy, rule of law, equality, and inclusivity.

My visit takes place at a time when democracy is perceived to be
retreating worldwide. The accelerating drift towards regimes indifferent
to democratic values is a big concern to us, and I believe it is time
the U.S., working with Kenya, deploys its capabilities and rally
likeminded democratic countries to set up the cause for democracy.

During our discussions, we agreed on the significant opportunity for the
U.S. to radically recalibrate its strategy and strengthen its support
for Africa, as discussed at the U.S.-Africa Leadership Summit, by
enhancing its investment in the institutions of African integration and
increasing support for peace and security.

As we take this historic step of elevating our partnership to be more
effective in addro- — in addressing global challenges, it is important
for us to appreciate that many countries in Africa, including Kenya, are
struggling with an overwhelming convergence of multiple shocks,
including extreme climate events, debt distress, and the destru- —
disruptive uple- — upheavals in Europe and the Middle East, whose
cumulative impact is to divert national resources from investment in
people and economic growth into managing climate-in- — -induced crisis
and servicing sovereign debt.

For this reason, I have underscored the imperative for our partnership
to facilitate recovery from this multiple crisis and particularly for
the United States of America to take a leading role in a comprehensive
debt resolution framework by doubling contribution to the concessionary
financing window of the World Bank and also to work with the IMF on
rechanneling SDRs to institutions like the Africa Development Bank to
further leverage on private-sector funding to support countries.

Unless this is done and done immediately, the values of freedom,
democracy, and the rule of law are in great jeopardy.

On regional peace and security in the Horn of Africa and the Great Lakes
region, I express optimism that Kenya and the U.S. will innovatively
design appropriate defense and security frameworks to help Kenya, as the
anchor state, and the region in general to deal with the peace and
security challenges that are undermining human well-being, slowing down
development, and also having a negative impact on democracy.

We affirmed our mutual commitment to the stabilization of Haiti through
the Multinational Security Support Mission.

The Kenya Climate and Clean Energy Industrial Partnership we have just
committed to is an encouraging milestone on our collective journey and
builds on the paradigm shift we have inaugurated at the Africa Climate
Summit in Nairobi last year. Accordingly, Africa’s resource potential is
a huge opportunity to deploy U.S. technology and investment to catalyze
unprecedented growth through green industrialization.

We’ve also agreed to hasten the renewal of the Africa Growth and
Opportunities Act to sustain the rising momentum of our investments and
exports in the manufacturing space.

Similarly, we agreed to undertake sustainable green growth by
facilitating conclusion of our Strategic Trade and Investment
Partnership, alongside the renewal of AGOA.

During our discussions, I witnessed firsthand President Biden’s and the
U.S. government’s determination to make our partnership work and resolve
to spread and deepen the roots of freedom, democracy, security, and
prosperity throughout the world.

As my visit comes to a close, I am confident that our engagements have
laid a solid foundation for us to continue the work — the good work we
have begun with stronger faith and greater hope for success, because, in
Joe Biden, Kenya and Africa have a strong and committed friend.

I thank you.

PRESIDENT BIDEN: Thank you, Mr. President. And you do have a friend.
And, you know, the African continent is going to have a billion people
not too soon. The idea we’re going to ignore it makes no sense at all.

First question: Michael Wilner, McClatchy.

Q Thank you, Mr. President. Two questions, if I may.  
on —

PRESIDENT BIDEN: No, one. (Laughter.)

Q I’m going — I’m going to do my level best. On — on Haiti and on
Israel. Your administration went on a worldwide search for security
forces — Beninese forces, Bangladeshi, Canadian, Chilean — any but
American forces — to stand up this Multinational Security Support
Mission for Haiti before Kenya stood up to lead.

Can you explain why it is that you believe, on the one hand, that this
mission is so critical and, on the other, why it is that you have
categorically ruled out contributing U.S. forces to this effort? Is it
your goal to beat back Haiti’s gangs or to contain them?

And on Israel. Does the United States —

PRESIDENT BIDEN: One question. I’ll answer your question.

Q Okay. (Inaudible) —

PRESIDENT BIDEN: Your question — your question with regard to Haiti is:
We concluded that for the United States to deploy forces in the
hemisphere just raises all kinds of questions that can be easily
misrepresented about what we’re trying to do and be able to be used by
those who disagree with us and against our — against the interests of
Haiti and the United States.

So, we set out to find a — a partner or partners who would lead that
effort that we would participate in, not with American forces but with
supplies and making sure they have what they needed. And so, you know,
I’m very grateful for President Ruto’s leadership here. A multinational
effort, but Kenya’s willingness to really lead this matter matters.
You’re not the only country, but you’re leading this effort.

And there’s going to be U.S. forces not on the ground, but we’re going
to supply logistics, intelligence, and equipment. Matter of fact, some
equipment has already arrived. And Kenya is stepping up with police, and
other countries plan to do as well. The United States is going to
support the collective effort here.

And, of course, Kenya won’t be going in alone. We’re working with
Congress to provide $300 million to MSS Mission and an additional $60
million for equipment assistance. And we have also — we have received
and are continuing to bring major contributions from other partners in
as well.

President Ruto and I agree that the Haitian people deserve better. They
deserve peace and security. And — and I thank him for taking on this
responsibility. But we have his back, and we’re there all the way.

Q I do have a question for you, President Ruto.

But before I do, I do very briefly have a question on whether the United
States has any evidence at all that would substantiate the ICC
prosecutor’s specific allegations against Israeli leaders that they are
using starvation as a tactic of war in Gaza — or exculpatory evidence,
for that matter — and wo- — if you would commit to releasing that
information before any potential issuance of ICC arrest warrants.

And, President Ruto, the mission that Kenya is about to lead in Haiti is
obviously a support mission. That is well-known. But the fact is that
Haiti’s national police have been internationally funded and trained for
some time and, nevertheless, have obviously failed to beat back these
gangs.

Will Kenyan forces, in partnership with the MSS, be out front in the
fight against these gangs? Or will they be a static force behind the
HNP? And are you concerned about casualties among the Kenyan forces?

PRESIDENT RUTO: Thank you very much.

Kenya believes that the responsibility of peace and security anywhere in
the world, including in Haiti, is the collective responsibility of all
nations and all peoples who believe in freedom, self-determination,
democracy, and justice.

And it is the reason why Kenya took up this responsibility, because we
have been participating in peacemaking. And we have been participating
in peacekeeping over the last 40 years in 47 countries, including very
difficult neighborhoods, like what we are going to face in Haiti.

We are going to take up that responsibility alongside the Haiti police.
And we have clear modus operandi how we are going to relate with the —
the situation on the ground that has been agreed under the United
Nations’ framework.

So, we are looking forward to this deployment because we believe that
the women and children in Haiti deserve peace, like all other women and
children and people around the world.

PRESIDENT BIDEN: Look, we made my position known on ICC. You guys never
keep the deal, but that’s okay. That — you know, we’ve made our position
clear on the ICC. We don’t think the — we don’t recognize their
jurisdiction — the ICC — the way it’s being exercised. And — and it’s
that simple. We don’t think there’s an equivalence between what Israel
did and what Hamas did.

Okay, next. I — do I ask the next question as well?

PRESIDENT RUTO: Let me ask Ayub Abdikadir from Kenya for the next
question. (Inaudible.)

Q Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you. One question, and this is on
Haiti. (Laughter.)

President Biden, Kenya is rather li- — doing the heavy lifting in
turbulent regions: Somalia, South Sudan, the Democratic Republic of the
Congo. Washington, as you have mentioned, has committed millions of
dollars for the cost in Haiti.

Isn’t it ironic that while America is ending its forever wars in
Afghanistan — the latest in 2021, under your leadership, when you
withdrew troops from Kabul — and that you’re committing Kenya to another
foreign wars 12,000 kilometers away from Nairobi?

I mean, why the discrepancy? Why the dichotomy — while you’re ending
your forever wars, overseas wars, yet you are committing Kenya to Haiti?
Can you explain that?

PRESIDENT BIDEN: Very easily.

There’s a reason why Afghanistan has been known as the “graveyard of
empires.” The likelihood of anybody uniting Afghanistan is highly,
highly, highly unlikely. Number one.

Number two, there are ways to control ISIS other than occupying
Afghanistan. It was an unnecessary need.

Now, with regard to Haiti, Haiti is in an area of the Caribbean that is
very volatile. There’s a lot going on in this hemisphere. And we’re in a
situation where we want to do all we can without us looking like
America, once again, is stepping over and deciding “this is what must be
done.”

Haitians are looking for help, as well as the folks in the Caribbean are
looking for help.

And so, we — we checked out with a number of other countries. The one
who stepped up was Haiti \[Kenya\]. We’ve committed to provide them
where — with all the intelligence and equipment and the like to Haiti.
And so, it’s a logical thing.

And you have a first-rate c- — capability, and you keep your word.
That’s an important dynamic.

PRESIDENT RUTO: I agree with President Biden that Kenya’s participation
in Haiti is not so much about what happened in the past. It’s about what
we believe in: the peace and security of humanity.

And we don’t find that the U.S. is committing Kenya, because the U.S.
cannot commit Kenya. I am the President of Kenya. It’s me to make that
decision. And it’s the people of Kenya to commit their own troops, using
their own structures.

We’ve gone through the processes in Kenya. Parliament has approved. We
have a clear mandate. We have a clear framework. And it is us, the
people of Kenya, who made this decision in the interest of serving peace
and stability as a responsible global citizen and understanding that
insecurity, instability anywhere is insecurity and instability
everywhere.

PRESIDENT BIDEN: And, by the way, you asked about — you implied that we
weren’t doing anything anywhere else. Well, we — we’re kind of occupied
around the world. But we’re also engaging in Congo, in a neighborhood —
and, you know, we’re going to continue to help alleviate human suffering
there.

The Uni- — the United States is the largest humanitarian donor,
providing $375 million in humanitarian funding just this year going to
support for more than 6 million displaced people from the DRC. So, we
are engaged in more than one place.

Q Follow-up to my president, Dr. Ruto. You said that Kenya is committed.
And in your Carter speech in Atlanta, you said it’s based on
humanitarianism, helping Haiti out. But can you explain the geopolitical
goal 12,000 kilometers away from Nairobi when schools in the counties of
Baringo, West Pokot, and Turkana have not yet opened because of the
banditry problem, yet you are committing our national police force to
Haiti? And where is the priority, this being one of your major manifesto
pillars, talking about security?

And to the extent that even the Defense Cabinet Secretary talked about
the deployment of, if need be, the Kenyan military or the special
personnel to make sure that schools are reopened — children go to school
in areas that are bandit-prone in Kenya. Why are you committing to Haiti
when we have a problem back home? Isn’t it an irony that you are putting
\[out\] the fire in the faraway neighbor’s home when your — when our own
home is on fire?

PRESIDENT RUTO: Thank you very much. I made a commitment to the people
of Kenya to sort out insecurity in the North Rift. I have followed that
with action. As we talk, there are 3,000 military officers in the North
Rift, 2,000 police officers in the North Rift. We have renovated the
first 15 schools and completed — we have reopened 20 schools already
that were closed in the North Rift.

And that exercise is ongoing. We have made tremendous progress in making
sure that we create security at home. But that does not take away our
responsibility. Even as we were deploying troops and policemen in our
own country in North Rift to sort out the banditry problem, we still
deployed 1,000 troop — 1,000 troop — troops to DRC Congo because that is
our neighborhood.

We have 5,000 troops in Somalia because, equally, that is our
responsibility. And Haiti should not be an exception. That’s why
deploying 1,000 security men to Haiti speaks to the same belief and
commitment to peace and security.

PRESIDENT BIDEN: The next question is from April Ryan.

Q Mr. Presidents — President Biden, President Ruto — thank you.

First of all, when you talk about Haiti, President Ruto, you said,
“Haiti is a collective responsibility for all nations.” And for you, Mr.
President — President Biden, President Ruto — do you believe that these
nations can break the back of this militia that has gripped the nation
there?

And also, when it comes to Congo — thank you, Mr. President, for
bringing up what the United States is doing for the Congo, especially as
that flag was behind you at Morehouse. Mr. President, could you tell me
what the African Union is doing, as well as Kenya is doing, when it
comes to the humanitarian crisis in the Congo? Thank you.

PRESIDENT BIDEN: What was my question? (Laughter.)

Q Sir, your question was Haiti. Can —

PRESIDENT BIDEN: Yes.

Q — the United States and Kenya or the nations collectively break the
backs of this coordinated militia that has the grips of the nation —
that nation? Thank you.

PRESIDENT BIDEN: Yes.

Q Tell me how please. (Laughter.)

PRESIDENT BIDEN: The very way we’re doing it. We’re not talking a th- —
a thousand-person army that’s made up of trained pers- — this is a
crisis that’s able to be dealt with. And we think we can — dealt with
this way with a multinational approach with Haiti leading the way and us
providing intelligence as well as equipment.

PRESIDENT RUTO: Gangs and criminals do not have nationalities. They have
no religion. They have no language. Their language is one.

To deal with them firmly, decisively, within the parameters of the law —
and that’s why we’re building a coalition of nations beyond Kenya and
the U.S., many who are making contribution towards the MSS force in
Haiti, to secure that country and to break the back of the gangs and the
criminals that have visited untold suffering in that country.

On DRC, the AU, the East African Community, and Kenya has seized
(inaudible) I’ve just told you that Kenya had a thousand troops in
Haiti. We now have another 800 — not in Haiti, but in DRC. We now have
another 800 troops from SADC.

We are going to be having a meeting of the East African Community. I did
send my minister of — my foreign minister to Kinshasa. They had a
conversation. And shortly, we will be looking at how to begin the
dialogue process under the Nairobi Process, because we believe there is
no military solution to what is going on in DRC. But instead, dialogue
should be able to give us the necessary momentum and outcomes that would
solve the matters in — in Eastern DRC.

So, both the AU, the East African Community, and Kenya as a country are
seized of that matter. We know that the humanitarian crisis in Eastern
DRC has displaced close to 7 million people.

And I want to thank the United States of America for stepping in with
humanitarian support for that region, because it is a collaboration of
different countries in different ways to deal with that situation. The
rest of us are committing troops. We are committing our — deploying our
infrastructure to facilitate the resolution of the matters in DRC.

PRESIDENT BIDEN: Is that it?

Q Mr. President?

PRESIDENT RUTO: Let me ask Nancy Agutu from Kenya. She is here? Okay,
Nancy.

Q Thank you, Mr. President. Africa is asking America to lead the way and
double its contribution to the World Bank’s International Development
Assistance to help developing countries access more financing to
alleviate debt distress and to tackle climate change. What is your
commitment of this? Thank you.

PRESIDENT BIDEN: Would you — I’m sorry. I didn’t catch all your
question.

Q Sorry. I’m saying Africa is asking America to lead the way and double
its contribution to the World Bank’s International Development
Assistance to help developing countries —

PRESIDENT BIDEN: Yes.

Q — to access financing to alleviate debt distress and to tackle climate
change. What is your commitment on this?

PRESIDENT BIDEN: We made a major commitment to this.

Number one, as I said, the United States has long championed
international financial institutions that provide low-cost concessional
resources to the poorest developing countries, including from the IMF.

To that end, my administration helped design and establish the IMF’s new
initiative that provides low-cost funding to — for countries that are
taking steps to enhance their resilience. Important partners in Africa
have the capital they — ensure they have their capital they need to
invest in their futures.

We heard them, and we stand with them. Now, that’s why we’ve worked with
Congress to enable the United States to make available in the coming
weeks up to $21 billion in new lending resources to the IMF trust fund
that provides concessional lending to the poorest countries.

It’s a little like a — you know, having to go — when you’re in debt,
having to go and find someone to help you out. That’s what this is
about.

We believe supporting your friends and in this partnership is happy to —
we were happy to do our part.

And, look, we’ve also doubled our commitment to the IDA. And I’m proud
the United States is the biggest donor of the IDA in this cycle and
proud to be working with — alongside Kenya to support robust financing
and policy package that are going to help the most vulnerable countries
address their investment needs.

There’s debt and there’s growth, and you can’t — you got to deal with
the debt before you deal with the growth. And so, what we’re — we’re
trying to re- — use international lending organizations to be able to
provide that capability so people can grow. That’s what it’s about.

(Cross-talk.)

PRESIDENT BIDEN: Whoa! (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: This — this concludes the press conference. Thanks,
everybody.

(Cross-talk.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Thank you, everybody. This concludes the press
conference. Thank you. Thanks, everybody.

PRESIDENT BIDEN: Thank you, all. Thanks.
