---
date: '2024-05-13'
modified_time: 2024-05-14 17:42:47-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-13 17:42:03-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/05/13/remarks-by-president-biden-and-vice-president-harris-at-a-reception-in-celebration-of-aanhpi-heritage-month/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and Vice President Harris at a Reception in Celebration\
  \ of AANHPI Heritage\_Month"
---
 
Rose Garden

5:01 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, everyone.  Good afternoon. 
(Applause.)

Please have a seat, those who can — those who have a chair. 
(Laughter.) 

Well, it — what a beautiful day.  And it is so good to be with so many
dear friends and so many extraordinary leaders. 

And, of course, at the front and the most important of our leaders
today, I have to acknowledge our president, Joe Biden, and — (applause)
— and him welcoming everyone to the White House.  And Joe Biden, as
everyone here knows, is a leader of courage and conviction and a fighter
for freedom, justice, and equity for all Americans.  (Applause.)  Yes. 

And to the first Second Gentleman of the United States — who I know is
here, but I don’t see him at the moment — (laughter) — my husband, Doug
Emhoff — (applause); to the members of our administration and the
members of Congress, including the members of CAPAC; and all of the
distinguished guests, including some who I welcomed last week for the
first-ever AANHPI Night Market — (applause) — hosted at the Vice
President’s Residence, it is an honor to gather with all of you. 

The story of Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders is
the story of America herself.  During AANHPI Heritage Month, we honor
the leaders who shaped the earliest days of our nation’s history.

From the 1800s when Chinese Americans laid the tracks of the
transcontinental railroad to the South Asian Americans who worked on
farms and lumber mills and strengthened the agricultural base of the
Pacific Coast; from the Japanese Americans of the 442nd Combat Team who
defended our freedom and liberty during World War Two to the Filipino
Americans who helped lead the historic Delano grape strike — (applause)
— resulting in more fair pay and basic workplace protections for
agricultural workers — (applause) — and then fast-forward to today, the
leaders here and across our nation who continue to make history every
day. 

This month and every month, we honor and celebrate the heroes upon whose
broad shoulders we all stand. 

And as many of you may know, my mother arrived in the United States from
India when she was 19 years old, by herself, never having been to
America.  My mother had two goals in her life: to raise her two
daughters — my sister, Maya, and me — and to end breast cancer.  She was
a breast cancer researcher. 

My mother never asked anyone’s permission to pursue her dreams.  And it
is because of her character, strength, and determination that within one
generation I stand before you as Vice President of the United States. 
(Applause.)

Like so many, we were raised, all of us, to understand the value of hard
work, the importance of community, and the duty we all have to have some
level of concern and care about the well-being of other people and our
duty, then, to do something about it. 

You know, there has been something quite perverse, I think, happening in
our nation over the last several years where some people would suggest
that the measure of strength is based on who you beat down, instead of
what we know: The true measure of strength is based on who you lift up. 

In this moment, we see extremists who try to divide our nation.  We see
so-called leaders with the biggest pulpits and the biggest bully pulpits
who encourage and incite xenophobia and hate, including anti-Asian
hate.  We see a full-on assault, state by state, on our most fundamental
freedoms and rights: the freedom to vote, the freedom to live safe from
the horror of gun violence, the freedom from hate and bigotry, the
freedom to love who you love openly and with pride, the freedom to learn
and acknowledge our true and full history, and the freedom of women to
make decisions about their own body — (applause) — and not have their
government tell them what to do. 

And so, in this moment — I’ll close by this — I am reminded of the words
of one of my dearest friends and a mentor to me, Secretary Norm
Mineta.   Norm often said, “You have two arms: one to climb the ladder
of success and one to reach down and pick someone up and pull them up
behind you.” 

This AANHPI Heritage Month, let us all celebrate those who have lifted
up our nation, and to honor their memory, let us renew our commitment to
lift as we climb. 

And now, it is my great privilege to introduce a leader who has inspired
people around the world and who has fought for years with such courage
for equity and for justice.  Please welcome Lucy Liu.  (Applause.)

MS. LIU:  Good afternoon. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon.

MS. LIU:  I am deeply honored to have been introduced by Vice President
Kamala Harris — a trailblazer, a beacon of hope for women and people of
color everywhere. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.

MS. LIU:  Her his- — (applause).  Yes, yes, let’s give it up for her.

Her historic election as the first female Black and Asian American Vice
President of the United States is a testament to the limitless
possibilities of the American Dream.  Thank you for your leadership and
your inspiration. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.

MS. LIU:  I was born and raised in New York with parents who both
immigrated from China.  And while we commemorate AANHPI Heritage Month
here today, our household proudly celebrates it every month. 

My son, Rockwell, possesses a deep awareness of our roots, exuding a
profound confidence in his identity.  Now, this is truly remarkable to
me, especially considering the contrast to my childhood, where I felt I
had to keep things secretive and distance myself from my heritage in
order to have a stronger sense of belonging. 

Now, as we gather to honor this heritage, and in the Rose Garden at the
White House, I am struck by the irony that once inhibited my own path
towards fearlessness.  Our journey as Asian Americans is deeply rooted
in history, marked by resilience, perseverance, and the relentless
pursuit of justice. 

From the struggles of our ancestors who first set foot on American soil
to the generations that followed, we have contributed to the rich
tapestry of this nation, shaping its history and its future.  Throughout
history, we have faced formidable challenges in asserting our rights,
including the right to vote and be counted. 

When Chinese immigrants arrived during the California Gold Rush, we
battled against discrimination and practices like the Chinese Exclusion
Act of 1882, aimed at disenfranchising us.  Despite these obstacles,
Asian Americans have persisted in their fight for equality and
representation.  In 1943, there was a significant victory when this
Exclusion Act was repealed. 

Subsequent decades saw the gradual dismantling of discriminatory
policies.  Today, as we confront the ongoing challenges of voter
suppression and intolerance, we remain steadfast in our commitment to
democracy, inspired by the sacrifices of those who came before us and
fueled by the hope of a brighter future. 

It is against this backdrop of struggle and progress that I have the
privilege of introducing a leader who embodies the values of equality,
unity, and progress; a president who is a devoted husband, father, and
grandfather and believes, like we do, in the bond of family and the
pride of our immigrant heritage. 

Mr. President, all of us here — including my son, Rockwell — stand
united with you with open hearts and minds to continue this journey of
collaboration to celebrate AANHPI excellence. 

Esteemed guests, the 46th President of the United States, President Joe
Biden.  (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT:  My name is Joe Biden.  I work for Kamala Harris. 
(Laughter.)

I asked her to be my vice president because I knew I needed somebody
smarter than me.  (Laughter.)

Folks, Happy Asian American, Native Hawaiian, Pacific Islander Heritage
Month — (applause) — here in the White House.

And thank you, Lucy, for that introduction and all you do for the
community, on and off the screen.

Kamala, our historic Vice President, who represents the community with
such great — with such great pride.  And, Doug — I know you’re here
somewhere, but wherever you are, Doug — he’s back there?  Okay, anyway —
our first Second Gentleman — (laughs) — he’s here along with so many of
our friends.

Mazie and Tammy, two leaders in the United States Senate.  (Applause.) 
There you are.  And Chair of the Congressional Asian Pacific American
Caucus, Representative Judy Chu.  (Applause.) 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  She’s over there.

THE PRESIDENT:  There you are, Judy. 

And other members who represent the community in growing numbers in each
election. 

As Kamala mentioned, that includes the family of the late Norm Mineta,
who was a great friend and a great leader.  In fact, this year marks the
25th anniversary of the creation of the White House Initiative on Asian
American, Native Hawaiians, Pacific Islanders, and Norm supported it. 

And, by the way, I was educated by a guy who — if I can digress for just
a moment — one of the people — when I first got here, I didn’t want to
be here because I just lost my family in an accident.  And there was a
guy named Danny Inouye who came along.  Danny had more grit and
determination than anybody I ever knew.  And he was a guy who stood
tall.  He — and this is a guy who — anyway, I don’t want to get started,
but — (laughter) — but he taught me an awful lot. 

Several Commission members are here as well, and I want to thank them. 
Kamala and I are committed to having an administration — when we go- —
got elected, we said we’re going to have an administration that looks
like America, and it does.  We do. 

We have members of every community, who so many of them are here today —
(applause) — including our Cabinet, U.S. Trade Representative Katherine
Tai.  Katherine — where is Ka- — (applause) — there she is.  Acting
Labor Secretary Julie Su.  (Applause.)

And above all, thanks to all of you — leaders of labor, business,
philanthropy, civil rights, arts and culture, and so much more.

All of you represent a simple truth: There is no singular Asian
American, Native Hawaiian, Pacific Islander identity.  And diversity in
those cultures, the breadth of achievement has shaped the strength and
fabric of this country.  But it’s not all the same.

The fastest-growing demographic in the United States, you represent how
we are, as a nation of immigrants, a nation of dreamers, a nation of
freedom. 

And that’s the America we share.  We’ve made incredible progress
together: 15 million new jobs — a record; historic-low levels of
unemployment; record small-business creation.  In fact, loans from our
Small Business Administration to the AANHPI small business is up 44
percent compared — (applause) —

By the way, the dog is cheering for that.  That was a dog up front
here.  (Laughter.)  He’s all for it.  He’s employed. 

And, look, because we expanded the Child Care Tax Credit during the
pandemic, not — and, by the way, not one Republican voted for it — we
cut Asian American child poverty by nearly 25 percent — a record low. 

Lower costs across the board.  We finally beat Big Pharma and got
Medicare the ability to negotiate lower drug prices.  (Applause.)  For
example, we capped insulin at $35 a month, down from $400.  It only cost
them — it only cost them 10 bucks to make it.  And seniors on Medicare,
including your parents and grandparents, are beneficiaries. 

It not only saves lives, but interesting fact around my Republican
friends: It saves the budget $160 billion — (applause) — $160 billion —
because Medicare no longer has to pay those exorbitant fees and prices. 

And we’re now making college more affordable by relieving student debt
for millions of students, including so many in the community.  And we
secured the largest increase in Pell Grants in a decade.  It matters now
— nearly 40 percent of N- — AANH- — -NHPI students rely on Pell Grants
to get to college — nearly 40 percent.

More people have health insurance today than ever before in the history
of this country, including in the community.  And I’m proud my
administration announced DACA recipients will finally get access to
healthcare through the Affordable Care Act.  (Applause.)

And, by the way, I proposed the most comprehensive immigration reform
bill in decades.  It includes a pathway to citizenship for DREAMers and
expands the number of green cards so more families can build their
American Dream together. 

And now Congress has to act and do the right thing.  I’ll keep mo- —
we’re both going to keep pushing forward. 

Thanks to decades of advocacy by so many of you, I’m proud our
administration rec- — we recently announced major changes to how federal
government collects and reports federal data on race and ethnicity.  By
disaggregating data on the community this is — that it so deserves, we
can better serve the entire community — individual communities. 

After all, our government didn’t really see Korean Americans distinctly
from Filipino Americans.  But how can we <s>cress</s> \[address\] each
community’s needs without an understanding of the specific needs?  We’re
changing that.

We’re also making historic investments to rebuild roads and bridges and
lead the world in science and innovation.  That includes the most
significant investment ever in climate in the history of the world —
over $368 billion — and there’s so many leading the way.  (Applause.) 

I signed the most significant gun safety law in nearly 30 years, which
matters, as I mourned with you in Atlanta, Monterey Park, and Half Moon
Bay.  I’ve been there to meet the families.  Together, we won’t stop
until we finally ban assault weapons as well.  (Applause.)

I can go on.  But, look, the point here is we’re lowering costs,
expanding opportunities, and protecting freedoms.  That’s in stark
contrast to my predecessor’s view of America and his view of all of
you. 

We’ll never forget him lying about the pandemic.  We’ll never forget the
rise of anti-Asian hate crimes during the pandemic.  I’m proud to have
had to — I’m not proud to have had to, but I’m proud to have signed and
— the COVID-19 Hate Crimes Act with your support. 

We’ve also provided historic value in funding for public safety, local
communities, and it’s bringing us results.  We’re seeing a 50-year low
in violent crime in America.  San Francisco, for example, anti-Asian
hate crimes are down 75 percent over the last two years. 

When Trump was in office, he enacted a $2 trillion tax cut,
overwhelmingly benefiting the super wealthy and the very biggest
corporations, that exploded the federal deficit.  His administration
added more to the federal debt than any previous presidential term in
American history.  And now, he and his congressional Republican friends
want to do it again. 

At the same time, he wants to, quote — I love his terminology —
“terminate” the Affordable Care Act, kicking millions of you and your
families off of insurance and taking away protections for preexisting
conditions, affecting millions of people. 

And Social Security and Medicare — my predecessor says, quote, “There’s
a lot we can do in terms of cutting.”  Not on our watch.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Not on our watch.

THE PRESIDENT:  Not on our watch.

And he brags about cutting Roe v. Wade, making sure it’s overturned. 
But Kamala and I are going to keep fighting to restore Roe v. Wade until
it’s the law of the land again.  (Applause.)

While we fight for comprehensive immigration reform, he calls immigrants
“rapists” and “murderers.”  He says they are “not people” — they are
“not people.”  He says immigrants are, quote, “poisoning the blood of
our country.” 

Folks, my predecessor wants a country just for some of us.  We want a
country for all of us. 

Let me close this.  Two years ago, I signed the landmark law to pave the
way for the creation of the National Museum of Asian American, Native
Hawaiian, Pacific Islander History and Culture.  (Applause.)  It
matters. 

There are those who want to erase history.  But together, you’re making
history.  We’re making history. 

And what I see in all of you, including some incredibly special people
here today.  Born in the Philippines, she came to America as a fo- — to
follow her dream.  She started working at a restaurant at an airport
before working her way up to become one of the best chefs in the world. 
And now, the first woman Asian American Executive Chef of the White
House, Chef Cris.  (Applause.) 

Come here.  Come on up here, Chef.  (Applause.)

(Chef Cristeta “Cris” Comerford joins the President.)

She is incredible.  I — matter of fact, I was 20 pounds lighter when I
came.  (Laughter.) 

MS. COMERFORD:  Thank you.

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much. 

MS. COMERFORD:  Thank you.  I love you.

THE PRESIDENT:  You deserve it.  Love you too. 

MS. COMERFORD:  Thank you. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  (Applause.)

She’s been here for over two decades, serving presidents of both
parties.  (Applause.)  She’s prepared dinners for heads of state,
celebrities — from everyone from Super Bowl champions to everyday
heroes.  And above all, she’s a world-class culinary leader who leaves
you with a sense of wonder about American forever — as a forever nation
of immigrants. 

Look, a story all of you represent in one form or another.  Maybe your
family has been here for generations or you’re here for the fir- —
you’re the first one here.  Maybe you never thought you’d be here at the
White House, but you are here at the White House — the People’s House,
your house — your house. 

We see you.  There’s always been a competing set of values and visions
in America that’s existed never as starkly as today — one held by my
predecessor of revenge and retribution, the other of hope and
opportunity that we all share — honesty, decency, faith, fairness. 

That’s the future we’re building together.  And it’s because of you. 
And I mean this sincerely.  It’s because of you I’ve never been more
optimistic about America’s future in my entire career. 

We just have to remember who we are.  We’re the United States of
America.  (Applause.)  And there is nothing — nothing beyond our
capacity when we act together.  And that’s what we have to do, and
that’s what we are doing. 

God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.  Thank you. 
(Applause.)

       5:22 P.M. EDT
