---
date: '2024-05-10'
modified_time: 2024-05-10 10:21:27-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-10 11:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/05/10/remarks-by-national-economic-advisor-lael-brainard-on-the-tax-debate-ahead/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by National Economic Advisor Lael Brainard on the Tax Debate\_Ahead"
---
 
*At The Hamilton Project*  
  
*As Prepared for Delivery*

Following the economic devastation during the pandemic, the U.S. economy
has come back strong. After inheriting an economy with millions out of
work and a surge in prices from broken supply chains, the President
secured major legislation that has resulted in the best labor market in
50 years and gains in real purchasing power and wealth for the middle
class. Investment, growth, and productivity are up, while unemployment
and inflation are down. Communities from Allentown to Racine are seeing
record small business creation and employment.

The fundamental economic policy choice that lies ahead is whether to
return to the Republicans’ failed trickle-down approach or forge ahead
with the President’s proven plan to grow the economy from the middle out
and bottom up. Do we want a tax system that favors the middle class or
the wealthy? The expiration of Trump’s 2017 tax package next year will
put tax fairness front and center.

Tax fairness is central to the President’s approach to building an
economy that works for all Americans—where growth is broadly shared,
everyone has a fair shot, and we reduce fiscal risks and keep our
commitments to seniors. The President is honoring his ironclad
commitment to not raise taxes on anyone making less than $400,000 and
will cut taxes further for workers and families, paid for by asking
corporations and those at the top to contribute more.

This week, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO)
[confirmed](https://www.cbo.gov/publication/60114) that the full
extension of Trump’s tax package would add nearly $5 trillion to our
national debt over the next decade, while disproportionately benefitting
the highest-income taxpayers. So it is clear we need to end the 2017 tax
breaks for the wealthy and scale back costly permanent corporate tax
breaks.

With this debate looming, today I want to lay out the clear differences
between Republican trickle-down tax policies, and a tax code that works
for the middle class.

**<u>Congressional Republicans’ Trickle-Down Tax Plan</u>**

Republican plans make the tax system more unfair, and jeopardize the
nation’s fiscal health. They double down on the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs
Act (TCJA), which failed to deliver the benefits that were promised. The
TCJA’s biggest tax cuts
[went](https://www.taxpolicycenter.org/model-estimates/conference-agreement-tax-cuts-and-jobs-act-dec-2017/t17-0312-conference-agreement)
to the wealthiest Americans, with those in the top 1% receiving tax cuts
worth over 50 times those for middle-income households.

And the trickle-down never happened. The prior administration
[promised](https://www.realclearpolitics.com/video/2017/12/16/trump_were_going_to_see_economy_growth_of_4_5_and_maybe_6_percent.html)
growth of “4, 5, and maybe even 6%,” but the economy and fixed
investments all [grew](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/gdpc1) at
about the same rate in the two years after TCJA’s passage as the two
years prior. The Trump Administration
[claimed](https://trumpwhitehouse.archives.gov/sites/whitehouse.gov/files/documents/Tax%20Reform%20and%20Wages.pdf)
the TCJA would cause household wages to increase by at least $4,000, but
the Congressional Research Service
[found](https://crsreports.congress.gov/product/pdf/R/R45736) “no
evidence” of a surge in wages after the TCJA. Instead, top executives
[saw](https://patrick-kennedy.github.io/files/TCJA_KDLM_2024.pdf) their
wages rise by nearly $50,000, while workers below the 90<sup>th</sup>
percentile saw zero wage increases. The corporate tax cuts fueled a
[surge](https://www.cbpp.org/research/federal-tax/congress-should-revisit-2017-tax-laws-trillion-dollar-corporate-rate-cut-in)
in stock buybacks that benefitted wealthy and foreign investors.

Now Republican
[plans](https://hern.house.gov/uploadedfiles/final_budget_including_letter_word_doc-final_as_of_march_25.pdf)
would continue the TCJA’s tax cuts for the wealthy,
[giving](https://www.taxpolicycenter.org/model-estimates/make-individual-income-tax-and-estate-tax-provisions-2017-tax-act-permanent-1)
the top 0.1% of households average annual tax cuts of $175,000 each.
They would cut capital gains taxes and eliminate the estate tax that
currently
[applies](https://www.taxpolicycenter.org/model-estimates/baseline-estate-tax-tables-november-2022/t22-0137-estate-tax-returns-and-liability)
to only the very wealthiest 0.1%. And they
[propose](https://hern.house.gov/uploadedfiles/final_budget_including_letter_web_version.pdf)
nearly $1 trillion more in corporate tax cuts, including eliminating the
Inflation Reduction Act’s corporate minimum tax and stock buybacks tax.

That’s not all. Their proposals to eliminate President Biden’s
investment in the IRS would
[add](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy2079) hundreds of
billions of dollars to the deficit and make it easier for the wealthy to
evade paying what they owe. Meanwhile, Republican
[opposition](https://gop-waysandmeans.house.gov/at-oecd-chairman-smith-warns-that-congress-will-reject-new-job-killing-global-tax-surrender/)
to implementing the global minimum tax agreement is rewarding
corporations that invest abroad rather than in America.

And let’s remember: these regressive tax cuts do not pay for themselves.
The TCJA has come [nowhere
near](https://www.brookings.edu/articles/did-the-2017-tax-cut-the-tax-cuts-and-jobs-act-pay-for-itself/)
paying for its $1.9 trillion
[cost](https://www.cbo.gov/system/files/2019-04/53651-outlook-2.pdf).
Revenues were [projected](https://www.cbo.gov/publication/52801) to be
over 18% of GDP in 2023 before the TCJA passed, but revenues have turned
out to be
[only](https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/briefing-room/2023/10/20/joint-statement-of-janet-l-yellen-secretary-of-the-treasury-and-shalanda-d-young-director-of-the-office-of-management-and-budget-on-budget-results-for-fiscal-year-2023/)
16.5% of GDP—a shortfall of over $400 billion. CBO estimates unpaid-for
extensions of the TCJA would increase primary deficits by over 1% of GDP
over the next decade.

This is a long-standing problem of trickle-down tax policy. The Trump
tax cuts and the Bush tax cuts and their extensions have added $10
trillion to the national debt, accounting for 90% of the non-emergency
[increases](https://www.americanprogress.org/article/tax-cuts-are-primarily-responsible-for-the-increasing-debt-ratio/)
in the debt-to-GDP ratio since 2001. There’s no reason to believe
another round of lopsided tax cuts would turn out any differently. It is
past time to reject the Republican argument that tax cuts should not be
offset.

Republicans will likely respond to fiscal pressures created by
unpaid-for tax cuts by [pushing
for](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/04/fact-sheet-extreme-house-republican-plan-would-cut-medicare-and-social-security-while-slashing-taxes-for-big-corporations-and-the-wealthy/)
draconian cuts to Social Security, Medicare, health care, and other
programs that hardworking Americans count on. They have already raised
taxes by opposing the extension at the end of 2021 of the President’s
expansions of the Earned Income Tax Credit and Child Tax Credit—a tax
increase of up to $300 per child per month for millions of Americans.

Republicans also
[propose](https://rsc-hern.house.gov/media/press-releases/rsc-releases-fy25-budget-proposal-fiscal-sanity-save-america)
to increase taxes on middle-class families by eliminating the
President’s premium tax credit expansions, raising the cost of health
insurance for millions of Americans, and eliminating tax credits worth
thousands of dollars for families installing a heat pump or solar
panels.

And today, it appears that Senate Republican leaders are [holding
out](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2024-04-04/business-child-tax-breaks-hit-republican-roadblock-in-us-senate)
on helping working families this year so they can set up their agenda
for next year to deliver tax breaks to the ultra-wealthy.

**<u>A Fairer Tax Plan</u>**

The bottom line is, the President is fighting for a better approach, one
that gives working people a fair shot and lowers deficits by asking the
wealthy and big corporations to pay their fair share. Our approach is
guided by five common sense principles.

***First, our*** ***tax system should be fair. It should reward work,
not wealth. It should give tax cuts to working- and middle-class
families to give them a fair shot while asking the wealthiest households
to pay their fair share****.* The President is committed to ensuring
that the over 95% of American households that earn less than $400,000 do
not pay any more in taxes. He has stood by that pledge, and will
continue to stand by that pledge.

He has gone further and
[proposed](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/15/fact-sheet-this-tax-day-the-tax-contrast-couldnt-be-clearer/)
tax cuts for millions of families to help them invest in their children,
make work pay, and secure health insurance, building on the targeted tax
cuts in the American Rescue Plan (ARP) and Inflation Reduction Act (IRA)
that Republicans have fought to eliminate.

The President has
[expanded](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/06/fact-sheet-president-biden-takes-new-steps-to-lower-prescription-drug-and-health-care-costs-expand-access-to-health-care-and-protect-consumers/)
the premium tax credits to make health insurance more affordable for
millions of Americans purchasing coverage on the Affordable Care Act’s
marketplace. This expansion helped lift health insurance coverage to
[record](https://aspe.hhs.gov/reports/national-uninsured-rate-reaches-all-time-low-early-2023)
levels, with
[over](https://www.kff.org/policy-watch/another-year-of-record-aca-marketplace-signups-driven-in-part-by-medicaid-unwinding-and-enhanced-subsidies/)
21 million people covered in the exchanges. The expansion will lapse if
there is no action by fall 2025, so making it permanent is at the top of
President Biden’s 2025
[agenda](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/04/16/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-campaign-event-scranton-pa/).

Expanding the Child Tax Credit is one of the highest-yielding
investments we can make. The President’s expansion of the Child Tax
Credit
[cut](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/written-materials/2023/11/20/the-anti-poverty-and-income-boosting-impacts-of-the-enhanced-ctc/)
child poverty nearly in half in 2021,
[primarily](https://www.cbpp.org/research/federal-tax/earnings-requirement-would-undermine-child-tax-credits-poverty-reducing-impact)
by allowing all low-income families to access the full credit for the
first time. Despite its documented effectiveness, Republicans refused to
extend the expansion, causing three million children to fall into
poverty. Restoring the expanded Child Tax Credit
[would](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/15/fact-sheet-this-tax-day-the-tax-contrast-couldnt-be-clearer/)
lift those children out of poverty and cut taxes by an average of $2,600
a year for 39 million families. And, restoring the expansion of the
Earned Income Tax Credit would cut taxes by an average of $800 per year
for 19 million low-paid workers, especially younger workers.

Achieving a fairer tax system also means we cannot extend expiring TCJA
tax cuts for those with incomes above $400,000 or bring back deductions
and other tax breaks for these households. As the President has
[said](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/04/19/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-ibew-construction-and-maintenance-conference/),
tax cuts for the wealthy will stay expired on his watch.

***Second,*** ***tax policy in 2025 should raise revenue consistent with
the President’s strong commitment to fiscal responsibility.*** At
minimum, we should avoid making the fiscal hole created by Republican
tax cuts deeper, by fully paying for any tax cuts that are extended. And
we should use the 2025 tax debate as an opportunity to meet our national
needs by raising revenue overall by asking the wealthy and large
corporations to pay their fair share.

Since the TCJA was enacted,
[revenue](https://www.cbo.gov/data/budget-economic-data#2) as a share of
GDP has averaged 17% of GDP, compared to over 19% of GDP on average in
the five years leading up to the Bush tax cuts. Revenue has fallen at
the very time we long knew we would need more revenue to meet
commitments to our seniors. The aging of the population directly
[increases](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/06/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-the-social-security-and-medicare-trustees-reports/)
fiscal pressures on programs that are the bedrock of financial security
for Americans, and tax revenue must keep pace.

Our seniors earned their Social Security and Medicare benefits paycheck
by paycheck. As the President has made clear, he
[rejects](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/11/fact-sheet-the-presidents-budget-protects-and-strengthens-social-security-and-medicare/)
Republican efforts to cut Social Security, Medicare, or Medicaid, or put
health care and other programs that families count on at risk. The
President’s Budget reflects his commitment to protect and strengthen
these programs, make targeted investments in America, and improve our
fiscal path by raising revenue—all without raising taxes on anyone
making below $400,000.

***Third,*** ***corporations that are making record profits*** ***should
contribute their fair share****.* Fixing corporations’ shrinking share
of tax responsibilities at a time when corporations’ profits are
unusually elevated should be at the center of next year’s tax debate.
The evidence suggests we can increase corporate tax revenues without
undermining productive business investment. Recent evidence has
[shown](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/02/15/remarks-by-national-economic-advisor-lael-brainard-todays-strong-recovery-is-laying-solid-foundations-for-the-future/)
that targeted investment incentives are more effective in boosting
productivity-enhancing business investment than the unconditional large
tax cuts enacted in 2017.  

Our tax system currently asks much less of corporations than it used to,
even though corporate profits have grown as a share of the economy. In
the 1950s, [around](https://www.cbo.gov/data/budget-economic-data#2) 70%
of our revenue came from labor income and 30% from corporate income.
Today, around 90% comes from labor income and under 10% comes from
corporate income. We also ask far less of corporations than other large
economies: in 2021, American corporate tax receipts were just 1.6% of
GDP, just
[half](https://data.oecd.org/tax/tax-on-corporate-profits.htm#indicator-chart)
of the OECD average of 3.3%—owing in part to the TCJA.

The
[lackluster](https://www.americanprogress.org/article/the-tax-cuts-and-jobs-act-failed-to-deliver-promised-benefits/)
investment response to the TCJA suggests that bringing corporate
taxation more in line with past U.S. and current international practice
could raise substantial revenue without hindering economic growth.

The President’s Budget
[would](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/11/fact-sheet-the-presidents-budget-cuts-taxes-for-working-families-and-makes-big-corporations-and-the-wealthy-pay-their-fair-share/)
scale back the TCJA’s corporate rate cut by bringing it to 28%—only
halfway back to the previous 35% rate. It would also build on the IRA’s
minimum tax on billion-dollar corporations by increasing the rate from
15 to 21% and boost the stock buybacks tax from 1% to 4% to encourage
corporations to invest in their workers and the broader economy, rather
than payouts to investors. Even with these changes, corporate income
taxes as a share of the economy would be similar to their levels in the
mid-2000s and corporate tax rates [in peer
countries](https://www.oecd.org/tax/tax-policy/corporate-tax-statistics-database.htm).

***Fourth, taxpayers should pay what they owe and play by the same
rules***. This requires an IRS with the resources needed to identify and
address tax evasion by wealthy people, complex partnerships, and large
corporations—and to provide adequate customer service and a smooth tax
filing experience to the vast majority of tax filers who are trying to
pay what they owe. 

After a decade of severe underfunding, the IRA’s
[investment](https://www.irs.gov/newsroom/irs-releases-strategic-operating-plan-update-outlining-future-priorities-transformation-momentum-accelerating-following-long-list-of-successes-for-taxpayers)
in modernizing the IRS is already paying off. The IRS
[provided](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy2250)
exemplary customer service this tax filing season, successfully
[piloted](https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/p5969.pdf) the free Direct
File tool, and launched new
[initiatives](https://www.irs.gov/newsroom/irs-ramps-up-new-initiatives-using-inflation-reduction-act-funding-to-ensure-complex-partnerships-large-corporations-pay-taxes-owed-continues-to-close-millionaire-tax-debt-cases)
aimed at high-end non-compliance. But this investment will lapse without
action, starting with the IRS’s taxpayer service cliff in 2026. We will
extend the investment and oppose Republican efforts to rescind the IRA
funding.

***Finally, our tax system should avoid an international race to the
bottom on tax***. The Treasury Secretary
[negotiated](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/08/statement-by-president-joseph-r-biden-jr-on-the-unprecedented-oecd-agreement-for-a-global-minimum-tax/)
a historic multilateral agreement, signed by more than 130 nations, that
will do just that. The agreement will finally address the race to the
bottom in corporate taxes, while enabling businesses to compete and
allocate capital based on workforce talent and market factors instead of
tax minimization strategies. These reforms would be
[particularly](https://www.phrma.org/-/media/Project/PhRMA/PhRMA-Org/PhRMA-Org/PDF/PWC-FY2022-Budget-Revenue-Effects-20210909.pdf)
[impactful](https://www.taxnotes.com/tax-notes-today-international/base-erosion-and-profit-shifting-beps/over-100-large-companies-report-possible-adverse-pillar-2-effects/2024/04/08/7jdcx)
for large pharmaceutical companies, for instance.

Many of the world’s largest economies are
[implementing](https://www.pwc.com/gx/en/services/tax/pillar-two-readiness/country-tracker.html)
this transformational agreement. It is critical that we join them in
2025. The President’s proposals would
[implement](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/11/fact-sheet-the-presidents-budget-cuts-taxes-for-working-families-and-makes-big-corporations-and-the-wealthy-pay-their-fair-share/)
the agreement and impose a 21% minimum tax on the foreign profits of the
biggest multinationals. Implementing the Administration’s international
tax reform is crucial to leveling the playing field and fixing our
broken international tax system.

**<u>Conclusion</u>**

As we approach next year’s tax debate, the stakes could not be higher
for tax fairness and our nation’s fiscal future. The President is
fighting for a fair tax system that gives tax breaks to the middle class
and raises revenue by asking the ultra-wealthy and large corporations to
pay their fair share. The contrast with Republicans’ trickle-down
approach could not be clearer.

\###
