---
date: '2024-05-15'
published_time: 2024-05-15 17:17:36-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/05/15/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-national-peace-officers-memorial-service-2/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at the National Peace Officers Memorial\_Service"
---
 
U.S. Capitol  
Washington, D.C.

12:21 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  President Yoes, Auxiliary President Hennie, Auxiliary
President Lehmann, Executive Director and good friend Jimmy Pasco, thank
you for your service to our nation and for inviting me to join you once
again today.  
  
I’d also like to thank the Attorney General and Deputy Attorney General
Monaco and — as well the deputy of — the Homeland Security Secretary
Mayorkas; and the Director of the FBI; Secret Service; Alcohol, Tobacco,
and Firearms; the U.S. Marshals Service; and the U.S. Capitol Police for
their leadership.  
  
We’re also joined by my good friend, Wade Carpenter, president of the
Chiefs of Police, and Ed Kelly, president of the firefighters’ union.   
  
And thank you, members of the Congress who are here today.  
  
Two weeks ago, I was in Charlotte, North Carolina, to spend some time
with the families of the eight brave police officers who were shot in
the line of duty.  Tragically, four of them were killed.  They were
husbands, fathers, heroes.  
  
And all of you who serve and for your families left behind, you live a
cho- — a simple truth: Every time you put on that shield and walk out of
the house, your family wonders if that call will come or if they’ll get
that terrible call somewhere during the day or night.  We owe you as a
nation.  
  
This year, we honor ov- — over 200 heroic women and men from all across
the law enforcement community who made the ultimate sacrifice.  
  
For all the families of our fallen officers, I know hearing the name of
your husband, wife, father, mother, son or daughter, brother or sister
brings it all back as if you got that news just 10 minutes ago.  That
black hole in the middle of your chest — you feel like you’re being
sucked into.  It’s like losing part of your soul.  
  
I know.  When my son Beau spent a year in Iraq, he came home with stage
four glioblastoma and was going to die, and he did.  I know what it’s
like.  I get a feeling that you all know, as well, who have lost in the
past.  You know, I found out there is only one thing — at least for me,
when my — got the call that my wife and daughter were dead; when I got
the call my son was about to die — I know the only one thing that
helped: family.   
  
If you have family, hold them tight.  Hold on to each other, because the
day will come — it’s hard to believe — when the thought of your husband
or your wife or your son or your daughter will bring a smile to your
lips before it brings a tear to your eye.  It takes a long time, but it
will come.  My wish for you: It’ll come sooner than later.  
  
There is a line from the English poet John Milton.  He said, “They also
serve who only stand and wait.”  Every family of an officer stands and
waits so their loved one can serve the rest of us.  
  
I admire your courage in being here.  And I hope you take comfort in the
knowledge that their sacrifice will never be forgotten and then, in this
extended family of women and men assembled here today, who will always
be there for you — other police officers, they’ll always be there for
you.  
  
Throughout my career, I’ve unfortunately spoken at too many funerals of
too many police officers — extraordinary, brave, heroic public servants
who kept us safe.  Being a police officer is not just what you do; it’s
who you are.  
  
You’re just like all the women and men in law enforcement I grew up with
in Scranton and Claymont, Delaware.  You always run toward danger as
others run away from it.  Most of you, even when you were kids, you did
it, long before you became an officer.  You run toward the cries for
help knowing that you could be of help.  It’s part of your DNA to serve,
to protect, to defend.  
  
You represent the very best of America.  You’re the steel spine of this
country.  
  
Back in February, I convened a group of police chiefs at the White House
to talk about the hard work you’re doing to make our communities
safer.  
  
Being a cop is one hell of a lot harder than it’s ever been.  We expect
everything of you.  We expect everyone — drug counselors, you’re
supposed to be, protecting people who are overdosing; social workers to
kids who have been abandoned; guardians in communities flooded with
weapons of fear.  
  
That’s why, since day one of my presidency, I’ve been working to make
sure you have the tools you need to protect, the partners you need, and
the community to help.   
  
During the pandemic, I signed the American Rescue Plan that provided
$350 billion to states and cities that they could use to keep
communities safe, retain and hire more police officers, pay overtime and
bonuses, expand benefits for disabled first responders, and support
<s>violent</s> \[violence\] prevention strategies.  
  
Places like Detroit, Toledo, Kansas City, Houston put more cops on the
beat.  It was one of the largest federal investments ever made in public
safety.  
  
I also signed the most sweeping gun safety law in nearly 30 years to
keep guns out of the hands of dangerous individuals, while strengthening
background checks and — for gun purchases, cracking down on illegal gun
sales, reining in “ghost guns” that are increasingly found at crime
scenes.  
  
My Safer America Plan invests $37 billion in public safety to hire many
more police officers trained in community policing, to build trust, to
solve crimes faster.  
  
I’m grateful for the partnership of Jim and the other law enforcement
officers that we worked together on my executive order on policing.  
  
My Safer America Plan also makes investments to support programs that
are proven to tackle the root causes of crime, to ensure you have the
psychologists and the social workers responding to crises alongside
you.  
  
We also know that police officers deal with unbelievable stress.  Every
time you respond to a call, execute a warrant, or conduct a traffic
<s>spot</s> \[stop\], there’s a tremendous risk: fear of ambush, anxiety
of not knowing what’s behind that door, the trauma of bearing witness to
the most horrible tragedies imaginable.  
  
That’s why our administration is laser-focused on providing you with the
mental health and wellness resources you need and deserve.  
  
That’s why I also signed extended benefits for families of officers who
tragically died by suicide — honoring Capitol Police officers like
Howard Liebengood, who defended the Capitol on January 6th, whose dad I
knew well when he served as Sergeant at Arms in the United States
Senate.  
  
We remember all our law enforcements who defend this Capitol and our
democracy on that terrible day.  
  
And Congress should also pass the Honoring Fallen Heroes Act that
extends benefits to first responders who are exposed to toxic substances
and die of cancer.  
  
I know so many of you still carry the physical and invisible wounds of
your service.  We can never thank you enough for your courage, your
service, and your sacrifice.  
  
You risk your lives every day for the safety of the people you don’t
even know.  That’s why each of you, each and every one of you, is a
hero.  
  
It’s no accident that violent crime is near a record 50-year low — a
50-year low.  It’s because of extraordinary efforts by all of you in
your communities, together with historic steps taken to support you — to
stop the flow of illegal guns, to hold gun traffickers accountable for
crimes.  
  
It matters, and it matters a lot.  
  
I often say: There is no greater responsibility of government than
ensuring the safety of the American people and those who sacrifice to
protect us all.  
  
We’ve made a lot of progress, but there’s still much more to be done.  
  
Let me close.  To the families here today, my wife and I know how hard
it is in different ways, but I promise you the day will come again when
the memory of your loved one will bring a smile to your lips before it
brings a tear to your eye.  It may take a couple seasons, but it will
come.  
  
And I hope you always remember one thing that is never fully lost: your
love for them and their love for you.  
  
God bless you all.  May God protect law enforcement.  And may God
protect our troops.  (Applause.)  
  
12:30 P.M. EDT
